rawamat of
The World Bank
IFOR OMFCL USX ONLY
Riepet No. P-3644-PAN
REPOFM AM   RSI        0
OF TEE
P-ESIDUWI OF TME
DNERDITNAL BANK FOR REIONIISITRUCTIO  AMD  VELOPMENT
TO THEE
EXECUTvE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED STRUCT      ADJUSTMENT LOAR
IN AN MOUNT EQIVALMIT TO US*60.2 MILLIoN
TO
THE REPWULIC OF PANAML
October 19, 1983
Thi docmeut has a uetud ilUvie ad may be u&id by _I.lu only In th pedfzma  of
Itheir officbia uls. Iscotet may net otdris h e disdoied wkbheet Wouid Bank authokdutom.. 



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   Fhlboa (El.)
US$1   E / a
Note: The issue of Balboas is restricted to coins. The US Dollar (US$)
is accepted as currency.
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BDk-    -   Banco de Desarrollo Agropecuario
(Agricultural Development Bank)
3EN     -   Banco Eipotecario Nacional
(National Mortgage Bank)
CALV    -=  Corporacion Azucarera La Victoria
(La Victoria Sugar Corporation)
CFF     -   Compensatory Finance Facilty
COFINA  -   Corporacion Financiera Nacional
(National Finance Corporation)
CSS     -   Caja de Seguro Social
(Social Security Agency)
IDB     -   lnter-American Development Bank
IMA     -   Instituto de Mercadeo Agropecuario
(Institute of Agricultural Marketing)
IMF     -   International Monetary Fund
KIM     -  Ministerio de Desarrollo Agropecuario
(Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
Develop2ant)
HIPPE   -  Ministerio de Planificacion y Politica Economica
(Ministry of Planning and Economic Policy)
MIVI    -  Ministerio de Vivienda
(Ministry of Housing)
PAHO    -   Pan American Health Organization
UNDP    -  United Nations Development Programme
USAID   -   U.S. Agency-for International Development



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PANAMA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
LOAN SUMMARY
Borrower:          Republic of Panama
Amount:            US$60.2 million equivalent, including a capitalized
front-end fee of US$150,125.
Terms:             15 years, including 3 years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Loan Description:  The proposed loan would support the Government's
structural adjustment program and economic recovery by
directing economic activity towards areas of Panama's
comparative advantage. The strategy aims at creating new
growth opportunities by re-orienting the economy towards
accolerated production, by the private sector, of goods
for export. The main areas covered include Ci) greater
efficiency in both the allocation of resources within the
public sector and reduction of its scope; and (ii)
measures to stimulate greater export orientation and
increased employment in the manufacturing sector; (iii) a
new agricultural policy geared towards greater efficienc,
and a t 4her volume of goods for export.  Supported by the
proposed Technical Assistance Project, the Government
would also undertake a series of studies and technical
assLstance designed to strengthen the Social Security
Agency, extend and deepen reforms in the agricultural and
industrial sectors, improve efficiency in the health
sector, and improve utilization of transport
infrastructure in the vital trans-isthmian corridor.
Benefits & Risk:   The economic program supoorted by the -iroposed loan is
expected to result in suostantially higher levals of
economic growth, employment and export earnings than would
otherwise be the case. The main risks associated with the
SAL concern the Government's ability to continue the
program despite political pressure; this would apply
especially to the post-electoral i plem  ntation of the
agreed recommendatio-n of the technical assistance
studies. This risk is, however, diminished by widespread
recognition that the strategy adopted represents the most
likely alternative to avoid continued stagnation and
increasing unemployment. This consensus extends beyond
the Government to the major opposition groups. Moreover,
the program, including budgetary and public investment
targets, would be closely monitored, and the Government's
performance will also be a key factor in maintaining
Panama's creditworthiness with commercial banks.
Therefore, the risk is considered acceptable.
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their orricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discbsed without World Bank authorization. l



- ii -
Disbursement
Estimates:         Bank FY84    US$60.2 million
Appraisal
Report:            None



INTERNATIONJAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMFNDATION OF TRE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON
A PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUST4ENT LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EOUIVALENT TO US$60.2 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF PAN.WMA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a Proposed
Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) to the Republic of Panama for the equivalent
of US$60.2 million including the capitalized front-end fee. The loan would
have a term of 15 years, including 3   years of grace, with interest at the
standard variable rate. It is accompanied by a proposed Technical Assistance
Loan for the equivalent of US$5 million.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 11
2.        An Economic Memorandum  entitled  Pauama: Special Economic Report
on Metropolitan Unemployment- (3833-PAN) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on June 7, 1982. Since then, there has been a sustained dialogue
between the Government and the Bank leading to the development of a policy
framework to confront the challenges of a more difficult international
economic environment. After a series of identification missions, an
appraisal mission for the proposed loan visited Panama in June, 1983.
Country data are given in Annex I.
A.  Main Features of the Panamanian Economy
3.        Panama's geographic location has traditiona'lly determined its
economic development. Situated strategically on a narrow isthmus, joining
North and South America, midwav between Europe and Asia, Panama functioned as
an important center for Spanish colonial trade for more than two centuries.
This entrepot role was enhanced by two major investments in the transport
infrastructure. The first was the building of the trans-isthmian railway in
the 1850's. The second, of much greater significance, was the construction
of the Panama Canal in the early years of this century. The Canal, and the
employment and income it generated, were an important source of economic
growth until the early 1970's.
4.        Panama has capitalized on its geographic location and international
transport facilities to build an important export-oriented service sector.
The main areas of recent expansion have been in banking, tourism and inter-
national commerce. During the 1970's, the banking sector grew by 11 percent
per year in response to legislative incentives. By 1982, there were about
120 banks physically established in Panama, among them subsidiaries of lead-
ing financial institutions; they employ over 7,000 people. Tourism has
I/ Parts I and II of this Report are essentially the same as Parts I and II
of the Report for the proposed Technical Assistance Loan.



-2-
grown by 10.6 percent per year since 1970. The activities of the Colon Free
Zone-warehousing, display and transshipment of merchandise mainly towards
the markets of Latin America-expanded by an annual i4 percent. By 1982,
these and other services accounted for 70 percent of GDP.
5.        The growth of export-oriented services has been facilitated not
only by Panama's geographic location and transport infrastructure, but also
by its financial characteristics which are unique to the Region. There is no
Central Bank, the U.S. dollar circulates inside the country and there is no
restriction on the movement of capital. Because of this dollar standard,
there is no foreign exchange constraint in the conventional sense, and the
country's credit-worthiness is directly linked to Government finances.  It is
easily monitored through such indicators as the size of the public deficit in
relation to GDP and the Government's abilitv to meet all debt obligations as
they come due.  MIoreover, the extent to which financial markets and interest
rates can be manipulated bv Government intervention is seriously limited.
6.        The historical importance of the Canal has concentrated economic
activity in the two terminal cities, Panama Citv and Colon. Today, the
metropolitan area formed by these two cities and the corridor between them,
adjacent to tne Canal, contains more than half the nation's population and
produces over 70 percent of total value added. Panama's essentially urban
nature contributes to its relativelv high standard of living within the
Region. Per capita income in 1981 was USS1,910 compared with an average of
US$930 for Central America and US$1,700 for Latin America and the Caribbean
as a whole.
B. Political Background
7.        A major watershed in Panama's modern history occurred in October
1968, when the National Guard overthrew the Government of President Arnulfo
Arias and soon thereafter established a new administration under the de facto
control of General Omar Torrijos.  The Torrijos Government had three major
goals: to increase national economic sovereignty, particularly over the
Panama Canal; expand the Panamanian political and social process to the rural
poor and urban workers; and deepen the country's development process,
stimulating growth through increased and diversified exports and investment
in human resources. The high point of the regime was reached in 1979 with
the signing of a Canal Treaty with the United States. Following this, the
Government reduced the military control of the country and began a gradual
restoration of democratic institutions. In the economic field, more emphasis
was placed on the role of the private sector which partially restored
confidence following a period of uncertainty associated with the Canal Treaty
negotiations.
8.        After the accidental death of General Torrijos in Julv, 1981,
Panamanian politics began a turbulent period as new leadership developed.
The prior fiscal austerity was relaxed and several public sector agencies
exceeded their budgets bv wide marrins. There was considerable uncertainty
as to the direction of policy, particularly in the economic field. In
August, 1982, President Aristides Royo resigned and was replaced by
Vice-President Ricardo de la Espriella. A new Constitution, laying the
foundations for presidential and congressional elections, was approved



- 3 -
by popular referendum in May, 1983. Also, political parties have been
legalized and campaigning for the presidential elections, scheduled for
mid-1984, has now begun.
9.       Despite this uncertain political atmosphere, the Government has
shown its determination to confront a deteriorating economic situation and
carry through a number of necessary measures. Not only have strong
budgetting control and discipline been restored, in accordance with a new IMF
Standby Arrangement (para. 22), but the Government has also embarked on a
program of fundamental structural reforms which, although politically
unpopular in the short-term, are vital for medium-term economic recovery.
There is widespread consensus concerning the difficult economic outlook and
the measures necessary to confront its challenges.
C. Past Economic Trends and Recent Changes
10.       The 1960's saw rapid economic expansion in Panama, with GDP growth
averaging 8 percent per year (or 5 percent per capita). Much of the impetus
came from buoyant Canal-related activities, and the effects of the
Remon-Eisenhower treaties which transferred some economic activities from the
Canal Zone to Panama. Real agricultural output increased by nearly 5.3
percent per year, based largely on expansion of grass-fed beef production and
on increased output of bananas following important disease eradication
measures. These were major factors contributing to a substantial growth of
exports. Industrial growth was also strong, with a 10.9 percent annual
average increase in real value added, most of it directed towards the
domestic market. Almost as impressive was the growth of the construction and
services sectors at over 8 percent per year. The principal source of
investment finance and entrepreneurial talent was the private sector.
Private domestic savings averaged about 15 percent of GDP, while private
investment increased at a real 12.5 percent between 1960 and 1970, rising
from 12 percent to 18 percent of GDP. Total employment grew at 3.5 percent
per year, well in excess of the 2.5 percent annual increase in population.
Nearly all the expansion in emp'oyment opportunities was provided by the
private sector, and occurred in the urban areas; in the agricultural sector,
employment expanded at only 0.7 percent per year.
11.       The benefits of this rapid development were, however, concentrated
in relatively few hands. Real wages were held down; the nominal minimum
salary remained constant between 1960 and 1968. Acute poverty persisted,
mostly in the countryside. Moreover, the social and economic infrastructure,
particularly in rural areas, was inadequate to ensure continued economic and
social improvement outside the metropolitan corridor.
12.       Accordingly, the development strategy initiated by the Torrijos
Government in 1968 aimed at major social reforms while attempting to sustain
growth through increasing and diversifying exports. Greater national
integration was achieved by increasing and improving the communications and
transport linkages among the regions of the country; social improvements were
made by supporting human resources development, agrarian reform and the
provision of basic needs, and by strengthening the country's institutional
framework. The strategy was executed through expanded and improved social



-4-
services (particularly in health and education), through the development of
infrastructure by consticuting public utilities (electricity, telephones,
water) into individual state entities, and by an ambitious public ir.vestment
program. Private invescment was encouraged, especially in the construction
and service sectors linked to the international transportation systems.
Panama's status as an entrepot center was enhanced by legislation of 1970
which led to the establishment of a major international banking center. It
was given further impetus by public sector investments in the international
airport, tourism infrastructure, rapid expansion of the international free
zone, an international re-insurance center, the growth of commerce, and other
export services. The system of hydro-electric generation, roads,
educational, water and health facilities which was built up throughout the    &
country provided services to wide sections of the population which had not
previously enjoyed them.
13.       Although this strategy was initially successful in combining rapid
growth with social reform, the economy was adversely affected by both
external and domestic developments in the mid-1970s. Real growth fell from
7.3 percent per year between 1968 and 1973 to 4.6 percent between 1973 and
1982. The increase in world oil prices and inflation brought about
international economic uncertainty, while Canal activities slowed after the
peak Vietnam war traffic decreased. Domestic uncertainty stemmed mainly from
the intensive Canal Treaty negotiations, though confidence was also
undermined by increased regulation of the economy through a highly
restrictive Labor Code, and price and rental controls. Consequently, private
investment declined in absolute terms between 1973 and 1977. The public
sector compensated for this, not only through investments in large
infrastructure projects, but also by the creation or acquisition of a number
of directly productive enterprises. State subsidies and high support prices
absorbed an increasing proportion of the current budget, while public sector
employment accounted for over 80 percent of the new jobs created. Despite
additional revenue measures, this expansion resulted in a sharp increase in
the public sector deficit, and consequently in the Government's
dollar-denominated debt which had reached nearly 80 percent of GDP by the
late 1970s.
14.       The atmosphere of political uncertainty diminished considerably
after agreement was reached on the Canal Treaty terms in 1977, and this
enabled the Government to modify economic policy. The public sector entered
into a period of retrenchment as several large capital projects were
completed, no further state enterprises were created, and the Government
began a sustained effort to reduce the public deficit through increased taxes
and tighter controls on expenditures. By 1981 the deficit had fallen to
about 5 percent of GDP from nearly 12 percent in 1979, so that Panama fully
complied with the targets established under IMF Standby Arrangements. To
encourage private investment, new export, investment and employment
incentives were introduced. Together with the agreement and subsequent
ratification of the Canal Treaties, these led to some restoration of private
sector confidence. However, private investment did not recover to the levels
of the 1960's and early 1970's. Between 1978 and 1982 it was still less in
real terms, and as a percentage of GDP, than between 1968 and 1973.
Furthermore, although the service and construction sectors once again
flourished, agriculture and industry continued to be adversely affected by
the policy and institutional environment. Real per capita agricultural
output was less in 1982 than in 1977, while industrial value added declined
from 11.5 percent of GDP to 9.8 percent.



15.       In 1982, Panama began to feel the impact of the world recession in
general, and of the deepening economic and financial crisis in Latin America
in particular. Growth in the financial sector was less than half that of
preceding years, while value added in tourism and in the Colon Free Zone
declined sharply. Private investment fell in real terms following the
completion of a publicly and privately financed trans-isthmian oil pipeline
project.   Partly to compensate for this, and partly because of increased
political pressures (para.8), controls on public expenditure were loosened.
Several entities exceeded their capital budgets by wide margins, particularly
the public electricity company, IRHE, and the Social Security Agency. Public
revenues were adversely affected by the economic slowdown, and by mid-1982 it
had become clear that Panama's fiscal targets would be grossly exceeded.  The
consolidated nublic sector deficit for the year as a whole was 11 percent ,f
GDP, almost double the amount stipulated in the Government's Standby               h
Arrangement with the IMF.  Public investment was over 12 percent of GDP as
against a target of 10 percent. Net foreign borrowing by the public sector
amounted to over $500 million, and the oustanding public medium-term debt
reached S3.1 billion at the end of 1982, equivalent to 73 percent of GDP.
Interest on the debt absorbed over 30 percent of total Government
revenues.?/
16.       The recession deepened in late 1982, and in 1983 real GDP is
expected to stagnate. The necessary fiscal adjustment (paras. 21-22) is
inevitably having a contractionary effect on economic activity-especially
the construction sector-while access to foreign bank credit is now severely
limited. Through 1984, there will likely be little if any growth in the
traditionally buoyant sectors of the economy. The banking sector has reached
an advanced stage of maturity, while the Colon Free Zone and tourism are
dependent upon financial and economic recovery in the rest of Latin America.
This is unlikely to materialize before 1985. Reduced Government spending
will, in the absence of compensating investment by the private sector, lead
to further deterioration in the employment situation; unemployment is already
estimated at about 20 percent of the available labor force in the urban
metropolitan area.
D. The Government's Development Strategy
17.       In the face of these difficulties, the Government has formulated a
new medium-term development strategy. This has already been translated into
a number of important actions, many of them under consideration for some
time. It recognizes that new growth and employment opportunities can no
longer be sought through further public sector expansion.  Indeed, the scope
of the public sector is to be reduced and the remainder made more efficient.
This is consistent not only with the overall thrust of the Government's
strategy but also with financial realities; public sector indebtedness is
high and the era of easily available commercial credit has ended.
18.       Given the small size of the domestic market and less buoyant
prospects for services, opportunities for the private sector must be sought
2/ Defined as the current revenues of Central Government and autonomous
agencies plus the current surplus of the public sector enterprises.



- 6 -
in Panama's external markets through the accelerated production of goods for
export. This would be fully consistent with Panama's comparative advantages
and its unique economic characteristics. Principal among these are its
geographic location, highly developed international transport and
communications facilities, sophisticated commercial sector, open financial
system and its bilingual and relatively well-trained labor force. These
assets could be a springboard for access to foreign markets provided
industrial and agricultural goods are produced at competitive cost.
19.       Given the country's relatively high wage structure, efficiency in
agriculture and industry must be increased to improve competitiveness and
reduce upward pressures on wage rates. In many countries increased wage
competitiveness can be achieved through an adjustment in the exchange rate.
Panama's monetary structure rules this out, and it is therefore necessary to
address the causes of inefficiency both directly and individually in each
sector of the economy. Since the financially weakened public sector can no
longer expand in relative terms, the private sector is to be the main source
of investment finar-e and entrepreneurial talent. Public sector intervention
is to be restricted to the provision of the necessary social and economic
infrastructure, much of which is already in place. In order to release
resources for growth-oriented activities, public sector expenditures are
being rationalized. This involves reductions in subsidies and the sale,
closure or restructuring of loss-making public enterprises. State
intervention in product and factor markets is to diminish. Price controls
are to be greatly reduced and labor market rigidities addressed in order to
bolster private sector confidence. Industrial incentives are to be directed
more towards exports and less towards import substitution. Consequently, the
scope and depth of effective protection is to be substantially reduced.
Similarly, the bias inherent in the current incentive structure in favor of
capital-intensive production techniques is to be reversed. So as to increase
efficiency and productivity in the agricultural sector, policies are to be
re-oriented towards higher production at competitive prices and less towards
the redistribution of income.
20.       This process of structural adjustment will take some years to
complete. Moreover, it can only be fully successful if the economies of the
OECD and Latin America recover in the mid-1980's together with world trade
and services. If this occurs, the Government visualizes Panama as having a
more open, export-oriented economy in which the efficiency of the productive
sectors would be on a par with that already achieved by Panama's
international services. A more fully employed urban workforce would be
dedicated to a brc Jer variety of industrial and service tasks undertaken at
competitive world costs. Clearly the policy is not without risk, but
Panama's private sector responded well to market signals in the 1960's.
Furthermore, the strategy is based on the Government's recognition that
re-orientation towards the export of goods provides the best, if not the
only, alternative to continued economic stagnation and increasing
unemployment.
E. Short Term Stabilization Measures
21.       To provide the necessary context of financial stability for its new
development strategy, the Government is now carrying out a major fiscal
adjustment to reduce the public sector deficit to no more than US$270 million



-7-
in 1983, or about 6 percent of GDP. Additional revenue is being raised
through an increase in the minimum tariff and crude petroleum import taxes.
Substantial cutbacks are planned in current ar.d capital expenditures (paras
30-37). Except for school teachers and low-paid workers, who were given
public assurances of wage increases in mid-1982, no increase in wages is
allowed in the 1983 Budget. External enmmercial borrowing by state entities
is now controlled by the Ministry of Platnning which has created thie new post
of Director of Public Credit for this purpose.
22.       These measures led to successfully concluded negotiations with the
IMF for a two year Standby Arrangement of SDR 150 million (about US$173
million) of which one third will be availphle in 1983 and the rest in 1984.
The IMF Board approved the Standby in late June, L983. In addition, Panama
will receive some US$60 million in 1983 from the Compensatory Financing
Facility. The main conditions attached to the Standby, which will be
monitored every three months, are a public sector deficit of no more than 6
percent of GDP in 1983 and 5.5 percent in 1984, and no net increase in
commercial foreign debt in 1983 or 1984 by the public sector. The current
account saving and gross borrowing requirements implied by the program agreed
with the Fund are shown in Table 1.
Table 1: SUMMARY PUBLIC FINANCES
(US$ Million)
1979    1980    1981   1982              1983
s of
(Actual)   (Projected)    GDP
Public Sector Savings    -42.4   126.7   172.8   60.6             120        2.7
Capital Expenditure       303.6   299.8   390.1  524.6            390        8.7
Overall Deficit           346.0   173.1   217.3  464.0            270        6.0
Amortization               191.3   213.8   215.2  388.2           280 a/    6.2
Gross Borrowing
Requirement              537.3   386.9   432.5  852.2            550       12.2
a/ Includes short term debt amortization.
23.       While this program will reduce the deficit in the short term, it is
important to point out that Panama already has a relatively highly taxed
economy: the tax burden is about 20 percent of GNP. Consequently, the
structural requirement for a lower public sector deficit must primarily be
met through a rationalization of expenditures rather than further taxes.
This would diminish the public debt burden and the Government's requirement
for increasingly scarce commercial bank funds. In September, 1983, Panama
successfully concluded negotiations for a US$278 million commercial bank loan
to cover amortization requirements through December, 1984. However, although
Panama's credit standing within the Region remains relatively high,
negotiations were prolonged and difficult. The reluctance of commercial
banks to increase, and even to maintain, their public sector exposure will
likely persist in the medium-term. The Government's economic policies
reflect this reality.



- 8 -
PART II - THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
A. Introduction
24.       The policy measures designed to give practical shape to the
Government's medium term development strategy may be divided into three main
areas: first, to reduce the scope and improve the efficiency of the public
sector; second, to reorient the incentive structure in the urban, industrial
sector towards exports and employment generation; and, third, to increase
productivity and output in the agricultural sector. Changes in the latter
two areas are designed to permit and encourage accelerated manufactured and
agricultural exports. In the services and energy sectors, there is little
need for structural reforms.  The former already benefits from a favorable                  a
legislative regime and substantial private sector participation. In the
energy sector, as indicated in a recent Bank sector review, pricing policy is
generally adequate (regular grade gasoline retails at US$2.10 per gallon)
while recent measures have been taken to enable the private petroleum
refinery to operate at lower tnit cost. IRHE, the public power company, is
well run and makes the legal 8.75 percent return on its assets.   Moreover,
the Bank has had a direct and beneficial influence on the energy/power sector
through project lending and related institution building.
25.       The Government has already taken a considerable number of important
actions in each of the three areas emphasized in its program. The following
sections review the progress achieved and describe further actions which the
proposed loan supports.
B. Public Sector Efficiency
Overview
26.       The financial constraints that the public sector is likely to face
in the years immediately ahead make it of vital importance that policies be
aimed at fostering greater efficiency in the allocation of resources.
Accordingly, the Government's structural adjustment program is concentrating
reforms in those areas of public sector activity which are significant and
continuous sources of fiscal drain; which result in the misallocation of
resources through, for example, inappropriate pricing policies; and which
suffer from inadequate institutional or budgetary cont i. The overall aims
of the reforms are to significantly increase public sector savings both
absolutely and in relation to GDP in order to release resources for the
private sector; to reduce the scope of the public sector's investment
activities to the provision of the necessary infrastructure for private
sector activities; and to improve the maturity structure, and hence reduce
the servicing burden, of the public external debt.
27.       The major components of the Government's action program for
improved public sector efficiency include: (i) a major review of public
sector enterprises; (ii) a coherent investment program for the period
1983-1985 consistent with the priorities of the new development strategy;
(iii) reform of public sector housing policy; (iv) reform of the public
health and social security systems; (v) more effective management of
state-owned assets especially those located in the former Canal Zone, where



- 9 -
control has recently reverted to Panama; (vi) reform of the Customs
Administration; and (vii) improved public sector debt management.
Public Sector Enterprises
28.       There are some 45 public sector enterprises and decentralized
agencies operating in Panama. Their consolidated accounts showed a current
surplus of about US$8 million in 1982. However, this concealed large
discrepancies; some entities earned substantial surpluses, while others
required large subsidies. Approximately US$65 million (1.5 percent of GDP)
was spent in 1982 on current subsidies and transfers excluding those to
higher education establishments. Of this, the losses of the Victoria Sugar
Corporation accounted for USS37 million (57 percent), while losses of other
nonfinancial public sector enterprises amounted to about US$13 million (20
percent). The remaininc subsidies and tran-fers were principally to cover
losses on the lending operations of financial entities in agriculture,
housing and development finance. The Government has declared its intention
to eliminate these subsidies; clearlv this will take time, and the program is
to be completed over five years. As a first step, in February 1983, a
comprehensive financial review of all entities was carried out, concentrating
on th.e most heavily subsidized. Since then, several have been shut down er
sold and others restructured. These reforms will reduce outlays on subsidies
and transfers by about 40 percent in 1983 to US$39 million, and will
eventuallv permit lower public sector product prices. A further reduction is
expected in 1984. Some of the entities concerned, including the sugar
corporation, operate in the agricultural sector, and are discussed in
paragraphs 76-78. Regarding the others, the principal reforms are the
following:
- In Januarv, 1983, a major, unprofitable hotel was sold to a group
of Japanese interests. The Government, which had guaranteed ->he loan to ,he
hotel, had inherited it when the hotel encountered financial difficulties.
The sale price was $34 million; its cost to the Government had been $54
million. Plans are well advanced for the sale of another money-losing hotel
(La Contadora Panama) for which specific offers are currently being
considered.
-   On March 14, 1983, the Goverraent announced a timetable for ending
the contractual arrangement by which rhe state-owned cement company, Cemento
Bayano, cross-subsidizes the only private cement company operating in Panama
by charging a higher final price for cement. This will permit, by May, 1984,
a 35 percent drop in the domestic cement price. The Government is studying
further means of improving the efficiency of Cemento Bayano, including
switching from fuel oil to coal.
-   The Government is initiating a major restructuring of its
development finance corporation, COFINA. A recent anal7sis of its portfolio
revealed losses of some US$37 million in nonrecoverable loans and interest.
A new manager, appointed in August, 1982, has commenced the difficult task of
recovering as much as possible from the portfolio and restructuring the
Corporation's ownership with a view to only a minority of the shares being
held by the Government. In April, 1983, COFINA engaged a well-known
international auditing company to carry out a full financial audit and an
evaluation of the portfolio as of June 30, 1983. Targets have also been set
for subt-ential staff reductions and other measures designed to permit a more
efficient .operation.



- 10 -
- The Government is actively considering a number of options for
divesting itself of all or part of the national airline, Air Panama. After
making heavy losses for a number of years, the airline's debts were taken
over by the Central Government from COFINA in June, 1981. The accir2lated
deficit of Alr Panama on December 31, 1981 (the latest date for which
comprehensive data are available) was US$30.9 million compared to total
assets of US$17.4 million while the loss for the calendar year 1981 was
US$3.1 million. The authorities are considering selling part of the
enterprise to another international airline (with the Government having
assumed the net liabilities); or disposal of the physical assets together
with sale or leasing of the routes and landing rights to other international
carriers.
29.       While few other non-agricultural entities require current
subsidies, the Government recognizes the scope for increasing their
efficiency and hence reducing the cost of their services to the consumer.
Accordingly a number of studies are to be commissioned to determine now costs
can be reduced in the contexr of each agency's individual circumstances.
Some of these are already supported by Bank project loans (e.g., technical
assistance to the Port Authority and institution building in the power and
water utilities) while others will likely be financed by other multilateral
or bilateral agencies. This work is expected to be completed by late 1984,
so that recommendations nay be implemented by the newly elected Government.
Public Investment
30.       The preparation of the public investment program in Panama is the
responsibility of the Ministry of Planning and Economic Policy (MIPPE). This
Ministry, and not that of Finance, also produces and monitors the current
budget. The investment budgets are prepared with a high standard of
professional competence, and the institutional framework for the formulation
of a coherent investment program is therefore in place. General development
policy objectives are detailed on a sector by sector basis, and the total
investment requirement for each sector determined accordingly. Estimates of
financial requirements are prepared on a project by project basis by each
Ministry or agency, but the overall responsibility for matching them with
available financial resources belongs to MIPPE. Considerable importance is
now attached to the calculation of economic rates of return, and the staff of
MIPPE who prepare the budget are well versed in the techniques of project
appraisal. Controls have been tightened, and rare departures from the MIPPE
budget must be approved by the Fins .ce Commission, a body which includes the
entire Economic Cabinet, and is chaired by the Vice President of the
Republic. These controls are applied not only to individual Ministries but
also to each autonomous entity, while all public borrowing (short, medium and
long term) is now monitored by, and subject to the approval of, the new
Director of Public Credit, also in MIPPE (para 21).
31.       These procedures, established in 1983, represent a considerable
improvement upon past practices. Previously, although the Government's
development program was theoretically sound, control of investment
expenditures was often poor in practice. A number of projects, particularly
in the agricultural, transport, tourism and housing sectors, were initiatedi
without clear economic justification. Others went ahead without being
included in the budget. These latter were frequently financed from the
current savings of the entity concerned or from borrowed commercial funds.



- 11 -
32.       Within the context of preparation of the proposed SAL, the
Government has focussed on further improvi"g the qualitj of the 1983-85
investment program. The 1983 capital budget involves a reduction of 26
percent from 1982 and 29 percent from the amount originally requested by the
different Ministries and agencies.  Investment 3/ is budgetted at US$389.5
million compared with US$524.6 million (see Table 1) in 1982. These cuts
hav- necessitated a careful reconsideration of priorities, and tl-e program
has been formulated in strict accordance with economic criteria and the
demands of the new development strategy. The Government's freedom of action
in making cuts was severely limited by the substantial cost overruns of the
-itr1 La Fortuna nydropower project. This accounts for over one fifth of
total budgetted capital expenditures in 1983. Almost all other outlays of
the public electricity company h.-re been deferred. The projects left out
have less pressing priority, while nearly all those that remain are
economically sound in accordance with evaluation criteria acceptable to the
Bank. Profitable state enltities, such as the telephone comipany and the
Airport Authority are to be restricted to investments financed from their own
resources. Because of its critical financial situation, COFINA is being
restructured and and is permitted no new net lending. The inefficient state
sugar corporation is also being reformed; its highest cost mill was recently
closed (para. 77), and operations at the other three are being curtailed, so
that no new investment is proposed. Most transport investments are for
necessary maintenance and rehabilitation, since a developed infrastructure is
largely in place. Despite diplomatic and contractual difficulties, the
Government cancelled a low priority but expensive (approximately US$200
million) Canal bridge project sponscred by a neighboring country. The
projects remaining in the budget, vjhich are not to be financed from
internally generated resources, are supported by bilateral and multilateral
aid agencies. Loans from official sources are expected to finance almost
half of total net outlays in 1983 and 1984.
33.       After the severe curtailment of 1983, capital expenditures are
expected to remain at about the same level in 1984 and 1985. According to
economic projections prepared by Bank staff (paras 90-100), this implies that
public investment will have fallen to 7.2 percent of GDP in 1985 from 12
percent in 1982. This is consistent with the Government's medium term target
of substantially reducing the share of public sector investment in the GDP
from the average of 13 percent prevailing between 1976 and 1982 to about 7
percent by the mid 1980's. It is the Government's intention to retain and
strengthen the institutional procedures established in 1983 to increase
control over the execution of the budget and approval of new projects.
34.       The sectoral priorities of the 1983-85 program are reasonable and
in accordance with the structural adjustment strategy (Annex V, page 2).
Investment in the directly productive sectors would represent about 25
percent of total public investment over the period, and about 75 percent of
this would be in agriculture. Emphasis in this sector would, as in the past,
be on farm improvements, irrigation projects and shrimp farming.
Resources are also set aside for projects to develop production of raw
materials for local agroindustries.
3/ This refers to investment by the non-bank public sector and does
not include credit from banking entities financed out of loan
recoveries.



- 12 -
35.       In energy, which accounts for over one fifth of total expenditures,
the Fortuna project dominates, absorbing practically all resources in 1983
and about 40 percent thereafter. This project will enable virtually all
demand to be met from hydroelectricity generation from 1985 onwards, leading
to anticipated savings of over US$65 million per year. In 1984 and
1985, there will be important projects for improving transmission and
distribution systems for which Bank support is being requested. After
revising demand forecasts, IPRE has postponed initiation of the next major
hydroelectric project (Changuinola) until the end of the decade.
36.       Infrastructure investment other than energy amounts to about 21
percent of the total. As already indicated, most transport expenditures are
for rehabilitation and maintenance, plus the continuation of Bank-supported
port investments and low cost improvements to the urban transport
infractructure in Panama City and other centers.
37.       Social sector investment would represent about 27 percent of
expenditures in the 1983-85 period. Outlays are being significantly reduced
from the high levels recorded up to the end of 1982. Over half the
contemplated investment is in public housing and community projects where the
emphasis is on providing adequate shelter for poor urban communities.
Severely deteriorated slum areas of Panama City and Zolon are to be provided
with low cost housing. The Colon Urban Development Project (Loan No. 1878 of
August, 1980) supports part of this program. In the health sector, the
program emphasizes rehabilitation and remodeling of existing hospitals and
health centers as well as Bank-supported improvements in water supply and
sewerage facilities.  The education sector has been shar ly cut back in the
light of ar. already well-developed infrastructure, and again the program
concentrates on the upgrading and rehabilitation of existing facilities.
Public Sector Housing Policy
38.       As part of its structural adjustment program, the Government has
recently taken a number of important measures designed to strengthen
institutions and financial control in the public housing sector. Prior to
these reforms, the sector's financial situation was becoming increasingly
precarious.
39.       Since its creation in 1973, the Ministry of Housing (IIVI) has
rapidly increased its housing construction from a level of 1,200 units to
over 6,000 per year in the early 1980's. The purchase of these low income
houses is normally financed by loans from the National Mortgage Bank (BMN),
which was established as a subordinate agency of MIVI to undertake the
financial management of the Ministry's activities and also promote the
expansion of private housing finance. This expansion was to be achieved by
strengthening the savings and loan system and, eventually, by creating a
secondary mortgage market.
40.       Up to the end of 1982, little progress had been made in achieving
these objectives. In a number of cases, MIVI housing projects were initiated
without proper control or disbursement procedures, and in the absence of any
guarantees that the necessary finance would be forthcoming. This frequently



- 13 -
led the BHN to obtain exterral commercial credits to supplement its finances;
the terms and conditions attached to these loans were inconsistent with the
nature of the bank's portfolio and its activities. Moreover, interest rates
on BUN loans were fixed arbitrarily on a case-by-case basis by MIlVI. In some
cases, rates were granted which were insufficient to cover costs and ensure
recuperation of the loan.
41.       The situation became further complicated in 1981 and 1982 by the
intervention of the Social Security Agency (CSS) in the promotion and
financing of housing construction and the granting of mortgages at heavily
subsidized rates of interest. This impeded efforts by the BMN to establish a
more realistic interest rate structure. In addition, the CSS program grew
beyond the Agency's management capacity (over US$100 million were spent in
1981 and 1982) with consequent control failures and substantial losses. As
or mid-1983 the total losses had still not been finally determined, but are
estimated to have exceeded US$40 million.
42.       To ameliorate this situation, the Government has carried out a
number of important reforms. The CSS has formally undertaken not to engage
in further promotion of housing construction, nor to grant mortgages at
subsidized interest rates. A procedure has been established by which MHVI
only receives money from the EN for projects backed by proper studies, which
meet the correct social criteria; also disbursements will only be made
against vouchers of work performed. Projects cannot conmence until MIVI has
received formal assurance from the MN that there are funds available to
finance them. The BHN will no longer be permitted independent and
uncontrolled access to commercial bank credit, while its direct Central
Government subsidy is to be gradually eliminated. Consequently, it is to
rely much more co. loan recoveries, bond placements with the CSS and loans on
favorable terms and conditions from concessionary agencies. The BHN has also
revised its interest rate policy.  All future loans will carry a standard
rate of interest, initially of 10 percent annually for low income housing.
This currently involves a subsidy of about 1 percent based on the cost of
money, the bank's operating expenses and the cost of financing basic
infrastruture related to housing development. It compares to a current and
expected inflation rate of about 7 percent per year. Privately financed
mortgages Ln Panama currently bear annual interest of 12 percent.
Social Security and Health
43.       The CSS is financially the most important public sector institution
outside the Central Government. In 1982, the CSS had a total cash income of
nearly US$320 million (7.6 percent of GDP), generated cash savings of US$52
million (1.2 percent of GDP), and was responsible for nearly one fifth of the
to- al public sector capital expenditure.  Despite its apparently healthy
cui rent financial situation, there is growing recognition that the CSS will
face serious financial problems in the medium term unless remedial action is
taken. There is an increasing probability that resources will be inadequate
to meet the Agency's growing future obligations. These problems, should they
arise, will be extremely difficult to solve in Panama where the authorities
have no recourse to Central Bank finance to cover shortfalls. A financial
crisis in the social security system would, therefore, have potentially grave
political as well as economic consequences.
44.       Social Security management has reversed most of the short term
difficulties associated with the Agency's intervention in direct housing



- 14 -
finance, and is now concerned with the more fundavental problems.  These
include an inappropriate management and decision making structure, lack of
adequate statistical and internal financial information, the absence of an
accurate, up-to-date actuarial evaluation and an inappropriate investment
policy. The CSS's coveraze is continuously being extended in all three of
its principal areas of activity, which are health and maternity; old age,
disability and death; and professional risks. Not only this, but benefits
are sometimes increased withoxt considering the consequences for the CSS's
long term financial viability.
45.       Another area of concern which is intimately linked to the financial
well-being of the CSS is that of the Integrated System of Health Care. This
is meant to cater to low income patients located in areas outside the
Metropolitan area of Panama City. Although the system is operated jointly
with the Ministry of Health, the CSS in practice finances it since the
Ministrv's budget is insufficient. The quality of service is generally poor
and there is considerable waste.
46.       In order to tackle these sensitive and complex problems, the
authorities have requested Bank-financed technical assistance to help
establish an effect-ve and financially sound health and social security
system. This assistance would take the form both of studies and of experts
to implement new methods and train CSS staff in their use. It is anticipated
that most of the policy recommendations from this assistance will be ready
for the Government's consideration before the end of 1984.
Management of State-Owned Assets
47.       Under the provisions of the Canal Treaty, signed in 1979,
considerable assets in the previous Canal Zone reverted to Panama for its
immediate use and/or development. These include three ports, a
trans-isthmian railway, two unused airports, and a large amount of housing.
Besides these important facilities, Panama received a substantial amount of
land, the most valuable being that near Panama City and Colon. Included with
this land are all ancillary facilities (streets, utility distribution
systems, etc.) and the Bridge of the Americas over the Canal. While their
physical assets are worth much less, all of the service outlets of the Panama
Canal Company also reverted to the country.
48.       The Government has undertaken a number of actions, some of them
with Bank support, to increase national benefits from these reverted assets.
A new container facility is being constructed on the Atlantic side, and the
Pacific port of Balboa has also been provided with modern container handling
facilities. A dry dock and ship repair facilities have begun operations. An
oil pipeline has been built across the Isthmus, from which Panama will likely
derive some US$80 million per year in net profits plus corporate tax
proceeds4/ from 1985 onwards. The Colon Free Zone has been expanded into
previousCanal Zone territory. This enabled it to overcome a serious land
constraint, and hence permitted rapid growth until the Latin American
financial crisis started to take its toll in 1982.
4/ Assuming present charges and volume transshipped (US$0.95 per barrel
and 80,000 barrels per day).



- 15 -
49.       Despite this impressive progress, much remains to be done if the
country is to secure the full benefits from the reverted lands. They could,
for example, be used for export-oriented industrial and service activities in
accordance with the Government's new industrial strategy (paras. 55-70).
Such activities could concentrate on light industrial products, presently
being shipped in their final form through the Canal, enhanced tourist
facilities, and commercial operations particularly in the Colon area where
the unemployment problem is gravest. In addition to the Colon Free Zone,
other duty free areas and industrial estates could be established as well as
modern wholesale markets for agricultural produce brought to the Metropolitan
Area. Albrook Field, an unused airport on the outskirts of Panama City, has
been considered as a site for such activities for some time.
50.       However, full exploitation of the assets is impeded by current
legislation. The only public sector institution with the legal authority to
rent or sell facilities in the old Canal Zone to the private sector is the
Canal Authority, which was established after the signing of the Treaty. With
the laudable aim of not creating another cumbersome bureaucracy, the Canal
Authority was provided with no budgetary support, and cannot, thierefore,
operate. Legislation has been prepared, and presented to the Legislative
Assembly, to permit the Ministry of Finance, as custodian of National Assets,
to lease or sell the lands.  This will not only facilitate their productive
utilization, but will also be an important potential source of revenue for
the public sector.
51.       A good transport system is essential for the smooth functioning of
the industrial-commercial complex which Panama expects to create on both
sides of the Canal. Current land transport facilities are clearly inadequate
for expanded modern cargo shipment. The two-lane trans-isthmian highway is
invariably congested during peak hours, while the railway is rundown, and
would require considerable modernization to handle more container traffic.
From a fiscal viewpoint, the railway is already an important drain on
resources. The current operating subsidy in 1982 was nearly US$4.5 mlll-..,n,
and substantial sums also had to be spent on emergency maintenance. A study,
under the proposed technical assistance project, would assess the future land
transport requirements of the trans-isthmian corridor, and make
recommendations on appropriate transport policy and investments, taking
account of Panama's obligations under the Canal Treaty.
Reform of the Customs Administration
52.       The Panamanian Customs Administration does not operate efficiently
and, consequently, substantial sums are lost each year in the form of
uncollected revenues. The staff of the Administration are poorly trained and
their methods of operation are inadequate to cope with the complex problems
of modern commerce. This slows down, and at times even prevents, the
introduction of desirable reforms to tariff policy. The Government is
receiving technical assistance from an IMF expert who is preparing detailed
recommendations concerning: (i) changes in the method of payment of customs
duties to impede false declarations of value; (ii) the introduction of the
Brussels Nomenclature (for which a detailed study has already been prepared)
following a period of intensive training for Customs staff; (iii) a change
from specific to ad valorem tariffs (this is already being implemented in the
case of the tariffs replacing quantitative restrictions-paras. 59-61); and



- 16 -
(iv) a change from FOB to CIF as the basis for the assessment of tariffs.
Except for (iii), these reforms require new legislation and will probably be
implemented only after tle new Assembly takes office in October, 1984. The
authorities are, however, currently studying the legal possibility of
authorizing some partial reforms by Ministerial decree.
Improved Public Sector Debt Management
53.       Prior to early 1983, Central Government control and monitoring of
the commercial borrowing of public sector enterprises and autonomous agencies
was largely ineffective in practice. Moreover, up-dated statistical
information was inadequate. As a consequence, several agencies were
permitted to borrow short term funds to finance projects and activities with
a return that would only materialize in the long term if at all. Not only
has the Government improved control over public sector borrowing (para 30),
but the statistical information on public sector debt is now among the best
in the Region. The terms, conditions and sources of each individual credit,
together with amounts outstanding to each agency, are fully documented and
easily accessible. In order to assist recent negotiations with commercial
banks, coverage has been extended to short term credit lines to the National
Bank of Panama and the Savings Bank as well as to the non-financial public
sector.
54.       One of the key objectives of both the short term stabilization and
the structural adjustment programs is to slow down the rate of accumulation
of external debt, while improving its maturity structure and thus the cost of
servicing it. To this end, the rate of growth of public external
indebtedness is programmed to fall sharply from 20 percent in 1982 to 8.5
percent in 1983 and to an average of 6 percent per year, in nominal terms,
for the rest of the 1980's. The investment program does not contemplate any
net use of commercial bank credit, suppliers credits or foreign bond credits
by the public sector in 1983 or 1984. In the medium term, the reduced scope
of the public sector, the consequent smaller share of public investment in
the GDP, combined with an improved public sector savings performance, is not
only expected to significantly lower both the debt and its servicing burden
but also to enhance Panama's already proven creditworthiness. (paras.
90-100).
C. Industrial Policy, Trade Liberalization and Employment Overview
55.       While Panama's previous policies have encouraged the development of
a large, competitive service sector, they have not been conducive to
labor-intensive, export-oriented manufacturing activities. Manufacturing
accounts for only about 10 percent of GDP and employ- about the same
percentage of the labor force. Production has been oriented almost entirely
to the domestic market and consists mostly of construction material, food
processing and light industries. In the 1960's growth in manufacturing value
added was slightly faster than that of GDP; since 1970, however, the sector
has lagged behind with output growing at only 60 percent of the rate for the
economy as a whole. Employment in the sector doubled from 24,000 in 1960 to
48,000 in 1970; since then, it has stagnated and was only just over 50,000 in
1982. Firms have become increasingly capital-intensive, and many
manufacturing plants operate below full capacity, often with only one shift.
In 1982, manufactured exports were 13 percent of total exports and only 2.6
percent of industrial output.



- 17 -
56.       The trends described above are wholly consistent with the
prevailing structure of incentives.  The usual incentive mechanism for
manufacturing investment is a contract with the Government under which the
investor undertakes to carry out an investment project in return for
exemptions from income tax and import duties, reduced rates of taxation
and/or tax credit certificates. On expiring, these contracts have been
renewed automaticully. In addition, benefits usually include protection
against foreign competition through import quotas or other quantitative
restrictions. Incentives such as re-investment and accelerated depreciation
allowances favor the intensive use of capital relative to labor. Effective
protection of final goods produced for the local market is frequently
excessive, and has diverted entrepreneurial and financial resources away from
exports. Individual contracts relate benefits to negotiating strength rather
than desirability of the project, increase dispersion of effective
protection, and discriminate against small firms.   Ouota protection is
usually accompanied by price controls which limit profitability, favor
consumption over savings and discourage investment.
57.       The regulation of the labor market in Panama through a detailed
Labor Code 5/ is another factor which inhibits employment creation through
high severance pay, the curtailment of the freedom to adjust employment and
high wage-based welfare taxes. Minimum wage regulations, while not regarded
as pushing up wage costs, are unduly detailed. Ad hoc increases in wages
decreed by the Government and a history of intervention in collective
bargaining increase uncertainty and encourage entrepreneurs to build higher
labor cost assumptions into their project planning. Together with excessive
protection, these regulations reinforce the country's relatively high wage
levels: in 1982, monthly industrial wages in Panama were about 15 percent
higher on average than those prevailing in Korea, Philippines, Brazil and
Mexico. Recent exchange rate movements have further weakened Panama's
competitive position within Ldtin America.
58.       As part of its structural adjustment program, the Government has
embarked upon a liberalization of its industrial and commercial policies
aimed at improving competitiveness. Eventually, the new policy will
establish a lower and much more uniform level of tariff protection for all
private industrial activities, implying an end to quantitative restrictions
and exonerations. The first steps in this process-the substitution of
quantitative restrictions by tariffs-are already being taken. These have
been accompanied by other specific measures to encourage employment and
exports. The program and actions are described in the following paragraphs.
Conversion of Quantitative Restrictions into Tariffs
59.       In late 1982, the Government began to implement an earlier
Presidential Decree, calling for the elimination of import quotas as an
instrument of protection. Initially, however, progress was slow. The
Ministry of Commerce and Industry (MICI) studied the mechanics of conversion
to tariffs on a case-by-case basis so as to ensure the "adequate- amount of
protection. This work was extremely time consuming, especially given the
5/ The Labor Code, enacted in 1972, is administered by the Ministry of
Labor.



- 18 -
limited technical resources at the Ministry's disposal. By the end of
February, 1983, studies had been completed on only eight products. Moreover,
the Ministry was unable to effectively coordinate work on the quantitative
restrictions administered by other government agencies.6/ Since May,
however, the Government has considerably accelerated the conversion process.
A working group, headed by the Director of Economic and Social Planning at
MIPPE, and made up of senior representatives of MIPPE, NICI, the HM4nistry of
Finance, and of the other agencies directly administering quantitative
restrictions has been formed to carry out the program. The universe of
quantitative restrictions has been more precisely defined to include not only
quotas of industrial products administered by MICI, but all quantitative
restrictions of whatever type,7/ administered by any government agency.
This universe includes 290 tariff categories; of these, 38 were eliminated by
June 30, 1983. Of the remainder, a further 95 were lifted between June 30
and October 15, 1983. Thus, in less than one year, nearly half the total
universe of quantitative restrictions had been eliminated or substituted by
tariffs. These actions have been put into effect by the issue of Ministerial
Decrees after appropriate Cabinet authorization. They do not require new
legislation.
60.       Most remaining quantitative restrictions, which are applied to
products of a particularly sensitive nature, will be eliminated gradually
over a two-year period. Studies will be undertaken, some of them supported
by the Bank, to assist in determining the initial level of tariff protection
to replace the quota. These studies are expected to be completed by the end
of May, 1984, at which time the Government will have prepared a
detailed timetable for the elimination of the remaining quantitative
restrictions, and the proposed initial levels of tariff protection which will
replace them. Approval of these would be a condition for the release of the
second tranche of the proposed SAL (para. 103).
Maximum and Minimum Tariff Levels
61.       The Government has announced that it will limit tariff protection
afforded to new industrial activities to a maximum 125 percent effective
protection in the first year, falling to 100 percent thereafter, and then
progressively towards a minimum tariff level. In Panama, given the average
proportion of value added in local manufacturing, these are equivalent to
average nominal ad valorem tariffs of about 40 and 33 percent respectively.
With regard to existing industries, most of the tariffs replacing quotas so
far lifted are moderate, ranging from an equivalent of 25 tc 75 percent ad
valorem, with the average around 40 percent.  While the government clearly
anticipates cases where higher initial tariff protection may be required,
these will be exceptional and largely confined to agroindustries using local
agricultural products as raw material. For other industries initial tariffs
will not exceed 100 percent ad valorem in more than 25 tariff categories
(about 7.5 percent of the total universe).
6/ Nearly all quantitative restrictions are administered by the Ministry of
Commerce and Industry, the Price Regulation Office, the Agricultural
Marketing Institute, and the Ministry of Agricultural Development.
7/ Excluding items related to national security and public morality.



- 19 -
62.       A new minimum tariff level will be established by May 31, 1984, and
incorporated into the new industrial incentives legislation to be drafted by
that date (paragraph 64). Thp adoption of the minimum tariff will, by
implication, end exonerations and will be applied to some industrial inputs,
machinery and food product imports which now have very low or zero tariffs.
This will help reduce effective protection for the production of final goods
while increasing it for agricultural and intermediate inputs, activities
traditionally penalized by the current structure of protection. The minimum
tariff will be as nearly uniform as possible, while allowing for some
flexibility in exceptional cases. Initial tariffs will be progressively
reduced to the minimum range over a period of three to five years, depending
on the product. By the end of May, 1984, the Government will have prepared a
detailed timetable for this which will include a more rapid speed of
adjustment for those industries favored by higher levels of initial
protection. However, advice will be provided, through the National
Investment Council (para. 68), to help firms plan the trarsition from
essentially import-substituting to more efficient export-oriented activities.
Industrial Incentives Legislation
63.       The industrial incentives described in paragraph 56 are governed by
a specific piece of legislation, Law No. 413 of December, 1970. Contracts
under this Law are signed for up to 20 years. As of September, 1983, there
were 483 firms which had contracts in force, and the average contract had
another six years to run. About. 80 percent of existing contracts will have
expired by 1990.
64.       In view of the undesirable features of the contract system, the
Government proposes to replace Law 413 by a general system of incentives to a
wider potential group of beneficiaries, thereby eliminating the concept of
individually negotiated contracts. The Government is to prepare a draft
version of the new legislation to be approved by the Cabinet by the end of
May, 1984. It is anticipated that the new Law will be considered by the
Legislative Assembly before the end of 1984. The signing of new contracts
and the renewal of existing ones under Law 413 will cease when the new
legislation comes into effect.  In the interim, contracts which expire may be
renewed for a period of up to five years; the authorities feel that this is
essential to enlhance the new legislation's acceptability. However, only 6
percent of existing contracts are due for renewal before the end of 1984.
For industries which begin between June 1983 and the date when the new
legislation takes effect, there will be no quota protection and no guarantee
of return on capital, while tar_ff protection is to be limited (para. 61).
Cabinet approval of the draft industrial legislation, including the proposed
minimum tariff, would be conditions for the release of the second tranche of
the proposed SAL (para. 103).
Price Controls
65.       Panama's present price controls were established by Law No. 60 of
1969 with the principal objective of maintaining the supply and orderly
distribution of basic foods and other goods for low income families. The Law
provides fer a Price Regulation Office 8/ consisting of a Director and Price
8/ This Office, although theoretically under the authority of the Ministry
of Commerce and Industry, enjoys a considerable measure of political
autonomy.



- 20 -
Adjustment Committee comprising seven members: one from the Economic Cabinet,
two representing labor unions, and representatives for wholesalers,
retailers, farmers and manufacturers. At present, the price controls are
applied to about 75 items, 50 of which are food and food products. Fuel and
items such as inexpensive clothes, shoes and pharmaceuticals are also
included as are cement and some other construction materials. Prices for
locally produced food are set at each stage of the production and distribu-
tion process, starting with the farmer. Other controls are enforced at the
retail level.  The Price Regulation Office does not appear to have a clear
formula to determine prices. The private sector constantly complains of a
long time lag between the petitioning and granting of a price increase. In
some cases, this is more than a year.  The increases, when granted, often
take the form of one large hike, rather than incremental adjustments. This
practice not only has a negative impact on sales, but also squeezes profit
margins and discourages investment.
66.       All the products with price controls also benefit from import quota
protection administered by the Price Regulation Office. Removal of import
quotas renders price controls on the affected industrial products redundant
since domestic prices are then regulated automatically by competition from
imports. Local firms are protected through tariffs. The Government is
therefore accompanying the abolition of quantitative restrictions with the
dismantling of price controls on the affected products. By September 30,
1983, price controls on 25 products had been lifted, and the Government
intends to lift most remaining controls on industrial products by mid-1985.
This will provide an important stimulus to private investor confidence, and
the consequent reduction in bureaucratic intervention will help to compensate
firms for reduced quota and tariff protection. Following this, the role of
the Price Regulation Office will be confined to a few very basic and
politically sensitive items such as maize and rice. The price control regime
for these and other agricultural products will be reviewed upon completion of
the Agricultural Trade and Price Policies Study financed under the
accompanying Technical Assistance Loan.
67.       Another important signal to the private sector came in March 1983,
when the Government freed rent controls on all new housing projects which
carry a monthly unit rent of US$250 or more. This measure will help to ease
supply constraints for middle class housing.
Export Incentives
68.       In 1982, the Government established a National Investment Council
to promote export industries and assist investors in dealing with the local
bureaucracy. The Council is headed by a leading Panamanian businessman. In
the relatively short time since beginning operations, it has already been
successful in attracting a number of investors to Panama despite the
difficult international economic climate. The Council is to receive a
substantial amount of technical assistance from USAID to enable it to expand
its promotion activities abroad.
69.       Direct export stimulation is difficult in Panama, as the exchange
rate mechanism cannot be used and fiscal resources for export subsidies are
limited. At present, the tariff protection afforded to domestic production
activities is counterbalanced by an export incentive in the form of
redeemable tax certificates (CATs), currently 20 percent of the value added



- 21 -
of non-traditional 9/ exported goods. The CATs are negotiable and their
holders may use them to meet a variety of tax obligatioTns. Despite
complicated and lengthy application procedures, CATs are considered an
important incentive by the private sector and have undoubtedly contributed to
the recent growth in manufactured exports. 10/ By May 1984, the
authorities will simplify the process for obt-aining CATs and relate their
value to the waAp bill of the factory workforce. This will provide
incentives not only for exports but for employment also. Moreover, by the
same date, an appropriate mechanism will be devised for compensating
exporters for their loss of import duty exonerations. Considerable care will
be taken to prevent discrimination against smaller firms with lower-paid
workers and to avoid adverse fiscal repercussions. The Government would aim
to finance additional expenditures on the export/employment subsidy by the
extra revenues generated by replacing quotas by tariffs and eliminating
import duty exonerations.
Employment
70.       In its efforts to stimulate employment, the Government attaches
much greater importance to improvements in the investment climate than
attempting to reduce costs by direct intervention in the labor market.
Panama will likely remain a relatively high wage center, even with a labor
subsidy. This has to be counterbalanced by stressing its compensating
comparative advantages, and by reforms in labor legislation (para. 57).
Despite their political sensitivity, the Government has already introduced
some modifications in the Labor Code's interpretation, while small firms have
been exonerated from severance payments. The Government has established a
Legal Commission, headed by the Attorney General, to examine further possible
changes in interpretation. With a view to more fundamental reforms, it
intends to commission a study, financed by USAID, to ascertain the extent to
which private investment and job creation have been discouraged by the Code,
and to suggest appropriate modifications. The results of the study will be
available to the Government before the end of 1984.
D. Agricultural Policy
Overview
71.       For some time now, the agricultural sector has been the least
dynamic of the Panamanian economy. Its average annual growth from 1970-72 to
1980-82 was only 1.7 percent, compared with 5.7 percent for non-agricultural
GDP.  This reflects the contradictions of sectoral policy in the 1970's,
which attempted to transfer income to specific rural groups as Wel as
stimulate higher output. This low growth occurred despite the investment of
substantial public resources, both in terms of finance and personnel.  The
total number of public employees in the sector is nearly 7,600; 5 percent of
9/ Principal traditional exports are bananas, sugar, shrimp, coffee and
fishmeal.
10/ Since 1974, when the CATs were introduced, non-traditional exports have
increased at a rate of 21.5 percent per year (albeit from a very low
base) compared to 4.8 percent for total exports, and the proportion of
non-traditional exports benefitting from CATs has risen from 36 percent
to 67 percent.



- 22 -
the total agricultural labor force. The 1982 budget for the Ministry of
Agricultural Development (MIDA), and the autonomous and semi-autonomous
agencies operating in the sector, was about US$175 million, over 40 percent
of agriculture's value added.
72.       During 1969-73 the Government undertook an ambitious land reform;
over 16 percent of Panama's land changed hands in 5 years. More than 140
agrarian reform settlements (asentamientos) were formed on this land, and
considerable government attention was paid to them. The lending of the
state-owned agricultural bank was increased rapidly, and much of its lending
went to them. New institutions were formed to assist in marketing their
output. Even the traditional services of MIDA were channelled mainly towards
their needs during the 1970s. Because they produce almost entirely for the
domestic market, most MIDA policies emphasize import substitution. Official
intervention in agricultural production was not, however, confined to the
asentamientos; the Government also made major investments in three new sugar
mills, took over a financially weak citrus establishment, and opened new
state enterprises in bananas and other export crops. Unfortunately,
these actions resulted in many unrecoverable loans, an inflexible price
support system, and poorly managed state enterprises. An indirect and
unquantifiable cost was the adverse effect on the previously buoyant private
agricultural sector.
73.       There is no agronomic reason why considerably higher rates of
agricultural growth--perhaps as much as double historical rates--cannot be
reached. Such a goal would imply production based more on Panama's
comparative advantages and less on protection against foreign competition.
Panama's long term advantage seems to lie principally in: (a) forestry in the
central mountain areas, based on reforestation with fast growing lumber and
pulp species; (b) dual purpose semi-intensive cattle raising in the central
and western coasta'l plains and foothills; (c) small scale, labor intensive
production of tropical export crops (e.g. coffee, cacao), and of temperate
zone vegetable and fruit crops in the upper altitudes; and (d) equally small
scale, labor-intensive growing of selected vegetable and fruit crops with
irrigation near the rivers of the central provinces.  Movement toward this,
or a similar output pattern, would reduce the importance of crops with marked
seasonality of employment, such as sugar cane, which have high labor costs
during peak periods.
74.       The execution of this development strategy implies the need for a
fundamental change in agricultural policy which would orient the sector
towards higher productivity and output, increase productive employment,
reduce the costs of basic foodstuffs, and expand exports. The specific
measures to achieve this include: (a) reducing price controls and subsidies
to inefficient producers; (b) separating policies aimed at improving the
social welfare of the rural poor from production policies; (c) revising the
role of public institutions in agriculture to achieve these objectives; (d)
reducing and eventually eliminating subsidies for state-owned agricultural
corporations and enterprises; and (e) increasing productivity through mre
effective and selective research and technology transfer.
75.       A number of important reforms have already heen carried out,
covering public sector institutions in agriculture, the legislative
framework, and pricing and trade policy. However, further progress in the



- 23 -
execution of this complex program is considerably iapeded by lack of
knowledge. Accordingly the Government is accompanying specific measures with
a series of studies to determine how best to ameliorate many of the sector's
remaining problems. Assistance in this effort would be provided under the
proposed Technical Assistance Project.
The Public Sector Institutions
76.       State intervention in Panama's agriculture extends from the MIDA
itself, to credit and marketing and to direct production by parastatal
enterprises.  While much of MIDA's efforts are directed towards the
asentamientos, it has neglected the bulk of smal1 and medium-sized farmers
and thus many of the rural poor. Moreover, it has not developed the capacitf
to analyze policy or to guide and coordinate the rest of the state sector in
*       agriculture.  Consequently each entity tends to take decisions in a policy
vacuum. The Agricultural Marketing Institute (INA) is primarily involved in
implementing the Government's pricing policies (para. 81). The Agricultural
Development Bank (BDA) is practically the sole lender to small farmers,
reflecting the lack of interest of other banks. Most of its l.tnding goes to
rice producers, and only a small proportion is directed towards crops where
Panama has a greater comparative advantage. Because of excessive lending
costs (estimated to be 6 percent). it operates at a loss despite charging a
positive rate of interest 111, The Institute for Agricultural Research,
IDIAP, focusses on traditional crops such as corn and rice and has paid
inadequate attention to the special agronomic problems of Panama. Another
service institution, the Agricultural Machinery Enterprise, ENDEMA, hires out
agricul-t%ral equipment at heavily subsidized rates with priority given to
asentamientos. The most important directly productive state enterprise is
the La Victoria Sugar Corporation (CALV), which consists of four mills, three
of them built during the 1970's. Total milling capacity is some 18,000 tons
per day. CALV has required large subsidies every year since 1975; 1982
operating losses by the Corporation were about US$40 million, two-thirds of
public sector savings. Other state producers are the Chiriqui Citrus
Company, the Bayano Development Corporation, and two banana producers, COBAPA
and COBANA; all have required operating subsidies.
77.       The Government's comprehensive review of state enterprises in
the agricultural sector has resulted in a number of important actions,
reducing subsidies by some $27 million (nearly 50 percent of 1982 public
sector savings):
-  On March 12, 1983, the Government announced the closure of the
Felipillo sugar mill, the largest and most inefficient of the CALV
complex. Felipillo accounts for about 30 percent of CALV's total
milling capacity.  The mill's losses in 1982 amounted to US$15.5
million   (39 percent of the Corporation's total).  At the other
mills, the harvesting season was cut s1-ort. The average cost per
pound of sugar produced by CALV as a whole in 1982 was just over 30
cents; at Felipillo it was over 48 cents.   This compares with
an average FOB price, received by Panama, of 10.2 cents per lb.
The closure of Felipillo is the first step in a rationalization
prograr for the Corporation as a whole. This program will be
further developed, as a result of the studies of agricultural
institutions financed under the proposed Technical Assistance Loan.
11/ 9 percent as of June 30, 1983.



- 24 -
- In 1982, the state-o-wned banana coporations COBAPA and
COBANA 121 were closed, generating savings of about US$1.5
milliorJpr year in subsidies. They had incurred heavy losses
since 1980 following a change of management, labor problems and
marketing difficulties. COBAPA's plantation in Chiriqui Province
occupied about 1,300 hectares which previously belonged to the
United Brands Corporation.
- At the beginning of 1983, the Government announced that state
subsidies for the Bayano Development Corporation (BDC) and the
Chiriqui Citrus Company would cease, involving a saving of just
over US$1 million per year. The BDC was created in 1975 to protect
the watershed of the Bayano hydroelectric reserve, and to develop
the lands around the reservoir.   Most of its output consists of
timber, rice, sugar cane a-d beef cattle.   Despite substantial
capital expenditures, yields have remained gene:rally low.
BDC's financial situation, already weak from poor operating
results, has suffered from he..vy outlays on technical assistance
to tenant farmers and social services to surrounding rural
communities. The Chiriqui Citrus Company, incorporating orchards
and a processing plant, was taken over by the Government after it
was abandoned as unprofitable by a US corporation. After takeover,
it initially suffered heavy operating losses; however, these have
been reduced in recent years. Alternatives for disposing of BDC and
the Chiriqui Company will be studied under the proposed Technical
Assistance Loan.
- A number of actions have been taken to reduce losses at the
Agricultural Development Bank (BDA). A new management team,
appointed in August, 1982, is makling a serious effort to reduce the
number of bad debts in the bank's portiolio. 'Recent credit
restrictions will lower the bank's lendable funds to about US$33
million in 1983, compared to US$44 million in 1,32.  No further
access to commercial bank credit will be permitted.  This tightness
of funds will force the bank to be more selective in terms of
credit risks. The interest rate subsidy has been reduced from 7 to
3 percentage points since 1981. Losses will be further reduced in
1983 by increasing to 95 percent the proportion of new loans
covered by adequate crop insurance.
78.       Further institutional reforms would be determined with the
assistance of i comprehensive study of agricultural institutions, financed by
the proposed Technical Assistance Loan. The study would aim to reveal the
main institutional factors impeding the implementation of the Government's
new agricultural strategy, and the extent to which policy discourages higher
output. Using its recommendations, the Government will adopt measures to
ameliorate many of the sector's remaining problems. Specific issues to be
addressed will include:
12/ Although they were two corporations, COBAPA has managed both operations
since 1979.



- 25 -
- Review of detailed agricultural policies and the objectives
and strategies of the state agricultural institutions;
Design of a management system to provide more effective
coordination of the state institutions in the agricultural
sector;
The reorientation and streamlining of the principal state
institutions to achieve policy objectives;
Improved management capabilities in agricultural institutions;
-    Ai review of the alternatives to direct state production
(divestiture, leasing, etc.);
-    Strengthening the capability of the Agricultural Research
Institute;
-    Strengthening formulation and execution of policy in the
forestry subsector.
Agricultural Legislation
79.       The Government has undertaken to drastically revise the
Agricultural Incentives Law. Just as policy in the industrial sector is
dominated by the provisions of Law 413 (para. 64), so the Agricultural
Incentives Law encapsulates the philosophy of past agricultural policy into
one legislative instrument. According to the Law, imports of foodstuffs are
quantitatively restricted and annual percentage targets are established for
their replacement by home produced goods. Price controls on the family food
basket are maintained. The Law permits and encourages state intervention in
factor and input prices, capital markets and agricultural production. The
existence of this Law is clearly contrary to the new development strategy for
the economy and the sector. Accordingly, it is to be substantially
modified. The same timetable is to be followed as in the case of the
Industrial Incentives Law--a draft version of the new legislation is to be
prepared by the end of May, 1984, on which the Bank will be asked to
comment. Cabinet approval of the proposed new Law would be a condition of
release of the second tranche of the SAL (para. 103).
Agricultural Trade and Pricing Policy
80.       The principal objective of the Government's new trade and pricing
policy for agriculture is to reduce resource misallocations, and hence
stimulate higher output, by reorienting price signals and incentives towards
areas where Panama has a greater comparative advantage. This implies a
reduction of the state's role in agricultural marketing, elimination of most
monopolies and greater reliance on market forces in determining the
allocation of resources among alternative crops. It does not imply a
complete disappearance of the state's role in agricultural pricing; it is
understood that a certain amount of regulatory intervention will be necessary
to smooth out sharp fluctuations in supply and the price movements that
result fromthem. In certain specific cases, the authorities also wish to



- 26 -
retain the legal capability of quantitatively controlling imports and exports
to prevent shortages, and large surpluses resulting from dumping.
81.       Previous price policy in the agricultural sector has been oriented
towards providing incentives for certain basic products (rice, corn, beans
and sugar), in most cases with the aim of achieving national self-
sufficiency. In order to subsidize domestic consumption, price controls are
imposed and restrictions placed on exports of otner products (notably, beef
and coffee until recently, fishmeal and cacao). This has led to the
overconcentration of resources in areas where Panama's comparative advantage
is weak while provieLng disincentives for the production of export goods.
Support prices are high, especially for rice, and this has encouraged
substantial overproduction plus illegal importing from neighboring
countries. In order to finance its rice losses, IMA has a monopoly as
importer of maize, onions, beans, sorghum and edible oils, which it directly
retails, or sells to private traders. Since mid-1982, however, these profits
have not sufficed and DKA's financial situation has considerably worsened due
to the large volume of rice accumulated.
82.       In accordance with its new agricultural strategy the Government has
recently undertaken a number of important reforms to modify its trade and
price policy. Price controls on key commodities have been lifted; high
support prices which led to the misallocation of resources have been reduced;
and exports are now encouraged thanks to the removal of restrictions.
Several of these measures have been under consideration for some years, and
have been the subject of Bank dialogue with the authorities. The specific
reforms carried out to date are the following:
-    In March, 1983, the support price for rice was reduced by
US$22 per ton (8 percent). This will discourage surplus
production and lead to annual fiscal savings of over US$4
million. In order to reduce the impact on farmers' incomes of
further support price reductions, the Government is
introducing a system of production and distribution of
certified seeds with special emphasis on rice, corn and
sorghum. This system, which is supported by the IDB, will be
ready for implementation in early 1985. It will enable a
substantial increase in productivity in these crops and
thereby permit an accelerated reduction in support prices
toward border levels.
-    In March, 1983, beef exports were liberated.  Export quotas
had resulted in output stagnation during the 1970s. Prior
project work, including a recent Bank study, had underlined
the importance of ending the export quota system. Future
actions will concentrate on rehabilitating slaughter houses
and processing plants to export standard.
-    Domestic price controls on the higher quality cuts of meat
;-re lifted in September, 1983.
-    The price of potatoes, another major staple, was freed in
March, 1983.



- 27 -
-    Export quota restrictions on coffee were lifted in September,
1983.
-    Milk was previously classified as either Grade A or
industrial quality. As a result, low income groups were
restricted to extremely poor quality fresh milk. Also, many
farmers, technically incapable of producing Grade A milk, had
no incentive to improve quality and increase production. Milk
was reclassified into three grades, including an intermediate
Grade B; the corresponding price adjustments are to be made
before the end of 1983.
-    In September, 1983, import quotas were lifted for five
agricultural products and a considerable number of processed
items. A timetable for further liberalization measures will
be prepared by the end of May 1984. and its approval wiln be a
condition of the release of proposed second tranche of the SAL
(para. 103).
83.       To assist its efforts in further policy modifications, the
Government will commission a study of agricultural price and trade policies
to be financed under the proposed Technical Assistance Loan. Using the
study's recommendations, which should be available by December, 1984, the
Government proposes to adopt further specific measures to ease price
controls, reduce state intervention in marketing, and eliminate some state
marketing monopolies.
PART III - THE PROPOSED LOAN
A. Background
84.       The proposed loan would support the Government's strategy of
structural adjustment and economic recovery. The loan was prepared during
the intensive dialogue with the Government since December, 1982 on its
structural adjustment program and in close consultation with the IMF. It was
appraised in June, 1983 and negotiations were held in September, 1983. The
Panamanian delegation was led by Dr. Nenalco Solis, Minister of Planning and
Economic Policy. Annex III contains a supplementary loan data sheet.
B. Relationship with the Government's Short Term Stabilization Program and
the Standby Arrangementwith-the DLF
85.       Following two years of favorable trends in public sector finances
in 1980 and 1981, a number of internal and external factors contributed to a
sharp deterioration in 1982, while the economy entered into a deepening
economic recession (paras. 15-16). The Government, recognizing the
difficulties the country would face for some time, started to take a series
of actions in late 1982 and early 1983. These may be divided into two broad
groups: structural reforms to enable the economy to meet the challenges of
the more difficult international environ ent of the 1980's; and short term
stabilization measures to provide the necessary context of financial



- 28 -
stability for the new development strategy. While the latter is supported by
the Fund through the Standby-cum-CFF (paras 22-23), the Government has
requested structural adjustment support from the Bank for the former. This
broad division should not, however, obscure the fact that in several
important senses the stabilization and structural adjustment measures form an
integral part of the same program of economic reform.  Both share the goals
of a more limited and more efficient public sector, better budgetary and
institutional control, a more open and less regulated economy in the
productive sectors, and consequently improved resource allocation.
86.       During the preparation of the Standby and the proposed SAL, there
has been close collaboration among Government, Bank and Fund staff to ensure
consistency between short term stabilization measures and medium term
structural changes. This collaboration has aimed to achieve complementarity
and the best use of each institution's resources. Because Panama uses the US
dollar as legal tender and has no independent monetary policy, Fund staff
usually emphasize the reduction of the public finance disequilibrium in their
agreements; Bank staff generally concentrate on specific actions, not only in
the public finance areas, but in the economic sectors as well. The Bank's
identification mission for the SAL overlapped with the Fund mission which
negotiated the-Standby. The Bank's review of the public sector investment
program was included in the Fund's Standby documents. There has been
agreement both on matters of general approach and on specific measures. Bank
and Fund staff have also worked together in supporting the Government's
presentation to commercial banks for a new credit to enable amortization
obligations to be met in 1983 and 1984 (para. 23). We will continue to
liaise closely with the Fund staff, especially during the monitoring of the
1984 investment budget and action program.
C. The Structural Adjustment Program and the Proposed Loan
87.       The proposed loan would support measures taken by the Government in
1983 and to be taken in 1984 and 1985 as part of its structural adjustment
program. Actions taken so far reflect understandings reached with the
Government during its continuing dialogue with the Bank on economic policy.
Most of the measures to be taken in 1984 and beyond require further studies
to assist in identifying policy options, strategies and technical assistance
for public sector institutions in the economic field. It is therefore
proposed that the loan be supported by a technical assistance project to help
carry out these studies and zctivities. In addition, USAID and UNDP are
providing technical assistance for the strengthening of the planning
capabilities of MIPPE and MIDA, for the strengthening of other public sector
institutions and the revision of labor laws. The Pan American Health
Organization is carrying out a study financed by IDB, to identify clinic and
hospital construction needs in Panama, while IDB is also financing an
Industrial Sector Study.
88.       The specific actions supported by the proposed SAL (set out in the
Government's Letter dated August 30, 1983) were reviewed in detail during
appraisal and are summarized in Annex IV. Actions already taken by the
Govern.ent in each of the three main policy areas addressed by its program
include:



- 29 -
Public Sector Efficiency
(a) improvement of the planning process and control of investment
expenditures for the 1983-85 programs;
(b) -Improved control of public sector borrowing through the
establishment of a new post of Director of Public Credit in
MIPPE;
(c) initiation of technical assistance for Customs reform;
(d) improvement of the management of the state-owned development
finance corporation and agreeing to the restructuring of its
ownership, by which the Government will take a minority share;
(e)  discontinuing direct mortgage financing of housing by CSS;
*                  (f)  reforms in public sector housing policy;
(g) setting a firm timetable for measures to make the state-owned
cement company more efficient;
*                  C(h)  sale of a major unprofitable hotel the ownership of which had
passed to the Government in settlement of a Government
guaranteed loan.
Industrial Policy, Trade Liberalization and Employment
Ca) substitution of ad valoremt taxiffs for almost 50 percent of
quantitative restrictions on imports;
Cb) elimination of price controls on industrial goods previously
subject to quantitative restrictions;
Cc) elimination of some rent controls;
(d)  establishment of National Investment Council.
Agricultural Policy
Ca) reduced support price for rice;
(b) elimination of export restrictions on beef and coffee;
(c)  elimination of price controls on expensive cuts of meat and on
potatoes;
Cd) closure of state-owned loss-making banana corporation;
(e) closure of inefficient state-owned sugar mill;
Cf)  elimination of subsidies for directly productive public
entities;
(g) reforms to reduce losses in the Agricultural Development Bank;
(h)  lifting of import restrictions on five agricultural products;
(i) reclassification and new pricing system for milk.
89.       In addition, the following measures are expected to be taken in
1984 and 1985, after completion of the necessary studies and, in some cases,
necessary legislative action:
Public Sector Efficiency
(a) reform of the Customs Administration;
(b) disposal of unprofitable public enterprises;
(c) reduction of domestic cement price;
(d) restructuring of the capital of COFINA and reforming its
management; and
(e) completion of studies for the strengthening of the Health
System, and of the Social Security Agency;



- 30 -
Industrial Policy, Trade Liberalization and Employment
(a) issuing new Industrial Incentives Law;
(b) linking simplified export incentives to employment;
(c) removal of most remaining import quotas;
(d) dismantling of price controls on industrial products;
(e) reduction of tariff protection to a more uniform level.
Agricultural Policies
(a) abolition of restrictions on the export of fishmeal and cacao;
(b) further reduction in agricultural support prices and freeing
of other agricultural prices;
(c) reduction in state intervention in agriculture;
(d)  reform and strengthening of agriculttural institutions,
including BDA and research institutions;
(e) creation of effective agricultural policy coordination;
(f) reduction of state role in direct agricultural production;
(g) issuing new Agricultural Incentives Law.
D. Impact of the Structural Adjustment Program
Economic Prospects with the Program
90.       After passing through a period of stagnation in 1983, and of
projected slow growth in 1984, the Government's adjustment program will
likely lead the economy to a new growth path by the mid-1980's. The
projections outlined in Table 2 assume a gradual recovery in the economies of
the OECD countries, with real growth of 2 percent in 19B3 and 3.7 percent
thereafter 13/,. It is also assumed that the majority of Latin American
economies resume growth of 5 percent per annum after 1985. These are
critical assumptions, particularly with regard to non-traditional   and
service exoorts. On this basis, Panama's GDP could grow by 3.5 percent in
1984, and by just over 5 percent per year between 1985 and 1990.
91.       The principal engine of growth would be private sector initiative
in the industrial and service sectors gaared towards export markets.
Industrial growth could reach 8 percent by the latter part of the decade, and
exports of non-traditional goods, since they start from a very low base,
could grow at about 13 percent per year. The greater part of these exports
would be manufactured goods. This rapid growth reflects the inclusion of the
agricultural and industrial sectors among the beneficiaries of Panama's
geographical and institutional advantages. Services could also expand,
though at a somewhat lower growth rate than that experienced during the
1970's. The Colon Free Zone will have to become less dependent on the Latin
American market although significant recovery there, and in the financial
services subsector, will depend upon a resumption of growth in the Region.
Value added from the Canal and related activities is expected to be
relatively stagnant, although this will be compensated for by diversification
into new services activities stemming from the more efficient use and
development of the old Canal Zone assets.
13/ World Development Report 1983, Chapter 2.



- 31 -
92.       Agricultural output should begin to expand again as a result of the
important institutional and policy reforms to be carried out as part of the
structural adjustment program. Growth is forecast at 3.5 percent per year
from 1985 onwards, compared to 1.7 percent during the 1970's. Much of the
stimulus for growth is expected to come from the livestock subsector, where
Panama has its greatest comparative advantage, and which will benefit from
the lifting of export restrictions and liberalized milk regulations.
Construction and utilities are projected to grow in line with total value
added, while government services are to grow more slowly than GDP.
93.       The projections imply a decline in investment as a percentage of
GDP.  This results partly from a sharp reduction in the relative importance
of public sector investment, which declines to about 7 percent of GDP by the
mid-1980s compared to an average of over 13 percent between 1976 and 1982.
The decline also reflects an increase in the efficiency of capital.  This
stems from the switch to private from public sector investment, from a change
in the structure of private sector incentives, ar'd improved programming of
public investment. These will no longer encourage the use of highly capital
intensive techniques in inefficient activities.
94.       Traditionally, economic expansion in Panama has been fueled to a
significant extent by foreign financial resources. This has been facilitated
by the openness of the economy and the integration of its financial system
with international capital markets. Now, however, the era of easy access to
foreign finance is at an end. Commercial banks are clearly anxious to limit
their total exposure in the country. The availability of credit to the
private sector, therefore, now depends on limiting the public sector's
demands as well as on confidence in the economy's future. The structural
adjustment program is vital to ensure a continued flow of necessary
resources. Public sector savings would increase as a result of institutional
reforms and higher tax revenues from economic growth. Public investment
would be at a lower relative level and financed to a larger extent by con-
cessionary sources. These improvements would reduce the public sector
deficit to just over 3 percent of GDP by 1990, compared to 11 percent in
1982. Moreover, total public sector debt would fall substantially in rela-
tion to GDP, and commercial debt even more. Debt servicing would absorb a
considerably lower proportion of public sector revenues.14/ All these
developments would mean a much greater availability of foreign commercial
bank credit for the private sector. Its share of total net external capital
inflows is expected to increase from 52.5 percent in 1982 to 63 percent in
1990.
95.       The openness of Panama's economy, and its importance as an entrepot
center, signify a high marginal and average propensity to import. Despite
the considerable acceleration in exports, therefore, it is anticipated that
the gap between exports and imports of goods and nonfactor services will
decline only slightly over the period, from 5.4 percent of GDP in 1982 to 5
percent in 1990. However, due mainly to the decreasing public sector debt
burden and reduced interest rate cost to the economy, the overall current
account deficit is expected to decline from 12.6 percent of GDP in 1982 to
8.6 percent in 1990.
14/ Assuming real international interest rates of about 3 percent in the
medium term.



- 32 -
96.       The benefits from the structural adjustment program will be widely
spread. This will take place over the medium-term. Initially and in the
short-run there will be some social costs: the removal of rent control and
interest rate subsidies will bring about higher user cost of housing; urban
consumers will be affected by higher cost of foodstuffs as price and credit
regimes of farm products are liberalized; and industry will go through a
period of adaptation to reduced protection. These effects will be more than
offset over the medium-term by the benefits that will accrue to farmers from
improved prices, the increased supply of housing for urban dwellers and the
freedom from price controls and bureaucratic interference for industrial
entrepreneurs. Also, public health services will be rationalized and
directed more to those who need them, while the social security system will
be placed on a sounder financial footing. Industry and construction will
gain from a lower real cost of public sector goods and services. Perhaps the
most important medium-term benefit would be higher employment generation.
While a quantification of this effect is not feasible with the information
available, the difference in total output (21 percent by 1990) could be taken
as a minimum estimate. The reduction of anti-labor biases which the program
contemplates (para. 70) will undoubtedly enhance the employment generation
effects of the increase in output; accordingly, the relative increase of
employment could be considerably higher than that of GDP.
97.       Finally, attention must be drawn to the assumptions which underly
these projections and the inevitable uncertainty which accompanies them.
This chiefly concerns the prospects for economic recovery in the Western
Hemisphere and in the rest of the world economy. Should this take longer
than expected, or should its impact on Panama be weakened by other factors
(e.g., higher protectionism, continued reluctance of commercial bankers to
lend), then the necessity of the structural adjustment program for Panama's
economic survival would become even more clearly pronounced. Furthermore,
the positive effects from the program will continue to be felt well beyond
1990. It will be in that later period that the structural transformation of
the Panamanian economy will bear full fruit. The analysis presented above
can therefore only be a partial estimate of the program's potential impact on
Panama's future development.
Economic Prospects Without the Program
98.       In the Structural Adjustment Program, important steps have been and
are being taken with regard to liberalization of the economy, the
encouragement of private investment, reorientation of incentives towards
exports and employment, and improved resource allocation through the
strengthening of the market system and greater public sector efficiency. In
the program's absence, private sector confidence, and hence investment, would
likely remain at a very low ebb. The extent to which the public sector could
compensate for this would be limited by the availability of credit. Under
these circumstances, the inflow of external capital would be drastically
reduced and total investment would fall by over half in 1983 and 1984. From
1985 onwards some recovery could occur; however, in the absence of the proper
environment, investment in real terms could well be a quarter less by 1990
than in 1982. Furthermore, the investment that would take place might well
be far less efficient. The share of the public sector would increase to over
50 percent, while the private sector would be limited to services, and
industries geared to the local market. The incremental capital/output ratio
could very well remain at the present high level.



- 33 -
99.       The consequences of these trends are shown in Table 2.,  Growth of
GDP would be around 2 percent per year for the period as a whole, implying a
decline in per capita incomes. Due to lower savings and a higher relative
level of public investment, the public sector deficit would be more than
double that forecast under the program. The public sector external debt
would increase in relation to GDP, and there would be practically no decline
in the debt servicing burden. In the absence of incentives and confidence,
the productive sector of the economv would continue to stagnate and exports
would increase by even less than GDP.
100.      Even this gloomy scenario is probably optimistic in that it assumes
that a public sector deficit of some 6 or 7 percent of GDP could be sustained
despite very low growth rates.  In reality the authorities would find it
acutely difficult to finance such a deficit, and would be forced to reduce
current and capital outlays accordingly.  The resulting economic contraction
would not only feed back on public sector revenues in a downward spiral, but
would also lead to deepening social discontent.  The point would likely soon
be reached where the country would no longer be considered creditworthy and
would be unable to meet its external obligations.
E. Benefits and Risk
101.      The main benefits of the SAL would be the expected reorientation of
economic activity and incentives towards areas of Panama's comparative
advantages in agriculture, industry and services, and the redirection and
strengthening of public agencies towards supporting these activities. Yajor
agencies that would benefit would be MIPPE, MIDA, the Social Security Agency,
institutions working in the agricultural sector, COFINA and the Health
System. The investment climate would be improved and incentives provided for
the private sector to invest in areas of Panama's comparative advantage.
This should pave the way for sustained economic development, and would
increase job opportunities, resource inflows and Government revenues, as well
as reduce wasteful expenditures and subsidies.
102.      The main risks concern the Government's ability to continue the
program despite political pressure; this would apply especially to the
implementation of the agreed recommendations of the technical assistance
studies after the mid-1984 elections. This risk is, however, diminished by
widespread recognition that the Government's strategy represents the only
likely alternative to continued stagnation and increasing unemployment. This
consensus extends beyond the Government to the major opposition factions.
The program, including budgetary and public investment targets, would be
closely monitored and release of the second tranche would be conditional upon
agreed actions being taken (para. 103). The continuity of the structural
adjustment program would also be reinforced by the IMF Standby Agreement
which runs until the end of 1984. Moreover, the Government's satisfactory
performance under the program will likely be a condition for continued
release of the quarterly tranches of the recently negotiated commercial bank
loan (para. 23).



-34-
PANAM
Table lb. 2: SEC1I     a   INiCA1U  2M   AllU?ATPJE AS9JPTIQ
Artual       Widt Stuturd Ajustient    WLttut Strutal AdMus1tn
1977-82      1983  1984  1985  1986-90   1983  1964  1985  1986-90
Anul Gmwth Rates (coaXtant 1982 pric)
GiP at vadket prices                         5.7         0.0   3.5   5.0    5.1        0.0   1.8   1.8    2.1
cagaptiiz                                    5.4         2.0   8.1   7.4    5.3         7.2   6.9   0.6    2.5
GCross dmstic biesltxm t                     9.2       -18.2   0.2   0.4    4.0    -47.4  -6.1   5.2    3.4
Exports of QNFS                              9.8        -1.8   1.9   2.7    5.3        -1.8  -1.1   0.0    1.3
Ixports of ClIS                              7.9        -9.4   9.3   5.3    5.0    -26.3   6.3  -1.4    2.5
Exports of am-traditional goods             (4.5)       (5.0) (7.5) (10.0) (13.5)    (5.0) (2.5) (1.0)  (0.8)
AgUlue and Livestodk                         1.7         0.0   2.4   3.5    3.5        0.0   1.7   1.7    1.7
hinustry an Mirqnx                           4.0         2.5   5.5   7.5    8.2        2.5   1.0   1.0    1.0
Ccnstructicn                                17.5        -4.8   3.5   5.0    5.1       -4.8   1.8   1.8    2.1
GDerumnt serviess                            4.7         5.0   4.0   3.0    2.5        5.0   2.8   2.6    3.4
OtbEr servie1s                               7.9        -0.1   3.2   5.2    5.3       -0.1   1.8   1.8    2.1
Otber Indicators                            1982           1985          1990                 1985         1990
Investrnnt as percent of GMl'               27.7           20.9          19.8                 13.9         14.8
Private invest-E - as Z of total investment   67.5         65.6          64.0                 50.3         49.8
PbmUkc tnvestme  as Z of total investment    32.5          34.4          36.0                 49.7         50.2
public iniestau-t as Z of GIlP              10.5            7.2           7.1                  6.9          7.4
Percent of total lnvestzient finanyce by    60.7           51.2          56.5                 57.8         44.8
national savixgs
Percentof total investunmt financaedby      39.3           48.8          43.5                 42.2         55.2
foreig4n savilns
Ircraental. capital/output ratio             6.9            4.4           3.9                  7.4          6.7
Public sector outstanding external debt     71.0           69.3          52.3                 73.3         76.3
as percent of GIP
Public sector deficit as Z of GIlP          11.0            4.2           3.2                  5.2          7.4
Interest payments om public external debt   30.8           24.8          17.8                 26.2         25.9
as percent of public sector reyercs
Total public external debt service as       55.3           46.8          32.3                 48.8         45.0
percent of public sector e s
Agriculturl vae  aided as   of GlP          10.1            9.9           9.1                 10.1          9.9
Industrial value added as 2 of GDP          10.0           10.7          12.3                 10.1          9.5
Nix-taditional exports an Zof total         26.4           3D.1          39.6                 27.1         24.0
good- exports



- 35 -
F. Loan Amount and Tranching
103.      The proposed loan of US$60.2 million (including the capitalized
front-end fee) would meet about six percent of Panama's total gross external
capital requirements for 1983/84, and is equivalent to just over two percent
of the merchandise imports for the two years. The loan would be in two
tranches: the first of US$40.2 million equivalent would be eligible for
disbursement upon effectiveness of the Loan Agreement, and the second, of
US$20 million equivalent, some six months later. There are two reasons for
the proposed tranching. First, it would enable the sank to review the
detailed 1984 investment budget carefully as a complement to the IMF fiscal
review scheduled for the first half of the year. Second, 1984 will be a
difficult year with low economic growth; it is also an election year in which
the Government will have to continue the strict guidelines of its short-term
stabilization program. The tranching will provide a useful vehicle for
strengthening dialogue between the Bank and the Government at a time when
policy actions for the rest of the year are determined. rhe specific
conditions to trigger release of the second trenche of the SAL, as set out in
Schedules 1 (para. 3) and 4 to the draft Loan Agreement, would be:
-    satisfactory compliance with the agreed 1983-85 public
investment program to be determined by a review of the
detailed 1984 public investment budget;
-    satisfactory progress of the technical assistance studies
according to a detailed schedule under the proposed technical
assistance project;
-    not extending the pricing and marketing arrangements between
the public and private cement companies (para. 28) beyond
their termination date;
-    Cabinet approval of new draft legislation governing industrial
and agricultural incentives (paras. 64 and 79);
-    preparation of timetables for the removal of most remaining
quantitative restrictions and price controls (para. 60);
-    establishment of a new target minimum tariff level (para. 62);
and
-    preparation of timetables for reduction of initial tariff
protection towards the minimum level (para. 62).
G. Disbursement and Procurement
104.      Disbursements would be made against Customs Declarations evidencing
the CIF cost and importation of goods and their countries of origin. Public
and private sector imports from eligible countries, except for military
equipment and luxury consumer goods, would be eligible. All purchases, other
than petroleum products, under contracts of US$5 million equivalent or more
each would be procured through international competitive bidding. Petroleum
products would be procured according to the borrower's normal procedures.
Imported petroleum products and foodstuffs would be limited to US$12 million
equivalent each. Public sector imports under contracts below US$5 million
equivalent would be in accordance with standard Government practices, which
ensure adequate competition. Private sector imports under contracts below
US$5 million equivalent would follow normal commercial practices.



- 36 -
H. Counterpart Funds
105.      The funds generated by the loan would be credited to an account
held by the Government in the National Bank of Panama. They would be used to
finance the capital and recurrent expenditures included in the Government's
agreed 1983-85 investment program (Section 3.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
I. Monitoring
106.      The progress of the Government's structural adjustment program, of
the measures supported by the SAL and of the technical assistance studies
would be closely monitored through regular supervision. Specific supervision
would determine compliance with the conditions for release of the second
tranche. The Government would submit to the Bank progress reports from time
to time, and these would form the basis for an exchange of views. The first
of these consultations would take place no later than March 31, 1984.
(Section 3.03 of the draft Loan Agreement).
PART IV - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS 15/
107.     The Bank has to date made twenty-seven loans to Panama totalling
US$467.9 million (net of cancellations). Of these, 13 loans for US$159.0
million are fully disbursed, two for roads totalling US$13.1 million; one for
an airport project for US$20 million; three for agriculture totalling US$5.7
million; two for fisheries totalling US$8.2 million, three for power for
US$76 million; one for ports for US$24 million; and one for water supply and
sewerage for US$12.0 million. Ongoing operations include one project for
livestock credit; one for development of tropical tree crops; two for
development banking; two for highway maintenance and rehabilitation; three in
the power sector (for generation, transmission and distribution); one to
support energy planning and petroleum exploration; one to help develop the
water supply and sewerage sector; one for the urban development of Colon; and
one for port development. The most recent loan to Panama, a sixth power
project, was approved by the Executive Directors on June 9, 1983.
10.      IFC has made three investments in Panama.  The first was a
commitment in 1971 to acquire US$0.3 million of equity in the Corporacion de
Desarrollo Hotelero, S.A. and to lend to the Corporacion US$1.2 million to
build a new international hotel. The second was a commitment in December
1977 to lend US$2.4 million and acquire US$1.4 million in equity in Vidrios
Panamenos, S.A., the first glass container fact-ry in Panama. These projects
have been satisfactorily completed. The third is a commitment in 1979 to
acquire US$2.5 million in equity in the Banco Latino-Americano de
Exportaciones (BLADEX), a regional export bank promoted by the Government of
Panama.
109.      While there are some difficulties, sacisfactory overall progress in
the implementation of ongoing projects is refle-ted in the steady increase in
Bank disbursements from US$17 millton in FY79 aLnd US$16.1 million in FY80, to
US$31 million in FY81, US$39 million in FY82, and US$39.7 million in FY83.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IFC investments as of
March 31, 1983.
15, Part IV is the same as the corresponding Part of the President's Report
for the proposed Technical Assistance Loan.



- 37 -
110.      Bank lending to Panama is designed to support the Government's
development strategy particularly as regards the further development of
Panama's infrastructure and service industries, the diversification of
production and exports, and the rationali=ation of economic policies in order
to create the climate conducive to stimulating economic activity.
Specifically, the Bank assists those sectors ia which it can make a special
contribution in terms of: (i) developing policies and institutions; (ii)
removing remaining infrastructure bottlenecks; and Ciii) better utilizing the
country's natural resources, including its geographic location. In addition
to the proposed loan, projects under active consideration for Bank lending
include the technical assistance project submitted for consideration with the
proposed loan, a livestock project and a further power project.
111.      Both USAID and the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) have
invested substantial amounts in agriculture and social services (including
family planning in the case of USAID). Past lending patterns are likely to
persist, at least as regards the social services, because the Government
prefers to borrow on concessionary terms for these sectors, while utilizing
other assistance for projects which are expected to result in more immediate
economic benefits. In addition to agriculture and social services, the IDB
is financing road construction, industry and telecommunications, sectors in
which it is likely to continue lending. The IDB also participated with the
Bank and bilateral and commercial sources in financing the Fortuna
Hydroelectric Project and is financins a rural electrification program. In
addition, USAID is lending for alternative sources of energy (other than
petroleum). USAID expects to continue its efforts in manpower training and
projects oriented toward environmental protection.  USAID and UNDP are also
providing additional technical assistance to increase the planning capacity
of MIPPE and MIDA and to carry out additional studies to assist the
Government in its policy reorientation efforts.
112.      The Bank's share of Panama's publicly-guaranteed external debt
outstanding and disbursed was 6.2 percent at the end of 1982 and the Bank's
share of public external debt service was less than 4 percent in 1982. These
percentages are expected to increase slightly in the 1980s.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
113.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Panama and the
Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed separately.
Satisfactory progress in implementing the structural adjustment program and
compliance with the specific actions detailed in para. 103 would be
conditions of disbursement of the second tranche of the proposed loan.
Special conditions of the loan are listed in Section III of Annex III.
114.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 38 -
PART VI - RECOIMENDATTON
115.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
by Ernest Stern
Attachments
October 19, 1983
Washington, D. C.



- 39 -
AINE I
TA3LK                                           P* !C L  of  7
1*3MW                 - SOCrAL  WIDCATS DMa SOEE
FARMNA                                      amF11E~ OREips CWZTED psE S)  /
msm                    O(ST r   ENIr         IFr
zir        r      mz sc                nimnL lsc
1g6o0k     197ok        S L5iA    ARM="CM                    mawE
mm crwmo- no
TOTAL.                            77.1       77.1        77.1
AG!CULTUtL                        14.7       17.0       17.4
C    I VW cAfL CUSS)                360.0      760.0    1910.0             ZO82                   Z453.6
(KILOU1RAS f COAL EUiALeTr)      468LO     2793.0     1623.0            1407.6                 1580.8
IoN&mA   raL s_AIS                                         -
POPMATION.PMD81A1 CT]USAS)   1095.0        1461.0     1877.0
-                           o     zURB  FO?ULATIoWC (-IF TOTAL)  41.3  47.7  55.0          65.9                   47.8
POPULATOnW IROJECIOnas
POPULATTOK DI WAR 2000 (HIL)                           2.8
STAVJOAXT POPUL,aIOX CKL)                              5.0
*                 TEAR STATIONr POP. REACND                             2090
ER S. 10.                       14.2       19.0       23.8              35.6                   n2.0
PER SQ. EN. AMY. LAD            71.5       36.4      105.3              93.2                  157.2
POPULATION ACE STRUICIURE C)
o-L& tRS                       4.0        43.4        39.6             40.1                    31.9
15-64 iRS                       31.8       52.9       56.2              55.8                   60 9
65 AND AOE                       1.2        3.7        4.z               4.1                    7.2
POPMLATION CR(7R RATE C!)
TOTAL                            2.8        2.9        2.3               2.3                    1.6
URBA                             4.3        4.4        3.6               3.7                    3.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER T11W0O)     40.7       36.6       30.1              31.5                   25.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PCR DID)        10.2        7.6        5.4               3.1                    9.t
CROSS REPRODUCTIO RAE              2.8        2.5        1.9               2.0                    1.7
FAMILY PLANC
ACCEPrORS, ANUAL CT(  )                     S 15.5    15.0/c
USERS C:Z F NARRTE D              ..         ..       s4.d-
l1DE1 OF FOOD PRF. TER CAPT
(1969-71-100)                     88.0       94.0      105.0             113.0                  108.4
PER CAPITA SUOY OF
CALORIES CZ OF RSUIRTIS)       107.0      1060       103.0             111.3                  129.6
PROEINS (CGRMS FM  DAr)         61.0       61.0       61.0              67.9                   92.3
OF WI3C  ANIMAL AND PULSE      27.0       30.0       33.0/1            34.1                   34.6
CHILD (ACES 1-4) DEATH RATE        5.5        2.8        0.5               5.3                   10.4
LIFE EXPECr. AT BRTH CYEARS)     6Z.2       66.1       70.7              64.6                   67.2
INFwAr MHRT. RATE (PER T3005)     67.6       48.9       21.2              62.6                   71.4
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (IPOP)
TOuc                            46.2       69.0       84.6              6.8                     -
URBW                            89.5      100.0       94.7              77.8
RURML                            9.6       41.0       69.8              ".3
ACCESS TO EXCRECA DISPDSAL
(: OF POPMATIOS)
TOTAL                             ..       78.0        89.0             54.6
URAN.                                      87.0       97.4              69.8
RAL                               ..       69.0       80.5              29.8
POPLATION PER PMrSCJAJ          2730.0     1580.0      980.0            1776.0                 109S.
*                POP. PER NCRSIIG PERSON         3460.0      550.0      420.01f          101Z.2                   76Z.5
POP. PER HOSPITAL 3D
TOTAL                          260.0      333.h1      250.0            477.0                  334.0
URBN                           1o o       290.0       10.01            667.5                  216.0
RURAL                             ..     1530.0      1130.07;         1921.6
AD(ISSIOHS PER HOSPITAL MMD         .        26.0       21.0/c            27.2                   20.0
AVERACE SIZE OF HOUSEN0K.
Tam                              4.7        5.0        5.0
URBAN                            4.4        4.8        6.5
RUIAL                            4.9        5.2        5.6
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSOINSfROO
TOTAL                            2.4        2.2
URBAN                            2.1        1.8
RURAL                            2.6        2.5                           -                      --
ACCESS TO ELECT. (C OF DUULLIN)
TOTAL                           44.0       52.4
URBAN                           52.7       90.4
RURAL                           11.3       16.0



- 40 -Al    I
-40-                                ANN~~~IWEX I
TAt t* 34                                             2  of  7
PANAM                 - SOCIAL SmAOms vTA Sm
rAAMA                              RWUEfc  MiS CUiSCK    AQERAUS) to
Msn Ost                     r m         ZSTmT lb
' b RECN                   OL   ND                      
Y60w       19711k  ES            LtSr  4A    C AUtlll
arlm
ADJUSTE  EtoLIOE RATIOS
:PA:  TOL                        96.0      106.0       113.0             105.0                  10.2
WEm                  O9.0        108.0      115.0             106.3                   107.2
FE>ULE                94.0       103.0      l1t.0             103.6                    97.9
SECNAMY: TOTAL                   29.0       39_0       65.0              60.0                    56.5
IUE                   26.0        37.0       61.0              38.6                    63.4
FeALE                 31.0        41.0       69.0              1.2                    639
VOCAIOEAIL C` OF SEoaR)            z27.5      32.3       23.2              34.0                 - 22.6
PUU-TtACUER RATIO
PRlrAXsY                         Z9.0       27.0       27.O              30.7                    Z6.7
SECONDARf                        23.0       21.0       21.0              16.7                    22.1
AWLT LIlERACY RAtS CZ)             73.3       78.3       84.6              79.5                    69.7
PASSEYR CARS/TfOSAND POP           16.1       3t.1 t      1.4/0            65_6                    52.9
RADIC MECEIVERSfli0USAiD POP      1489       137.1      155.3-            228.2                   165.5
TV RECEIVERSI?SSAWD POP            10.0       97.0       119.9            10&3                    1262
NEWSPAPER CbAQtY 03ui5.
ITSERE. ) CIRCMATIO
PE TRUSAND POPULATI               i6.9       8.8        82.5               64.1                   96.3
CI( AL  ATEDAacAnTA                  .         4 .7         .9 2.9                                  2.9
TOT  LAUOR FOCE  CTiOS)           359.0      501.0       654.0
PEIALE (PERt3M                   21.1       25.9       23.8              26.3                    34.5
ACRICKLTURE CPERCEr)             50.9       41.6       27.3              31.3                    60.7
INDISTR (PERCENT)                i3.7       16.0       18.1              23.9                    23.
PARTICIPATON RATE (PERCENt)
'rTsL                            32.8       34.2        34.3              31.3                   62.0
MALE                             50.6       49.6        50.6             69.3                    55.2
PE1UE                            14.2       1S.1        16.4             14.8                    29.1
EwNOIC DEPEDEK  RATo                1.5        1.6        1.3               1.6                     0.9
l3i DISIIT0
Paew or PRIVATE ICOME
RECEIVED fT
IReST 5t OF iEotLWDS               .        2 2.1
trmGEsT 203 or nOF USEQDS .M                61.8
LOSES? 20 OF HOUSELDS              .         2.0
LOSES? 603 OF WOUSESL              ..        7.2
manr mmw
ESTDATED ABSlUTE POVUUY LCMRE
L"E. CUSS PER CAPITA)
5W,q                               *-         *-       349.0ff           289.6
RUA L                                                  183.07F           184.5
FSTIAEo RS.ATIE POWERTI ZICQIE
LEVE. CUSS PMER CAITA)
URBAN                                                  62.0ff            519.6
RURAL                                                  287.07f           372.1                  409.0
ESTILMTED POP. B3LCW AISaTrE
POVERTslr FE LEVE I   )
UtRBA!:                             _                   21.0/f              -                       -
RUiRA                               _                   30.07d.
_NDT AVAABE
-tK  APPLrCASLE
MOT E S
la The group averages for each imdtcacor are populmtlowwlghted arlthmetic a_s.  Covera of cetrerl  smo   ti.
Indicators depends co aLlabtlty of data ad 1. not wifor..
:b  Unless otherkure note'. -Data for 196eO  refer to any yar between 1959 and 1961; 'Dat for 1970' betwee 1969 and
1971; sad data for c!,ot Recent FactstC between 1979 and 1981.
Ie 1975: /d 1976; Ie 1977; If 14783 j& 1962.
may 1983



5-   1                                                                                                      5015.01310 A5  -..505.
t-`1030 l0       t P1-5   35_-12                                                   30 1- * 0            w _ -t          5- 01
t-.    W-ft         q.T -1"" Jlt 1            _-
33  3 535-(1.033 5.  350  *5l0531 .-40- lbs N       -3 - 
P ,.  *_.  5t     - t 3 03 n 1-     P) P'.-.           3 A    P.
._034                  p 3iv--4Q .o0 11od..    P   . .       i        9   3 T.-  _1  --*- w
t        L I I3.     5 t   1        4 r MM M  1"I"t _     Wl _ - I o.'..- W1   s.   5- _        _40s r-.m so.1  P-.-             A t u -  *_  0
5303  33 10       39o.3 _  -- 3.--         ";                     _           T           z -P -r-     p -D 0.30 Z    -3.   .0    133 .. ,0531 1 .
E,  -   3 0           50             1-          -            55_ _ M0*m                 3 DL05    3000 *                230  *t-)-I- 9         -1    -
mild" 5  "*3    (*130 10   1) .3              33.0   035.93.33                                  . 53-00       ..  -i.01-3 9.0-.0035)14o  5
T-                          "X a t  T  D_t-2Z    * - I       P S __D%|WD-o ta }*- 
i-       - 'Pb-                      -zd -, sT-                                                5- t       i - -     .-    *0 _   33- 10503 *5 10 **-P03
- I :s      tt-a   D0305  e1-  __ 30301 03300 *o10             -Dw O50P  _645 5-t 0531 *35 3   335 P---"' 13  .3. i. o
_~~~~~~~~g                              '-3s                                                                T_et  s- (P----P  -J~ rBt  "*^3        -A
~~~"30- -19"-PT ~ ~     ~         ~        ~        ~       I.*5               (000qSa.)o3  515003--
5--- -., '30.04 t3        3 0        0 Li.. -. :.      . 3      5d. -z             3 5-o"      -Am 3    i 1              0 - t   _-i
._ ~~~~~~dor  ;=ms                                                                                                        o:  , " -
IIPI:O ~   ~        ~        -.     I     lca   06           J7- T-UI        -.v   '-3
sa~~~=l Os  'tl: iso                                                                       35533*
*                               l3.D0n09   5 5- *T_5  0t   o         'll--ti            -T &-a 05t1
so _n %;I _t-                        _                               '            Pf   - j- "tam  * ",.  M  It  at",          M--S U-  FI-e- _*- 
li~    1-"Z- -s_T ^-C -1-*p-                              O           All Wia.13 .4 -_  -  p - -  11    - _5-  t -i- T13
- _;10 7- t_T 5- *5    -_-010 _t A._t - 50             ft                            -XI 03  3303      00 5-  - 2145    -.P  "a   500 -9a
'   5-1        an -.   n -  _5 4 --s _a ..s-   '- 0 3t-q                                                  1_1.5 p    -..  1 a_     ox 0303  Ai-    -  093- 3
_Ls-W o t4 e         1 .=334   "-M t-  T- -M'= pT   .03.5.i                          5- 510-53  O     3at 0   - t39 04 -       10302 a.- -L  Of P -       m)-
m 31      33      55-3 "1  --3-x3 --0 05113                                        30 5.a -M       0  vow3 q P03130.  33'  153 IT-   0353
_ '_10 ,t 5 . _   -  5S (3.0  3d                                                                  P-  TM C *-_- a      r  -M  :A_       3    0  4   -t
-,  fl41 903 0545                  03340  -    - 1.-  t0001 - Z.P0 -          -OS     3   5         51   -
Vus t                  lo t m- -           t         A.                                                                          .  _-)_D_    s_
05!03  0550- 50P 5 i' t1310 30  31.t-53_0 5-                                                                  019m   _5-A        (3P-tt3 1 s15.0  9T 3  *3-
3.0so5..0053.5-    5055      3031- (.033)3~o3.                      310005  0303301  015I.5-           533-0  p 5600q51.19       5
-on~~~ - jNNr   -n             '            3-"01o-iP                            P"U3p               .
tax9 5s33 Po inst 'Cut 113-.3 3031 131.5 a. .3.10....   301.015                *OOIt- LAm                =-=1- t S2-1-01 33  5 - 331,-                                3
5- 3.55-4  i-35  5q-._ 0w '-C33                   _w                     n       -* -.t -  *"I   031 3310l"   -  o-- ova 4  *1-li-                a n-
,-105 3055  313  .30300  -5-a10-  i--Zi30MAW  -.-A                                             5-101031  3 0-1 a-o 3.3-.3                 .5 P-    033
_~~~~~~~~~~II Pw  _LG _nd -_ -t_  s_                                                  _sa t.t  P- _* l                         e
0    w030 5141 3.. 5t5 o361                          v_ a-U35T t.tt-  5-5-                                    IT mi  .0 33-10.5  * 5-  *5 :
~ *33. *01031*30   .130q1                                                                     3     11t  t  3_ 3.4 1. _-  -  i_- 3  vn-"S. Am-
5-  3.ta-5~ too.o4 _5530 5503530.03 - .o.3-.qs  t~  a_51~~5                          -i _3300.) - 505-o.so    a. 30.03.03   5.353.3S 1- P- -3   -
*- _tt- te                                                   MM                           A  _ zm   ~  -n-igp m  .t.                       - -i 0311  0- 3-5
4- -                 _ 3 Tt 1. -odd.x~ %I      A       .M
_tWl~  N -3  llvp~   " An-m" F. p133 5-  05 *_tt1  -31"- 5-Id I.0.t-1 5                                      5-
5-       a-                                                     n-   a.--I-   - 3                    _ I       - tf1313. 33  -33_     -0    -- 1-
S.5- 0  "3-3 nz1 2305 33 05-400  1 t5  *  1              _      _ *  - _ --.  0*                                    13 4
33.3.05 35303  P  P5----3.. -5- -000 1-t -   151001                          5-13.103-out-35153i-  (..1-   3311133 3.13- i53  5
- 13105-03  _. t03    -       33                                  - 50033035 0.' _30013510                                   *O1.l         5 : D
aR t-   {_a s-5    53    5200~ 3i1)0.9  33a3    -e 31                               .510- _P 1s3   1     - (_._-0i) l0            0.03   _  .5Sd300
I.Pa-~~ ~ ~ ~   ~ Atst322W                             _    of*    _          d 
3- 103.3- 1005053404p  ~3  13  525q0 10.50.3 - 3101533                 5-5(31033  31.1 - o3.1UG p   W.6o.s  i1OUT 15-0  31110
'-355- 0015110          n        I      1110 03300 0i P--- .     a      s 63.r--   -0 10          103
a  5i - 30  .-0.,     -3 0      3         0              st   _-  t   1  *-J                                                       b
C-n- p- V~~  -a-xn      ;~     !: - ~~  1, rt; r**.5=3                    -i-333   04 -331   -'11        51015-   1051   50
-    5-= 310451 95- 33530540             3--n ant 0                         t        tZ t_ -                        t         3-  1 3
* sssm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-s s_ P- 'O-u_ _ _ -t   - >~~{_Cs1 ~
-,_3013  5- "033. ,,335 0115- '1003555 - t_l333.') t103 3.0.3-5 3X19             |           _ a   s- t3I ~   wo)-         - (.ooo.33) .503 i-
pftv~            ::,3L13                                                                                        5-      lax P- 0(31%t -J 5-013d 30-t
.1 _.103 _10     500- _5              3.                  J03-.540                                                   .3.1. - t_3  *33  5_s _  _4- 
. a - s~~ ~~.a.          i oz 1--   J-0310.?-C!-nd5-) 0310    0.33  33001S1  05.03
3 -    t ~ ~~ 3 105-5-                   _ 5_ -0                                                                ______________
~~~~~~~~~3531-+ Io.3                                                  a-o  wa-5.s0  *0 3_3 -3 J-  90     _ 505 50 05313 -  *- .0at
n-g ^ ~~_-t-r _ ll. S.~ " -  it _:  J. nA o                                       7- -                             Om r       6
0131   0-ti*0     15- a- _30.4 LI 31 51 33 D5-0 J-si'30  0. 5--q 04 *
5-                510 3           5103Wx- nm -  5-_w-            t                                *                               35 -33.
Mt 10355- 5- al 30               7_13 0    gl.0   03= 333 3110
Aft 1MM0-*11M3     . 35-533    g 51303 1002010  V.3-1.1's  ..5d-03.30   o3Z                            3100.   01   015.                    S.31   I0350
_I-9 rd- --Bftw --P-Pt A3130 i0P                                                            1 *0Dw  o11t_  4   1101      0335-S '-303  5- t15--T
-    VW ht      --.   100.5-                                                            30111-_  _-  sso 31P. J. V."            3 .t       l .503
_ _t tt_l o_n 'n~~~.3sm                                           C       .3..   mg  5D-*m t_ _  t3-3015-51              31        -. .b
000305-33540  31100    5-5-0-030'33
- -    -       _        _     t w *1-t-nitw                                   J d -nw,  -ao  p-it, &M .  v- An               so
.-a .  .... .                            0 _ sf1--W  -3 0   10                                       0 -t- 4-315130 Wm5 _      I-5a- 5-  _ t-_
5- 1  .-    -Ow10    -5 U 11P- .95-..   -g   50304o0  00.51009COI P10 s.5                               -f51 n o,4   3555- A55-i5-j n53. "      3
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ajlj-1                                                                   _      aw*Pt_ --r-
5305105-103 _-   x-=flt    3                  0    Sa0w . 4 pa .4 o                      1               s 30313 30 5-04  0-   1 -W-. 030,A
Im             p-304.413101100   5333  -                                 15135-1.3-.-  W11033 5- -Z5-  -3                  -     -
31930505 '1  -5-0-         0  -.3313          5033.5-  -m    o                                   o33  5   ad 03153500  100303-       03153
103130.3~i55  330 31  .   fss1 -I 50-33   50*013 a" Ft-"-    -P                                                                  05- 0-04 0050   -       P    f A
M  A-  (950 .A0                                              a       P-         --         -P 9" 3*  -3   Ct .9   J-  0
--w  __Ab inn?_z-
I   W                 t5-_o                                                                                     ---35 M-ot v- 'MI t303   '-s1        a-
W_351040         . 3*    533- p - 05 - -3" p  --W3-   13         I0333
--P- t- 1J  50 _                                  t-                                             (-- -                      0 3
-a..Wm   t1        1      am "1     Im                       j    5-P133  5- _545 '0S6  -I W  J. M - (t-                         5     3     1
'5-301           l- t3- PM s5n5*a3   5030* t   3  *           ,tt
1- -D        3-     -A  Jo3  t0)01       . 0     P-awn0 .3-55-                          1          3t__4                      -3        d _  _
OR) -3t5 0      r-4      112-t35                -          _ *                                                  T         0W 0,   533 1 - *t3 *'- t
50531) 0353010330 - 55-f 5t_- 05-33. 53131 bt-st- 3'   n2n4t13-3                                                                  00.1-   ti F- o-l  -F-
ltos~ p_ .0~~ a-1  _1353 _- t03  0.530 130 035301_-34                                                                               00109 093111 __5_Je  -0145
11P3M"     _    30511131 9 *           'fa-va-                                  0t33 _030  ...553  *- .1                _           ...M3 - 50101.
P-3.303             50    015355-3505   .a                       0   300- A        5j     00.3.5  303-0- At105331_35  - . 53     30001105035-1 V      00
033-53   333  0  55   393.31510   3-  30.  0313.-33   033   33.o                                         3-U 10105531330531 19 0030.3
5- p  0.33.3lo333 303  -335  03-13653  3003  331 5-'. 31010  (55 5         m- 010 13013.0 0330-3343030   5  1  0   am03 "3-33
311)3  0053303030903    0  5                  --m- b13351  .5 .o5.  10335)5 3 931.0 10  5- 305113  03939003   35-3   133   300
551001103305'1o.05-LOi  330 p533-    ." 30030-55a  35030 5-33113 .03- 55-5p p0110  155.-30,               01113039  035933 33.-m3ix              3
tOtmei'm bt0 so
L                                                                    10 _n             1 _
L  O w                                                                - TV



-42-                              AUXI
Pao 4 of 7
*PR:L EDtC   n suM
Rel Aknul, Gt5ith Rat (2)
Tillcator            MoIllonLa 1               StSl                                      Projeted
at COmer
1982    1978   1979  L9K0   1981   1982/  1983   1984   1985   199-0
LO~ WZUn
(Ms   -eitc Pmro&=                 4,227.6     9.8   4.5    5.3    3.8    4.0       0.0    3.5    5.0    5.1
kr1azlut=                          428.7      7.8  -4.2  -1.9    2.9    4.4        0.0    2.4    3.5    3.5
lr&ztty ard Mindig                 422.0      L6   U.0    4.4   -2.4    5.4        2.5    5.5    7.5    5.2
ctnKta1                           371.9    38.9    0.0   23.6   11.6   17.3    -4.8    3.5    5.0    5.1
Servic                           3,005.0      9.2    5.6   4.9    4.1    2.1       0.3    3.3    4.9    4.7
G      amptlon                     3,285.6     14.0  -0.1    L4   -0.6    4.3       2.0    8.1    7.4    5.3
Quss Invssnssut                    1.169.1     12.3   15.3    1.8   15.0    2.5   -182    0.2    0.4    4.0
iports of GIGS                     1.663.8     4.4    6.6  3l7    4.8    4.6    -1.8    1.9    2.7    5.3
Iuyort of  mlFS                    1,890.9    14.7    2.6   17.9    1.3    4.0    -9.4    9.3    5.3    5.0
MP r12ior (L982-100)                 100.00    71.50  79.45  8L55  95.50 100.00   105.50 111.83 11854  166.26
Fxdhi5e Re (bo  per USS)               1m      LO.   1.00   1.00   1.0    1.O       1.00   1.0    1.00    1.00
S E af GIl at llkt  Pds (Z)                 AMIsE  AnnUl lieme (Z)
(at Cornit Fres)                      (at cnst  1982 Prices)
I90    1975    19EO    1985    1990        197U-75   1975-Hi  19O-85  195-90
QGss ltic. WkX                100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0       4.7       5.9      3.4      5.1
AgdmlUUPr                      14.6    11.2    10.2    9.9    9.1           1.2      2.3      2.6      3.5
IkxstLy and Mlnw1              12.7   13.0    10.6   10.7   12.3           3.0       4.0      3.6      82
ca:tnrztm                      6.7     8.2    7.6    8.4       8.4         7.3      5.5      6.3      5.1
Serrsvk                        66.0    67.6    71.8   71.0   70.2          5.5       4.7      3.1      4.9
Cumpdui                        75.5   76.5    77.4   84.7    85.4          4.6       4.2      4.2      5.3
:s  II1get1Il                  27.8   3D.9    26.4   23.9    19.8          6.0       0.2      0.1      4.0
E#orts of QGMS                 38.0   47.0    47.9   36.3   37.5            3.8      8.9      7.5      5.3
Tiports of QIFS                41.4    54.3    51.6   41.9   42.7          4.6       5.0      4.4      5.0
V1 PrelmIar



-43-
Pag 5 of 7
-U     -         uaT
Amount                               _1nal Grctwth ceran (1)
(miI  ISS at Ca  eenat_t 1978 pca)
corret prices)                       Actual                                             Pro-cted
Indicators                       1975             1Y7S      1979      1960     1961      1932                1953      1984     1985      1986
EUMIL TM                                                                                                      t2        35       66       1.
lb hanliia  z.o.   fob        370.3              11.2      3.5       5.7      7.3      -7.1                -1.2       3.5      6.6      10.0
primary                     135.5               3.6      3.2       0.3     -3.4       1.5                 7.1       4.4      4.7       0.9
Manufacturs 4 other I/      234.B              23.0      3.5      19.4    -16.4    -23.Z                 -5.6       2.9      7.7      15.5
-        tlerchandiae aopa fob          853.3             13.3       3.6      8.1      -O.Z       5.7                -9.2      9.1       5.2       5.1
Patrolama Z                 Z19.2             -4.0      11.9    -14.1    -14.9       -7.Z               -10.0       1.5      3.0       3.0
machinerman  UquLpmet   183.3                  32.9     -6.6      15.6      14.2      7.1               -15.0       1.0       1.5      4.0
Manufacture                 356.Z             31.6      -2.6       9.4     -1.1       7.2                 2.0       8.1      7.5       5.3
Othe.                        89.6            -39.0      2.4       45.6      9.2      17.5               -26.4      35.6      7.7       9.4
Ixt Prc     Index                              100.0    115.5    118.2    L18.4    114.8                  111.9    114.8    118.    123.9
blurt Price Index                              100.0    121.3    1Z6.6    136.9    134.7                  132.1    135.5    141.1    151.9
erm of Trad  Index                             100.0      95.2      93.4    86.5       85.2                84.7      84.7     84.2      81.6
cauoaitI  of Iwrchaniae Trade -                                Averag  Annual Incra  (S)
at aar  tpjr    )                                       (at coatant 1977 pre)
1960             197t  .i9i         1910      1935           1960-70     1970-75  f9S-B0   1980-85
Expr-                           100.0            100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0               n.a.          n.e.     2.5       1.8
Primary                        73.9             74.       44.6      39.0     40.6             nUa      .   n.S.       1.3      3.5
Otheor 1,                      26_1              6.0      55.4     61.0      59.4                             a      2. n.  28  -831
Iport-                          100.0            100.0    100.0    100.0    lOO.C               n.S.          n.r.     7.5       2.1
Petrolem                        9.9             19.0      .4.4     31.1      24.Z             n.S.          n_e.    12.1      -4.7
Macldnery A Equlpmt            22.1             27.5      29.0      19.4     19.3             n_.           n.e..    9.8       1.7
Otlari.                        68.0             53.5      36.6     49.5      56.5             n.e.          n.S.     5.9       5.3
Share of trad  iith                    Shar of Trade with                    Share of Trade with
Induatrtil Canntrtna CZ) Xv)                     C-w                         capital Su     oi      or   ()
1960     1970      1975     1980      190      1970t   9T5         19[0      1940      1970     1975      1980
n    nONx OF TmCR
Exporta                     99.0      59.6     74.8      79.0       1.0     10.4      24.6     20.0        0.0       0.0      0.6       1.0
Pri_ay                     n.-.      n.-.    96.7       n.S.    nU..       n.-.      2.3     na.         n_.      n_..      1.0       n.-.
sAnufcturc                 n._.      n.S.    nU..       n.m.     U.S.      n_..      U.S.     U.S.       n.S.     n.S.      n.S.      n.e.
Impacts                     74.9      61.3     41.4      63.7     24.7    Z.7        18.9      6.5        0.4      18.0     39.7     29.8
I/ Incledin  petroleUS products.
Octoher 1983.



- 44 -
*113 I
Vif-rof 7
PANKA*     - SALC  OP PO OISIMKEL CAPITAL AD MT
CllTion  of US at current pric)
Proj cted
Actual                 ?rSI             (ComcmEt 1982 prices)
1978         1979         1980         1981         191152i      1983          1984        1985
B3ALA* OF PATENITS
w.ts of CDdSn Sservices (37) af            950.1      140l.1        1,564.4      1.642.1      1,663.8      1,634.4      1,665.4      1,710.4
of wbich wercsandlm  f.o.b.              370.3        425.4        491.0        459.9        413.3         408.4        422.7       450.6
Ixports of Goods end Service  (NY) _1    1,102.0      1,372.5      1,687.9      1,848.0       1,890.9      1,728.4      1,889.2     1,989.3
of whicb merchandise f.o.b.              853.8      1,073.1       1,332.7      1,453.8      1,477.5      1,353.0      1,476.1      1.552.9
Net Transfer.                               -2.2         14.3         12.7         28.3         30.1          29.6         30.1        30.9
Investment Income (net)                    -54.1       -1O7.3       -160.5       -251.2       -277.1       -262.6        -255.2      -255.3
Current Account 5ace                      -208.2       -295.9       -271.3       -423.8       -474.4       -327.0        -48.9       -502.3
Official Capital (Net)                     486.5        194.3       2U3.H         203.9        506.9         270.0        398.8       452.3
Aorcizstion                              534.8        243.9        263.3        316.4         401.1        423.3        482.2       351.1
Disbursemet                            1,021.3        438.2        487.1        520.3        910.0         693.3        881.0       803.4
Other fficial Traectioc (net) b            -82.3         S59          39.1        -36.9         -0.7          -            -           -
Private Capital (net)                      -17.9        173.2        149.1        303.4        -57.7          50.0         50.0        ".7
Net Errors and Onesona and Ib1dentifed
Inflows                                 -177.6       -127.5       -140.7        -41.6         23.9           7.0         -           -
EXfESuL CAPITAL AND DaS? /
Grois. Otabures-ece                        9  .2d$      402.6        406.9        313.8         730.2
Official Crants                            4.7          5.0          1.8          0.6         -
ConcessLonsl loans                        34.3         15.2         11.5         24.8         33.3
Non-conceseional 1men
Official Export Credit.                    n.&.         n.a.         n.&.        nU..          n.-
IBRD                                      11.8         16.1         20.4         38.1         36.6
Otber Ibltilareral                        32.4         32 0         48.8         34.4          60.3
Private                                  901.0 d,     334 3        324.4        215.9         5".5
Public External Debt
Debt oucttatding  und diahured e/      1,871.3      2,062.8      2,263.2      2.359.1       2,780.7
OffiLel                                  457.3        506.7        410.3        616.1        729.4
Private                                1.414.0      1,556.1      1.852.9       1,743.0      2,051.3
Undisbursed Debt                           495.1        513.9        476.2        450.4        555.0
Debt
Total Service Paymets                      565.1        401.9        445.1        492.3         635.2
Interet                                    121.8        196.2        251.4        277.1        332.4
Pa7wents as 2 of GNUS Export.               59.5         34.4         29.7         30.0         38.2
Average Interest rate on 1ev Lans
Officil                                    5.2          6.3          9.3          9.8          11.1
Private                                    9.4         11.2         11.0         12.2          12.3
Averag  Neturity of New I1n   (years)
Officil                                   17.8         19.1         17.0         17.0          16.5
private                                    7.0         10.3         12.1          8.0          8.0
a/ Include. bunker nd aviation fuel and non-m_netary gold
,/ leflects seuay commercial operations of the istioal Baen of Panea
c/ Medi and long tcue debt only
d/ Pas    undercook a large debt refinncing in 1978
e/ At the end of the pear



- 45 -                                                  Al=  I
Pae 7 of 7
PAM: PBUBIC SECrat FUIJ4IL I)ICAIsWS
Actual                                      Projected
i9F     19B1    1912    1983    19816   19B5    1916    19B7    1918    1989    1990
A. In MUlions of Current US T1llars
Curent _evetu  I1                   1,032.6  1,177.3  1,287.7  1,392.3  1,438.6  1,601.Z  1,802.3 2,026.8 2,279.3  2.563.3  2,882.'
cur-ent Eqendtu,us                   905.9  1,004.5  1,227.1  1,272.6  1.321.2  1.437.8  1,606.2  1.778.7  1,977.0 2.223.2 Z.:J.
Public Savirg                        126.7   172.8    60.6   119.7   117.4   163.4   196.1   248.1   302.3   340.1   382.1
Capital Expenditutes 12              299.8   390.1   524.6   389.5   388.7   392.2   443.2   500.7   562.7   620.9   h98.3
Caolidatel Pablc Seetor Def1dt       173.1   217.3   466.0   269.8   271.3   228.3   247.1   252.6   260.4   280.8   316.0
B. As Percent of tOP
Current Revenu  II                    29.4    30.3    30.4    31.1    29.7    29.4    29.2    29.7    29.8    29.3    29.2
Current Expendituxs                   25.8    26.0    29.0    28,4    27.3    26.4    26.0    26.1    25.8    25.4    25.3.
Publlc Sawiug.                         3.6     4.3      1.4     2.7     2.4     3.0      3.2     3.6     4.0      3.9     3.9
Capital Expenditures 12                8.5    10.0    12.4      8.7     8.0      7.2     7.2     7.3     7.4      7.1     7.1
Consolidated Public Sector Deflt       4.9     5.7    11.0      6.0     5.6      4.2     4.0     3.7     3.4      3.2     3.2
C. NMm Finail Peblic Sector Debt
(NIlins of Current US$)
Interest fajmnts /3                  279.8   322.7   396.7   338.0   397.7   396.3   422.3   436.0   453.4   481.6   513.2
Amortization 14                      213.8   215.2   388.2   201.0   262.1   351.1   362.9   374.4   3B7.3   401.6   416.5
Debt Service                         493.6   537.9   786.9   539.0   659.8   747.4   785.2   810.4   860.7   883.2   929.7
Debt Service as 2 of WP               14.1    13.8    18.5    12.1    13.6    13.7    12.7    11.9    11.0    10.1        9.4
nterest as 2 of Current Reveems       27.1    27.4    30.8    24.3    27.6    24.8    23.4    21.5    19.9    18.8    17.8
Oatstandin lDebt /3                2.325.8 2.537.2 3.100.0 3.271.0  3.545.8 3.774.6 4.021.7 4.274.3 4,534.7 4,815.5 5.131.5
As 2 of GDP                           66.2    65.3    73.2    73.1    73.2    69.3    65.2    62.6    59.3    55.0    52.0
/I  Current revenues of General Covenmet phs te curmnt surplus of the public enterprlses.
1Z Net captal expenditurs. exluing iuwsmmts financed by loan revems of the financial public aector.
/3 Includes all c rcl  bank oblities.
/4 Nodm and long te  debt adoy.



- 46 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF RANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PANAMA ,
A.   STATEMENT OF LOANS (as of September 30, 1983)
USS Million
Loan                                                           (less cancellations)
Number          Year      Borrower             Purpose          Amount   Undisbursed
13 loans     (1953-80)   Fully disbursed                        159.0          -
1397-PAN       1977      BNP                 Livestock Credit    8.0          2.6
1470-PAN       1977      IRHE                Power               73.3        27.5  2/
1565-PAN       1978      Republic            Highway
of Panama          Maintenance        12.0         0.5
1641-PAN       1978      COFINA              Industrial Credit  15.0          1.2
1672-PAN       1979      BNP                 Tropical Tree
Crop Dev.         19.0        12.2
1778-PAN       1980      IRHE                Power               23.0         3.0
1878-PAN       1980      Republic
of Panama         Urban               35.0        28.3
1954-PAN       1981      Republic            Energy Planning
of Panama          and Petroleum       6.5         6.2
1955-PAN       1981      COFINA              Industrial
Credit II         20.0        14.7
2020-PAN       1981      Republic            Road
of Panama          Rehabilitation    19.0         18.1
2182-PAN       1982      APN                 Second Port         24.4        23.8
2222-PAN       1983       IDAAN              Water Supply II    21.6         21.3
2313-PAN       1983       IRME3/             Sixth Power         32.1        32.1
Total (less cancellations)                       467.9
of which has been repaid                         65.4
Total now outstanding                            402.5
Amount sold                        9.2
of which has been repaid          9.2             0.0
Total now held by Bank                            402.5
Total umdisbursed                                           191.5
1/ The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
2/ Includes a supplementary loan of US$31.3.
3/ Not yet effective.



- 47 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT (as of September 30, 1983)
Fiscal                                                  Amount in US$ Million
Year                                                   Loan    Equity   Total
1971      Corporacion de Desarrollo Hotelero            1.2      0.3      1.5
1978      Vidrios Panamenos, S.A.                       2.4      1.4      3.8
1979      Banco Latinoamericano de
Exportaciones, S.A.                           -       2.5     2.5
3.6      4.2     7.8
Total gross commitments
less cancellations, terminations,
repayment, and sales                         0.6      0.3     0.9
Total commitments now held by IFC             3.0      3.9     6.9
Total undisbursed                              -       0.1     0.1



- 48 -
ANNEX III
PANAMA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a) Project Preparation - Preappraisal
(1)  Project prepared by:          Goveranment/IBRD
(2)  Initial request for Bank      December 1982
financing:
(3) First Bank mission to
consider project:             March 1983
(b)  Appraisal Mission Departure:       June 1983
(c)  Negotiations Completed:            September 30, 1983
(d) Loan Effectiveness Planned:         November 1983
II.  Special Bank Implementation Actions
None contemplated.
III. Special Conditions
Assurances were obtained that:
(a) The Government would submit to the Bank reports on the progress
of its structural adjustment program and of the technical
assistance studies on the basis of which an exchange of views
would take place (para. 106); and
(b) The second tranche of US$20 million equivalent would be made
available upon satisfactory review of the public investment
program, the progress of the technical assistance studies, the
draft Bills of the Agricultural and industrial Incentives Laws,
the timetables for substitution of quantitative restrictions by
tariffs, reduction of tariff levels to a new established minimum
level, and removal of most remaining price controls, and termina-
tion of the pricing and marketing arrangement between the public
and private cement companies (para. 103).



- 49 -
Table 5  PAUMA - STEIIL* ADUSTNIIT PUSOI                               AWN  TV
lags I at J
Btructural Adluateant Progrm
Sector and Policy loasu
Actlon Already Taken                             Stop. to lD Taken
1. ACRICULTUBK AIND RUtAL DUE IAHIIT
1   lci~.  agulatlen and Melretinu
a)  Exiport restrictions              -Df-t export reetrictionu l1fted,             -Export reetrictlons on tilbeanl end cacao to le
nrd, 19113.                                  lifted by October. 1914.
-_s*trictione on exports of coffee, llfted
by September 1933.
(b) Pricing                           -Producer support price of rice reduced       -Subetantaml reductione in eupport pricee for rice.
corn and *orgh_. to be announced by March 1915.
-Poteto pricee freed.                        -Price of tomatoes, onLan and other horticultural
-Milk clalied according to grades             producto to be freed, by October 1954.
and appropriate prices set.                 -Enforcement of price for grade  3" silk by
-Grading  systen for mat *otablisbed. nd      Dcember 31, 1993.
dometic prices of expensive cuto of mat
freed. Septembr 1933.
(c) Perbet intervention and                                                         -Dank financed pricing study to be coepletod by
regustion.                                                                      second half of 1994 to indicate program of
reductions in state intervention In agriculture and
retorm of institutions in keeping with new
devlopmnt atrategy.
2.  Institutional Deforms                 -Pelipillo *ugsr mill cloned, Match 19B3.    -Furtber inatitutional reforme to awit results of
-Activities at other ststo  sugar silla       Dank financed sector study to be completed by mid-
reduced, March 1993.                         1984. Policy aim  to be addreosed include: creation
of an effective agriculturel policy coordination
capability; adequate manament infofention for
better institutional control; reduction of the
State ' role In directly productive
-Sta  banaa corporstion closed, 1962.         activities; further strengthening of Agricultural
-u%baidia to state developmet                 Developmnt Dank; reductlon of atate intervention
corporatione eliinated in 19N3 budgat.       In marketing ad eliination of  om  state
-Deduction of Agricultural Development        mrketing monpolisu; reducing uboleoole and retail
lDnk interest rats subeldy.                  price controls; and strengtbnsing capability of
r-search institutes.
-ill new Agricultural Development            -Draft legislation for new Agricultural Incentives
anok credits covered by crop                 law approved by Cobinet end-May 1984.
ineurnces.
it.  DRIAN INUSIAL   D han An  POLCIUS
1. Articultion end Imlementatmon          -Ueder the coordinatlon of tboe Mlitry
of a  Awxosriate Indutria              of Planning and Economic Policy, a new
Devlomnt Strateg                       industrial poliey was esthblisbad in late
1992 incurporating a stratey bawd
on the expansion of export-oriented. laser-
istenosve activities.



- 50 -
rublip s    PANAMA - STRUCTURAL ADJUSTHlENT PROGRAM                  ANNEX IV
Pamg  2 or 3
Sector and Policy Issue                              Structurel Adjustwnt Program
Action Already Token                               Steps to le Takrn
2.  Export Prosotion                          -National lnvestment Counctl established         -Step)ification uf CAT and their link
In Uctober 1982 to proeote foreign               to factory esployoent hy May 1984.
Inveatunt and provide invesdru with
one-stop agency in dealing with local
bureaucrecy.
-Export incentives  provided In the fore
of redeemble tax certiftentes (CAT).
-Flexible Interpretattion of LAbor Code
in the case of specific, export-oriented
industries, lIte 1982 early 1983.
3.  Protective Structure                     -Cabinet Decree astablishing policy
objective of elimination of quanti-
tative restrictlone signed by the               -Timetable for removal of remaining qWutas to be
President tn 1961.                               agreed by end May 1984.
-133 quotes removed by October 15  1963.         -Industrial and comercial policy studies, financed
-Maxie. term of individual contracts              by IDo, AID and World Rank financed technical
between the Government and private               asseitance on effective protection tn be completed
ftres reduced from 10 to 5 years. March          by end May. 1984.  These will assist Governrmet in
1983.                                            determining Initial Level of tsrifl protection with
-Public announcement in March 1983                which to replace quotas when reasranble entimates
that new industries will not he                  are unavailable.
.ffered any fors of quota protection.           -Draft legislation for new industrial incentives
-MaxItum tariff prstection for new                law approved by Cabinet end-May.  1984.
industries Initahly 225 percent of              -Maximum and einlum tariffs to be defined, and
local value added reduced after one              timetable for reaching low, uniform tariff reedy by
year to 100 percent.  arch 1983.                 end-May 1984.
4.  Price controls                             -25 industrial price controls removed.          -Government will dismantle price controls on
Septeaber 1983.                                 industrial products following removal of quotas.
S.  Labor Legislation                        -Legal comission established to modify            -Study financed by AID to be completed by did-1904 to
Labor Code interpretation.                       be followed further by nodificationr In the Labor
Code after elections.
[It. PURLIC SECrOR EFFICIENCY
1.   Financial Sta-bilization                -iocrease import tariffs and crude                -With the assistance of an IMF financed expert major
petroleum  import taxes.                         reform  are to be made in the Custom  Administration
-Substantial reductions in capital                Including eventual application of Brussels tariff
and current public sector expendituree           nomenclature.  Reform  to be completed by end 1984.
in CY 1983.
-Strict cash limits on all expenditures
established and monitored by Econoeic
Cabinet.
-Directorste of Public Credit established
in Ministry of Planning to coordinate
comercisl borrowing by all public sector
agencies.
a



- 51 -
able 5: PNFrLs - STRDCrI3RAL ADISThET PROGRwAMI AI= IV
rage 3 of 3
Sector and Policy Issue                                            Structural Adjustment Program
Action Already Taken                     Steps to Be Taken
2.  PublIc Investment Program             -Detailed investment budget for 1983
Includes major reductions and deferral
of noopriority projects.                    -Detailed investment budget for 1984 and draft
-Draft program for 1904 and 1985 revieved     1985 program to be ready for review by Hank La
by Bank. July 1983.                          March. 1984.
3. Relfot and testructuring of            -Major financial review of all public         -Disposal of La Contadora Panama.
Public Entities,                       sector entities completed February 1983.    -Restructuring of national airline.
-Sale of a malor loss-making hotel.           -Ending of prIcing arrangement between
Jacuary 1983.                                 publitc and privare cement companles. fay 1984.
-Some agricultural entitles closed; see
-                                                    item 1.3 above.                               -Redoction in dostic cement price,
July 1984.
4.  Public Sector Housing                 -Rent controls freed on alL new
housing projecrs carryIng a monchly
unit rent of 5250 or more. March 1983.
-Rationalization of National Mbrtgage
Hank including increased interest rates
for mortgages and no further Independent
access  to cmrcial bWnk credit. late 1982.
-Social SecurLty Agency formally
undertook in October 1983 not to engage -n
further direct housing financing.
-From January 1983 Social Security funds used
as secondary mortgage financin at attractive
rates of interest.
-Interest rate susidy Fnr SnciaL Security
mortgages ended. Oct .er, 1983.
S. Finacial lnstitucions                  -Reform and restruct ring of development    -Audit of current portfolio completed by June 15.
fieance corporation COFLIA initiated.        1983.
Instructions issued to dissolve or          -Comirments from the private sector for purchase of
aution off those psrts of the portfolio      shares in restructiral COFINA to be obtained by end-
thIch have become a fiscal burden, Nev       March 1984.
management bas been appointed and process   -_iber of COFDIA staff to be substantially reduced
of privatisation initiated,                  by Mare 31. 1984.
6. Cana Zone Land and Assets              -,egislaticn to facilitate leasing or         -Study of trans-isthaLan transport corridor
selling of land and Infrastructure           completed by Julv 1984.
in the old Canal Zone presented to
Gngress. in March 1983.
7. Health and Social Security             -Financial reform of housing department       -Study of Integrated System of Health Care to be
of SociaL Security Agency completed          initeated ty end 1983 and completed by mid 1984.
December 1982.                              -Financial, managerial and actuarial studies of
Social Security Agency to be initiated by January
1984.
October 6. 1983.



- 52 -
ANNEX V
Page l of 2
PANAM(I: PUJLIC INVESTE1EIT PROGRAM 1983 - 1985
(VILIllons of US$)
1983                    1984                    1985
SECTOR                                 Local  Forelgn  Total   Local  Forclgn  Total   Local  Foreign  Totai
Aricultare and Rural Dkvelop et         36.6    32.3    68.9    42.9    34.1   77.0    30.8    25.2    56.0
Co rce and Industry                      7.1    20.6    27.7    7.8    12.4   20.2    12.6    5.9    18.5
Subtotal                               43.7    52.9    96.6    50.7    46.5   97.Z    43.4    31.1    74.5
Energy                                  19.2   59.1    78.3    21.7    68.1   89.8    22.4   69.6    92.0
Transport                              38.1    17.2    55.3    45.8    20.7   66.5    55.6    25.1   80.7
Telecoinlceations                       11.5    0.6    12.1     8.8     2.1    10.9    17.6    2.4    20.0
Subtotal                               68.8   76.9   145.7    76.3    90.9   167.2    95.6   97.1   19Z.7
SOCIAL Sp=
Education                               15.3    3.0    18.3   14.3    0.5    14.8    18.2    2.0    20.2
Health                                 28.0    4.3    32.3    23.3    6.2    29.5    33.1       6.9    40.0
Rousing                                 56.9   10.1    65.0   47.5   1l.2    58.7    33.1        6.9    40.0
Subtotal                               95.2    17.4   115.6   85.1    17.9   103.0   84.4    15.8  1OO.Z
aTHER
Tourim                                  0.7    0.5      1.2    0.5      -       0.5      1.4    0.6     2.0
Multisectoral and Coinanty Projects     23.2    7.2    30.4    14.6    6.2    20.8    6.1    16.8   22.9
Subtotal                               23.9    7.7    31.6    15.1    6.2    21.3       7.5    17.4    Z4.9
TOTAL                                  234.6   154.9   389.5   227.2   161.5   388.7   230.9   161.4   392.3
.



-53 -
AR v
Page Z of Z
PANAMA: PUBLIC INVESTMENr PROGRAM 19Bl-1985
(Percentage Coupositioa)
SECrOR                                   1983             1984            1985           1983-85
PRODUCTIVE
Agriculture and Rural Development        17.7             19.8            14.3             17.3
Comerce and Industry                      7.1             5.2              4.7              5.7
Subtotal                                 24.8            25.0             19.0             23.0
INFlASTRUCTURE
Energy                                   20.1             23.1            23.5             22.2
Transport                                14.3             17.1            20.6             17.3
Telecomaunications                        3.1              2.8             5.1              3.7
Subtotal                                 37.5            43.0             49.2             43.2
SOCIAL SECTOR
Education                                 4.7             3.8              5.2              4.6
--l-th                                    8.3             7.6             10.2              8.7
Rousing                                  16.7             15.1            10.2             14.0
Subtotal                                 29.7            26.5             25.6             Z7.3
OTHER
Tourism                                   0.3             0.1              0.4              0.3
Nultisectoral and Cobmmity Projects       7.7             5.4              5.8              6.2
Subtotal                                  8.0             5.5              6.2             6.5
TurAL                                   100.0            100.0           100.0            100.0
.C



C   A   R   I   8   8   E   A   N                                     S
!PiwutatieoZ XtBoca dd Toro                                                                              Sp
Almirmntcp                                                                                               Piu
1                                                                                                                      S.lud/ 
*  i  4  5   %      t                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Escob&1t
I-.    -'                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~COLON
o                    *_-  gsDCerro Punta                      \                                                            r
's~~~~~'
- eeno                                                                                                             PNM
_)    /  Sereno*V(ofc6n  XBoq\u.e BOCAS  DEL  T ORO
*                a          La Fortuna                                                              COCLE To
_N_                                  __~~~~~~~~-YElCopi             eiveu.e
FPaso                               '-.                           )                 I                                        Uoma
D/WIDX ~~ CChOUi                                                                                  amsAoat  
Canco   CmucopcMn Gualaca             o-~          S      .~        SOIIt Fi                              mt
Progreso              * DVI    C[HIRIQUI                                                   Y4.w*
,/-_                           Cmqi                           1                                11
Il                                               S,hirRS6bala    VERAGUAS  I
*            Onhios                        _oissas                                CuB@brls            Nao auerts COlobre
- GEJLF g E~~~R                                      *To&Si F                                                           Obld|h)t  ia
-~             W hIVVC OCEAltll                                                                     ERA   C I F     OfCEt  
ArmueITeD sTATES~J 
EL  UNVO~ITED STrA6Ah
P  A  C  I  F  I    C              0      C      E     A   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Don'
GULF OF MEXICO                           ZL7                                              La ~~~~~~~~ofMP



IBRD 27
r,.                      |                     .                          NOVEMBER
S   E   A
L.   ,.J                                     ISL  DE SW   LAS
Cerro
ifi ~~    PAAAAM
-e            -PW   Ca
* .MA ol V Puert cQi                                                           D    A   Rn\I  E    Nj
ARtcNIPELAO
ClDE LAS PE S
El Reol VI\
;GU L F   O f   P A N A M A                                       5* Garine
PANAMA
-      ineri-mrin Highwaf
1  __Plannd raue. hbnr-Aawican Higa                                                      -
-     Paved or all-wealher red           iJo;us
daii                     Airfields or ading strips                                   Jaqu)
-J                           hilb_wuationat airpOrt                                                     ,-
Ps     -CaMl'                                                               C O   L  0  M  Bt I  A
F'OWindel kih\                                                         I 
--- li_maem hmmiwteI
0     g0    20    30    40   5s0 
MLOUiRS       g*3






