Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9086-MAI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MALAWI
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FEBRUARY 25, 1991
Southern Africa Department
Agriculture Operations Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency and Equivalent Units
Currency Unit = Malawi Kwacha (MK)
US$1.00       = MK2.8
MK1.00        = US$0.36
Abbreviations
ACFO        =      Assistant Chief Fisheries Officer
ADD                Agricultural Development Division
ADMARC             Agricultral Development and Marketing Corporation
CBM         =      Commercial Bank of Malawi
CFO                Chief Fisheries Officer
DEVPOL             Statement of Development Policies
DFO         =      District Fisheries Office
EEC         =      European Economic Community
FA          =      Fisheries Assistants
FAO         =      Food & Agricultural Organization
FD          =      Fisheries Department
GOM         =      Government of Malawi
GTZ         =      Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische
Zusammenarbeit GmbH
ICEIDA             Icelandic International Development Agency
IDA         =      International Development Association
INDEBANK    =      Investment and Development Bank
INDEFUND    =      Investment and Development Fund
MALDECO     =      Malawi Development Corporation (MDC)
MBRS        =      Monkey Bay Research Station
MFNR        =      Ministry of Forestry and Natural Resources
MFTC        =      Mpwepwe Fisheries Training Center
MOA         =      Ministry of Agriculture
MMF         =      Malawi Mudzi Development Fund
MUSCCO             Malawi Union of Savings and Credit Cooperatives Ltd.
NBM         =      National Bank of Malawi
NDF         =      Nordic Development Fund
NRDP        =      National Rural Development Program
ODA         =      Overseas Development Administration
POSB        =      Post Office Savings Bank
RBM         =      Reserve Bank of Malawi
RDP         -      Rural Development Projects
RFO         =      Regional Fisheries Officer
SACA        =      Smallholder Agricultural Credit Administration
SADCC       =      Southern African Development Coordination Conference
SCF         =      Smallholder Credit Fund
SEDOM       =      Small Enterprise Development Organization of Malawi
UNDP        =      United Nations Development Program
USAID       =      United States Agency for International Development
WWBM        =      Women's World Banking of Malawi
FISCAL YEAR
Government:     April 1 - March 31
FD:     April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Credit and Project Summary   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   i
I.          BACKGROUND
A.   Project Genesis   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   1
B.   Main Country Characteristics    . . . . . . . . . . .   1
C.   Macroeconomic Context  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   1
D.   Agricultural Sector  ........                     ...   ...   .    .    3
II.         THE FISHERIES SUB-SECTOR
A.  Introduction. .............   4
B.   Resources and Production    . . . . . . . . . . . . .   4
C.   Fish Processing, Marketing and Pricing    . . . . . .   4
D.   Sub-Sectoral Constraints    . . . . . . . . . . . . .   7
E.   Govt. Development Objectives and Strategy   . . . . .   7
F.   Bank Strategy and Assistance    . . . . . . . . . . .   8
G.   Lessons Learned from Fisheries Projects   . . . . . .   9
H.    Other Donors' Assistance    . . . . . . . . . . . . .   9
III.        INSTITUTIONS AND SERVICES
A.   Fisheries Department    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   9
B.  MALDECO Fisheries ................ . 13
C.    Other Institutions and Services   . . . . . . . . . .  14
IV.         THE PROJECT
A.   Project Rationale and Objectives    . . . . . . . . .  15
B.    Project Description   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  16
C.    Detailed Features   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  16
D.    Project Costs        . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  22
E.    Financing Arrangements    . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  25
F.    Procurement          . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  25
G.    Disbursement    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  27
H.    Accounts & Audits   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  28
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Malawi in June,
1990, comprising Messrs/Mies. N. Okidegbe, Sr. Fin. Analyst (Mission Leader and principal
author); S. Thillairajah, Prin. Fin. Analyst (Institution Specialist); B. Bagdjortsson, Fish
Biologist; M. E sonu, Economist; K. Fisher, Aquaculturist; B. Jenson, Fish Processing
Specialist; P. Molchiori, WID Specialist. Messrs. E. Loayza (AGRPS) and 0. Van Santen
(EMTAG) revioeed project design as Lead Advisor and peer reviower respectively. Ms. P.
Mehrdadi provided secretarial support in the preparation of the report. Mr. R. All and Mr.
S. Denning are the managing Division Chief and the Department Director, respectivoly for tho
operation.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



V.        PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.   Organization and Management  . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
B.  Role of MALDECO  . . .  .  . . . . .                 30
C.  Role of Women    ....  .  .  .  .    . ..... .  .  .   . 30
D.  Credit Terms and Conditions  . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
E.  Annual Work Program  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
F.   Reporting and Monitoring   . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
G.  Environmental Impact   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
VI.       PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRICES
A.   Production      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
B.  Marketing        ................................... 35
C.  Prices           ................................... 37
VII.      BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A.   Financial Analysis   ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 37
B.  Economic Analysis       . . . . . .        . . . . . . 39
C.  Risks and Sensitivi'ty Analysis   . . . . . . . . . . 41
VITI.    AGREEMENTS REACHED. CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATION
A.  Agreements Reached .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
B.  Condition of Effectiveness .  . . . . . . . . . . . 43
C.  Condition of Disbursement .  . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
D.  Recommendation   ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 44
IX.      ANNEXES
1.  Detailed Project Costs
Table 1 - Project Cost Summary  . . . . . . . . 45
Table 2 - Project Components by Year  . . . . . 46
Table 3 - Accounts Cost Summary . . . . . . . . 47
2.  MALDECO - Projected Financial Statements
Table 1 - Projected Balance Sheet (1990-93) .   48
Table 2 - Projected Income Statement (1990-93)   49
Table 3 - Projected Sources & Uses of Funds
(1990-93).. ........  50
3.  The Financial Sector and Credit Criteria   . . . . . 51
4.  Monitorable Action Program for Pilot Women's Program 55
5.  Estimated Disbursement Schedule  . . . . . . . . . . 60
6.  Boat Models: Key Financial Indicators  . . . . . . . 62
7.  Operational Model for Mpwepwe Boatyard   . . . . . . 68



8.  Economic Costs and Benefits  . . . . . . . . . . . . 74
9.   Implementation Schedule  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
10.   Supervision Plan   ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 79
Chart
Fisheries Department Organizational Structure
Hat)
IBRD Nos.22693 and 22615
X.        DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILES
A.  Working Papers on Aquaculture Development
B.  Working Papers on Economic Analysis
C.  Working Papers on Environmental Assessment
D.  Working Papers on Women in Fish Processing and Marketing
E.  Working Papers on Fishing Methods, Processing and Marketing
F.  Cost Tables



- i -
MALAWI
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 Government of Malawi
Beneficiaries:            Fisheries Department (FD); Artisanal Fishermen;
Semi-Commercial and Commercial Fishing
Enterprises; and Women Fish Traders.
Amount:                   SDR 6.2 Million (US$8.8 million equivalent).
Terms:                    Standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity.
Co-Lenders:               Nordic Development Fund (NDF) and Icelandic
International Development Agency (ICEIDA).
Project Description:      The Project, which would be implemented over
seven years with total estimated cost of US$15.5
million, comprises: (i) an Institution Building
Component for strengthening Fisheries Department
to enable it to concentrate on regulatory
functions, policy formulation, staff training and
technical assistance; (ii) a Research Component
for strengthening FD's research capacity and
focusing on demersal stock assessment, lake
resource conservation, and developing pilot fish
farming models that would help integrate
aquaculture into crop farming systems in
different ecological zones; (iii) a Production
Component for rehabilitating and developing
existing capture fisheries by supporting
artisanal fishermen, semi-commercial and
commercial fishing activities, and establishing a
pilot program to increase the involvement of
women in fisheries (fish processing and
marketing); and (iv) an Infrastructure Component
for rehabilitating, upgrading and building of
access roads, jetties for fish landing, and shore
based facilities.
Benefits and Risks:       Malawi would increase food production from its
lakes, reservoirs and river systems. The
proposed Project would enhance the contribution
of the fisheries sub-sector to food security and
improved nutrition, poverty alleviation,
employment and income generation, particularly of
the rural population, including women. It would
promote private sector participation in fisheries



- ii -
sub-sector by rehabilitating semi-commercial and
commercial fisheries enterprises while reducing
government involvement in fisheries operations.
In addition, it would strengthen the capacity of
FD to establish an effective lake resources
management program, carry out regulatory
functions to protect and conserve the natural
resource base and prevent environmental
degradation. The possible risks to the Project
would be the weak institutional capacity of the
Fisheries Department to implement the Project and
efficiently manage and regulate the fisheries
sub-sector, particularly the protection of fish
resources from over-fishing and prevention of the
pollution and degradation of Malawi's water
bodies. This risk would be minimized by the
planned strengthening of Fisheries Department
through reorganization, staff training and
technical assistance.



- iii-
Project Cost Summarv:
Local         Foreian        Total
US$ 000
A.   INSTITUTION BUILDING
1.  Management                                      459.1         1,051.2         1,510.3
2.  Extension                                       693.6          589.4          1,283.0
3.  Planning, Monitoring & Evaluation               131.6          170.7           302.3
4.  Training                                        619.4          788.9          1,408.4
5.  Civil Works (Office & Staff Houses)            1,122.7         573.7          1,696.4
Sub-Total Institution Building                     3,026.4        3,173.9         6,200.3
C.   INFRASTRUCTURE
1.  Jetties                                          60.4           40.3           100.7
2.  Access Roads                                    448.0          248.4           696.4
Sub-Total Infrastructure                            508.4          288.7           797.1
B.   RESEARCH
1.  Research and Conservation                        78.6          802.6           881.2
2.  Aquaculture                                     322.3          120.5           442.8
3.  Civil Works                                     233.5           55.7           289.2
Sub-Total Research                                  634.4          978.8          1,613.2
D.   PRODUCTION
1.  Artisanal Fisheries                              92.3          439.3           531.6
2.  Commercial                                     1,011.8        1,960.6         2,972.4
3.  Semi-Commercial                                  71.6          382.1           453.7
4.  Boat Yard                                       222.2          257.3           479.5
5.  Pilot Women's Program                           200.0            -             200.0
Sub-Total Production                               1,597.9        3,039.3         4,637.2
Total Baseline Costs                               5,767.1        7,480.7        13,247.8
Physical Contingencies                          193.8          369.0           562.8
Price Contingencies                            1,057.5         627.9         1,685.4
Total Project Costs                                7,018.4        8,477.6        15,496.0



- iv -
FinancinR Plan:
Local       Foreign      Total
---------(US$ Million--------
IDA                                                4.4          4.4         8.8
NDF                                                -            3.5         3.5
ICEIDA                                             0.4          0.6         1.0
GOM                                                1.1          -           1.1
MALDECO                                            0.6           -          0.6
Beneficiaries                                      0.5                      0.5
Total                                              7.0          8.5        15.5
Estimated Disbursement (USS Million)
FY92     FY93     FY94      FY95     FY96    FY97      FY98     FY99
Annual           0.3       1.0      1.4       1.6      1.3     1.7       1.0      0.5
Cumulative       0.3       1.3      2.7      4.3       5.6     7.3       8.3      8.8
Economic Rate of Return
Total Project                        20%
Artisanal and Semi-Commercial        18X
MALDECO                              40%



MALAWI
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Proiect Genesis
1.01      In 1988, the Government of Malawi (GOM), assisted by IDA carried
out a Fisheries Sub-Sector Study which identified the main issues facing
the country's fisheries operations. Based on the recommendations of this
study and the findings of a subsequent IDA Identification Mission, IDA
agreed to provide assistance to the fisheries sub-sector. A Task Force was
established in June 1989 within the Ministry of Forestry and Natural
Resources (MFNR) to carry out preparatory work on the proposed Project.
IDA reviewed the Government's proposals and recommended additional
analysis. The Project preparation report was finalized by the Fisheries
Department (FD) with the active support of FAO/World Bank Cooperative
Program (CP) in November/December 1989. This Staff Appraisal Report is
based on the findings of IDA appraisal mission which visited Malawi in June
199().
B. Main Country Characteristics
1.02      Malawi is a small, land-locked country with a total area of
approximately 118,900 km2, of which 23,900 km2 is lake surface. It is
bordered on the north and northeast by Tanzania; to the east, south and
southwest by Mozambique; and to the west by Zambia. The land area consists
of three topographical regions: the northern mountainous region, the
central plateau and the southern lowlands. The current population of
Malawi is estimated at about 8.1 million, with an annual growth rate of
about 3.2Z. Malawi has one of the highest population densities in Africa
with 60 inhabitants per km2, and 170 inhabitants per km2 of arable land.
Much of the population suffers from malnutrition, and only two out of three
children survive beyond five years of age. The country's food production
and supplies have been severely constrained by drought, cassava mealy bug
infestation, high cost of agricultural inputs such as fertilizers, low
prices for exported agricultural commodities such as tobacco and tea, and
increased freight costs due to the civil war in neighboring Mozambique.
This civil war has also driven some 800,000 refugees into Malawi.
C. Macroeconomic Context
1.03      Malawi has a GNP per capita of US$160 (1987), which is below the
average for Sub-Saharan Africa, and makes it one of the world's poorest
countries. A substantial proportion of the population lives below the
poverty line. However, Malawi is pragmatic in the management of its
economy even though the economic base is dependent on a small range of
export and domestic markets and susceptible to external shocks. The
strategy in the first decade and a half following Independence in 1964 by
and large emphasized infrastructure and agriculture as vehicles for
increased production. While prices paid to smallholders by the
monopsonistic marketing board (the Agricultural Development and Marketing
Corporation -- ADMARC) were below world levels, a considerable share of the



- 2 -
profits was reinvested in agriculture, albeit in the estate or agro-
industry sub-sectors. The estate sub-sector was deemed critical to export
Derformance and was the primary source of growth. Explicitly recognizing
e.ts constrained resources, the Government limited its expenditures,
4ncluding social services. The initial effect of this strategy was a
Leasonably high growth rate of over 5 percent per annum through the late
1970s.
1.04      Malawi's period of strong growth came to a halt in the early
1980s when the country faced a combination of unfavorable terms of trade,
high interest rates, and weather-related shocks, and other major domestic
policy weaknesses. While the Government was responding to these shocks,
the country was hit in the mid-1980s by a worsening of the war and civil
strife in neighboring Mozambique which not only led to a debilitating
increase in international transportation costs but also to increased
security-related expenditures and a large influx of refugees. This caused
sharp deterioration in the macroeconomic environment in 1986 from which
Malawi is just now recovering. Despite the recent partial reopening of the
Nacala rail route to Mozambique in October 1989, and peace overtures, the
Mozambique situation has not eased and remains highly uncertain. Should
peace be secured, restoration of smooth transport flows still would require
rehabilitation work extending over several years.
1.05      Throughout the 1980s the Government undertook a broad-based
structural adjustment effort. This was supported by three Structural
Adjustment Loans (SALs) and an Industry and Trade Policy Adjustment Credit
(ITPAC) from the Bank and other bilateral donors as well as by successive
arrangements with the International Monetary Fund. The major elements of
the adjustment package comprised: (a) restructuring of the parastatal
sector, including ADMARC reorganization and divestiture, and restructuring
of the quasi-public conglomerate Press Group, resulting in a return to
their profitability; (b) reforming smallholder agricultural pricing and
marketing, thereby improving performance among larger smallholders and wide
private sector participation; (c) establishing fiscal discipline, including
development of a tax reform program and strengthened budgeting procedures,
resulting in a sharp decline in the fiscal deficit, initially from 15.5Z of
GDP in 1980/81 to 8.5Z in 1984/85 and later, in response to the second
series of shocks, from 13.0? in 1986/87 to 6.9? in 1989/90; and (d)
restoring a relatively open exchange and trade regime through appropriate
exchange rate adjustment and a phased removal of prior foreign exchange
approval on imports, resulting in increased efficiency of import use and
manufacturing capacity utilization.
1.06      The structural reforms and improvements in short-term
macroeconomic management have created a stable macroeconomic environment.
After negative growth in 1986 and 1987, GDP (at market prices) grew by 3.3?
in 1988 and 4.3Z in 1989, restoring per capita GDP growth to a positive
level. Despite drought conditions, GDP is expected to grow 4.8? in 1990.
Inflation decelerated sharply from an average of about 30? in 1987-88 to an
average of 162 in 1989 and estimated 12% in 1990. Real wages have
declined; in fact, labor has borne a significant part of the adjustment
burden. The fiscal deficit has been brought under control, with net
negative domestic credit financing of government in 1988/89, 1989/90, and



- 3 -
1990/91. This allowed growth in private sector credit of 26X, 59%, and
estimated 38%, respectively.
1.07      In spite of the breadth of policy reform and the restoration of
macroeconomic stability, significant structural weaknesses that impede
development of sustainable supply response remain. The productivity of the
economy is low, while increased financial flows to the private sector have
not resulted in stimulating non-traditional activities. As a result,
foreign savings continue to be of critical importance to the economy, with
a current account deficit reaching 10.7Z of GDP in 1989 and an estimated
8.5Z in 1990. In addition, export responsiveness has been impeded by
stagnation of agricultural productivity for the majority of smallholders
and continued population pressures.
D. Agricultural Sector
1.08      Agriculture is the backbone of the Malawi economy.  It accounts
for about 35% of GDP, 90X of exports and 85Z of employment, and provides
inputs for about two-thirds of the manufacturing sector. The country's
arable land is about 2.4 million ha, most of which is being cultivated.
However, agricultural productivity remains low as a result of limited
adoption of improved agricultural technologies, reduction of farm size due
to rapid population growth, and deterioration of land fertility. This has
resulted in domestic food security concerns and constrained agricultural
export growth. A substantial proportion of the population is estimated to
be poor and malnourished, predominantly in rural areas, including a
disproportionate number of female-headed households. Options to increase
availability of low cost sources of protein through expansion of animal or
crop production are limited. The challenge facing Government is to find
ways to increase agricultural productivity and promote efficient use of
natural resources, while generating off-farm employment and increasing
private sector participation.
1.09      Government is using a variety of measures to address the
challenges facing agriculture. Through the Agricultural Sector Adjustment
Credit, Government is implementing a number of key measures to increase the
productivity of a broader range of smallholders and estates, including:
revising laws to allow smallholders to grow the high-value burley tobacco
and increase prices of other tobacco; liberalizing the fertilizer
distribution system; restructuring research policy in favor of technology
appropriate to smaller smallholders; and increasing and adjusting land
lease rents for estates more frequently. Efforts are also being made to
expand the access of agricultural support services to a much broader range
of smallholders through the proposed Agricultural Services Project. This
would involve a variety of new initiatives that would focus efforts more
specifically on the needs of the resource-poor households, without
diminishing its support to the market- oriented producers. Emphasis is
already being placed on ongoing research, with some success, for more
widely acceptable improved maize varieties and groundnut; widening the
impact of extension through increased attention to specific needs of the
smaller farmers; and expanding the availability of fertilizer to
smallholders in combination with broader coverage of agricultural credit.



- 4 -
In addition, the Government has produced a Food Security Statement with an
action plan to increase the availability of low cost sources of protein.
II. THE FISHERIES SUB-SECTOR
A. Introduction
2.01      Fisheries is a significant sub-sector of agriculture,
contributing about 41 to the GDP. It plays an important role in the
country's food security and nutrition. Fish is an essential part of the
Malawian diet and the main source of low cost animal protein. It
represents about 75Z of the total animal protein supply of the rural
population. In addition, the fisheries sub-sector is an important source
of off-farm employment and income opportunities. Fisheries activities are
the direct source of employment for about 32,000 people and provide the
livelihood for about 200,000 others who work in a variety of activities
such as fish processing, marketing, boat building and repair, engine
repair, and gear supply. Given limited options for expanding crop
production because of land constraints, the fisheries sub-sector is
expected to become even more important in the future.
B. Resources and Production
2.02      Resources.  Malawi's water bodies cover about 25,970 Km2 or 22Z
of the country's total area. These water bodies have potential sustainable
fish production of about 150,000 tons/year. Lake Malawi, which is the
largest water body in Malawi, is renowned for its diversity of fish
species. Although no definite count has been made, it is certainly the
most species-rich in the world with as many as 1,000 different species.
Remarkably, most of these species are endemic to Lake Malawi and belong to
a single family, the Cichlidae. The country's other water bodies are Lakes
Malombe, Chilwa, Chiuta and the Shire River with its marshes.
2.03      Production.  Total fish production in 1988 was about 80,000
tons. A little more than half of the nation's annual fish production comes
from Lake Malawi. Of the remainder, about half are caught from Lake Chilwa
and a quarter each from Lake Malombe and the Shire River (Middle and
Lower). In recent years, between 10Z and 15Z of the total catch has been
produced by the commercial and semi-commercial fisheries, whose operations
are mostly within the Southern Region waters of Lake Malawi. The remaining
85Z to 90Z is produced by artisanal fishermen using diverse techniques, and
are widely and surprisingly uniformly spread throughout the country's
fishable waters, regardless of productivity.
C. Fish Processing, Marketing and Pricing
2.04      Fish Processing.  An estimated 80 to 90Z of Malawi's landed fish
catch is processed for distribution inland, the remainder being consumed
fresh in the production areas or in nearby urban markets. Sun-drying is
the main method of preservation for the smaller, low-value fish (utaka,
usipa, kambuzi and chisawasawa), while larger fish such as chambo, catfish
and the larger cyprinids, mormyrids and characins are usually smoked. Sun-
drying is usually performed on racks made of reeds or bamboo. Faster



- 5 -
drying and reduced losses have been achieved by the FD using an improved
drying rack of galvanized wire mesh, but the high cost of mesh has
prevented its widespread adoption. The main problem in sun-drying is
spoilage due to insect infestation, both during the drying process (attack
by Blowfly Larvae) and during storage (Dermestes Beetle infestation). FD
research has resulted in an inexpensive and effective insecticidal dip or
spray treatment to combat both pests using a commercial insecticide
("Actellic" - Pirimiphos-Nethyl) widely used in Malawi on stored maize.
Actellic dipping has been adopted by many processor/traders in the southern
part of Lake Malawi, but increased efforts are required to extend this
technique to other production areas.
2.05      Traditionally, fish smoking has been carried out over open pits.
The requirements for a better product, and a processing technology which
cain handle larger quantities of fish and improved fuel economy, have been
satisfied in many places by the introduction of kiln smoking. Over the
last twenty years, the FD has developed suitable kiln designs based on the
"Cote D'Ivoire' kiln (making them smaller and simpler), and these have been
widely adopted wherever adequately demonstrated. The shortage of fuelwood
in some fishing areas (especially the Lower Shire, Likoma and Chizumulu
islands) makes it particularly important to intensify extension effort in
this field. A small quantity of high-value fish (kampango, chambo and
ncheni) is smoked as brined fillets in electric smoking kilns, to supply
the hotel and delicatessen trade.
2.06      The northern market has developed a preference for pan-roasted
fish, that is, small fish (usually utaka) roasted on a piece of steel sheet
after a short period of sun-drying. The method is useful during the rains
when drying is more risky, and also produces a tasty product. The shelf
life of pan-roasted fish is, however, much shorter than that of either
dried or smoked fish.
2.07      Near Salima, a fish canning company operated rather
unsuccessfully for about fifteen years. It faced problems of fish supply,
until it established its own fishing capacity. In addition, it had to
import cans from overseas, and there were also some technical problems
associated with the canning of bony cichlids. The cannery was shut down in
the mid-1980s but has recently been purchased by new owners who plan to
reinvest in fish canning.
2.08      Fish Marketing.  The commercial fisheries sector produces a
range of high-value products (fresh iced, frozen and smoked fish) mainly
for the urban markets of Zomba, Blantyre and Lilongwe. It also produces
about 3,500 tons/year of low-value fish, chiefly chisawasawa, which is sold
fresh to processors or trader/processors at the FD landing sites for sun-
drying and distribution to inland markets. Catches by the artisanal
fishermen are landed at a large number of small fishing beaches rather than
at centralized landing points, and a flexible and generally efficient
processing/trading system has evolved to distribute fish from the beaches
to inland centers. Large scale fish traders use lorries or pick-up trucks
to carry iced high-value fish (especially chambo) to the urban markets. A
much larger number of smaller scale and largely part-time operators,
including a high proportion of women, use public or commercial transport to



- 6 -
supply smoked and sun-dried fish to urban centers, the agricultural estate
sector and to the many small rural markets.
2.09      The use of ice is presently restricted to areas near the four
operational ice plants - two at Namiasi, one owned by FD and the other by
MALDECO, and one each at Salima and Nkhotakota owned by FD. It is
encouraging to note that private sector operators are interested in
establishing ice plants at different points along Lake Malawi. However,
the use of ice is still very limited. Most commonly, it is used by traders
with small pick-up trucks who purchase fish in bulk from chambo seine
fishermen in the Upper Shire or Lake Malombe, or from pair trawl operators
at Namiasi or MALDECO fisheries. Their fresh iced chambo is sold in Zomba
and Blantyre, and very occasionally in the northern city of Mzuzu.
Tropical cichlids respond well to the use of ice, and a small reduction in
temperature is sufficient to retard degradation after capture. Research by
the FD has shown, however, that the high value chambo can be kept at
ambient temperature for up to six hours and still retain adequate eating
quality. This helps to explain in part why ice is not viewed as a
necessity on fishing vessels.
2.10      Fish Prices.  Prices have not been officially controlled since
their regulation was abolished in 1985, but some downward pressure on
prices is maintained as part of the national drive against inflation.
There are four principal price-setting points in the marketing chain: the
beach price, the lakeshore wholesale price (processed), the inland
wholesale price and the retail price. Frequently the wholesale price
points are absent, as smaller traders tend to buy fresh fish from the
beach, process it themselves and retail it in the market. The differential
between these various price points is variable, depending on locations of
source and final retail point, but average at a 45Z increase at each stage,
with the retail price about three times the beach price. The beach prices
per kg. for most species lie between MK 0.50 and MK 1.50 (July 1989) as
shown in Table 2.1.
Table 2.1: Wholesale and Retail Prices by Fish Species
Retail
Local Name    Scientific Name              Beach Price    Market Price
--_----- (MK/kg) ---------
Chambo        Oreochromis spp                   1.50         3.16
Kambuzi       Haplochromis spp                  0.53         1.53
Utaka         Haplochromis spp                  0.77         1.83
Chisawasawa  Lethrinops spp                     0.66         2.44
Kampango      Bagrus meridionalis               0.94         2.71
Mlamba        Clarias geriepinus                0.64         1.84
Usipa         Engraulicyprus sardella           0.50         1.15
Nchila        Labeo mesops                      1.00         2.90



D. Sub-Sectoral Constraints
2.11      Some of the constraints in the development of the fisheries sub-
sector were identified in collaborative studies by Government and IDA. The
primary constraint is lack of institutional capacity to manage the
fisheries sub-sector efficiently. The Fisheries Department (FD), which is
responsible for implementing government programs and policies and
regulating the fisheries sub-sector, is basically weak. It lacks the
capacity, skilled manpower and infrastructure to manage an important sub-
sector of the economy which is based on the exploitation of a highly
perishable commodity. FD is ineffective in providing research and
extension services, undertaking monitoring and evaluation, carrying out
surveillance and enforcing fisheries regulations. FD, therefore, needs to
be strengthened and its operations streamlined to enable it carry out its
mandate.
2.12      Another constraint is dilapidated fishing vessels and
infrastructure. About 90Z of all fish landings in Malawi are managed by
traditionallartisanal fishermen who use dug-out canoes or small plank
boats. These are generally in a state of disrepair and require replacement
with improved boats using durable plank wood and/or other materials, thus
minimizing environmental damage caused by cutting indigenous wood for dug-
out canoes. There are also problems in the handling, collection,
distribution and marketing of fish in the country. Most of the existing
infrastructure, including landing facilities, fish handling sheds, chill
stores, ice plants and workshops, is old and in a state of disrepair. Many
of the facilities are unserviceable, while others are poorly located.
Impassable roads during the wet season, and the complete absence of lake
side facilities in most areas also make fish handling and distribution
difficult. The performance of semi-commercial and commercial fisheries is
sub-optimal because of these constraints coupled with poor condition of
pair-trawler units fishing on Lake Malawi most of which are in urgent need
of repair and replacement. The assets of MALDECO (the only commercial
fishing enterprise) are run down and require substantial reinvestment in
vessels and shore installations. An effort to increase fish production and
improve fish handling to reduce loss and wastage must therefore be met by
upgrading fishing fleet, developing landing and marketing facilities, and
providing good access to domestic urban and rural markets.
2.13      Although there is great potential to increase fish production in
some of the lakes, the rational use and protection of these resources is
critical. The lake eco-system is delicate and could be destroyed by over
fishing and pollution. Consequently, there is an urgent need to monitor
fish catch and to carry out continuous stock assessments, which would
provide the basis for implementing a sound resource management program.
E. Government Development Objectives and Strategy
2.14      The Government's objectives for the agricultural sector, of
whic]h fisheries remains a very important sub-sector, are to promote
economic growth, raise rural incomes, ensure food security, and increase
export earnings while conserving natural resources. The development of the
fisheries sub-sector is an essential part of Government's strategy for



achieving these objectives. Specifically, as indicated in the Statement of
Development Policies (1987-96), the fisheries sub-sector objectives are to
maximize sustainable yield from fish resources that can be economically
exploited from national water bodies without environmental degradation;
improve the efficiency of fish exploitation, processing and marketing;
create additional off-farm employment; promote investment in viable rural
fish farming units to increase nutrition and protein intake in rural areas;
harness aquatic resources for fish farming; and protect endemic fish fauna.
These objectives are being pursued partially through several donor -
supported programs (FAO, UNDP, GTZ, ODA, and EEC) aimed at: (a) promoting
private sector involvement in fish production (almost all aspects of fish
production are being privatized with the exception of boat building and ice
making); and (b) assisting Government activities in monitoring and
regulating, the exploitation of fish fauna from all national waters,
promoting aquaculture development as a means of raising rural farm incomes
and increasing the supply of fish in rural areas; undertaking a program of
research to identify and assess underutilized fish resources; disseminating
research results to improve fishing, fish handling and processing
techniques; and developing the institutional capacity of the Fisheries
Department to focus on its regulatory mandate.
F. Bank Strategy and Assistance
2.15      Support for the fisheries sub-sector, which is an important
element of IDA's assistance strategy in Malawi, is aimed at fostering
economic growth and reducing poverty by generating off-farm employment
opportunities, improving food security, and protecting the natural resource
base. IDA is also supporting other Government of Malawi (GOM) programs
(ongoing and in the pipeline) which are designed to improve food security
and nutrition, while conserving natural resources. These include (i) the
research and extension projects which have supported development of
appropriate technologies and their dissemination to farmers to increase
food production, while maintaining environmentally sound agricultural
practices; (ii) a population sector study and a health and population
project which would assist Government to develop and implement appropriate
population and nutrition programs; and (iii) the economic report on
environmental issues in FY91, which would develop a long-term investment
and policy reform program for environmental projection.
2.16      Under the proposed Project, IDA would assist GOM in improving
the management of the sub-sector and in marshalling international support
to address Malawi's broader environmental concerns. The Project would
complement Government efforts designed to establish an effective resource
management program, including monitoring, control and surveillance systems
for fisheries. IDA involvement in the proposed Project is also necessary
to strengthen the institutional capacity for fisheries research, and lake
resource management, integration of cropping into fish farming systems to
ensure multiple resource use, carry out regulatory functions to protect
water bodies, and provide support to the private sector for economically
viable and sustainable production activities. Furthermore, IDA would
assist GOM in the coordination of ongoing programs and those likely to be
funded by other donors. The proposed Project complements other ongoing IDA
projects in the Agricultural Sector.



G. Lessons Learned from Fisheries Projects
2.17      The lessons learned from many of the previously financed IDA
projects in the fisheries sub-sector indicate that inadequate project
design, weak institutional capacity, unrealistic project scope and
inadequate recurrent cost financing adversely affect Project performance.
These factors have been taken into consideration in the design of the
proposed Project. The Project has been designed to be simple and flexible,
and the Project scope is limited to only a few activities. To strengthen
institutional capacity, staff training and technical assistance would be
provided, and the FD role would be limited to essential management and
regulatory activities within the fisheries sub-sector. In addition, up-
front actions necessary for Project success were carried out before Project
approval. Furthermore, a mid-term Project review is included to handle
issues arising during Project implementation.
H. Other Donors' Assistance
2.18      In addition to IDA, several other donors are active in the
fisheries sub-sector in Malawi (see para 2.14). FAO/UNDP is supporting
fisheries through the Mpwepwe Fisheries Training Center and the assessment
of pelagic fisheries in the northern part of Lake Malawi; EEC, which
financed Central Lakeshore Fisheries Development Project, is now financing
Central and Northern Region Fish Farming Development; GTZ is supporting
Malawi/German Fisheries and Aquaculture Project; ODA is providing technical
assistance to FD on research; and Nordic Development Fund and ICEIDA have
both indicated an interest in participating in co-financing the proposed
Project. Thus, IDA's proposed support to the sub-sector would complement
the efforts of these other donors from both policy and institutional
perspectives.
III. INSTITUTIONS AND SERVICES
A. Fisheries Department
3.01      Structure.  The Fisheries Department (FD) was established in
1965 within the Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources. This
Ministry was later subdivided into the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) and
the Ministry of Forestry and Natural Resources (MFNR) of which the present
Fisheries Department forms a part. The MFNR includes four other
departments: Forestry (66Z of the Ministry's recurrent budget), Geological
Survey (62), Mines (12Z) and National Parks and Wildlife (6Z). The
Fisheries Department accounts for 82 of the Ministry's recurrent budget.
3.02      Management.  The Chief Fisheries Officer (CFO) is in charge of
the day-to-day operations of FD and reports to the Principal Secretary,
MFNR. He is assisted by a management team comprising the Assistant Chief
Fisheries Officer (ACFO), four Fisheries Officers (FO) and an Accountant at
Headquarters, and three Regional Officers, Principal of Fisheries Training
Center, and Head of Research who are located in the field. The CFO is
responsible for translating the sub-sector policies into operational
guidelines, meeting the objectives of FD, and staff supervision. On behalf
of GOM, FD also acts as coordinator for fisheries in the Southern Africa



- 10 -
Development Coordinating Conference (SADCC) and that responsibility is
delegated to ACFO.
3.03      Overall, the management of FD is weak.  There are gaps in the
managerial skills and technical proficiency of middle and senior level
management. Currently FD has 412 staff, of which only 20 are
professionally qualified. Many of the staff lack relevant experience. This
problem has been recognized by MFNR and the CFO, and steps are being taken
now to address the staff development issues. ODA is assisting FD in this
regard through technical assistance. FD is in the process of preparing a
staff development plan which would define its staffing and training needs
(on-the-job training and overseas training for specialized skills). The
preparation of a manpower development plan acceptable to IDA was a
condition of Board presentation. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that FD would commence the implementation of the manpower development plan
by not later than April 1, 1992 [para 8.01 (i)].
3.04      Organization.  The activities of FD are organized along
functional lines and centrally controlled from Headquarters (HQs), even
though the physical activities take place at field levels. Only research,
training and commercial activities are not directly controlled from HQs.
Guidance and supervision from HQs have not, however, been effective because
this approach has a number of built-in inefficiencies. The weaknesses of
the present structure have been recognized and steps are being taken to
remedy the situation. Under the proposed Project, FD would be reorganized
with a view to improving efficiency. An action program for reorganizing FD
and the timetable for implementing such reorganization was a condition of
Board presentation. At negotiations, commitment was obtained from
Government that FD would commence the implementation of the action program
by not later than April 1, 1992 (para 8.01 (ii)]. The proposed
organizational structure is shown in Chart 1.
3.05      Functions.  FD is performing two distinct functions: a
regulatory function and a commercial function. Its regulatory function is
that of a typical fishery administration authority and covers fisheries
sub-sector management, conservation of Malawi water bodies and their
resources, regulation and control of the exploitation of fisheries
resources, provision of services, and development of the country's general
fisheries policy, including making recommendations on sub-sector policy
issues to the Minister, MFRN. FD's commercial operations consist of ice
making, boatbuilding, and retailing of petrol, fishing gear, etc. (see
paras 3.12 - 3.14 for the details of FD's commercial operations).
3.06      FD's government-related activities cover extension, research,
conservation and management of fisheries resources, surveillance and
enforcement, and training. Extension service focus is on advising
fishermen on the latest fishing practices, and collecting data on fish
catch/landings which provide the basis for assessment of performance and
overall management of the fisheries sub-sector. Field extension activities
are conducted through a network of Fisheries Assistants (FAs) stationed in
fishing communities, each covering about 25 km of shoreline. The extension
service is coordinated by three Regional Fisheries Officers (RFO) who are
each responsible for the Districts within their respective Regions. The



- 11 -
District Fisheries Officers (DFO) are responsible for all fisheries
activities within their District and for supervising the FAs. The RFOs or
DFOs who supervise the FAs receive little if any training in extension and,
because of inadequate transport facilities, are unable to visit their field
staff regularly, much less design and promote extension programs. The
present system of data collection also has shortcomings in underestimating
night fish landing, particularly usipa fishery. There is an urgent need to
upgrade the skills of the FAs through specific on-the-job training, coupled
with effective and regular supervision from senior staff.
3.07      The Fisheries Act provides a comprehensive framework for the
control and management of the commercial and artisanal fisheries.
Enforcement of the Act is the direct responsibility of the District
Fisheries Offices, supported by the Regional Offices and HQ, which are
represented in the field by the Fisheries Inspectors. The assistance of
the Police is also frequently sought in enforcement exercises. Financial
constraints have steadily weakened the effectiveness of the FD's attempts
to enforce fisheries law. In certain situations where the regulations
conflict with highly profitable artisanal fisheries (e.g., the closed
season for chambo shore seines in Mangochi District), the enforcement
effort has not been effective. As the fisheries come under increasing
pressure, the requirement for active management will grow. Active
management will not, however, be achieved until the FD has the capacity to
enforce the Fisheries Act.
3.08      FD carries out research on capture fisheries and on aquaculture
development. Research on capture fisheries is based at Monkey Bay and
generally focuses on taxonomic and biological studies on important
commercial species, assessment of bottom trawl fishery, fishing gear
development, multi-disciplinary studies on the pelagic ecosystem of Lake
Malawi, etc. The ongoing research efforts include assessment of the
artisanal fisheries of Lakes Malawi and Malombe (assisted by ODA), the
chambo fishery of southern Lakes Malawi and Malombe (assisted by FAO), and
reassessment of the demersal trawl fisheries. Many aspects of the research
efforts on capture fisheries have been funded through bilateral agreements,
but the FD's capacity to execute its own long-term research programs has
suffered from financial limitations and lack of trained manpower.
3.09      The aquaculture development research is ongoing at the
experimental fish farming station at Domasi which carries out basic
research and development work on fish culture in earthen ponds, including
experiments in polyculture, different feeding and fertilization regimes,
and :integrated fish farming. Experiments are being replicated in larger
ponds constructed in the Kasinthula irrigation scheme in Chikwawa District,
and a small extension service has been set up to serve smallholder fish
farmers in the Domasi/Zomba area. Other aquaculture programs are funded
under bilateral agreements by GTZ (Chilwa/Zomba), ICLARM (Domasi), ODA
(PhaLombe/Mulanje), and EEC (North/Center). Since the expansion of capture
fishery is finite and is growing more slowly than the population, it is
logical that increasing emphasis would be placed on aquaculture.
Consequently, aquaculture development is likely to grow substantially in
the coming decades.



- 12 -
3.10      The importance of research for effective management of the
fisheries sub-sector is well-recognized. However, research efforts for
both capture fishery and aquaculture have been determined largely by
funding from external sources. Often, these donors have different
interests and focuses. As a result, coordination and continuity have been
lacking and there is need to develop a better defined research program
which would consistently address the issues facing the fisheries sub-
sector, including developing workable technical packages for different
fishing activities. Thus, developing a research program, which would spell
out priorities in FD's short-term and medium-term research efforts was a
condition of Board presentation. The commitment from Government that FD
would start to implement such a research program by not later than April 1,
1992 was obtained at negotiations [para 8.01 (iii)].
3.11      FD operates a fisheries school, the Mpwepwe Fisheries Training
Center (MFTC), which was established in 1966. It provides a two-year basic
training program in theoretical and practical aspects of fisheries to
junior staff of FD. The graduates of the Center are thereafter employed as
FAs by FD. Since 1982, the first year of training has been conducted at
the Natural Resources College at Likuni, near Lilongwe. The MFTC also
conducts refresher courses for FAs on fish processing and extension, and
technical courses on fishing techniques, and processing and marketing for
fishermen. Most of these courses have been discontinued because of lack of
funds. The quality of training at MFTC is generally poor and the syllabus
has not kept up with developments in the fisheries or with the results of
FD's own research and development work. FD's shortcomings in staff
training as a result of an acute shortage of qualified manpower, poor
organization and lack of finance, were the subject of a recent FAO study
recommending the need for upgrading of MFTC. Under the Project, MFTC would
be restructured and its curriculum revised to provide mainly on-the-job
training for FD staff, and skill-specific workshops for fisheries sub-
sector operators and entrepreneurs on new developments in the sub-sector.
3.12      Commercial Operations of the Fisheries Department.  The FD
currently conducts commercial operations in two ways. Firstly, voted funds
on the recurrent budget are used to finance commercial activities, the
proceeds of which are repaid to Treasury through an Appropriations-in-Aid
Account. The second method is through the use of Treasury Fund Accounts
which may be set up to encompass all the finances of a commercial
operation: such Treasury Fund operations are required to make a profit or
at least to cover costs, and full annual accounts, profit and loss
statements and estimates are submitted to Treasury for approval.
Commercial services carried out by FD include boatyards, at Mpwepwe in
Mangochi District and Senga Bay in Salima District, the sale of fuel and
oil at trawler landings (Namiasi and Malembo, in Mangochi), ice supply from
plants in Namiasi, Salima and Nkhotakota, and the sale of nets and other
fishing gear at FD's boatyards and several field offices.
3.13      Both Mpwepwe and Salima boatyards are operated on Treasury Fund
Accounts. The Mpwepwe Boatyard Fund made an apparent small profit over the
three-year period 1985/86 to 1987/88 (the last years for which actual
figures are available) of MK 62,000/year, but if adjustments for stock
changes are made, the results would become an annual loss of MK 24,000. In



- 13 -
fact, the sale of boats comprised only 5% of the total income over this
period, and the Mpwepwe Boatyard Fund's major commercial activities are
trading in fuel (43% of income), engines and spares (24%), and fishing gear
(10Z). The Salima Boatyard is a simpler operation, engaging primarily in
boat building/repairing and the sale of fishing gear. The latter activity
is dominant, comprising 72% of income in the years 1985/86 to 1987/88,
while boatbuilding contributed to only 172. The Fund made a small net
profit of Mk 5,000/year in this period: an annual profit of MK 23,000 on
sales of nets, and a loss of MK 18,000 on boat-building.
3.14      Ice is sold to traders at the Namiasi fish landing site through
an Appropriations-in-Aid Account, and at Salima and Nkhotakota through the
Central Lakeshore Fishing and Marketing (Treasury) Fund Account. Namiasi
and Salima each take in about MK 20,000/year from ice sales, at which level
the operation is almost certainly unprofitable. The Namiasi ice plant is
now at the end of its service life, but Industrial and Development Fund
(INDEFUND) has recently approved a loan of MK 379,000 to finance a private
ice plant in Mangochi, and no replacement of FD's ice production facility
at Namiasi is therefore indicated. The FD's plant in Salima is seven years
old and in need of repair, and there are as yet no plans for private sector
ice supply in Salima. The small ice plant in Nkhotakota is relatively new.
3.15      The Fisheries Department's sales of fishing gear can be seen as
a service, only so long as they do not unfairly compete with or deter other
existing and potential sales outlets. However, by retailing fishing gear
at the recommended wholesale price which is below market prices, FD
undercuts all private sector competition because FD obtains its gears net
of taxes and duties. FD makes profit on sale of fishing gear by purchasing
tax-f.ree and applying a large mark-up.
3.16      It would be desirable for FD to privatize all of its commercial
activities and concentrate on only regulatory and other government-related
functions. The Government has established a timetable acceptable to IDA
for requiring FD to relinquish its commercial activities. FD would
discontinue its commercial activities in accordance with the following
schedule: (a) commercial fishing and gill net fishing by June 30, 1991;
(b) sale of fishing gear and spares of outboard engines by September 30,
1991; and (c) sale of ice and Salima boatyard by March 31, 1992. The above
schedule was agreed to at negotiations [para 8.01 (iv)]. The operating
condition of the boatyard for inboard engine boats at Mpwepwe is poor. The
Mpwepwe Boatyard would have to be restructured and operated on a commercial
basis before it could be privatized. A restructuring plan for the
boatyard, including the appointment of an experienced manager acceptable to
IDA, would be a condition of Credit effectiveness [para 8.02 (i)].
B. MALDECO Fisheries
3.17      The commercial fisheries operation was originally a Greek family
concern (Yiannakis Fisheries) in the late 1950s. This was taken over by
MALDECO Fisheries Ltd. which was incorporated as a limited company in 1967,
with the Malawi Development Corporation as the majority shareholder. On
January 1, 1985, ownership of the entire company passed on to the
Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation (ADMARC) which



- 14 -
subsequently sold the company to Press Foods Ltd., a subsidiary of the
Press Corporation Ltd., on November 20, 1989.
3.18      MALDECO Fisheries has had a good record of operating surplus and
has for many years been the largest single producer in Malawi of quality
fish for domestic consumption and export. The company's products have
included fresh, iced, frozen, smoked and sun-dried fish, and are supplied
to all sectors of the market, from the hotel and delicatessen trade in
smoked fillets of kampango and chambo to the bulk sale of chisawasawa to be
sun-dried for the estate agriculture labor force. Lack of reinvestment
during the past decade, however, has led to a steady decline in the
condition of vessels, plant and equipment, much of which is now between
twenty and thirty years old. The marine workshop is very poorly equipped,
badly maintained, and lacks proper lighting and ventilation. The workshop
is very important for the operation and maintenance of the old vessels,
plant and machinery and could contribute significantly towards reducing
down time. This deterioration of equipment and workshop have seriously
affected both production levels and production quality.
3.19      Under its new ownership, an effective management team is now in
place. The company has outlined plans for development in three phases: a
period of consolidation, during which both production and quality would be
brought back to the previous (higher) levels; a planning phase; and finally
an expansion of the company, in fishing (using larger boats in new fishing
grounds), fish farming, and fish processing (product diversification: fish
paste, canning, meal).  Annex II presents the financial statements related
to MALDECO operations.  The data show that MALDECO's financial outlook is
promising.
C. Other Institutions and Services
3.20      There are a number of other governmental and non-governmental
institutions involved in the fisheries sub-sector. The fisheries sub-
sector depends on sound environmental management by other government
ministries and departments to protect the fishery resources and fish
biodiversity. Developments in other sectors have direct impact on fish
resources. Deforestation increases soil erosion and sediment loads of
rivers and lakes. Increased deposition of sediments in natural water
bodies changes substrata which ultimately affects species diversity. Fish
processing and marketing serve as important off-farm income generating
activities for women. The Ministry of Community Affairs is active in
organizing women's groups to participate in fisheries activities,
particularly fish farming. Financial institutions, such as the Small
Enterprises Development Organization of Malawi (SEDOM), and Industrial
Development Fund (INDEFUND), provide loans to semi-commercial fisheries.
These institutions also help small entrepreneurs with financial assistance,
technical advisory services, and training. Coordination of and liaison
between government entities that impact on fisheries sub-sector is weak.
District Development Committees would be encouraged to assume this
responsibility at the local government level while FD would coordinate
activities at national level.



- 15 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Project Rationale and Objectives
4.01      Project Rationale.  Malawi today faces several serious problems:
the agricultural production has been essentially stagnant due to periodic
drought and the high cost of inputs; the country's food production and
supplies also have been severely affected, cassava mealy bug infestation,
low prices for exported commodities and increased freight costs;
development of livestock is impeded by insufficient pasture land and water
supply; and the present population of around 8.1 million is increasing at
the rate of about 3.2Z. Government is also burdened with the problem of
providing temporary shelter and food to an estimated 800,000 refugees.
This situation is unlikely to change in the near future.
4.02      The Government gives high priority to increasing its
domestically produced food supply by promoting optimal exploitation of the
country's fisheries resources which plays an important role in national
economic development. Because fish prices are relatively lower than those
of meat, poultry and pulses, fish are in great demand, both in the urban
and rural areas. Fish landing points are scattered all along the shores of
the country's lakes, rivers, marshes and flood plains, enabling easy
transport of fish to the rural people. High population growth in the past
decade, however, has led to a decline in per capita consumption, although
fish landings until recently have shown consistent increase. This
imbalance has contributed to a deterioration in nutritional standards,
particularly among the rural children. The development of the fisheries
sector is therefore essential, not only to increase food supply but also to
improve nutrition and generate off-farm employment opportunities in the
country. In addition, the Project would address the constraints identified
in paras 2.11 through 2.13.
4.03      Present total fish production is estimated at around 80,000
tons. While some lakes appear to have reached maximum potential levels of
production, there are others where production could be substantially
increased. For example, fish landings from Lake Malawi have not reached
their full potential of an estimated 86,000 tons (demersal and pelagic).
Although the sustainable yield for the entire lake and for different
fisheries in the lake has not been scientifically ascertained, research
efforts have produced sufficient evidence of under-utilized pockets of
dernersal trawlable stocks in the southern and central part of the lake.
The various hydro-acoustic surveys carried out in the late seventies and
early eighties estimate a total pelagic biomass of between 140-150,000
toins. Present production of 11,000 tons suggests the possibility of
substantially increasing the production of pelagic fish.
4.04      Pro; ^t Objectives.  The Project's main objective is to assist
Ma:Lawi to realize more fully the potential contribution of the fisheries
sub-sector to the economy, while ensuring that offtake does not exceed
sustainable yields, through (a) increasing fish production to improve
nutrition and protein bupply for the population; (b) generating additional
off-farm employment and income to reduce poverty among the rural population
particularly women; (c) conserving the natural resource b!se of Malawi's



- 16 -
water bodies and preventing environmental degradation; and (d) improving
institutional capacity for fisheries sub-sector policy formulation
research, planning, monitoring and control.
B. Project Description
4.05      The Project, which would be implemented over seven years with a
total estimated cost of US$15.5 million, comprises: (i) an Institution
Building Component (US$7.3 million) for strengthening the Fisheries
Department to enable it to concentrate on regulatory functions, staff
training (particularly in policy formulation, extension, monitoring and
evaluation, and enforcement of fishery laws), and technical assistance;
(ii) a Research Component (US$1.9 million) for strengthening FD's research
capacity and focusing research activities on assessment of fish stocks,
pilot lake conservation and management programs and development of pilot
fish farming models designed to integrate aquaculture into farming systems
in different ecological zones with appropriate agricultural technologies;
(iii) a Production Component (US$5.3 million) for rehabilitating and
developing existing capture fisheries by supporting the
traditional/artisanal fishermen, semi-commercial and commercial fishing
activities, and establishing a pilot program to increase the involvement of
women in fish processing and marketing; and (iv) an Infrastructure
Component (US$1.0 million) for rehabilitating, upgrading and building
access roads, jetties for fish landing, and shore-based facilities.
C. Detailed Features
Institution Building.
4.06      FD's institutional capacity to implement its programs is weak;
hence one of the Project's main objectives is institution building. While
FD is being strengthened, it is essential that its programs are streamlined
and focused. It is for this reason that the project design is simple and
project activities have concentrated on only a few areas (conservation,
research and extension and training). FD's involvement in commercial
activities would be eliminated and a long-term technical expert with skills
in procurement and financial management would be included. There would be
only six incremental staff at the professional level, while some forty-six
non-professional staff would be redeployed. Emphasis would be placed on
training of both FD staff and fisheries sub-sector operators in proper
methods of fish handling and exploitation, while essential facilities are
provided to enable FD to carry out its functions.
4.07      Fisheries Administration.  The FD headquarters is responsible
for the management of the fisheries subsector. Headquarters staff would be
provided with vehicles and equipment. The incremental operating costs on a
reducing basis, including building maintenance and running expenses of
equipment and vehicles, are also included in the total costs. Both
Regional and associated District staff would also be provided with
vehicles and equipment to enable them to carry out their activities
effectively. Detailed list of vehicles and equipment provided under the
Project is given in Working Paper F and is available in the Project Files.



- 17 -
4.08      FD would be provided with new headquarters office building of
about 700 m2 in Lilongwe, to accommodate the expanded activities proposed
under the Project.  The new offices would be equipped with basic furniture
and equipment, and the computer facilities would be upgraded. Regional and
District offices and workshops would be rehabilitated, and some staff
houses would be constructed, particularly at field level. A detailed list
of offices, staff houses and workshops to be provided under the Project is
given in Working Paper F and is available in the Project Files.
4.09      The Project would strengthen the extension service by providing
the extension staff with skills and physical resources essential to carry
on their functions more effectively. It would increase the ability of FD
to interpret and solve technical problems, while effectively evaluating its
present and future roles. Under the Project, adequate and appropriate
physical and human resources would be placed at field level where extension
activities are being carried out. FD would be reorganized, clear lines of
responsibilities for various functions would be established, and reporting
and supervision effectiveness would be improved. Staff skills would be
improved through regular training. FD's training activities would be
reoriented towards career development, updating knowledge and enhancing
skills through workshops and residential courses. The curriculum of the
Fisheries Training Center would be revised to reflect the new orientation.
Overseas training would be limited to specialized skills. Training would
also be provided to private sector operators in the fisheries sub-sector,
particularly women involved in fish processing and marketing. The
extension would be provided with vehicles and equipment to enable them to
carry out their functions of data collection and analysis. A comprehensive
list of items provided under the Project is included in the detailed
project costs in Annex I and Working Paper F and is available in the
Project Files.
4.10      Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation.  A planning, monitoring and
evaluation cell would be established at FD's HQs with existing staff. This
cell would be responsible for preparing short and medium-term plans for FD,
and for planning, monitoring and evaluation of development programs. It
would also recommend measures to correct deficiencies observed during
program implementation, as well as for compiling information on the
proposed Project's physical achievements. To enhance its effectiveness,
the cell would be strengthened under the Project with professional staff,
on-the-job training, and an expert in planning who would be engaged for
about three years under EEC technical assistance program.
4.11      Two studies to improve the planning of fisheries sub-sector
operations would be carried out. These would include a baseline survey
which would help determine attitudes of fishermen to different lake
conservation measures and a socio-economic study of the role of women in
fish processing and marketing in Malawi.
Research.
4.12      Stock Assessment.  The Project would upgrade and strengthen FD's
research capacity, enabling it to formulate research plans to address
issues facing the sub-sector. Research would focus on the exploratory



- 18 -
surveys of the demersal fish stock assessment which would be expanded to
cover the northern part of Lake Malawi, formulation of plans to monitor and
manage commercial fisheries in Malawi water bodies, assessment of the
effect of bottom trawling and beach seining on the lake's ecosystem,
development of techniques for managing costal fisheries, and coordination
of research activities financed by other donors. To achieve the research
goals, the facilities at Monkey Bay Research Station would be rehabilitated
and a new jetty of 40 m and two moorings would be constructed. New offices
and stores space totalling 70m2 and a new class D house would be provided.
The related equipment and vehicles would include a winch, radios, fishing
gear, camping equipment, limnological equipment, and a 4-wheel drive
vehicle. A new 17 meter research vessel, with a 300 hp engine and equipped
with necessary equipment to undertake research on southern and northern
parts of Lake Malawi, would be provided. An expatriate captain and a
machinist would be recruited to operate the research vessel during the
first six months, while a fish biologist would be engaged for 12 months.
These experts would be provided with counterpart staff to work with them.
4.13      Lake Resource Conservation.  The major thrust of the Project is
to improve the management and conservation of the country's lake resources.
It would not be possible to precisely determine the constant sustainable
yield from a multi-species fishery in a varying environment such as Lake
Malawi but, with effective management, FD could conserve the fishery as a
perpetual productive resource. This would be done by putting in place an
appropriate monitoring system to be able to respond rapidly to signals
warning of possible over-exploitation, environmental changes or other
hazards to lake resources. To ensure an effective management and
conservation of lake resources, the responsibilities of the Fisheries
Research Station at Monkey Bay would be broadened to include fishery
conservation, aquatic weeds control and environmental monitoring. A senior
Fisheries Officer would be appointed and trained as Fisheries Conservation
Officer. This officer, who would be supported by four technical staff,
would report directly to the Chief Fisheries Officer. The four technical
staff would monitor environmental and socio-economic factors which have
direct impact on fisheries, basic limnological factors, pollutants and
water weeds. Equipment for field measurements and a vehicle for field
trips would be provided under the Project. Funds for incremental recurrent
costs on a reducing basis would also be provided to facilitate more
elaborate chemical analysis such as pesticide residues of lakes resources.
In addition, the Fisheries Conservation Officer would also be responsible
for:
-    translating research findings into management policies and procedures
to conserve fish resources;
-    with assistance from external experts, carrying out studies on
various environmental issues facing Lake Malawi;
-    responding to changes in the fishery environment, apparent from
timely analysis of fishery statistics or qualitative warning signals
transmitted by fishermen through the improved extension network;



- 19 -
-    liaising with other government departments whose activities may
affect fisheries, on new fisheries policies and programs that may
affect fisheries and other sectors;
-    taking an active role in training extension officers, both at the
revamped Fisheries Training Center and in the field;
-    coordinating surveillance activities to minimize violation of
regulations; and
-    liaising (preferably through SADCC) with neighboring countries over
their fishing activities in Lakes Malawi, Chilwa and Chiuta.
4.14      Aquaculture.  This is a pilot program which would develop a
scheme for integrating fish farming into the crop farming system in
different ecological zones. It would draw on the current research in
aquaculture at Domasi station and on the efforts of other donor
organizations. An inter-disciplinary team, comprising agriculture and
fisheries specialists, would be responsible for implementing the program,
and its activities would be coordinated through proper liaison between
Fisheries and Agriculture Departments. The scheme would utilize the water
resources from dams and reservoirs in a planned management of ponds and
fields. The operation would involve a system for emptying the ponds and
releasing water for irrigation purposes.  Emphasis would be placed on using
local inputs for fish feed in the form of compost, manure and other
byproducts from agriculture operations.  Specifically, the pilot operations
would include:
(i) establishing a program for integrating aquaculture with crop
farming systems, and developing techniques and disseminating
results proven to be economical to apply;
(ii) experimenting with already developed techniques in different
ecological zones;
(iii) construction of ponds from reservoirs downstream and using the
water from the reservoir to fill the ponds, and from the ponds
to irrigate farm plots with crops such as maize or rice;
(iv) training smallholder farmers to grow rice together with fish;
and
(v) construction of a sub-station (demonstration pilot) in the
central region which would carry out experiments on this new
approach and train extension workers.
Fish Production
4.15      Artisanal Fisheries.  Funds would be provided for the
procurement of 50 fully equipped chirimila units and for the replacement of
200 existing dugout canoes with improved plank boats. The replacement
program takes into account the present demand for boats and is linked to
the production capacity of the Mpwepwe boatyard to be rehabilitated under



- 20 -
the Project. For the chirimila units, 5.6 meter long plank boats of "v"
bottom construction would be procured and equipped with 8 HP outboard
engines and gear. The plank boats, 6 m long, are lighter vessels propelled
by paddles. These would be equipped with appropriate fishing gear
including gill nets and long lines. Boats, engines and fishing gear, to be
procured under the Project, would be sold to groups of fishermen who would
obtain credit through SACA.
4.16      Semi-Commercial Fisheries.  Semi-commercial fishermen commonly
fish with pair trawl units powered with inboard diesel engines. The
Project would finance the construction of 8 fully equipped pair trawl units
which would be undertaken at FD's Mpwepwe boatyard. Each unit would
comprise 2 vessels of 7.5 meter Length Over All (LOA), powered with an
inboard diesel engine of about 25 HP. The Project would also provide
through NDF import support fully rigged bottom trawl of 38 mm cod end mesh
size and ice plants which would be sold to the fishermen.  The semi-
commercial fishermen would purchase these items with their own funds or
borrow the funds from the banking system at the prevailing interest rates.
4.17      Commercial Fisheries.  The Project would support the
rehabilitation of MALDECO's existing landing and shore facilities and
factory. This would include the construction of a new marine workshop of
about 145 n2, together with modern equipment. The factory building of
about 1,500 n2 would be rehabilitated and equipped with two blast freezers,
each with a capacity of 1 ton/3 hrs., two flake ice-making machines with a
capacity of 24 ton/day, a cold store and a chill store, each with a
capacity of 7.5 tons of fish. In addition, the existing ice plant would be
rehabilitated, and both marine and refrigeration workshops would be
provided with machine tools and equipment. A new multi-purpose fishing
vessel would also be provided. This vessel of 15 m overall length, would
be powered by an engine of 240 hp and would be capable of undertaking mid-
water and bottom trawling and purse seining. It would have a refrigerated
fish hold of 12 tons capacity and full wheel house electronics. The
existing trawler "Crystal Lake" would be refurbished to provide for the
renewal of the refrigerated fish hold and the fitting of new fish finding
and communication equipment. Additionally, two refrigerated trucks of 7
tons each and 5,000 plastic fish boxes would be procured, to facilitate
fish handling and distribution. All items under the proposed
rehabilitation program would be made available as import support to the
country. MALDECO wants to buy these items and would use its own funds or,
if needed, borrow from the banking system at the prevailing interest rate.
4.18      Fish Processing and Marketing Program.  Improved fish
preservation through processing and marketing is the most cost-effective
intervention on the supply side. Such a program would also enhance the
productivity of the artisanal fishermen because it minimizes post harvest
losses which is a serious problem in Malawi. A significant proportion of
fish landing is lost because of poor preservation methods and inadequate
facilities for transport to major fish markets. Fish kept at an ambient
temperature in general will, not retain its quality long enough to be
transported to distant markets. To prevent spoilage, the fish is mainly
sun-dried, although smoking, pan frying or freezing are sometimes
practiced. The seasonally high catches during the rainy season make sun-



- 21 -
drying relatively difficult; this, coupled with the unhygienic conditions
uinder which it is done, causes significant losses to occur. Lack of
reliable transport to move the fish from the landing sites to major markets
also contributes to the losses. Given the importance of fish as a source
of animal protein in Malawi and the significant role of women in these
activities, a pilot program is included in the Project. This pilot
program, an income-generating activity aimed at women, would provide
support to those engaged in fish processing and marketing activities in
three districts - Mangochi, Salima and Nkhata Bay. The pilot program would
aim at minimizing post-harvest losses while increasing the earning power of
women participants. This program would include:
-    training women fish traders in proper fish handling, processing and
quality control;
-    providing women fish traders with small plastic insulated boxes (in
which fish can be ice chilled) for both storage and transport to
markets;
-    providing women beneficiaries with smoking kilns to improve fish
processing and save fuel wood;
-    improving beneficiaries' knowledge of technical and business skills
by offering workshops on managing micro-enterprises; and
-    providing credit to women trader to purchase fish storage and
processing equipment supplied under the Project, and for working
capital.
4.19      This pilot program would pave the way for increasing women's
participation in fish processing and marketing throughout Malawi. It would
draw from the recommendations of other income-generating activities for
women in Malawi. Technical assistance would be provided for socio-economic
studies on how best to reach women engaged in the fisheries sub-sector.
Women officers would be recruited, trained in fisheries, and provided with
special extension training to assist women fish traders.
Infrastructure.
4.20      The existing fish landings and/or shore-based facilities at
Monkey Bay and Nkhata Bay would be rehabilitated and up graded. The
boatyard at Mpwepwe would be rehabilitated. About 46 km of access roads
would also be upgraded and/or constructed. Apart from the capital
investments envisaged under the Project, provision would also be made for
the incremental operating expenses of Mpwepwe boatyard on a reducing basis.
Investments would include the following:
-    Monkey Bay:  Construction of a solid jetty of 140 m, a 20 m
shipway, and 10 moorings; construction of a 950 2 workshop and a
water pump house, including water piping and flood light.
-    Nkhata Bay:  Construction of a hammerhead solid jetty of 140 m,
a 20 m slipway, and 10 moorings; construction of a 50 m2 marine



- 22 -
workshop; and procurement of equipment, including a shipway
cradle, a manual winch, and 8 hp water pump, a water tank of
11,000 liters and workshop and office equipment.
-    Mpwepwe Boatyard:  Construction of a new slipway of 136 m, a new
building of 136 m, a workshop of 100 m, and a store of 600  2;
construction of a new class C staff house; rehabilitation of the
existing 580 m2 building and 3 staff houses; procurement of a
shipway cradle, a 10 ton electric winch (with manual options),
two wood working machines, office furniture and office and
workshop equipment; purchase of one truck and 2 pick-ups; and
working capital estimated at MK 106,000 to cover 2 months
requirement for the purchase of wood, engines and fishing gear.
In addition, the boatyard would be restructured and operated on
commercial basis. A restructuring plan for the boatyard
including the appointment of an experienced manager acceptable
to IDA would be a condition of effectiveness [para 8.02 (i)].
Access Roads: Upgrading and/or construction of 46 km of access
roads to fish landing sites 17.2 km would be located in the
southern region, 5.1 km in the central region, and 23.7 km. in
the northern region.
4.21      Technical Assistance.  The technical assistance provision
includes:
Technical Staff. (i) A Financial and Management Expert (48 man-
months), a Fisheries Biologist (12 man-months), a Naval Architect (6 man-
months), and a Ship Captain (6 man-months). The Financial and Management
Advisor would be responsible for the project accounting, procurement,
disbursement and progress reporting; the Fisheries Biologist would assist
FD with operationalizing the research vessel; the Ship Captain would help
the research vessel while the Naval Architect would help design the new
boat prototype at Mpwepwe boatyard; and (ii) 24 man months of short-term
consultant services to assist FD in updating the training curriculum,
conducting workshops, and providing technical inputs to extension,
monitoring, or evaluation activities as the need arises; and (iii) studies
to determine environmental issues related to Lake Malawi and recommend an
appropriate resource management program for the Lake. A Planning
Specialist, a Fisheries Economist, and a Fisheries Research Specialist
would also be provided to FD by other donors under special arrangements.
The recruitment of a Financial and Management Expert based on Bank
Guidelines, was a condition of Board presentation. Prior to engaging such
an expert and consultants: (i) detailed terms of reference for their
employment would be reviewed by and agreed with IDA; and (ii) the
consultants' qualifications and experience would be acceptable to IDA.
D. Project Costs
4.22      Total Project cost, including physical and price contingencies
is estimated at MK 43.4 million (US$ 15.5 million equivalent), with a
foreign exchange component of MK 23.7 million (US$ 8.5 million) or 55x.
Project base costs have been estimated using February 1991 prices. Costs



- 23 -
include physical contingencies equal to 5Z of base costs except on civil
works for which 10? have been assumed. Price contingencies have been
calculated on base costs plus physical contingencies. The costs were
calculated using the following annual inflation rates: on local costs 9.0Z
for PYI and 6.0? for PY2 and 5? thereafter, and on foreign costs 2.7? for
PYI to PY5 and 4.2Z thereafter. Details of costs are given in Annex 1.
Table 4.1 summarizes the estimated costs.



- 24 -
Table  4.1:  PROJECT COST SUMMARY
IMK '000)                   (USS '000)                    % Total
------------------------  ------------------------  % Foreign   Base
Local   Foreign   Total      Local Foreign  Total    Exchange    Costs
A. INSTITUTION BUILDING
1. MANAGEMENT                                            1,285,4  2,943#4  4P228.8    459.1 1,051.2  1#510,3           70       11
2. EXTENSION                                             1,942.0  1P650,4  39592.4    693.6   589.4  1,283.0           46       10
3. PLANNINGi MONITORING I EVALUATION                       368.6    478,0    846.6    131.6   170.7    302.3           56
4. TRAINING                                              1,734.3  2,209.0  3,943.3    619,4   788.9  1,408.3           56       li
'. CIVIL WORKS (OFFICESP CLASSROOMS I STAFF HOUSES)    3,143.5  1t606.2  4,749.7  1,122,7   573.7  1P696.3             34       13
Sub-Total INSTITUTION BUILDING                              80473,7  8,887.0 17t360.7  3,026.3 3,173.9  6,200.3           51       47
B. INFRASTRUCTURE
1. JETTY                                                   169.2    112.8    282.0      60.4    40,3    100.7          40        1
2. ACCESS ROAD                                           1,254.3    695.5  1,949.8    448,0   248.4    696.4           36        5
Sib-Total INFRASTRUCTURE                                    1,423.5    808.3  2,231.8    508.4  288.7   797.1             36        6
C. RESEARCH
1. RESEARCH AND CONSERVATION                              220.0  2,247.4  2,467.4       78.6   802,6    881.2         91         7
2. ACQUACULTUiRE                                           902,4    337.3  1.239.7    322.3   120.5    442.7           27        3
3. CIVIL WORKS                                             653.8    155.8    809.6    233.5    55.7    289.1           19
Sub-Total RESEARCH                                          1,776.1  29740.5  4,516.7    634.3   978.8  1,613.1           61       12
iD. PRODUCTION
1. ARTISANAL FISHERIES                                    25803  1,230.0  1,488,3       92.3  439.3   531.5            83        4
2. COMMERCIAL                                            2,833.2  5,489.8  8,323.0  1,011.8 1,960.6  2,972.5           66       22
3. SEMI - COMERCIAL                                        200.6  1,070.0  1,270.6      71,6   382.1    453.8          84        3
4. BOAT YARD                                               622.1    720.4  1,342.6    222.2   257.3    479.5           54        4
5. PILOT WOMEN PROGRAM                                     560.0        -    560.0    200,0        -    200.0           -        2
Sub-Total PRODUCTION                                        4,474.2  8,510.2 12,984.4  1,597.9 3,039,4  4,637.3           66       35
-- -   - -- - - -    --- -  - - - - - - - -  --  - -      - - - -    - - -
Total BASELINE COSTS                                         16,147,5 20,946.1 37,093,6  5,766.9 7,480.8 13,247#7           56      100
Physical Contingencies                                       542.6  1,033.3  1,575,9    193.8  369.0   562.8             66        4
Price Continsencies                                        2,961,1  1,758.3  4,719.4  1,057.5   627.9  1,685.5           37       13
_                 _       _   _  __   ____                       -------
Total PROJECT COSTS                                          19,651.2 23,737.7 43,388,9  7,018.3 8,477.7 15,496.0           55      117



- 25 -
E. Financing Arrangements
4.23      The proposed financing plan for the project would be as follows:
Table 4.2: Financing Plan
(US$ Million)
Target
IDA   NDF   ICEIDA       GOM   MALDECO      Group Total
Foreign         4.4   3.5   0.6          -     -            -     8.5
Local           4.4   -     0.4          1.0   0.6          0.5   6.9
Taxes           -     -     -            0.1   -                  0.1
Total          8.8   3.5      1.0        1.1     0.6         0.5   15.5
Percent         57     23     6           7      4            3    100
4.24      The Nordic Development Fund (NDF) has expressed interest in
providing US$3.5 million as parallel financing towards the Production
Component, which would cover part of the commercial and semi-commercial
fisheries investment costs. Icelandic International Development Agency
(ICEIDA) has also expressed interest in providing US$1.0 million as
parallel financing for research vessel and contribution towards the running
costs of FD's stock assessment efforts. IDA's contribution would amount to
US$8.8 million towards Institution Building, Infrastructure and Aquaculture
Components. MALDECO would contribute US$0.6 million for its commercial
fisheries operations. The Government would contribute a total of US$1.1
miLlion, while the beneficiaries (Target Groups) would contribute US$0.3
million, mainly in the form of working capital.
F. Procurement
4.25      FD would be responsible for the procurement of all IDA-financed
items. FD's capacity to carry out procurement is weak, but the Ministry of
Forestry and Natural Resources (FD's parent ministry) has successfully
carried out procurement under an IDA-financed project. Because of FD's
lack of experience on procurement issues, the Project would provide FD with
a Financial and Management Advisor, experienced in IDA procurement
procedures, who would assist FD in handling procurement matters.
4.215     Civil works covering access roads, staff houses and offices, and
jetties would be in scattered locations, spread out over time, with
relatively low costs. An average cost of building contract is estimated at
abouit US$40,000. These contracts are unlikely to be attractive to foreign
conltractors and would, therefore, be procured through local competitive
bidding, (LCB) following procedures which are acceptable to IDA. Foreign
finns would be eligible to bid under LCB.



- 26 -
4.27      Whenever possible, purchase of goods including machinery,
equipment and vehicles would be bulked into contracts of more than
US$100,000 to be procured by international competitive bidding (ICB),
according to IDA Guidelines. Contracts for goods below US$100,000 may be
awarded after local competitive bidding (aggregating to not more than
US$300,000). International shopping may be used to procure training aids
and equipment, and spare parts. Scientific journals and textbooks may be
purchased directly from suppliers. In addition, small off-the-shelf items
costing less than US$20,000 each and needed urgently for project
implementation may be purchased by "prudent shopping", after obtaining at
least three price quotations. The total value of items purchased under
international shopping, prudent shopping and direct purchase shall
aggregate to no more than US$100,000.
4.28      Consultant services by way of individuals (para 4.21) would be
procured according to IDA guidelines, with qualifications and contract
terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. Overseas and local training
arrangements would be subject to IDA approval. Other Project expenditures
are not subject to IDA procurement procedures.
4.29      IDA-financed contracts for more than US$250,000 and US$100,000
equivalent for civil works and goods, eespectively, would require IDA
review of procurement documentation prior to award of contract. Other IDA-
financed contracts would be subject to post-award review during supervision
missions. Prequalification document (invitation and evaluation) would also
require IDA review. Procurement of under the Loan Fund ($500,000) goods
for private sector support would not be suitable for ICB, given that its
proceeds are expected to finance mostly rehabilitation operations in the
fisheries industry, involving replacement of spare parts or upgrading of
specialized equipment, and would involve piecemeal procurement spread over
the entire project implementation period of seven years. It is estimated
that about 50Z of IDA disbursement would be subject to prior review. Table
4.3 summarizes procurement methods for different expenditure categories.



- 27 -
Table 4.3: Procurement Method
(US$ Million)
Other
Donor
ICB     LCB      Others    NA     Method a/  Total b/
Civil Works       -       3.8       -        -        -           3.8
(3.4)                                  (3.4)
Goods             1.2      0.3      0.1     -         3.5         5.1
(1.2)   (0.3)    (0.1)                         (1.6)
Consultancies    -        -         0.9     0.2       0.6         1.7
& Studies                        (0.9)                         (0.9)
TrainiLng         -       -         -       0.4       -           0.4
(0.4)                (0.4)
Loan Fund         -       -         -        0.5      -           0.5
(0.5)                (0.5)
Incremnental
Recurrent Cost -        -         -       3.6       0.4         4.0
(2.0)                (2.0)
1.2     4.1       1.0     4.7       4.5       15.5
(1.2)   (3.7)    (1.0)   (2.9)                  (8.8)
Note:  Figures in round parentheses 0) represents IDA financing.
a/ Financing Agencies procurement procedures will apply.
b/ Total Costs exclude duties and taxes except for LCB civil works
costs which include taxes
G. Disbursement
4.30      A Special Account in U.S. Dollars would be established at an
off-shore commercial bank with an initial deposit of US$300,000 on terms
acceptable to IDA. The Special Account of US$300,000 would be administered
by FD and would be used to finance its expenditures relating to institution
building, research and infrastructure activities. IDA would, upon Credit
effectiveness and receipt of withdrawal applications, make advance deposits
into the Special Account. Disbursement would be made against full
documentation except for expenditures claimed against purchase orders and
contracts below US$50,000 for goods and US$100,000 for civil works, which
would be claimed under Statement of Expenditures (SOE) procedures.
Withdrawal applications for replenishment of the Special Account would be
accompanied by a statement showing all transactions therein for the
relevant period. Supporting documentation for the SOEs should be retained
by FD for IDA review during supervision missions. The SOEs would be
subject to a special audit each year.
4.31      The proceeds of the IDA Credit would be disbursed to finance
100Z of the foreign exchange costs of imported goods, 100% of technical
assistance training and studies, 100l of total costs of all goods purchased
through the loan fund, and 80? of total costs of previously imported goods
in the country, 902 of total costs of civil works and 80? of incremental



- 28 -
total costs of recurrent expenditures. The project disbursement schedule
is shown in Annex 5. The estimated disbursement profile for the proposed
project is in line with IDA standard profile for similar projects in
Africa. The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998 and
disbursements closed by June 30, 1999.
H. Accounts and Audits
4.32      The Fisheries Department (FD) and the Smallholder Agricultural
Credit Administration (SACA) would maintain separate accounts and adequate
records to reflect accurately the Project operations and their financial
status. The accounting systems of FD and SACA were reviewed at appraisal.
Both accounting systems are weak. FD's accounting system would be
strengthened under the Project through technical assistance and counterpart
financial staff, while SACA is being strengthened through another IDA
project (Smallholder Agricultural Credit Project). The Project Accounts,
Special Account and Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) maintained by FD and
SACA, and Smallholder Credit Fund (SCF) would be audited by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA. The audits would be carried out in accordance
with internationally accepted standards and practices. The audited
financial statements, and SOEs together with auditors' long-form reports
would be submitted to IDA within nine months of the close of the financial
year of the respec:tive institutions. Auditors' reports on SOEs should also
include an opinion on whether satisfactory internal control procedures are
in operation. Assurances on these aspects were obtained at negotiations
[para 8.01 (v)]
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
5.01      Project Organization.  The Ministry of Forestry and Natural
Resources would have overall responsibility for the Project and the FD
would implement the Project in collaboration with other institutions, in
particular the Irrigation Department of the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA)
for Aquaculture development, and Economic Planning and Development of the
President's Office (EP&D) and Reserve Bank of Malawi (RBM) for import
support financing for commercial and semi-commercial fisheries enterprises,
and credit facilities for artisanal fisheries and the women's pilot
program. A Project Coordination Committee (PCC) would be established,
comprising Ministries and agencies most involved in project implementation.
The members would be representatives from MFNR, EP&D, RBM, Treasury and FD,
with the Principal Secretary of MFNR as the chairman, and FD functioning as
the Secretariat. PCC's role would only be advisory, to ensure conformity
with government policies; resolve problems that arise during project
implementation with other institutions or local authorities; and ensure the
necessary support to the Project from the institutions represented in the
PCC. The PCC should meet at least semi-annually to discuss development
proposals and implementation progress, and whenever required, to resolve
difficulties that might arise.
5.02      Implementing Agencies.  The Project would be implemented by FD.
The Chief Fisheries Officer (CFO), as the Head of FD, would have overall



- 29 -
responsibility for project execution. He would be supported at the
Headq[uarters by an internationally recruited Financial and Management
Advisor, and two specially assigned senior executives of FD to deal with
day-to-day implementation. This team would facilitate liaison as necessary
with MFNR, other concerned Ministries and Government Departments, credit
agencies, and project beneficiaries, and would handle communications
between FD and IDA and co-financiers. The physical implementation of
project-related activities at the field level would for the most part be
carried out by the Regional/District Officers, and other managers assigned
to the respective units, such as the Research Center, Training Center,
Boatyard and Pilot Projects.
5.03      The District Fisheries Officers (DFOs) who report to the
Regional Fisheries Officer would be responsible for data collection,
extension services (covering crafts, boats and engines, fishing gear,
techniques, processing and marketing, and women's group activities),
women's issues and market surveys including quality control. The Regional
Fisheries Officers (RFOs) would provide guidance to DFOs, undertake
supervision of their field activities, offer services of Subject Matter
Specialists (SMS), and coordinate the extension and training services to
fishermen and to those engaged in processing and marketing (women in
particular), liaising as necessary with the Research Center. The RFOs
would also help with quality control, data processing, field work
programming, and preparation of progress reports covering all field
activities.
5.04      The Research Center would concentrate mainly on a demersal stock
assessment, developing scheme for integrating fish farming into crop
farming systems, and finding solutions to technical problems communicated
by the extension services. It would work in close collaboration with lake
resource management. The Resource Management Officer based at the Research
Center would have access to all data and information on stock and fish
catches. This officer would be equipped to recommend corrective
conservation measures, thus reducing possible degradation of the fisheries
resource base and/or potential damage to the environment. In this
endeavor, it is important to foster good relationship between the fishing
community and the FD staff. This would help to improve the reliability of
the fish catch data and other statistics, and would also facilitate the
implementation of the corrective and preventive measures needed to preserve
the lake resources and the related environment. The Resource Management
Officer as well as Subject Matter Specialists and Field Extension Workers
would be given special training on resource management and environmental
aspects, including measures required to secure community cooperation and
participation.
5.05      The Training Center at Mpwepwe would provide special residential
training to different levels of FD staff to help in career development
through short refresher courses, workshops, seminars and demonstrations for
them as well as to boatbuilders, fishermen, and women engaged in fish
processing and marketing. In modifying the present curriculum of the
Training Center, the need for more effective extension services covering
all aspects, and training of all sections of the population involved in
fisheries sector would be recognized.



- 30 -
5.06      FD, in consultation with the Irrigation Department, would carry
out preliminary site surveys to assess the suitability of the
dams/reservoirs already identified as possible sites for the integrated
crop/fish farming pilot program. In choosing the most suitable location,
careful consideration was given to any adverse impact the development of
such a site would have on the people living in the adjoining villages. FD
has prepared detailed cost estimates for the site development. The
preliminary survey data, the justification for the choice of site, and the
development cost estimates were submitted to IDA prior to negotiations.
B. Role of MALDECO
5.07      The Project would provide import support (equipment and vessels)
through NDF to MALDECO which would be administered by RBM on behalf of the
Treasury. The Manager of MALDECO would send a letter of application to
RBM, providing relevant data on the description and use of the item to be
procured for processing. Upon approval, MALDECO would be required to
obtain price quotations from eligible suppliers of the items to be
imported. RBM would verify the prices and, once the prices are confirmed,
it would collect the cost of the imported item in local currency from
MALDECO, whereupon the shipment would be authorized and the import
documents would be released.
C. Role of Women
5.08      Eighty percent of the 4.1 million women in Malawi live and work
in rural areas. Women are head of household in about 33Z of the farm
families living in the rural areas. Women, therefore, bear a significant
burden of the workload within the household unit. They are responsible for
the household chores, including the provision of nutritional needs of the
household. The nutritional deficiencies have been exacerbated by the
declining availability of arable land for crop production. As a result,
the importance of fish as a source protein has been increasing.
5.09      The effective involvement of women in the processing and
marketing of fish is essential for the Project to meet both its nutritional
and poverty alleviation goals. Women's participation is also considered a
cornerstone to private sector support. FD's field staff with the
assistance of women extension workers, would help the voluntary formation
of groups of women beneficiaries in the three Districts for the pilot
program. Advisory support would also be provided for the design and
construction of efficient and cost-effective fish drying racks and smoking
kilns. The women's groups would own their kilns for fish processing and
have access to transport services for their marketing needs. The pilot
program would involve women in decision-making regarding processing and
marketing of fish in areas of their choice. FD staff would assist
individuals and women groups in managing their operations and in seeking
and securing needed credit from SACA.
5.10      To ensure women's participation as envisaged in project design,
an action program stipulating guidelines on mobilizing women and women's
groups, and a methodology for orienting, supporting and training them on
fish processing and marketing, would be developed as early as possible but



- 31 -
not later than June 30, 1992. FD's Monitoring and Evaluation Unit would,
among other things, devote its efforts to identifying special constraints
faced by women for quick management action. The terms of the monitorable
action program as specified in Annex 4 were agreed to at negotiations
[para 8.01 (vi)].
D. Credit Terms and Conditions
5.11      The Government of Malawi has developed a Financial Sector
Strategy which is acceptable to IDA. IDA is currently assisting GOM
through the proposed Financial and Small-Scale Enterprises Development
Project (FSEDP) to reform and deepen the financial system. Inspite of the
expected improvements in the efficiency and capacity of the financial
system under FSEDP, the small and medium-scale agricultural enterprises
particularly in the Fisheries sub-sector are still locked out of the formal
financial markets because of lack of security and absence of an established
banking history. While the envisaged reforms of the financial system would
make it possible for small-scale enterprises in the agricultural sector to
have access to the banking system, it is generally acknowledged that this
would take considerable time to materialize. In the interim, there is an
urgent need to meet the credit requirements of small-scale enterprises.
Thus, under the proposed Project, credit to artisanal fishermen and women
who are engaged in fish processing, storage and marketing would be provided
through a pilot credit scheme which would be administered by Small-holder
Agricultural Credit Administration (SACA) on terms and conditions that
wouild not distort the financial system and are acceptable to IDA. Draft
terms and conditions of lending from SACA to the borrowers are summarized
in Annex III. These terms and conditions of lending to borrowers were
agreed to at negotiations [para 8.01 (vii)].
5.12      Interest Rates and Repayment.  SACA lending rates would reflect
the nature and cost of lending to its borrowers and the prevailing market
rates. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that interest rates to the
final borrowers would be reviewed annually by SACA, in conjunction with
RBM, and set rates in accordance with overall interest rate structure in
the country [para 8.01 (viii)]. Interest rates charged by SACA would be at
the current rate - an effective 15 to 16% - on seasonal credits and 152 on
medium term loans. Assurances were obtained sought from the Government at
negotiations that the interest rate structure would be reviewed
periodically and revised suitably to ensure that the rates charged are in
line with the overall interest rate structure in the country [para 8.01
(ix)]. As with the other credit lines, the Government would bear the
foreign exchange risk. SACA would be responsible for loan recoveries from
Project beneficiaries. All such recoveries would be paid into SCF for
further lending. All short-term (seasonal) loans to borrowers would be for
a term not exceeding 12 months, and medium-term loans would be for a
maximum of 5 y'ars.
5.13      Loan Procedures.  SACA's loan assessment capabilities were found
to be adequate durip- appraisal. For replenishment claims, SACA would
submit semi-annual summaries of each project for which disbursement has
been completed. For seasonal credit, the procedures to be adopted by SACA
to ensure that loan proceeds are utilized as intended she'r.ld be developed



- 32 -
and a sample of the first three loan assessments would be submitted to IDA
for review and approval as a condition of disbursements [para 8.03 (i)].
E. Annual Work Program
5.14      An annual work program would be prepared by FD which would serve
as an essential instrument for both project management and supervision by
IDA and other participating donors. The work program would include
operating budgets, financing plan and detailed implementation schedules for
each of the Project components. It would be submitted to IDA for comments
before January 31 of each year. After review of the work program by
Government, and taking into account IDA's comments, a revised final work
program would be submitted to IDA by March 31. Assurances to this effect
were obtained at negotiations [para 8.01 (x)].
F. Reporting and Monitoring
5.15      Reporting.  In additional to submitting audited financial
statements referred to in para 4.32, FD would prepare and submit to IDA
detailed annual reports covering the physical and financial implementation
of the project, including FD's budget for the ensuring year. FD would also
prepare and submit to IDA a draft Project Completion Report when the
project is closed. SACA would prepare its annual lending programs,
together with the criteria for selection of borrowers to be agreed with FD
before commencement of each calendar year. SACA would provide semi-annual
progress reports of its lending activities to FD to be incorporated in FD's
semi-annual reports to be submitted to IDA.
5.16      Monitoring.  A mid-term project review would be essential.  A
major review of overall project performance, paying particular attention to
progress on involvement of women and the private sector beneficiaries in
project implementation, would be carried out by FD and its findings
submitted to IDA not later than June 30, 1995. FD would discuss the
findings of the review with IDA and agree on action program for the
remainder of the project period by not later than December 31, 1995. An
agreement to this effect was reached at negotiations [para 8.01 (xi)]).
G. Environmental Impact
5.17      A limited environmental assessment was carried out during
project appraisal. It shows that the Project is expected to have a
positive impact on the environment. The main thrust of the Project is to
ensure that the exploitation of the lake resources is at safe and
sustainable levels, with particular emphasis on resource management and
conservation. Strengthening FD would enable it to concentrate on its
research, conservation and regulatory functions. Securing the cooperation
of the fishing community in the conservation of fisheries resources and
protecting biodiversity of the lakes would become the main focus of the
extension services.
5.18      Malawi has fairly comprehensive environment-related legislation.
The 1985 Fisheries Act gives FD comprehensive powers to regulate fisheries
activities, and prohibits introduction of fish to water bodies and of



- 33 -
chemicals harmful to fish without permission of the Minister of MFNR. GOM
has recently established an Environmental Secretariat as part of the
National Research Council in the Office of the President. The Secretariat
is charged with assessing environmental implications of all new projects
and monitoring compliance of environmental laws by projects. However, the
provisions in these Acts have not been effectively enforced because of
institutional weaknesses. The Project would create a Conservation Cell
within the Research Center and provide it training and technical
assistance. This cell, working closely with the Environmental Secretariat,
would monitor the Project's environmental impact, by assessing the specific
contribution towards environmental conservation and also ensuring full
compliance with Malawi's environmental laws.
5.19      The design of the production component to be supported under the
Project has built-in measures to enhance environmental protection.
Significantly new dug-out canoes would be replaced by improved plank boats
and fish processing techniques would be introduced. These would conserve
forest resources by reducing cutting down hardwood for canoes and fuelvood
usage. The experimental program for water hyacinth control would minimize
potential environmental problems in the Lower Shire River. FD would
monitor possible demographic shifts that might be associated with upgrading
of the 46 km. of access roads to fish landing sites. FD staff would be
trained on appropriate environmental safeguards to enable them to carry out
their monitoring functions effectively. During the course of IDA
supervision, special care would be taken to ensure that FD operates
according to environmentally sound practices.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRICES
A. Production
6.0l      The proposed Project would take initiatives to increase fish
production by about 7,500 tons - equivalent to about 1OZ of the present
national catch - at full development (Year 5 of the project). All of the
increased production from the capture fisheries would come from Lake
MaLawi, with major contributions expected from the semi-commercial pair-
trawl fishery, the artisanal chirimila fishery, and the commercial
trawl/ring net fishery. These projections are all derived from a series of
production models presented in Annex VI, Tables 1 to 6, and are summarized
beLow:



- 34 -
Table 6.1: Fish Production
Without Proiect         With Project
Model       Fishing  Production  Total Fish  Fishing  Production  Total Fish
days   per unit   production  days   per unit   productin  Incremental
(no.)  (tons/yr.)  (tons)  (no.)  (tons/yr.)  (tons)    (tons)
A (100 units)    145    1.45    145      190       2.85     285         140
B (50 unts)    100     7.70     385      130      11.70     285         200
C (50 units)   -       -          -      250      43.75    2,188      2,188
D ( 5 units)   -       -          -      300     414.00    2,070      2,070
E ( 5 units)    150   135       675      300     414.00    2,070      1,395
F(MALDECO)   320       -       2,800     300       -       4,34C      1,540
Total                         4,005                      11,538      7,533
6.02 The assessment of the anticipated incremental fish production is
based on the following assumptions:
(i)  Additional Fishing Units.  A total of 50 chirimila fishing units
(Model C), and 5 additional pair trawl units (Model D) would be
introduced by year 5 of the Project.
(ii)  Fishing Effort.  The introduction of better fishing vessels,
fully equipped with adequate fishing gear, as envisaged under
the Project would allow fishermen to considerably increase the
number of fishing days presently recorded. At full development,
the number of fishing days would increase by about 30Z, as in
Models A and B, and by 100Z as in Model E.
(iii)  Rehabilitation of MALDECO Fisheries Ltd.  The company used to
land about 4,500 tons of fish annually but, due to lack of
reinvestment in fishing operations resulting in poor
productivity of the existing vessels, present fish landings
amount to only about 2,800 tons per year. The rehabilitation of
MALDECO, as envisaged under the Project, would allow the company
to raise productivity gradually to its former level (Model F).
6.03      Chisawasawa and utaka would account for 39Z and 34Z respectively
of total annual incremental fish production. Chambo would represent 10,
followed by usipa and catfish accounting for 7Z and 5Z respectively. Other
fish species would constitute the remaining 5Z. Details on catch
composition at full development are summarized in Table 6.2.



- 35 -
Table 6.2: Catch Composition. Prices and Value of Production by TYDO of Fisheries
Chambo  Catfish  Utaka  Chisawasawa Usipa   Others    Total
I. Chiramila Fishin
Production (tons)     106      66  1,708       18       490    144  2,528
Price (UK/kg)          1.26    0.84   0.88    0.78        1.06   0.92   0.78
Value of production    131     65  1,128       14       S15    132  1,976
(UK '000)
ICI  Reservoirs A Dams
Production (tons)     30       16       -       -         -     130    175
Price (UK/kg)          2.7      2.1    -        -         -      2.6    2.6
Value of production   81       32       -       -         -    326    438
(UK '000)
III. Pair Trawlin
Production (tons)    360      233      88   2,678         -     38  3,286
Price (UK/kg)          1.40    0.84   0.76    0.92        -      0.92   0.98
Value of production    490    198      66   2,369         -     33  3,164
(UK '000)
IV. MALDECO
Production (tons)    284       54    766      310        36     39  1,487
Price (UK/kg)          1.6      0.70   0.83    0.83       1.05   0.90   0.98
Value of production    398     38    838      264        37     36  1,408
(UK '000)                            --       - s             -       -
TOTAL
Production (tons)    749      387  2,669   2,908        525    349  7,465
Average price (MK/kg)    1.47    0.88   0.72    0.91     1.05   1.60   0.94
Value of production  1,098    321  1,832   2,847        662    625  6,975
(UK s'O0)
6.04      Investments in boatyard restructuring and shore infrastructure
would facilitate the expansion of the southern semi-commercial trawl
fishery to a level of effort compatible with Maximum Sustainable Yield.
The promotion of artisanal boat building would have more impact than those
explored in the production models. The present analysis, however, takes
account only of those increases financed directly by the Project.
6.05       The increase in catches under the Project and the likely
composition of the increment, are estimated as follows: The breakdown of
the artisanal chirimila and gill net catches was derived from the
composition of present landings (ignoring, for the sake of conservatism,
the expected tendency for the new chirimila units to land a higher
proportion of high-value pelagics). Composition of the semi-commercial
trawl catch is also a straightforward extrapolation from present landings,
but the composition of the commercial catch was projected according to a
vessel operations plan described in Model F. Chisawasawa and utaka, both
relatively low-value fish which are sun-dried for the inland urban and
rural markets, would comprise 77Z of the projected incremental yield.
B. Marketing
6.06       The Malawi domestic market for fish is strong, and although per
capita cash incomes are low, there remains a reserve of buying power
adequate to cope with large annual fluctuations in supply. Despite
increases in annual landings of 17Z in 1986 and 21Z in 1987, no fish
remained unsold and prices continued to rise at the same rate as overall
inflation. It is characteristic of the market for fish in Malawi that it
has never been possible to produce fish meal: there is no waste fish, and



- 36 -
no species is considered unfit for human consumption. As population growth
causes the gap between supply and demand to widen, the future strength of
the market in fish is secure. Although the domestic market is chronically
under-supplied, the distinction between consumer demand and distribution
capacity must be clearly understood in relation to the expected
geographical concentration of the incremental catches and the rate of
build-up in landings. This is particularly true in areas where landings
presently rarely exceed the local demand, and trading links are
consequently weak. In this regard, the following general observations
should be made:
(a)  In all cases the catch increment would be built up slowly during
the life of the Project, allowing ample time for the local
expansion of trading networks.
(b)  Access to major centers of artisanal fishing activity and to all
semi-commercial fish landings would be improved under the
Project, and this is expected to provide an additional stimulus
to trade.
6.07      Semi-Commercial Fishery.  Most of the increased production would
be landed at the Central Region landing at Lifuwu. Ice would be available
in Salima, and the 110 km road from Salima to Lilongwe, where any
additional catch would find a ready market, is presently being upgraded to
a major highway. The other major landings at Namiasi and Malembo are both
well-served by traders who are on main transport routes to the sites of
busy local processing industries. Geographically, the most obscure of the
proposed landings is Chilinda, on the eastern Mangochi lakeshore, but even
here the trading capacity has been strengthened by the formation of women's
fish processing/trading groups under a GTZ funded project.
6.08      Commercial Fishery.  Bulk catches of low-value fish would
continue to be sold fresh to local processors or dried by MALDECO for
contract sale. The incremental catch of high-value species would mostly be
sold fresh to wholesale distributors in the cities, using refrigerated
transport. The combination of refrigerated transport, cold and frozen
storage, and in-house processing capacity would give MALDECO great
flexibility in its marketing strategy and disposal of the increased catch.
6.09      Artisanal Fisheries.  The Project increase in yield of 2,400
tons from the chirimila fishery, which would represent only 1lZ of the
present catch, would be landed at many sites on Lake Malawi and would be
built up over a four year period from project year 2. No marketing
problems are therefore anticipated. Similarly, the increased yield from
gill nets would represent a small proportion of the present landings and
would be landed mainly in the Central and Northern Regions where fish is in
greater demand. The production from reservoirs and impoundments would be
landed in small quantities in areas which have no other source of fresh
fish, and where the demand would be very difficult to satisfy.



- 37 -
C. Prices
6.10      There has been no price control for fish since 1985.  Under the
Project, there would only be modest increase in fish production of about 2Z
arnually. Since the expected increase in fish production would be less
than the increase in population growth of 3Z and fish being the main source
of protein, the effective demand for fish would continue to out-pace
supply. This would create an upward push on prices. However, given the
measures that would be introduced under the Project such as improved
preservation and storage, support to women fish traders to make their
operations more efficient, upgrading access roads to reduce cost of
transportation, and increasing ice plants to facilitate storage, the high
gap of about 300X between the beach prices and retail prices would be
siLgnificantly reduced. Due to the anticipated strong demand for fish over
the next two decades, fishing operations would continue to be profitable in
Malawi. The domestic market would easily absorb the incremental production
and small proportion of the high value fish (Chambo) would continue to be
exported to the neighboring countries. Details of fish prices at the beach
by type of fisheries are summarized in Table 6.3.
Table 6.3: Average Beach Fish Prices (MK/kg.)
(June 1990 Prices)
Chambo            1.47
Catfish           0.88
Utaka             0.72
Chisawasawa       0.91
Usipa             1.05
Others            1.50
VII.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Financial Analysis
7.01      The financial analysis has been carried out for both the
artisanal and semi-commercial fisheries on Lake Malawi based on five
typical development models which took into consideration the level of
technology presently used and future improvements as proposed under the
Project. Models A, B and C refer to the artisanal fisheries while Models D
and E refer to pair trawl operations which are typical of the semi-
commercial fisheries. Models F and G relate to the financial viability of
the investments proposed for MALDECO and the Mpwepwe boatyard respectively.
The models are:
Model A:  Replacement of one dug-out canoe with one plank canoe for
gill netting.
Model B:  Replacement of two dug-out canoes with two plank canoes
propelled by paddles for chirimila operations.
Model C:  New chirimila units composed of one plank boat propelled
with an 8 hp outboard engine and a plank canoe.



- 38 -
Model D:  Introduction of new pair trawl units composed of two plank
boats of 7.5 m, propelled with 26 hp inboard diesel
engines, and fully equipped with a bottom trawl of 38 mm
cod end mesh size.
Model E:  Rehabilitation of existing pair trawl units by providing
the same boats and equipment as in for Model F.
Model F:  An overall activity model, demonstrating the financial
viability of the rehabilitation program of commercial
fisheries (MALDECO). The analysis is based on the impact
of the Project activities over the deteriorating present
situation.
Model G:  This model presents the results of the rehabilitation
program for the FD boatyard at Mpwepwe. New management
would be provided under the Project and a sound
administration would be introduced to secure the self-
financial viability of the operation.
7.02      Key financial indicators which characterize Models A to E, are
given in Annex 6, and are summarized below:
Table 7.1: Boat Models: Key Financial Indicators
M O D E L S
A       B          C         D        E
Without Project:
Fish production (ton/yr)               1.45       7.7       -          _        135
Return to crew labor (MK/day)          3.2        5.9       -          -          6.5
Net income to boat owners              0.6        3.0       -          -         72.6
(MK/yr, '000)
With Proiect
Fish production (ton/yr)               2.85      11.7      43.8      396        396
Return to crew labor (MK/day)          -          6.9       7.0        7.2        7.2
Net income to boat owners              1.4        5.1      23.0      272.8      272.8
(MK/yr, '000)
Financial Rate of Return (Z)          30         30        70         40         40
7.03      As would be evident from Table 7.1, financial results for all
the proposed Models are considered satisfactory with a financial rate of
return ranging from 302 for Models A and B to about 70Z for Models C.
Return to labor for crew members varies from MK 6.9/day (Model B) to MK
7.2/day (Models D and E) and are well above the minimum wages in Malawi.
Net incomes to boat owners for the project situation are estimated to range
from MK 1,368/year in the case of Model A, to about MK 272,834 for Models D
and E. These levels of income would allow the boat owners to comfortably
meet their debt service obligations during the entire repayment period.



- 39 -
7.04      MALDECO's total investment requirement for the proposed
rehabilitation program is estimated at about MK 4.2 million over a period
of three years. MALDECO would finance its rehabilitation program from its
own resources or loans from any commercial bank of its choice. For this
analysis, it is assumed that MALDECO would obtain a loan, covering 85Z of
investment costs, to be repaid over a period of 15 years, including a two
years grace period during which interest is capitalized. The remaining 15Z
of investment costs is assumed to be met from internal funds.
7.05      The financial results relative to the rehabilitation program of
the Mpwepwe boatyard, for which Model G is presented, are also considered
satisfactory, as indicated in Annex VII. The cash flow analysis shows that
a net profit of about MK 93,160 would be generated each year after full
development, indicating that the boatyard operations would be made
financially viable.
B. Economic Analysis
7.06      The major economic benefit of the Project would be the
incremental fish production estimated at about 7,500 tons per year at full
development. This would contribute to sustaining the present level of per
capiLta fish consumption in spite of high population growth. This
incremental fish production also takes into account the fish production
foregone, estimated at 1,400 tons/year, if there were no project. This
assumption is justified in view of the fact that at present the semi-
commercial fishery, operating pair-trawl units would require an intensive
replacement program in respect of both vessels and fishing gear as well as
inboard engines in order to maintain the present level of fish catch. The
same would apply to the artisanal fisheries on the basis that the majority
of dugout canoes, presently operating on Lake Malawi, would need a
substantial boat replacement program which could not be undertaken without
the Project.
7.07      The Project also has some significant non-quantifiable benefits.
The strengthening of FD would benefit the fisheries sub-sector by providing
essential data and technical services which would ultimately result in
improving fishing efficiency and productivity. The Project would enhance
the ability of FD to establish an effective resources management program,
carry out regulatory functions to protect and conserve the natural resource
base of Malawi's water bodies, and prevent environmental degradation.
Another important benefit would be derived from increased nutrition and
food security by improving the quality of diet of the rural population,
particularly animal protein intake, while reducing losses suffered from
spo:Llage and damage through Project facilities for better and more well-
organized fish processing, collection and delivery to consumer centers. In
addition, the Project has several positive externalities. It would
generate off-farm employment opportunities, directly benefit about 1,500
fishermen and the entire fishing community by providing upgraded access
roads to markets, provide specialized skills enhancement training to women
fish processors/traders, 800 fishermen, 30 boat builders, 40 mechanics, 100
pair trawler operators and 100 chirimila operators. The Project would also
further induce private sector participation in the fisheries sub-sector by



- 40 -
rehabilitating semi-commercial and commercial fisheries enterprises and by
reducing FD's involvement in commercial operations.
7.08      Economic Rate of Return (ERR) . In calculating the economic
rate of return of the Project, the following assumptions have been made:
(a)       Customs Duties and Taxes.  All transfer payments have been
excluded from the cost stream. These mainly relate to
imported items, and to the operating costs of vehicles and
boats, as fuel is heavily taxed. Most items specifically
imported under the Project would be exempted from direct
customs duties and taxes, in line with GOM's policy to
grant such exemption for development projects. No
adjustments have therefore been made on the related
investment costs.
(b)       Proiect Costs.  Base costs are computed at February, 1991
prices. The current exchange rate of MK 1 = US$ 0.36 has
been assumed to reflect the true value and thus a standard
conversion factor of 1 has been used in the economic rate
of return (ERR) calculations. Total project costs (Annex
1) have been included in the computation of the ERR,
although it could be argued that the roads to be
rehabilitated under the Project would serve several
activities not related to Project operations.
(c)       Gross Value of Fish Production.  Foreign trade of fish is
modest. Exports make up of a combination of sales of
processed fish to Zambia and Zimbabwe, and the export of
live aquarium fish to Europe and North America are usually
below MK 1 million a year. Fish production will have to
rise substantially before significant surpluses are
available for export. For this reason, fish is considered
as non-tradeable and, therefore, total fish production has
been valued using average beach prices as indicated in
Table 6.3.
(d)       Incremental Operating Costs.  Incremental operating costs
are derived and have been adjusted to exclude transfer
payments as indicated under (a) above. Operating and
investment costs relative to fishing activities have been
obtained by aggregating the values given in the Models
presented in Annex VI, Tables 1 to 6, after adjusting them
to beach level prices.
(e)       Labor.  Labor requirement provided by boat crew members has
been priced at the official minimum wage of MK 3.5 per man-
day. Alternative employment opportunities vary throughout
Malawi, and the opportunity cost of labor is taken as an
average for the areas affected by the project activities.
7.09      Based on these assumptions, the Project would generate an ERR of
about 20Z. The ERR of the Project, excluding the rehabilitation of MALDECO



- 41 -
fisheries has been estimated at 18Z, while the ERR of MALDECO is 402.
These rates are considered satisfactory.
C. Risks and SensitivitY Anallsis
7.10       Risks.  The major project risk would be the weak institutional
capacity of FD to efficiently manage and regulate the fisheries sub-sector.
The rational use and protection of fish resources could represent a
significant risk. The lake eco-system is delicate and could be destroyed
by over-fishing and/or pollution. This aspect would require systematic
monitoring of fish catch and continuous stock assessments which would
provide a basis for efficient management and regulation of the sub-sector.
It is therefore important that in order to achieve the Project's main goal
of resource conservation and sub-sectoral efficiency and productivity, FD
institutional capacity should be sound.
7.11       The Project would provide for significant on-the-job training of
FD's staff, increase the strength of its professional cadre, and offer
needed technical assistance to minimize this risk. Although Project design
adequately provides for strengthening of FD's institutional capacity to
effectively carry out it mandate, close monitoring and review of
institution building activities under the Project would be essential. For
this purpose, the Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation of FD would be
strengthened. The mid-term review provided in the Project, would be
carried out after three years to enable project management to make major
adjustments and modifications as considered appropriate.
7.12.      The sensitivity analysis has produced the following ERR values
for deviations from baseline performances
Table 7.2: Internal Rates of Return of Net Streams
BTOT    W lOZ   LW20Z    WP 5O   DIN 102  DA 20Z   MAI 50X LS 1YEAR LS 2YEARS LAG 3 YEARS
CTOT          19.703    21.894    24,028    30,184   '17,443    15.096  7.192    16,481    14.269    12.631
UP 10Z        17.652    19.703    21.697    27.426    15.530    13.319  5.809    14.886    12,951    11,501
UP 20X        15,889    17.825    19.703    25,078    13,881    11.782  4.598    136493    116787    10.496
UP 50Z        11.782    13,470    15.096    19.703    10.020    8.164   1.676    10.160     8.962    8.032
DOW 10Z       22.133    24,496    26,804    33,484    19.703    17.187  8,795    18,333    15.783    13.920
DONW 20Z      25.078.   27.658    30,184    37,521    22.432    19,703    10,691    20.524    17.549    15,410
DOWN 502      39.903    43*66S    47.371    58.230    36.077    32.172    19.703    30.771    25,494    21*952
LAG 1 YEAR        -                                -         -                   19.703    16.491    14.269
LAG 2 YEARS       -         -        -         -        -         -         -        -    19.703    16.481
LAGS3ERS          -        -         -         -E                                              -    19.703



- 42 -
7.13       The whole Project and its individual components would be less
sensitive to small changes in costs and benefits or in the factors
underlying such changes as indicated by the switching values. It can be
seen from the sensitivity analysis that the Project would generate an ERR
of 122 even if there were reduction of gross benefits by 48Z which is
considered unlikely in view of the very conservative assumptions made in
calculating the incremental fish production. Even in the most unlikely
scenario where benefits fall by 20Z while costs increase by 20Z, the ERR
would be 12x. Furthermore, the ERR of net streams (Table 7.3) show that if
benefits lagged by 3 years, the Project's ERR would still be 13Z. These
rates indicate that the Project can withstand significant shocks and still
remain economically viable.
Table 7.3: Internal Rates of Return of Net Streams
NPV AS A X
PRESENT         OF PRESENT      INTERNAL
VALUE AT OCC    COSTS AT CC     RFATE OF
TEST CASES  TEST CASE VARIATIONS        OF 12.OOZ        OF 12.00Z       RETURN
--- -- -- --  -- ---  - ---------
MASE CASE                                    14986.5           48.1%        19.7X
TEST CASE 1 Bi           DMWN 10%            10373.7           33.3%        17.4%
TEST CASE 2 B1           DOWI 20X            5760.9            18.5Z        15.1X
TEST CASE 3 Cl           DOWt 101            18100.6           64.61        22.1%
TEST CASE 4 Cl           DO  20X             21214.8           85.2X        25.1Z
TEST CASE 5 B1           UP  1OX             1959".3           62.9%        21.9%
TEST CASE 6 B1           UP  201             24212.1           77.7:        24.0%
TEST CASE 7 Cl           UP  lOX             11872.3           34.7%        17.7%
TEST CASE 8 Cl           UP  20Z             8758.2            23.4%        15.9%
TEST CASE 9 Bl           LAG   I YEARS       10044.2           32.3%        16.5S
TEST CASE 10 e1          LAG   2 YEARS       5631.4            18.1Z        14.3%
TEST CASE 11 It          LAG   3 YEARS       1691.5             5.4%        12.6X



- 43 -
VIII. AGREEMENT REACHED, CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATION
A. Agreements Reached
8.01      At negotiations, agreements were reached with the Borrower on
the following:
(i)       FD would start to implement the manpower development plan
by not later than April 1, 1992 (para 3.03);
(ii)      Government would commence the implementation of the action
plan to reorganize FD and improve its efficiency by not
later than April 1, 1992 (para 3.04);
(iii)     FD would start to implement the research program following
appropriate technical practices by not later than April 1,
1992 (para 3.10);
(iv)      Government would complete the privatization of FD's
commercial activities by not later than March 31, 1992
(para 3.16);
(v)       FD and SACA would provide to IDA the Project's audited
financial statement and audit reports on timely basis (para
4.32);
(vi)      FD would implement the action program for involving women
in the implementation of fish processing and marketing
pilot program as soon as possible but not later than June
30, 1992 (para 5.10);
(vii)     Government has agreed on the terms and conditions of
lending by SACA to the borrowers (para 5.11);
(viii)    SACA and RBM would review the interest rates to the
borrowers annually (para 5.12);
(ix)      Government would review the interest rates structure
periodically to ensure that the rates charged are in
accordance with the overall interest rate structure in the
country (5.12);
(x)       FD would submit its work program to IDA for comments before
January 31, of each year (para 5.14); and
(xi)      FD would carry out the mid-term review of the Project not
later than June 30, 1995 (para 5.16).
B. Condition of Effectiveness
8.02                 The condition of effectiveness is as follows:



- 44 -
(i)       FD would complete a restructuring plan of the Mpwepwe
boatyard and appoint its manager whose qualification and
experience are acceptable to IDA (para 3.16 and 4.20).
C. Condition of Disbursement
8.03      The conditions of disbursements are as follows:
(i)       SACA would adopt procedures acceptable to IDA to ensure
that loan proceeds are utilized as intended and submit the
first three of its loan assessment to IDA for review and
approval (para 5.13)
D. Recommendation
8.04      Under these assurances and conditions, the proposed Project is
suitable for IDA Credit of SDR 6.2 million (US$8.8 million equivalent) to
the Government of Malawi on Standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity.



- 45 -
ANNEX I
Table 1
MALAWI
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
(MNK 000)                   (USS '000)                      % Total
--------------------------  ------------------------  Z Foreiin   Base
Local   Foreign   Total      Local Foreign  Total    Exchange    Costs
A. INSTITUTION BUILDING
1. MANAGEMENT                                            1285.4  2i943.4  4,228.8    459.1 1,051,2  1P510.3              70       11
2. EXTENISION                                             1,942.0  1,650.4  3,592.4    693.6   589.4  1,283.0             46       10
3. PLANNING, MONITORING I EVALUATION                        368.6    478.0.   846.6    131.6   170.7    302,3             56        2
4. TRAINING                                               1,734.3  2,209.0  3,943.3    619.4   788.9  1,408.3             56       11
5. CIVIL WORKS (OFFICES, CLASSROOMS I STAFF HOUSES)    3,143.5  1,606.2  4,749,7  1.122.7   573.7  1,696.3                34       13
Sub-Total INSTITUTION BUILDING                               8,473,7  8,887.0 17,360,7  3,026.3 3,173.9  6,200.3             51       47
B. INFRASTRUCTURE
1. JETTY                                                    169S2    112.8    282.0       60.4    40,3    100,7          .40        1
2. ACCESS ROAD                                            1,254.3    695.5  1,949.8    448,0   248.4    696,4             36        5
Sub-Total INFRASTRUCTURE                                     1,423.5    808.3  2,231.8    508.4   288.7    797.1             36         6
C. RESEARCH
1. RESEARCH AND CONSERVATION                                220,0  2,247.4  2,467.4       78.6   802.6    881,2           91        7
2. ACQUACULTURE                                             902.4    337.3  1,239,7    322.3   120.5    442.7             27        3
3. CIVIL WORKS                                              653.8    155,8    809,6    233.5    55.7    289.1             19
Sub-Total RE.SEARCH                                          1,776.1  29740.5  4,516,7    634.3   978.8  1.613.1             61        12
D. PRODUCTION
1. ARTISANAL FISHERIES                                      258.3  1,230.0  1488*3       92.3   439.3    531,5           83        4
2. COMMERCIAL                                             2,833.2  5,489.8  8,323.0  1,011.8 1,960.6  2,972.5             66       22
3. SEMI -- COHMERCIAL                                       200.6  1,070.0  1,270,6       71,6   382.1    453,8           84        3
4. BOAT YARD                                                622.1    720,4  1,342.6    222.2   257.3    479.5             54        4
5, PILOT WOMEN PROGRAM                                      560.0         -    560.0    200.0         -    200.0           -         2
Sub-Total PRODUCTION                                         4,474.2  8,510.2 12,984.4  1,597.9 3,039.4  4,637,3             66        35
Total BASELINE COSTS                                          16,147,5 20,946.1 37,093.6  50766#9 7,480,8 13,247,7             56       100
Physical Contingencies                                        542.6  1,033.3  1,575.9    193.8   369.0    562.8             66        4
Price Contirnencies                                         2,961.1  1,758.3  4,719.4  1,057.5   627.9  1.685.5             37        13
Total PROJECT COSTS                                           19.651.2 23,737#7 43,388,9  7,018,3 8,477,7 15.496,0             55       l17



MALAWI
FISHERIES DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
ProJect Coaponerits by Year
Totals Irncluding Contingencies                                   Totals Iricluding Coritingenries
(MK '000)                                                         (US$  000)
1991     1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    Total      1991    1992    1993    1994    1995   1996  1997   Total
A. INSTITUTION BUILDING
1. MANAGEDENT                                         1I065.5    914.8 1,079.9   685.8  593.7  272.7  286.3  4,898.8    380.6  326.7  385.7   244.9   212.0  97.4 102.3  1,749.6
2. EXTENSION                                              500.9    758.1 1,003.2   717.4  440.4   462.4  483.4  4,365.8    178.9   270.8  358.3  256.2   157.3 165.1 172.6  1,559.2
3. PLANNING, MONITORING I EVALUATION                      187.4    442.4   80.6    84.6   88.9    93.3        6.0    983.2    66.9  158.0    28.8    30.2    31.7  33.3   2.1    351.1
4. TRAINING                                               606.6  2,136.2  642.7  257.5   245.4  257.3   269.5  4,415.2    216.6   762.9  229.5    91.9    87.7  91.9  96.2  1,576.8
5. CIVIL WORKS (OFFICES, CLASSROOMS I STAFF HOUSES)    1,423.1  2,002.2 1,576.4   183.5  192.7  202.3   212.5  5,792.7   508.3   715.1  563.0    65.5    68.8  72.3  75.9  2,068.8
Sub-Total INSTITUTION BUILDING                             3,783.6  6,253.6 4,382.9 1.928.9 1,561.1 1,288.1 1,257.6 20,455.8  19351.3 2,233.4 1,565.3  688.9  557.5 460.0 449.2  7,305.6
B. INFRASTRUCTURE
1. JETTY                                                  219.0    108.9       -       -       -        -       -    327.9     78.2    38.9        -       -       -      -     -    117.1
2. ACCESS ROAD                                            731.0  1,328.6    49.5   52.0   54.6    57.3    60.2  2,333.2    261.1   474.5    17.7    18.6    19.5  20.5  21.5    833.3
Sub-Total INFRASTRUCTURE                                     950.0  1,437,5    49.5    52.0    54.6   57.3   60.2  2,661.1    339.3   513.4   17.7    18.6    19.5  20.5  21.5    950.4
C. RESEARCH
40-
1. RESEARCH AND CONSERVATION                              168.6  29037.0  355.1    55.4   123.3   40.7    21.4  2,801.6        60.2  727.5  126.8    19.8    44.0  14.6   7.6  1.000.6    >
2. ACQUACULTURE                                           596.5   128.8  135.2   141.9  149.0  156.5  164.3  1,472.3   213.1    46.0    48.3    50.7    53.2  55.9  58.7    525.8
3. CIVIL WOKS                                             507.0    67.0   70.4    73.9   77.6   81.5   85.6   963.0   181.1   23.9   25.1    26.4    27.7  29.1  30.6    343.9
Sub-Total RESEARCH                                         1,272.2  2,232.8   560.7  271.3   350.0   278.7  271.3  5,236.9    454.3  797.4  200.3    96.9   125.0  99.5  96.9  1,870.3
D. PRODUCTION
1. ARTISANAL FISHERIES                                        -    145.7  465.7   511.2   560.2   83.5    87.7  1,854.0           -    52.0  166.3   182.6   200.1  29.8  31.3    662.1
2. COllERCIAL                                          5.592.5  1.199.1 1,391.4  306.0  321.3  337.4  354.2  9,501.9  1#997.3   428.2  496.9   109.3   114.8 120.5 126.5  3,393.5
3. SEMI - COMMERCIAL                                          -    252.2  275.7  301.0   619.3    64.8   68.1  1,581.1            -    90.1    98.5   107.5   221.2  23.2  24.3    564.7
4. BOAT YARD                                              837.6    414.1    51.9   54.4    57.2   60.0    63.0  1,538.2    299.1   147.9   18.5    19.4    20.4  21.4  22.5    549.3
5. PILOT WOMEN PROGRAM                                    560.0        -       -       -        -       -       -    560.0    200.0        -       -       -        -     -     -    200.0
Sub-Total PRODUCTION                                       6,990.1  2,011.0 2,184.6 1,172.7 1,557.9   545.8  573.0 15,035.1  2,496.5   718.2   780.2   418.8   556.4 194.9 204.7  5y369.7
Total PROJECT COSTS                                         12,995.9 11,934.9 7.177.7 3,424.8 3,523.6 2,169.9 2,162.1 43,388.9  4,641.4 4,262.5 2,563.5 1P223.2 1,258.4 774.9 772,2 159496.0
mx4
r -



- 47 -
ANNEX I
Table 3
MALAMI
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ACCOUNTS COST SUtMARY
(MK '000)                  (US$ '000)                     Z Total
--------------------------  ------------------------  Z Foreign   Base
LocB1   Foreign   Total     Local  Foreign  Total    Exchange    Costs
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS                                  5.426.2  3,617.4  9,043.6  14937.9 1,291.9  39229.9           40       24
Bj EOUIPMENT                                          -  6,481.9  6,481*9         - 20315.0  2,315.0         100       17
C. VEHICLES                                           -  2,822.0  2,822.0         - 1,007.9  1,007.9         100        a
0. VESSELS AND BOATS                                  - 4P127.0  4,127.0          - 1,473#9  1,473.9         100       11
E. TRAINING AND STUDIES                           532.8    360.0    892.8    190.3   128.6    318,9           40        2
F. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                               -  3,537.8  39537.8         - 1,263.5  1,263*5         100       10
0. LOAN FUND                                      560.0        -    560*0    200.0        -    200.0           -        2
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                             6,519.0 20,946.1 27,465.1  2.328.2 7,480.8  9,809.0           76       74
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE - CONSTRUCTION   1,556.6         -  1,556.6    555,9        -    555.9           -        4
B. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE - EQUIPMENT       1,632.1        -  1,632.1    582,9        -    582.9           -        4
C. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE - VEHICLES        5,520.5        -  5,520.5  1,971.6        -  1,971#6           -       15
D. SALARIES AND WAGES                            824.3        -    824.3    294.4        -    294.4           -        2
E. OTHER OPERATIONAL EXPENSES                     95.0        -      95.0    33.9        -     33.9           -        0
T3t3i RECURRENT COSTS                              9,628.5        -  9,628.5  3,438.8        -  3,438*8           -       26
Total BASELINE COSTS                               16,147.5 20,946.1 37,093.6  5,766.9 7P480.8 13,247.7           56      100
Phssical Contingencies                             542.6  1,033.3  16575.9    193.8   369.0    562.8           66        4
Price Cor,tingencies                             2t961,1  1,758.3  4,719.4  1,057.5   627.9  1,685.5           37       13
Tutal PROJECT COSTS                                199651.2 23,737.7 43,388.9  7,018.3 8,477,7 15,496.0           55      117
------------------------------------------------ =__ - -------------------- - ---------------------- ------------------ - --



UALAWI
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MALDECO Fisheries Ltd.
Projected Balance Sheet (1990-93)
ACTUAL              ACTUAL
01/11/89            31/06/90             30/09/90            30/09/91               30/09/92              30/09/93
---------------SK,000--------------
FIXED ASSETS AT COST                 1,961               2,048                2,789               6,651                 6,551                  6,561
LESS:  Depreciation                  1.271               1,338                1.397                1.S77                2.267                  2,937
NET BOOK VALUE                         690                 711                1,392               4,974                 4,294                  3,614
CURRENT ASSETS:
Stocks                               386                 450                  460                5SO                   S5e                     500
Debtors A Prepayments                180                 643                  260                 360                   550                    600
Cash A Bank                            4                  18                  190                 239                   106                  1.646
Total                                670               1,011                  890                 811                 1,158                  2,746
CURRENT LIABILITIES:
Creditors & Accruals                 811                 412                  662                 362                   362                    362          co
Bank Loan                             90                  20                    0                   0                     0                      0
Bank Overdraft                        94                   0                    0                   O0                                           0
Taxation                                                                      500                 760                 1,000                  1,800
Dividends                                                                     427                 716                   990                  1.150
Total                                995                 432                1,689               1,827                 2,362                  3,312
NET CURRENT ASSETS                    (425)                679                 (699)              (1,216)               (1.196)                 (6686)
TOTAL NET ASSETS                       265               1,290                  693               3,758                 3,098                  3,048
REPRESENTED BY:
Loan                                                                                            2,600                 1,000                      
Share Capital                        436                 436                  435                 435                   436                    435        c Z
Profit & Loss Account               (170)                865                  258                 823                 1,663                  2.813        m X
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER'S FUND               265               1,290                  693               3,768                 3,098                  3,048



MALAWI
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MALDECO Fisheries Ltd.
Projected Income Statement (1990-93)
ACTUAL
31/05/90           1989/90            1990/911/          1991/92             1992/93
-------------MK,000---------------
PRODUCTION: Tons2/3/
Chambo                               987              1,400               1,900              2,800              3,000
Others                               435                900               1.200              1,500              1,700
Total                              1,402              2,300               3,100              4,100              4,700
SALES                                      2,391              3,500              4,880               6,480              7,500
Operating Expenses                           880              1.300              1.500               1.950              2.000
GROSS PROFIT                               1,531              2,200              3,380               4,530              5,500
Administration & Other Overheads
497                825                930              1,300               1 400
PROFIT BEFORE INTEREST A TAX               1,034              1,375              2,430               3,230              4,100
LOAN INTEREST                                  9                 20                400                 400                200
PROFIT BEFORE TAX                          1,025              1,355              2,030               2,830              3,900
TAX                                          350                S00                750               1,000              1,800
NET PROFIT AFTER TAX                         875                8SS              1,280               1,830              2,100
DIVIDENS                                       0                427                715                 990              115 s
RETAINED PROFIT                             867                 428                565                 840                950
'-3M
1/ First full year no new boats operating except patrol boat with fish finding gear.
2I New boat in, Dennis Sanudi fishing north and trucks delivering north.
3/ Assumed maximum catch level.



MALAWI
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MALDECO Fisheries Ltd.
Projected Sources and Uses of Funds (1990-93)
ACTUAL
NOV. 89 TO      1989/90          1990/91          1991/92          1992/93
141C------  M ,000---- ----------
Cash Sales                950           1,559            1,960            2,580            3,000
Debtors & Sundry        1,171           1,964            2,800            3,750            4,400
Loan                     --               -              2,500           _                _
Total Receipts          2,121           3,523            7,260            6,330            7,400
0
Overhead Expenses       1,291           1,649            1,750            1,820            1,820
Loan Interest               9              20              400              400              200
Creditors                 626             996              850              800              850
Taxation                                                   500              750            1,000
Dividends                                                  427              715              990
Capital Expenditure        87             578            3,762                -
Loan Repayment            -               -                -              1,500            1,000
Total Payments          2,013           3,243            7,689            5,985            5,860
NET CASH FLOW             108             280             (429)             345            1,540                X X
OPENING CASH              (90)            (90)             190             (239)             106
CLOSING CASH               18             190              239              106            1,646



- 51 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 4
MALAWI
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Financial Sector and Credit Criteria
1.        The financial system in Malawi includes the Reserve Bank of
Malawi (RBM), two Commercial Banks - the National Bank of Malawi (NBI4) and
the Commercial Bank of Malawi (CBM), the Investment Development (INDEBANK),
the Industrial Development Fund (INDEFUND) which is a subsidiary of
INDEBANK, and the Small Enterprise Development Organization (SEDOM). GOM
has started the process of reforming and deeping the financial system with
the assistance of IDA. It is expected that the reforms would lead in the
long-term, to accessibility of credit to viable economic entities.
Meanwhile, enterprises in agriculture do not have limited access to credit.
The most significant supplier of finance for smallholder agriculture is the
Smallholder Agricultural Credit Administration (SACA).
Commercial Banks
2.        Both NBM and CBM were established some 18 years ago as joint
ventures between Malawian and foreign investors. NBM is currently owned by
Press Holdings (47.42), ADMARC (32.6Z) and Standard Chartered Bank Africa
(20Z). CBM is owned 40% by Press Holdings, and 30% each by the Government
of Malawi and the Malawi Development Corporation. NBM, the larger of the
two banks with nearly three times the financial resources and volume of
operations of CMB, has 14 branches and 63 agency located throughout the
country and about 1,200 employees. It is managed by Standard Chartered
Bank under service agreement. There are seven expatriates and sevel
Malawian experts working in the NBM's Agricultural Department. Despite
CMB's smaller operating base, it has a considerable geographic spread with
13 branches and oveer 80 agencies. The balance sheets of the both banks
are characterized by a high proportion of investment in GOM securities and
deposits with RBM. These two banks offer financing to agriculture,
industry, construction, transportation and trade. Most financing is for
short-term working capital to established customers, sound investment
proposals and collateral. Potential borrowers are usually required to
provide from 30 to 40% of the Project cost from their own resources. While
the conservative loan procedures have helped to restore the banks' loan
portfolio to good health, most Malawian entrepreneurs who are small scale
operators find it difficult to secure credit from these Commercial Banks.
Moreover, the administrative costs of the small loans required by the
typical Malawian enterprise make it highly unprofitable for the banks to
service many of them. Consequently, these two banks have not been of any
significant help in developing the fisheries sector.



- 52 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 4
INDEBANK
3.        INDEBANK established in 1972 as a private limited liability
company is owned 24.82 by DMARC, 8.6Z by IFC and 22.2Z each by Commonwealth
Development Corporation (CDC), the German Finance Company for Investments
in Developing Countries (DEG) and Netherlands Finance Company for
Developing Countries (FMO). It provides medium and long term loans and
makes equity investments, mainly in industrial and agricultural projects
sponsored by private or public investors. No loans have so far been given
to the fisheries sector although its portfolio includes loans for
agriculture (3.5Z) and agro-industry (39.2Z).
4.        INDEFUND set up in 1981, has a paid-up share capital of MK
1,670,000 of which 62? is subscribed by INDEBANK and the remaining 38? by
Netherlands Finance Company for Development Countries (FMO). Its loan
portfolio is funded mainly from foreign sources including KFW (MK 2.5
million), FMO (MK 3.2 million) and a pledge from USAID (MK 1.2 million).
Loans extended by INDEFUND ranges from MK 30,000 to MK 100,000.  INDEFUND
has a staff of 20 of whom 10 are professionals, though none with fisheries
experience. INDEFUND's credit operation in fisheries started in 1984, and
to date a total of 8 loans have been disbursed. Repayment of fisheries
loans is reported to be good.
5.        SEDOM was established as a trust under the Ministry of Trade,
Industry and Tourism in 1982, with the assistance of the European Economic
Community to assist small entrepreneurs with technical advisory services,
financial assistance and training. SEDOM's funds for on-lending as well as
a major part of its operational costs have in the past been provided as
grants from the Government, the European Development Fund (EEC) and the
Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KFW). In addition, SEDOM received a KFW
credit of ECU 1.8 million, carrying an interest rate of 0.75Z. SEDOM, with
its headquarters located in Blantyre and branches in Lilongwe and Mzuzu has
a staff of about 150. Until the establishment of SEDOM, there was vitually
no opportunity for credit to the artisanal fishermen. SEDOM has to date
provided nine loans to capture fisheries (average MK 3,000 per loan) and
over 60 loans to fish traders (average MK 2,500 per loan). As of March 31,
1980 the total number of loans approved including these fisheries loans
was 3,789, for a cumulative value of MK 17.0 million. Despite SEDOM's
impressive lending and initial loan recovery record, its performance shows
signs of portfolio deterioration. Loan repayments were in arrears on 1486
out of 2355 loans current as of March 31, 1990.
Smallholder Agricultural Credit Administration (SACA)
6.        There is no specialized agricultural credit institution in
Malawi. The country has, however, developed a very successful smallholder
agricultural credit system operated under the aeigis of the Ministry of
Agriculture. Following the launching of agricultural development projects
in the late 1960s and the subsequent adoption of the rural development
programs the National Rural Development program (NRDP) became the main
vehicle for providing institutional credit to the smallholder subsector.
Provision of credit was closely linked to agricultural extension. Donor-



- 53 -
ANNEX III
Page 3 of 4
financed project resources allocated to credit operations and designated
for specific RDP areas were channeled by MOF through MOA, and managed by
the Agricultural Development Divisions (ADD), which operate a decentralized
credit system. This financing is now handled by the Smallholder
Agricultural Credit Administration (SACA) which is also the major
implementing agency under the IDA/IFAD financed Smallholder Agricultural
Credit Project (Cr. 1851 MAI).
7.        SACA provides seasonal credit to farmers who have joined
together in farmer clubs in which they share a degree of responsibility for
each others loan repayment. Under this program officers from ADDs assess
credit demand among the farmer clubs in their area and convey this
information to SACA which in turn appropriates funds to the ADD credit
officers for their disposal. ADDs use the funds to finance the purchase of
seasonal inputs (principally fertilizer, pesticides and seeds). Farmers
receive these inputs and are given nine months to repay, generally through
deposits with the Post Office Savings Bank (POSB). SACA's operations have
proven to be very successful. The requirement for access to credit through
farmer clubs has, until recently, been 100 percent repayment of all members
outstanding loans. However, this requirement has recently been reduced to
80 percent of the amount due from individual groups.
Lending Criteria
8.        When appraising the suitability of a loan application for
financing under the Project, SACA would apply the following criteria:
a)   the loan would be for a purpose directly related to
the fisheries sector activities;
b)   the loan application and sub-project report would be
in such form and detail acceptable to SACA;
c)   the loan documentation would include certification
from FD that the activity to be financed would comply
with technical, environmental and legal standards
prescribed by FD, and include an undertaking from FD
that any changes in the situation on these aspects
during the tenancy of the loan would be communicated
to SACA;
d)   the sub-project implementation program would be in
such detail as to facilitate close monitoring by SACA
and FD;
e)   the procedure for procurement out of loan proceeds
would be acceptable to SACA;
f)   the borrower would provide satisfactory evidence of
technical and managerial capacity to implement the
sub-project and make it financially viable, with cash



- 54 -
ANNEX III
Page 4 of 4
flow projections to support the proposed loan
repayment plan;
g)   the borrower would produce acceptable evidence of the
source of capital required to supplement the loan
financing sought from SACA;
h)   the borrower would provide a collateral or guarantee
acceptable to SACA to secure the loan sought from
SACA;
i)   the borrowers would agree to provide accounting other
data periodically to enable SACA to monitor the
borrower's operations financed from the loan; and
J)   the first three sub-projects for each type of loans
from SACA would be submitted to IDA for review and
approval. IDA would review a selected number of other
projects on an ex-post basis.



- 55 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 3
HALAWI
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Monitorable Action Program for Pilot Women's Program
Introduction
Effective involvement of the women is considered a requisite
for the success of the pilot program for fish processing and marketing.
This action program represents the proposed measures to be taken to
pursue this goal during the Project period. It suggests specific
activities to be undertaken and assigns responsibilities to the agencies
involved in the Project implementation. An important objective of the
action program is to facilitate the continuous monitoring of the target
group (women) involvement in the Project and make required changes and
adjustments in the implementation strategy along the way.
ELEMENTS                              ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN
1.    Identification of Target Group
(a)   District Level           Within the first 6 months, a
complete list of the number of
target group in each of the three
pilot districts should be drawn up
by the DFO based on information
collected by the extension staff.
The list should comprise women fish
traders in the three districts.
(b)   Central Level            The district lists should be sent to
Headquarters through the regional
offices not later than 9 months from
Project start, and the information
made available to monitoring and
evaluation unit.
2.    Extension and Training
(a)   Training of Staff
Training of Trainers    One week workshop comprising 14
trainers. The workshop would cover
subject matter and methodology for
training the target group.
Orientation Workshop    One national workshop and one
workshop in each of three districts



- 56 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 3
for ADD, FD and SACA staff involved
in extension and credit delivery
should be organized by FD during the
first 9 months with the purpose of
defining extension and credit
strategies and assigning roles to
involved parties.
Follow-up Workshop       FD would be responsible for
organizing semi-annual follow-up
workshops at each of the three
district levels for extension and
credit staff of all involved
agencies with the purpose of
exchanging experiences and ideas on
the participation of the target
group.
Training Courses         FD and ADD would be jointly
responsible for organizing in-
service training for their own
staff. During the first 3 years,
all staff would attend courses in
extension methods, including methods
of reaching women through extension.
Selected staff would be trained in
review techniques in relation to
periodic field assessments. Courses
would be held at Mpwepwe Fisheries
Training Center. A program for the
planned training courses would have
to be prepared by FD and ADD
headquarters at least three months
before the commencement of such
training.
Training Material        A special package of training
material on the role of women in
fish processing and marketing should
be produced by FD within the first 9
months of the Project period,
including a manual on the
involvement of women and at least
one educational film dealing with
the role of women, highlighting
among other things the situation of
women in female-headed households.
(b)   Extension
Groups to be Covered    The extension staff should aim at
covering all women fish traders



- 57 -
ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 3
(actual and potential) in the three
pilot districts.
Training & Visit Heetings       The groups would be reached through
mobilization meetings, training and
supervision meetings in fish
processing and storage. As part of
the training one member of each
women's group involved in the
Project should be given special
training in fish processing and
storage. Besides training and
supervision, the extension staff
should also assist in educating
women's groups on how to obtain
fishing tools and equipment,
including assistance in applying for
funds from the Loan Fund.
Types of Training        The areas covered in the training
sessions with women's groups should
include fish processing and storage,
business skills, marketing, etc.
Besides training sessions held
during extension workers' visits,
semi-annual workshops should be held
on selected topics on fish
marketing, processing and stoerage.
3.    Loan Fund                       Information about the Loan Fund from
SACA should be given to the target
group by the extension staff. The
projected allocation of tools and
equipment to be procured from the
Loan Fund are specified in the
detailed cost tables (Working Paper
F).



- 58 -
ANNEX IV
Attachment
Page 1 of 2
MALAWI
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Pilot Proiect for Women in Fish Processing and Marketing
Monitorable Action Plan
Major Activities                            Responsibility
Staffinx
- Appointment of Coordinator at FD
Headquarters                                           CFO
- Recruitment of Women Fisheries Officers                CFO
Field Surveys
- Prepare TOR for baseline studies                       PC/LDA
- Carry out baseline studies to assess
situation, constraints, assistance needs              CONS/FD
- Prepare report and detailed action plan                CONS/FD
-Repeat for locations 2 and 3                           As Above
Other Studies
- Prepare TOR for socio economic study on
Role of Women in Fishing Communities                  CONS/FD
- Recruit consultants to carry out study                CFO/IDA
- Carry out study                                       CONS/FD
Training
- Prepare training program for
i)   Women Fisheries Officers                         TCP/PC
ii)  Extension Workers                                TCP/PC
iii) Women Participants                               TCP/PC
- Conduct Training
i)   Fisheries Officers                               TCP
ii)  Extension Workers                                TCP
iii) Participants                                     TCP
Business Planning & Credit
- Assist participants to prepare business plans         WFO/FEW
- Formation of women groups                             WFO/RM
- Liaison with lending agencies                         RM/WFOtSACA
- Process loan applications                             RM/SACA



- 59 -
ANNEX IV
Attachment
Page 2 of 2
Maior Activities                            Responsibility
Procurement
- Obtain cost estimates for
i)   Ice boxes                                        FD
ii)  Smoking kilns                                    FD
iii) Drying racks                                     FD
- Assist participants in
i)   Purchasing                                       PB/FD
ii)  Construction                                     PBIFD
iii) Payment                                          PB/SACA
Monitoring
- Make scheduled field visits                            RM/WFO/PC
- Prepare periodical reports                            RM/WFO/PC
Legend
CFO   -     Chief Fisheries Officer
CONS  -     Consultants
FD    -     Fisheries Department
FEW   -     Field Extension Workers
IDA   -     International Development Association
PB    -     Project Beneficiaries
PC    -     Project Coordinator
RM    -     Regional Manager
SACA  -     Financing Agency
TCP   -     Training Center Principal
WFO   -     Women Fisheries Officers



- 60 -
ANNEX - V
1 of 2
MALAWI
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule 1/
Quarter                         Quarterly                 Cumulative
Ending                          Disbursement              Disbursement
FY 1992 2/
September    30, 1991                 -                         _
December      31, 1991                0.1                       0.1
March         31, 1992                0.1                       0.1
June          30, 1992                0.1                       0.3
FY 1993
September    30, 1992                 0.3                       0.6
December      31, 1992                0.3                       0.9
March         31, 1993                0.2                       1.1
June          30, 1993                0.2                       1.3
FY 1994
September    30, 1993                 0.3                       1.6
December      31, 1993                0.3                       1.9
March         31, 1994                0.4                       2.3
June          30, 1994                0.4                       2.7
FY 1995
September    30, 1994                 0.4                       3.1
December      31, 1994                0.4                       3.5
March         31, 1995                0.4                       3.9
June          30, 1995                0.4                       4.3
FY 1996
September    30, 1995                 0.4                       4.7
December      31, 1995                0.3                       5.0
March         31, 1996                0.3                       5.3
June          30, 1996                0.3                       5.6
1/ Based on IDA Disbursement Profile Region-wide
2/ Fiscal Year runs from July 1 to June 30



- 61 -
ANNEX - V
2 of 2
FY 1997
September    30, 1996                 0.3                       5.9
December      31, 1996                0.4                       6.3
Marc'h        31, 1997                0.5                       6.8
June          30, 1997                0.5                       7.3
FY 1998
September    30, 1997                 0.4                       7.7
December      31, 1997                0.2                       7.9
March         31, 1998                0.2                       8.1
June          30, 1998                0.2                       8.3
FY 1999
September    30, 1998                 0.2                       8.5
December      31, 1998                0.1                       8.6
March         31, 1999                0.1                       8.7
June          30, 1999                0.1                       8.8



- 62 -
ANNEX VI
Table 1
MALAWI
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Boat Models: Key Financial Indicators
MODEL A: Replacement of 1 Dug-out Canoe with 1 Planked Canoe
(A Total of 100 Units to be Introduced
Without Proiect       With Proiect
I.   GROSS BENEFITS
Fishing Days                          145                  190
Daily Catch (kg)                       10                   15
(400 m gillnet at   (600 m gillnet
2.5 kg/100 m)        2.5 kgllOO m)
Total Production (kg)               1,450                2,850
Fish Price (Mk/kg)                   1.10                 1.10
Gross Value of Fish Production    1,595                  3,135
II. OPERATING COSTS (Mk/year)
a.   Replacement of Nets        400                   500
b.   Labor (paid in kind),
Owner, 1 Fisherman 1/      531                1,135
c.   Maintenance
- Boat                      25                   90
- Fishing Gear              80                  120
d.   License Fees at Mk 21100 m  2e                    12
1,038                1,767
III. INVESTMENT COSTS (Mk)
a.   1 Plank Canoe at Nk 1,250                     1,250
b.   Gillnets including ropes, floats,
weights, etc. at Mk 200/100 m x 6             1,200
Total Investment Costs                        2,450
1/ One third of the catch.



- 63 -
ANNEX VI
Table 2
MALAWI
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Boat Models: Key Financial Indicators
MODEL B: Replacement of 2 Dug-out Canoe with 2 Planked Canoe
(A Total of 50 Units (100 Canoes)
Chirimila Fishing to be Introduced)
Without Proiect       With Pro1ect
I.   GROSS BENEFITS
Fishing Days                          100                  130
DaiLly Catch (kg)                      77                   90
(15.4 kg/pull at    (18 kg/pull at
5 pulls/day)         5 pulls/day)
Total Production (kg)               7,700               11,700
Fish Price (1klkg)                   1.10                 1.10
Gross Value of Fish Production    8,470                 12,870
II. OPERATING COSTS (Mk/year)
a.   Replacement of Nets
40Z/year without Projectl,000                   875
35Z/year with project
b.   Labor (paid in kind, crew of
5 fishermen, 1 owner
50Z to oowner
50Z to crew              4,235                6,435
C.  Haintenance
- Boat                      50                  180
- Fishing Gear             110                  150
d.   Dye for Nets               100                   100
e.   License Fees                25                    25
TOTAL                               5,520                7,765
III. INVESTMENT COSTS (Mk)
a.   2 Plank CanoeSAt Mk 1,250 each                1,250
b.   1 Lamp per unit at Mk 600                        600
c    1 set of nt.s at MK 2,500                     2,500
Total Investment costs                        5  '30



- 64 -
ANNEX VI
Table 3
MALAWI
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Boat Models: Key Financial Indicators
MODEL C: New Plank Boat and Plank Canoe Units, Chirimila Fishing
(A Total of 50 Units to be Introduced
I.   GROSS BENEFITS:
a.   Fishing Dayslyear                                       250
b.   Fish Catch/day (kg)                                     175
(35 kg/pull at 5 pulls/day)
c.   Fish Production                                      43,750
d.   Fish Price                                            0.90
e.   Gross Value of Production                            39,375
II.  OPERATING COSTS (Mk/year)
a.   Replacement of nets: 35Z/year                           875
engine: 25Z/year                        1,250
b.   Materials
- Parafine (2001/year at Mk 1.1)                  220
- Glasses, mantles, etc.                          600
- Dye                                             100
c.   Fuel (51/day at Mk 2.21 x 250 days)                   5,500
d.   Maintenance
- Boats (10/year)                                460
- Fishing gear (101/year)                         300
- Engine (202/year)                             1,000
e.   Labor at Mk 7/day z S crew z 250 da y                 8,750
f.   License Fee                                              25
g.   Diff Oil                                                 20
TOTAL                                                19,100
III. INVESTMENT COSTS
a.   Plank Boat 6 m LOA                                    3,200
b.   Plank Canoe 3 m LOA                                     700
c.   Outboard Engine 8 hp                                  5,000
d.   Chirimila Net                                         2,500
e.   2 Lamps at Mk 600/unit                                1,200
Total Investment costs                              12,600



- 65 -
ANNEX VI
Table 4
MALAWI
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Boat Models: Key Financial Indicators
MODEL D: New Pair Trawl Unit
(A Total of 5 Units to be Introduced
I.   GROSS BENEFITS:
a.   Fishing Days                                           300
b.   Catch Rates (kg/day), 0.23t/hour,
(6 hours/day - 1.38/day                 1,380
c.   Annual Production (kg)                             414,000
d.   Production Value at Mk 0.90/kg                     372,600
II.  OPERATING COSTS (Mk/year)
a.   Replacement
- Nets (352/year)                               1,750
- Cod end at Mk 650 x 4/year                    2,600
- Engines (20Z/year)                           14,400
- Fish Boxes (502/year)                         1,000
b.   Maintenance
- Boat (102/year)                               2,800
- Fishing Gear (202/year)                       1,000
- Engines (10Z/year)                            7,200
c.   Materials                                            2,000
d.   Fuel (101/day at Mk 1.69/1 x300 days)               50,700
Oil (5Z of Fuel)                                2,535
e.   Labor 6 Crew at Mk 7.2/day                          12,960
f    Fees
- Registration                                    120
- License                                         701
TOTAL                                               99,766
III. INVESTMENT COSTS
a.   2 7.6 m Vessels at Mk 14,000 each                   28,000
b.   2 Engines 30 hp at Mk 36,000 each                   72,000
c.   1 Trawl Net                                          5,000
d.   100 fish boxes at Mk 20 each                         2,000
e.   2 Lamps at Mk 600/unit                               1,200
Total Investment Costs                             107,000



- 66 -
ANNEX VI
Table 5
MALAWI
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Boat Models: Key Financial Indicators
MODEL E: Replacement of Pair Trawl Unit
(A Total of 50 Units to be Introduced
Without Proiect       With Proiect
I.   GROSS BENEFITS
a.   Fishing Days                           150                   300
b.   Catch Rate (kg/day), 0.1St/hour
6 hours/day - 0.9t/day    900                   1,320
C.   Production                         135,000               414,000
d.   Production Value at Mk .9lkg    121,500                  372,600
2I.  OPERATING COSTS
a.   Replacements
- Nets                   1,144                  1,750
- Cod End                   650                 2,600
- Engines (202/year)        300                14,400
- Fish Boxes (501/year)   400                   1,000
b.   Maintenance
- Boats (102/year)          500                 2,800
- Fishing Gear (202/year) 500                   1,000
- Engines (102/year)        200                 7,200
C.   Materials                        500                  2,000
d.   Fuel
- Diesel                33,800                 50,700
- Oil                    1,690                  2,535
e.   Labor 6 Crew                   8,400                 12,960
f.   Fees
- Registration              120                   120
- License                   701                   701
TOTAL                         48,905                 99,766
III. INVESTMENT COSTS (Hk)
a.   2 7.6 m Vessels at Mk 14,000 each                    28,000
b.   2 Engines 30 hp at Mk 36,000 each                    72,000
c.   1 Trawl Net                                           5,000
d.   100 fish boxes at Mk 20 each                          2,000
Total Investment Costs                             107,000



- 67 -
ANNEX VI
Table 6
MALAWI
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Boat Models: Key Financial Indicators
MODEL E: Replacement of Pair Trawl Unit
(A Total of 50 Units to be Introduced
Without Proiect       With Proiect
I.   GROSS BENEFITS
a.   Production (tons)                    2,800                 4,340
b.   Fish Price (Mk/kg)                    1.54                  1.58
c.   Production Value (Mk)                4,312                 6,857
II. OPERATING COSTS
a.   Operating Expenses                   1,500                 1,950
b.   Administrative and
other Overheads                    930                1,300
TOTAL                          48,905               99,766
III. INVESTMENT COSTS
a.   Workshop Equipment                       15                 120
b.   Photocopier                              20                  -
c.   Fascimile                                10                  -
d.   Speedboat                                -                   67
e.   Fishboxes                                72                  -
f.   Nets and Ropes                           66                  90
g.   Multipurpose Trawler                     -                1,500
h.   Deepwater Jetty                          -                  250
i.   Insulated Trucks                       188                  400
J.   Computer                                 57                  -
k.   Wall-Fencing                            175                 800
1.   Refrigerator-Refurbishment              -                   600
m.   Ice Maker                                -                  500
n.   Consultation                            90                   -
Total Investment Costs           693                4,327



- 68 -
ANNEX VII
Table 1
Page 1 of 5
MALAWI
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Operational Model for Mpweywe Boatyard
Number of Boats to be Built. under the Proiect
I.    Under the Proiect                     Year 1  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4  Year S  TOTAL
A.   Mpwepwe Boatyard
i) Planked Canoes (Model A)         -        10       30       30      30      100
ii) Planked Canoes (Model B)          -       10       30       30      30      100
iii) Planked Canoes (Model C)         -         5       15       15       15     -50
SUB-TOTAL           -        25       75      75       75      250
iv) Pair Trawlers                     -        4        4        4        8      20
II.   Current Production Outside the Proiect
A. Mpwepve
i) Pair Trawlers                     -        2        2        2        -       6
TOTAL - Planked Canoes               -       2        75       75       75     250
- Pair Trawlers               -         6       6        6        8      26
TOTAL BOATS                       31       81       81      83      276



- 69 -
ANNEX VII
Table 1
Page 2 of 5
No. of vessels to be built at full development (Year 5)s
At Mwepwee   i)  Planked Canoes (big)           60
ii)  Planked Canoes (small)    15
iii)  Pair Trawlers                 8
I. BOAT CONSTRUCTION
Material requirement:
a)   Timber
i) Planked Canoes (big)
-   Timber: Cedar - m3 0.28/boat at Mk l,500/m3  -.Kk 420/boat x 60 - 25,200
Hardwood - m3 0.31/boat at MK 350/m3 - Mk 108/boat x 60 -  6,480
ii) Planked Canoes (small)
iii) Pair Trawlers
-   Timbers Cedar - m3 1.4/boat at Mk 1,500/m3  - Mk 2,100/boat x 8 . 16.800
Hardwood - m3 1.6/boat at Mk 35/0M3   M Mk 560/boat x 8   -  4,480
58,345
Plus 20S for repairs       11,669
TOTAL                      70,014
b)   Other Materials
i)  Planked Canoes (big)   at Mk 150/boat s 60  -                            9,000
ii)  Planked Canoes (small) at Mk 100/boat z 15  -                            1,500
iii)  Pair Trawlers            at Mk 2 930/boat x 8 -                         23,440
33,940
Miscellaneous 201                                                        6,788
Total Material                                                         40,728
110,742



- 70 -
ANNEX VII
Table 1
Page 3 of 5
II. OTHER COMNERCIAL OPERATIONS
i) Travlnets
For 21 units, replacing nets every 3 years and
the cod end every 3 montsh.
7 nets to be sold every year and
84 cod ends to be sold every year.
Purchasess  Nets 7 at Nk 500/each                            -               35,000
Cod ends 84 at Mk 650 each                     -                54,600
Sub-total purchases                        89,600
Saless      Nets 7 at.Mk 5,720 each                          *               40.040
Cod ends 84 at sk 650 each                     *                61,740
Sub-total sales                          101,780
Gross Margin                              12.180
ii) Chiramila Operations
For 50 sets every year:
Purchasess  50 sets at Mk 2,000/each                         -             100,000
Sales:       50 sets at Mk 2,220/each                        -             111,000
Gross Margin                              11,000
iii) Gill Nets
For 1,250 bundles every year
Purchasess  1,250 bundles at 1k 10/each                      -              50o000
Saleos       1,250 bundles at Mk 45/each                     .              56.250
Gross Margin                               6,250
iv) Sale of &zines
For 10 inboard engines (Diesel) for Pair Trawlers:
Purchases:  8 engines at Nk 24,000/each                      *             192,000
Sales:       8 engines at Mk 36.000/each                    -              288,000
Gross Margin                              96.000



- 71 -
ANNEX VII
Table 1
Page 4 of t
v)  Engine Spare Parts
Based on 152 of engine cost per year for a total of
45 engines:
Purchases:  45 at Mk 3,600 each                             -             162,000
Sales:       8 engines at Mk 36,000/each                    -             216,000
Gross Margin                              54.000
Total Gross Margin Comercial Operations                                168,430
III. PERSONNEL
Overhead:  I Manager        at Mk l0,OOO/year                              10,000
1 Accountants  at Mk  5,500/year                                5,500
3 Clerk/Typist at Mk  2,500/year                                5,000
2 Storeomn      at Mk  2,500/year                              -5,000
2 Drivers       at MW  3,000/year                               6,000
2 Watchmen      at Mk  2,000/year                               4,000
1 Boatyard Superintendents at Mk 5,500/year                     5,500
Production Staff:  3 Read Carpenters at Mk 2,160/year                       6,480
8 Carpenters       at Mk 1,920/year                    15,360
10 Assistant Carpenters at Mk 1.200/year                12,000
1 Machine Engineer      at Mk 4,000/year               4,000
3 Mechanics             at Mk 3,000/year               9,000
Consultation (TA)                                   60,000
Casual Labourers:  3 Laborers at MK 1,080/year                              3,240
TOTAL PERSONNEL                    151.080
IV. OPERATING COST VEHICLES
1 Saloon Car at Mk 15,000/year                        15,000
1 Truck      at Mk 27.000/year                        27,000
2 Pick-ups   at Mk 15,000 each                        30,000
TOTAL OPERATING COST VEHICLES                       72,000
VI. DEPRECIATION
Equipment                                                                 11,200
Vehicles                                                                  56,000
TOTAL DEPRECIATTON                       67,200



- 72 -
ANNEX VII
Table 1
Page 5 of 5
VII. INTEREST ON WORKING CAPITAL
Working capital requirement - Mk
based on the following assumptions:
a)  Timber                117,348 MkIyear
b)  Other Materials        75,168 Mk/year
c)  Trawlnets              90,020 Mk/year
d)  Engines               192,000 Mk/year
e)  Space Parts           162,000 Mk/year
TOTAL                 636,536 - 6 - 106,089 (requirement for 2 months)
Interest at 18I -      19,100 Mk/year



- 73 -
ANNEX VII
Table 2
MALAWI
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Mpwepwe Boatyard
Cash Flow at Full Development
I.   INFLOW
i)   Sales of Boats - Pair Trawlers 8 at Mk 20,000 each                         160,000
- Plank Boats  35 at Mk  3,200 each                       112,000
- Plank Canoes (big)   60 at Mk 900 each                   54,000
- Plank Canoes (small) 15 at Mk 600 each                    9,000
ii)   Repairs          - Trawler (34 at Mk 2,000 each)                            68,000
iii)   Commercial Activities  - Sales of Traw1nets                                101,780
- Sales of Chiramila nets                        11,e000
- Sales of Gillnets                               56,000
- Sales of Engines                               288,000
- Sales of Spare Parts                           216,000
TOTAL INFLOW                        1,176,030
II. OUTFLOW
i)  Timber                                                                  70,014
ii)  Other Materials                                                         40,728
iii)  Purchase of Travlnets                                                   89,600
iv)  Purchase of Chiramila nets                                             100,000
v)  Purchase of Gillnets                                                    50,000
vi)  Purchase of Engines                                                    192,000
vii)  Purchase of Spare Parts                                                162,000
viii)  Personnel                                                              151,080
ix)  Building Maintenance                                                    19,148
x)  Vehicles Operating Costs                                                72, 000
xi)  Interest on Working Capital                                             19,100
xii)  Depreciation                                                            67,200
xiii)  Other Operating Expenses                                                50,000
TOTAL OUTFLOW                       1,082,870
NET INFLOW                             93,160



FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT BANK
Incremetal Fish Production and Value in Economic Tarms
Economic Costs and Benefits
......Production (tons) .Economic .                         Value of Production (MkO 9).
Year 1    Year 2   Year a  Year 4 Year 6-29  Price    Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4  Year 6-20
Fish
(Mk/kg)
A. Artisanal and Smai-Coomrcial Flaheric
Model A                                        -           14      S6        99       145     1.19      -          16        62      108       160
Mod l 8                                        -           20      100       140      29U     1.19      -          22       119      164       220
Model C                                        -          219      S76    1,S31    2,1U6    9.99        -         197       788      378    1,969
Model D                                        -          396      792    1,168    2,070      0.96      -         386       769    1,141    1,967
Model E                                        -          216      622      763    1,396       90.96    -         297       601      762    1,339
Sub-Total A:                                   -          865    2,345    3,749    5,996                -         322    2,221    3,532    5,675
S. Commercial Fiaberies (MALDECO)
Model F                                        -        1,U47    1,256    1,549    1,540       98.9     -       1,906    1,206    1,478    1,478          4-
TOTAL (A + 8)                                     -         1912    3,691    6,299    7,536                        1,627    3,426    5,910    7,164
C. Estimated Fish Production Foregon              -          869      7 9    1,O6      1,496     9.96                336       672    1,968    1,344
TOTAL                                             -       2,262    4,o91    6,83       8,938               -       2,163    4,098    6,616    8,498
(D X
CD
1-



- 75 -
ANNEX VIII
Table 2
MALAWI
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
__________ _________________
WHOLE PROJECT
ECONOMIC  CO,1    ".ENEFITS
(IN THOUSAND MK)
1       2       3        4       5       6    7-20
INCREMENTAL BENEFITS
INCREMENITAL BENEFITS            -    2163    4098    6018    8498    8499    8498
INCREMENTAL NET BENEFITS         -    2163    4098    6018    8498    8498    8498
INCREMENTAL COSTS
IRT_CT10                               14         3      36       30       8       2
INCREMENTAL COSTS            13608   10934    6379    3096    3310    1879       279
INCREMENTAL COSTS            13608   10934    63719    3096    3310    1879    8479
INCREMENTAL NET BENEFITS
INCREMENTAL NET BENEEITS   -13608   -8771   -.2281  2922    5188    !619    8219
internal Rates ; FReturn :f Net St7sims
NTOT



- 76 -
ANNEX VIII
Table 3
MALAUI
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ARTISANAL AND SEMI-COMNERCIAL FISHERIES
ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
IN THOUSAND MK
1       2       3       4       5        6    7-20
iNC'EHENTAL BENEFITS
T                    S _                                82    21    33          55    55 
INCREMENTAL BENEFITS                            -     822    2221    3532    5675    5675    5675
TINCREMENTAL BENEFITS                           -     822    2221    3532    5675    S67S    567S
INCRENENTAL COSTS
APTISANAL AND SEMI-COMMERCIAL FISHERIES      6254    9734    5056    2673    2887    1456      225
__,___ ----- ----- ---- ----- ----- _________-____
ITNCFEMENTAL COSTS                           6254    9734    5056    2673    2897    1456      225
INCREMENTAL NET PENEFITS
21CREA:ENTAL NET BENEFITS                   -6254   -8912   -2836     859    2788    4219    5450
r-....*    ;, ,; 'c;  f :Iet Streams
_     __       _ _     _==       ==           ==       ===7   =_9     ==  



- 77 -
ANNEX VIII
Table 4
MALAWI
FISHERIES DEVELOPMIENT PROJECT
COMMfERCIAL FISHERIES
ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
(IN THOUSAND NK)
1       2        3        4    5-20
INCREMENTAL BENEFITS
INCREMENTAL BENEFITS               -      327    3426    3010    7154
INCREMENTAL BENEFITS               -     827    3426    3010    7154
INCREMENTAL COSTS
COMMERCIAL FISHERIES            5145    1036    1148    2748    2748
INCREMENTAL COSTS              5145    1036    1148    2748    2748
INCREMENTAL NET BENEFITS
INCREMENTAL NET BENEFITS    -5145    -209  ..a              6o2   4406
Thternal Rates ef Return of Net Streams
NTCT



- 78 -                                      ANNEX  IX
MALAWI
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJ
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDUL?
PROJECT YEARS                     1           2           3           4           5            a           7
INSTITUTION BUILDING
FD Restructuring
Staff Recruitmernt and
Redeployment
CONSTRUCTION OF FD's
Headquarters
Research Center
Training Center
Field Offices
Rehabilitation of Regional Offices &
Facilities
Construion of Staff Housing
PROCUREMENT:
Vehicles
Equipment
Fumiture
Research Vessel
TRAINING:
FD Staff
Project Beneficiaries
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE:
Financial & Mgt Adv.
Marine Engineer
Fisheries Biologist
Shipcaptain
PRODUCTION (INVESTMENT)
MALDECO - Commerciai Fisheise
Semi-Commercial Fisheries
Aritisinal Fisheries
Women in Processing and
Marketing (Annex)
INFRASTRUCTURE
Monkey Bay Jetty EIc
Nkata Bay Jetty Etc
Mpwew Boat Yard
Acem Roads
AQUACULTURE
Site Selcton
Project Propartion
Cons#jction
Program Implebmtatior



- 79 -
ANNEX X
Page 1 of3
MALAWI
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supervision Plan
1.          IDA's input for Project Supervision would include resources
necessary to monitor the components cofinanced by Nordic Development
Fund and the Icelandic International Development Agency i.e. Commercial
and Semi-Commercial Fisheries, and Technical Assistance and Training
Components related to Research and Resource Management aspects. Since
the supervision responsibilities for most of these cofinanced elements
would be entrusted to IDA, close liaison would have to be maintained
with these two agencies throughout the Project period.
2.          The staff resource requirements indicated in the attached
Table would be in addition to those needed for supervision tasks
routinely undertaken at the Bank by the Task Managers, Professional
Staff and Consultants i.e. review of annual work program, periodical
progress reports, procurements, Credit disbursements, research reports,
studies, financial statements, audit reports etc., and liaison with
cofinanciers, Government, and project agencies. These regular tasks are
expected to absorb about eight staff weeks during each of the first
three years of project implementation, six staff weeks each in year 4
and 5, and four staff weeks in each of the last two years.
3.          Government's Participation
i)    As Borrower, the Government would ensure the timely
submission to IDA (a) the Annual Project Work Programs,
periodical Progress Reports, Statements of Expenditures,
Financial Statements, Audit Reports, prepared in the
respective formats to be agreed during negotiations and in
the course of Project implementation; (b) copies of special
study reports and those prepared by the Technical Assistance
consultants on Research, Resource Conservation, etc.; and
(c) copies of correspondence with cofinanciers, impacting on
project implementation.
ii)   The Ministry of Forestry and Natural Resources (MFNR) would
be responsible for coordinating with other Government
Ministries, Departments, and financing agencies involved
arrangements for IDA supervision missions, securing
information, and documentation generally required by the
missions and for field visits and meetings.
iii)  MFNR would make special arrangements for and provide
counterpart staff during supervision missions and in
carrying out the mid-term review envisaged under the
Project.
iv)   MFNR would be responsible for preparing the Project
Completion Report, securing the respective contributions
from the various participating agencies.



MALAWI
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supervision Plan
Visits                                                                    Skill/Specialty                      Staff
Approximat  Timing             Activity                                            Requirod                    Weeks NHeded
May-June 1901           Project Start-up Mission                              Tosk Manager
Institutional Specialist              6.0
Nov./Dec. 1991          Review of FD Roorganix.tion,                          Task Manager
Technical Assistance                                 Engineering Specialist
Procurement Proceesing                               Fisheries Specialist                  9.0
Engineering DesIgon
Training Curriculsm
Aquaculture Site Selection
May/June 1992           Review - FY98 Work Program                            Task Manager
Construction of Access Roads                         Engineering Specialist
Procurement                                          Research A Extension
Research Program                                       Specialist
Boatyard Rehabilitation
Co m rcial and Semi-Co _ rcial                       Institutional Specialist             12.6
Feb./March 1993         Review-Progress on                                    Task Manager
Institution Building                                 Aquaculturist
Women's Pilot Project                                Marine Engineer
Artisenal Fishery Boat                               Womn Specialist
Replacmoent Progrm
Participate in Training Worikhops                                                         12.0
Nov./Doc. 1993          Review-Resource Management                            Task Manager
Research Program
Production Componont                                 Economist
Financial Management of all                          Roeosrch Extension
Participents                                         Speciallct
Women's Pilot Project                                                                     9g0
June 1994               Review-Annual Work Program                            Task Manager
Annual Progress Report                               Accounts Audit Credit                                              0
on all Projects                                      Specialist                                                       OQ
Compononts                                                                                 8.                              x
Nov./Doc. 1994          Mid-term Review                                       Taok Manager                                                       o
and Evaluation                                     Roesrch A Extension
Specialist
Environmentalist
Institutlo  Specialist              12.0



Institution Specialist              12.6
Vi it-                                                                   Skill/Specialty                   Stff
Approximate Timing             Activity                                            Roquired                 Weeks Needed
June 199t               Review Annual Work Program                           Took Manager
June 1996               Annual Progress Report                               Accounts, Audit, Crodit
June 1997                 on all 4 Proejct                                     Specialiut
Components                                                                                860 (each)
Nov. /Dec. 1996         Review Resource Managemnt                            Tosk Manager
Nov./Doc. 1996          Reserch Program
Nov ./Doc. 1997         Production Compennt                                  Economist
Financial Managemet                                 Research A Extension
of all Participante                                 Specialist
Women0s Pilot Project                                                                      9.0 (each)
June 1998               Arrangoment for Proparation                          Task Manager
Preperation of Project                            Economiot
Completion Report and
Evaluation                                                                               o.0
co
m r



MALAWI
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Fisheries Deoartment Organizational Structure
| CFO     l
Research                                             Policy, Planning, Monitoring, Evaluation
Training                                             Resource Management and Conservation
Boatyards                                            Linkages in Research/Extension/Training
Project Administration
Women's Program
SADCC + Joint Commissions
a                                             Accounts + Administration  a
RFO tN) |                                   |  F   C)                                     Regional Officer (S) |
|Karo-g   |                     Chlmba           Nkhota kota          L   Liuwu]|Ciabl                          Field Offices     l
|   sanje |       |Maeb |           |Nais        |||Mlmo
Ban u a             K|hL                 Mangochi]



IBRD 22693
D2         Tr Bar Es Saar                                                                                                  322
MALAWI
))  SiviVg07itfj-iX XFISHERIES
,is                                       K4hisenga                                           DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
'1 \     t 0 ZMAJOR FiSHING AREAS
C,,WoPI2, in2, 7 2 ,,,,, 7222,2,2,2,2,722200  t i                             0
222722222,1222222,2 b-nth            r              wM>n000|0j;; 002;0000Named  Major Fishing Areas
227572222022271..rI,72272.                                            ~~~~~~~~in red
.2.                                     In                                                    Principal Roads
. ,RN s..,rJ- Rivers
0     Towns
G      District Capitals
L       National Capital
Mzimba \1 / it00 04 4 00- -i ig } - Region Boundaries
International Boundaries            .
ZAM BIA                                      3.
A4t \ g  MaIJawi >,       KILOMETERS   0    20   40   60   E0   500
MILES 0        20       40       60
MOZAMBIQUE
T.t Lu.k                    j
0N220; Ch ToNaca                                                   Molanji     2N
E}   \    \  \   Sang.chc                1990
9sbaakaDiSTHERN
MOZAMBIQUE                                                        w-ionde hi
-J  yS nachinga  f    ~~c^jjya
go ba 
e           u        r       u                  no Tel  /         Iad                               irzlu
3                                                        \>kwas    6                 '          >            s  To Beira~~~~~~~~~~~~~~To7~II
|~~~~~TNAI ZABAc Si 0 j?                                                              >  
NAMIBIA     v          1    g      V  0:0    ~
October 1 990



