Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.:     21560
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ON AN IDA CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$8.80 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
FOR A FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT NO. 22250-MAI)
DECEMBER, 29, 2000
Rural Development Operations
Eastern & Southern Africa
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective October 2000)
Currency Unit = Malawi Kwacha (MWK)
At appraisal: US$1 = MWK2.8
At completion: US$1 = MWK55.0
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
July I -  June 30
ABBREVLATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BVC             Beach Village Committees
CP             FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme
DCA             Development Credit Agreement
ERR             Economic Rate of Return
FD              Fisheries Department
FDP            Fisheries Development Project
FDPD           Fisheries Development Project Document
FRR             Fishery Research Unit
FTC             Fisheries Training College
GEF             Global Environment Facility
GOM             Government of Malawi
ICEIDA          Icelandic International Development Agency
ICR             Implementation Completion Report
IDA             Malawi College of Fisheries
MOF             Ministry of Finance
MONREA          Ministry of Natural Resources and Environmental Affairs
MOWS            Ministry of Works and Supply
MRFC            Malawi Rural Finance Company
MTR             Mid-Term Review
NDF             Nordic Development Fund
PCC             Project Coordination Committee
SACA            Smallholder Agriculture Credit Administration
QAG             Quality Assurance Group
Vice President:  Callisto Madavo
Country Manager/Director:  Darius Mans
Sector Manager/Director:  Sushma Ganguly
Task Manager:  Satish Kumar



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit No. 2225-MAI)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                             I
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                            2
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry  4
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                     7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                      17
6. Sustainability                                                          18
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                           20
8. Lessons Learned                                                         23
9. Partner Comments                                                        25
10. Additional Information                                                  26
ANNEXES
Annex 1. Key Perforrnance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                   27
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                    31
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                    32
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                    33
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components    34
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                       35
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                   36
Annex 7a - ICR Mission Aide Memoire by FAO
Annex 7b - Background of Fisheries Sub-sector & Project Implementation
Experience
Annex 7c - Summary of the Evaluation of Components by NDF & ICEIDA
Annex 7d - Government Evaluation Report
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






1. Project Data
Name: FISHERIES DEVEVELOPMENT                      L/C/TF  IDA-22250
PROJECT                                   Number:
Country/Department: MALAWI                                     Region: Africa Regional
Office
Sector/subsector: AF - Fisheries & Aquaculture; VM -
Natural Resources Management
KEY DATES
Original        Revised/Actual
PCD:  08/16/89                 Effective:  09/04/91       09/04/91
Appraisal:  05/30/90                  MTR:  06/30/95           03/11/96
Approval:  04/02/91                 Closing:  06/30/99        06/30/2000
BorrowerlImiplementing Govemment of Malawi (GOM)/Ministrv of Natural Resources &
Agency: Environmental Affairs (MONREA): Fisheries Department (FD)
Other Partners:  Nordic Development Fund (NDF) & Icelandic Intemational
Development Agency (ICEIDA)
STAFF                  Current                 At Appraisal
Vice President:        Callisto Madavo         E. Jaycox
CountryManager:        Darius Mans             S. Denning
Sector Manager:        Sushma Ganguly          C. Helman
Team Leader at ICR:    Satish Kumar            Nwanze Okidegbe
WB ICR Team Leader:   Francisco Pichon
ICR Primary Author:    Pietros Kidane (Team
Leader-FAO/CP) and A.
Seymour (Consultant-
Fisheries Specialist)



2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely. UN=Unlikely,
HUN=Highly Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: U
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)    ICR
Ouality at Entry:                    U
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
Note 1: The rating for Outcome is based on the comparison between the final project outcome
and the original development objective of assisting GOM to realise the potential contribution of
the fisheries sub-sector to the national economy on a sustainable basis. As discussed in this ICR,
the expected support to the artisanal and semi-commercial fisheries (from which thie bulk of the
project production and development impact were to originate) was not provided by the proiect
following concems of over-fishing in Lake Malawi and capacity constraints within the Fisheries
Department (FD) which had been seriously underestimated at appraisal. Even though there is
agreement that not all the original objectives of the project could have been maintained after
restructuring, the total elimination of the production component (and with this also the objective
of contributing to the national economy in terms of improving nutrition levels, employment
generation and poverty reduction) was deeply resented by fishermen, especially by the semi-
commercial fishermen, whose expectations of the projected investments were never met. While
the borrower acknowledged its capacity limitations to implement some of the proposed
production activities, it believed tlhat, rather than its total exclusion, restricturing of the
production component through a more strategic capacity building programmne within the FD
would have enabled gradual implementation of at least some of the key production-oriented
investments. Since 1995 research had confirmed that the over-fishing noted in 1993 was localised
in extent, and that with adequate management of the distribution of fishing effort the original
production targets remained realistic and within the limits of sustainability. The overall
incremental annual production by the project of 7,500 tons was therefore never achieved, and is
really a missed opportunity by the country and unsatisfactory outcome of the project. Yet this
goal remains a valid and important national target to this date. Accordingly, the ICR rating of
Outcome reflects its assessment of the concerns and assumptions that led to the restructuring of
the project in 1993 and 1996, and the modification of the project objectives and components that
resulted from pro ject restructuring (see latest guidelines for preparing ICRs, Para 23).
Note 2: Overall, project's sustainability can be rated as unlikely principally because of the
removal of the essential parts of the production component as a result of project restrLcturing. If
the assessment of project's sustainability is limited to the implemented institution building and
research activities, sustainabilitv could be considered as likely. This is because most of the
development activities carried out by the project appear to attract the necessary resources for their
2



continuation. Within the production support component, MALDECO' s activities are certainly
sustainable as the company is in good financial standing. Its fishing and marketing activities will
be able to stand competition from other firms. The FD/MRFC credit groups should also be able to
continue on their own account. Neither of these activities are dependent on a great deal of back-
up support from FD. Some concerns on sustainability remains with regard to the provision of the
bulk of the FD's operational expenses which will have now to be covered by GOM. The level of
sustainability of project activities is thus related to the amount of funds that GOM will be able to
allocate to them. The Ministry of Finance (MOF) informed the ICR mission that it will increase
the FD recurrent budget to incorporate the project's operating costs, but was not able to provide
details on the level of increase.
Note 3: It is difficult to give one rating for a nine-year project, in which the first five years were
characterised by poor performance and the last three years by better perfonnance, albeit on a
restructured project with significantly narrower objectives. If one rating should be made,
however, the overall Bank and Borrower performance should be rated as less than satisfactory.
This should be considered a fair rating even when taking into account the fact that project
performance improved considerably following the 1996 restructuring and MTR, after it was
significantly down-scaled. In the assessment of the ICR team, one of the main problems with the
restructuring was IDA's decision to cancel the entire production component. instead of being
open to discuss with GOM its possible reformulation. IDA also failed to address the impacts of
the unprepared privatizations on fish production which could have been dealt with at the time of
restructuring. In addition, the DCA was never revised to reflect the trimmed down number of
components. On the other hand, the focus on strengthening the FD, which was largely
accomplished during the last three years of the project, is to the credit of the project restructuring
team.
3



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
As appraised, the project's main objective was to realize the potential contribution of
fisheries to the economy on a sustainable basis through: (a) increasing fish production to improve
nutrition; (b) generating additional off-farm employment to reduce poverty among the rural
population, particularly women; (c) conserving the natural resources base of Malawi's water
bodies and preventing environmental degradation through better management; and (d) improving
institutional capacity in the fisheries sub-sector by strengthening the plannling, implementation
and management capacity of the Fisheries Department (FD). While the objective of raising the
contribution to the economy from fisheries was valid and desirable, the way the project was
designed was complex in that it tended to cover too many activities that were beyond the limited
capability of the main implementing agency, i.e. the FD. The Appraisal Mission had defined the
FD as institutionally weak, yet it proposed numerous activities, some of a pilot nature (para. 3.3),
without contemplating any persuasive project support aimed at capacity building of the
Department. The project envisaged a technical assistance input only in financial management but
not in support of other areas essential to project implementation in wlich the FD lacked
experience. These included women's organisation, preparing and supervising major civil works
and arranging for lines of credit for fishermen and women. Project management provided for an
interagency Project Coordination Committee (PCC), but its role was expected to be of advisory
nature, with little authority on decision making. As the major implementing agency, the head of
FD was responsible for project implementation and was to be supported by two executives of FD,
although it was clear that none of the FD staff had the experience to plan and implement a large
project with many new activities and three donors (IDA, NDF and ICEIDA).
3.2 Revised Objective:
The project became effective in September 1991, when start-up actions included the
establishment of a Project Coordination Unit (PCU), the appointment of a Financial Controller,
who established project accounts and initiated a procurement programme, and the start of an
organisational review by the (then) Department of Personnel Management and Training (DPMT).
A project launch workshop was convened in November 1991, after which very little activity took
place for almost two years, mainly due to FD's management weakness and unicertainty on fish
resource availability. Working papers of the FAO/UNDP Chambo Fisheries Research Project
(FlI:DP/MLW/86/013) published in 1991-93 claimed that catch and effort data indicated severe
over-fishing in the demersal trawl fishery of the South East Arm of Lake Malawi, and suggested
that stocks had collapsed during the late 1980s. FD trawl surveys conducted under the Demersal
Fisheries Reassessment Project (1989-93) also noted a decline in demersal stocks, although
geographically unrelated to the distribution of the fishery. Subsequent studies also suggested that
the Chambo project researchers had misinterpreted catch and effort data from fishing boats which
were barely serviceable and confined to a very small area, while the FD survey had recorded a
natural fluctuation in stock abundance which had more than recovered by 1993. Still, this
apparent crisis in the trawl stocks led to a restructuring of the original project in August 1993.
Basically, the restructuring responded to three areas of concem: (a) fears of over-fishing; (b) lack
of FD capacity in both resource management planning and law enforcement: and (c) lack of
progress in a complex project which appeared overloaded with pilot activities in addition to
mainstream tasks. The restructuring proposed to shift project objectives away from production
and towards improved resource management. Immediate objectives were:
4



(a)  to improve the institutional and management capacity of the FD for policy formulation,
planning (including donor coordination), research, extension, monitoring and regulation; and
(b)  to improve the enabling environment for private-sector enterprise in fishing; fish
processing, distribution and marketing; boat building and the supply of gear and services
Thie 1993 restructuring was accepted by the FD and the Ministry of Natural
Resources (M`NR) but was never formalised by an amendment to the Development Credit
Agreement (DCA), most likely because it was assumed that the restmicturing did not bring in new
goals but rather shed some of the production-related objectives. In practice, however, the
restructuring served to guide the project for the next three years. Specifically, the principal
modifications proposed were the deletion of the aquaculture and beach access roads sub-
components, on the grounds that the FD had already reached task saturation and that these items
were the most expendable in terms of expected benefits. A modification to the production
component was also proposed, removing a proposed expansion of the pair trawl fleet but
retaining the planned replacement of existing vessels as well as investments in the artisanal and
commercial sub-sectors. Boatyard privatisation was to be given heightened priority, and in the
institution building component additional emphasis was to be placed on the development of
management systems, extension services and law enforcement.
A mid-term review (MTR) of the project was carried out belatedly in March 1996. It
concluded that the project's perfornance was generally unsatisfactory, although the components
supported by NDF and ICEIDA were implemented in a fairly effectively and timely manner. Poor
performance in the IDA components was explained as the result of weaknesses in the central
fisheries administration, including poor organisational structure, inappropriate staffing and lack of
resources, compounded by extreme centralisation of financial control at FD Headquarters which
hindered timely access to operational resources by field stations. The MTR mission insisted that
the project should not continue unless important changes were made to improve its perfomiance,
and recommended that IDA should not process withdrawal applications pending adjustments to
some budget categories and completion of the following corrective actions by FD:
(i)   Preparation of a national policy statement for fisheries, and the review and approval of a
resource management plan by the MFNR.
(ii)  Intemal organisation review of the FD to focus on essential research, extension,
enforcement and training activities.
(iii)  Preparation of a fisheries development project document.
(iv)  Preparation of a new management and financial system.
(v)  Preparation of an annual work programme approved by the Director of Fisheries.
The above actions were to form the basis for project submission to IDA for the
resumption of processing withdrawal applications. A moratorium of 60 days was suggested as
adequate for the FD to complete the actions.
Following the MTR, FD prepared a Fisheries Development Project Document
(FDPD) within 60 days, detailing the completion of actions in compliance with the requirements
of the MTR mission. The FDPD, which became the basis for project restnmcturing in 1996,
essentially confirmed the overall project goals and immediate objectives proposed in the 1993
restructuring, but the DCA was never revised to reflect the restructured project. These project
objectives were designed to improve the FD's institutional capacity to enable it to more
effectively implement its institutional functions and activities which included facilitation of the
development of the private sector. While the focus of the original project objective was on
increased production, employment and poverty reduction, together with improved institutional
5



capacity of the fisheries sub-sector, the revised objective de-emphasised fish production and
emphasised fish resource management. Therefore, the credit programme, rural access roads and
the aquaculture initiatives were dropped. The goal of the restructured projectwas to ensure that
Malawi's fish resources were managed in a manner which maximises food production and
employment within the confines of resource sustainability.
3.3 Original Components:
The original project's components comprised: (i) institutional building aimed at
strengthening the FD to enable it to concentrate on regulatory functions, staff training in policy
promotion, extension, monitoring and evaluation and enforcement of fishery laws; (ii)
strengthening FD's research capacity in fish stock assessment, environmental conservation and
management programmes, and in the development of fish fanning models to integrate
aquaculture into farming systems; (iii) rehabilitation and development of existing capture
fisheries by supporting artisanal fishermen, semi-commercial and commercial fishiing activities,
and establishing a pilot programme to increase the involvement of women in fish processing and
marketing; and (iv) rehabilitation of infrastructure consisting of upgrading and building access
roads, jetties for fish landing, and other shore-based facilities. Although the component mix was
appropriate in relation to the set objectives, these were too demanding for FD as it lacked the
necessary experience and know-how in handling other non-fisheries matters such as credit (para.
3.1).
3.4 Revised Components:
As indicated in Section 3.2, after the March 1996 MTR and the restructuring agreed
during the September 1996 Supervision Mission, all the components related to production were
excluded. Thus, the main components remained to be: (i) institutional strengtlhening of the FD;
(ii) improving fisheries research; and (iii) improving regulatory enforcement and participatory
extension. Although the DCA was never amended to reflect these changes, it should be noted that
the project that was finally implemented following the 1993 and 1996 restructuring was
significantly different from what had been appraised, particularly in relation to the production
support activities, which were largely excluded, except for the support to commercial fisheries,
through MALDECO. Although there was a sense at the time that tlhe Bank was over-reacting to
the issue of overfishing, the FD recognized that the weak capacity of the Department at project
restructuring would have made implementation of the original production component an
insurmountable challenge. Nevertheless, the FD believed that reformulation of the component,
rather than its total cancellation, should have been a more appropriate response to allow the
restructured project to address capacity limitations within the FD to implement at least some of
the key production investments while helping establish more clarity regarding the status of fish
resources in Lake Malawi. Perhaps fearing the prospect of having the whole project closed in
1996, however, GOM agreed with this context despite its reservations about the elimination of all
production-oriented investments.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
No performance rating was made by the Quality Assurance Group (QAG). Although
the original project objectives that aimed at increasing fish production, poverty alleviation,
' The project objectives are as explained in the Fisheries Development Project Document. 1996-1999,
prepared by FD, and were the basis for the restructuring of the project. Tl ere are some nmodified versions of
these objectives in some of the IDA supervision reports, but they have no substantive difference.
6



resource conservation and improving institutional capacity of the fisheries sub-sector were valid,
the project was too complex for a weak department to execute. Flaws in project design at
appraisal can in part explain the difficulties encountered by the project. Firstly, even though
acknowledging the weak institutional capacity of the FD, a complex project was proposed,
including areas in which the Department had little experience, such as major infrastructure
construction programmes, including access roads, credit and a women's programme. Secondly,
project appraisal failed to finalise the tendering arrangements for the civil works contracts, which
were cause for long delays, and equally neglected designing a suitable system for the utilisation
of the credit line and detailing the requirements for project monitoring, evaluation and reporting.
Thirdly, the appraisal document failed to specify performance indicators and project targets,
leaving the task of performance monitoring unnecessarily vague and subjective. Finally, the
requirement that GOM divest itself of some commercial undertakings that were servicing the
fishing community, without ensuring the continued provision of such services to the sub-sector by
the private sector, has proven to be a serious misjudgement. Because of all these shortcomings,
the ICR mission's assessment of quality at entry is unsatisfactory.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcomelachievemnent ofobjective:
The project objective was modified due to inadequate project design and
implementation difficulties, but not due to unforeseeable extemal factors. Hence, project outcome
and achievement of objectives should be compared to those established at project appraisal. In
this context, the project outcome and achievement is rated as unsatisfactory, since the main
development objective, realising the economic potential of the fisheries sector, was not achieved.
Its performance was affected by the over cautious approach adopted to fisheries production,
following indicative reports in 1992 about over-fishing in Lake Malawi, and underestimated
capacity constraints within the FD, which made the original project objectives impossible to
achieve. As indicated earlier, the essential parts of the fish production componenit were dropped
from the project, and with this also the objective of contributing to the national economy in terms
of improving nutrition levels, employment generation and poverty alleviation. However, these
goals remain important national targets to aim at even now, and are consistent with the current
Bank's assistance strategy for the next phase of the program in Lake Malawi. The rating of
project outcome and achievement of objectives would have been highly unsatisfactory had the
restructuring of the project not led to enhancement of the capacity of FD in planning and
implementing development programmes and improving the management of the fish resources in
cooperation with the local communities.
4.2 Outputs by components:
a) Institution building. The institution building component was designed to address perceived
weaknesses in the FD's capacity to fulfil its legal obligations to the fishery sub-sector by
eliminating all commercial functions in order to allow the FD to focus more on management and
regulatory functions, supporting institutional and human resource development, including reform
of FD structure in order to clarify roles and simplify the line of command, the creation of
additional senior posts, and training, at all levels; and providing infrastructure and equipment,
including the construction or rehabilitation of offices, research and training facilities and staff
housing, and the acquisition of vehicles, motorcycles, boats and ancillarv equipment. The outputs
from this component are discussed below:
At project appraisal the FD was engaged in commercial activities of two kinds:
commercial fishing, and the provision of services to the fishing industry, including boatbuilding,
7



the production and sale of ice, and marketing of fishing gear, motor spare parts, and fuel. With
the exception of boatbuilding at Mpwepwe, the FD was required by the DCA to relinquish all
commercial activities according to an agreed timetable extending to March 31, 1992. The
objectives of this divestiture were twofold: to enable the FD to concentrate its limited resources
on fisheries extension, management and research; and to open the field of service provision to
private sector entry. The divestiture programme was followed in a timely maniner, and by 1993 all
commercial activities, with the exception of Mpwepwe Boatyard, had ceased. Unfortunately the
privatization of these vital services and activities did not guarantee the continued supplv of
services to the fishing communities. One boatyard and an ice plant were dismantled. The second
boatyard was eventually sold in 1998 after a prolonged period of very low activitv, and has since
failed to regain momentum because of the new management's lack of financial resources. There
is no other functioning boatyard in Malawi, neither has there been a commercial service agent for
the engines of the semi-commercial pair trawl fleet since the FD discontinued this function at an
early stage in project implementation. The supply of fishing gear also remains problematic in
those areas remote from the Blantyre Netting Company Ltd. (BNC) in southem Malawi, and in
the Northern Region the main source of nets and twines is alleged to be illegal imports from
Tanzania.
The project has resolved FD's constraints in shortage of office space, staff housing
and other facilities through the contraction of civil works. The Fisheries Training Centre--
renamed the Malawi College of Fisheries (MCF)--and the Fisheries Research Unit (FRU) were
expanded and renovated and a new FD headquarters established next to MONREA. Fisheries
offices in the districts have been provided with new office space., housing facilities and vehicles,
including motorcycles for the extension staff and boats for enforcement staff A total of 41
vehicles, 57 motorcycles and 25 boats of different types and sizes were supplied to FD under the
project. The provision of all these facilities is expected to improve the operational efficiency of
the restructured department. The restructuring of FD under the project also included delegation
of authority to the regional and district offices, including the transfer of financial management
directly to four field cost centres from FD. The district focus adopted by the FD, together with
improved mobility and training, should make the activities of the field staff more efficient.
Extension services to fishermen and enforcement of fishery regulations were also stepped Up.
The extension staff intensified their meetings and dialogue with fishing communities and induced
them to establish Beach Village Committees (BVCs) in order to participaie in the sustainable
management of the fish resources. The enforcement officers also started to work closely with
BVCs, the by-laws of which are upheld and supported by the district staff. Participation of local
communities in fish resource management has been boosted by the promulgation. in 1997, of a
new Fisheries Conservation and Management Act, in the finalisation of which the project was
instrumental. This Act has given the local communities the necessary legal backing in
undertaking the management of fishery resources through their own organisations. such as BVCs.
A total of 267 BVCs have been formed under the project, but only 34 have been given the
training required to make them effective (see discussion of the findings from Beneficiary Impact
Assessment Study in Annexes 8 and 9). The GTZ financed National Aquatic Resources
Management Programme and its predecessor, the Malawi-German Fisheries and Aquaculture
Development Project, provided the leading impetus for BVC formation in the Mangochi, Zomba,
and, to a lesser extent, Salima and Nkhotakota Districts, with logistic and institutional support
from the FDP.
In addition, the project has strengthened the FD in its capacity to carry out policy
analysis and development of extension services and resource management through research. To
this end, considerable input has been made by the project in training the professional anid senior
staff of the FD. So far the project has provided 19 staff with degree and diploma course training,
anid a considerable number were given short-term training on various topics. Different types of
8



technical level training were also provided to the extension staff, mainly at the MCF which was
substantially strengthened under the project in terms of construction of classrooms, dormitories,
offices and other facilities and the provision of vehicles and equipment. The college's curricula
have been revised to suit the current and future needs of the fisheries sector, and its teaching staff
upgraded through training. At project completion, the college hlas emerged as a modern
institution capable of responding to the demand for training by fishermen and staff. The facilities
provided appear to exceed the national capacity requirement, but FD explains that the MCF will
also service other SADC countries.
Overall, the performance under the institution-building component was considered
satisfactory, but only marginally so, given the significant delay in the implementation of civil
works programme which resulted in serious cost overruns. Progress in the civil works programme
was extremely delayed, with no activity on the ground during the project's first five years. There
were several reasons for this. At appraisal no agreement was made with the Ministry of Works
and Supplies (MOWAS) either to implement the programme or to confer this responsibility upon
another suitable agent. Neither were construction specifications or tendering procedures agreed
with MOWAS. All of these activities were left to the FD, which had no competence in this field.
The amount of work involved in acquiring land, seeking designs and supervising the tendering
process was prodigious, and successful implementation required coordinated and timely actions
on the part of several players. MOWAS and IDA failed to agree, for a period approaching two
years, on a format for civil works bidding documentation, which should have been settled at
appraisal. In addition, the GOM decided to alter the location and design of the FD Headquarters,
greatly expanding the project, rendering the completed design redundant and delaying
mobilisation by three years. Finally, unreliable contractors occasioned several delays, in some
instances necessitating a repeat tendering process for completion of the work which resulted in
two project extensions. The impact of these changes and delays on the project budget was also
extreme. A programme budgeted at US$ 2.41 million finally costed US$ 7.59 million.
b) Research. This component was the one that progressed with minimal difficulties. Under the
project, the Fishery Research Unit (FRU) was strengthened through the provision of a research
vessel, improving its base of operation by repairing jetties and offices, establishing new staff
houses and provision of staff training and equipment. Starting from 1993, the Unit has been
actively involved in research, particularly in the controversial area of stock assessment, the
outputs of which have important implications for management and future development of the fish
resource base. Since then, thirteen surveys have been conducted by FRU, anld some of these have
been decisive in indicating the availability of a large quantity of unexploited demersal fish
capable of sustaining an annual harvest of about 33,000 tons. Information on the location of these
stocks has been published by FRU. Through the collection and analysis of catch and effort data,
FRU provided in 1999 a comprehensive set of statistics on fish stocks in Malawi waters. Most of
the studies carried out by FRU have been used for developing fishery resource management in the
country and are key inputs in the planning of the Lake Malawi Environmental Management
Project. In addition, a research fund has been established under the project which is expected to
continue after completion. ICEIDA, which provided the bulk of the support to research, was so
committed to the project that it spent double the originally allocated funds to fisheries research.
The research component has performed highly satisfactorily.
c) Production component. The initial production component comprised six themes, with
considerable inter-dependency between some of them. They were: support to the artisanal, semi-
commercial and commercial fisheries; pilot scale aquaculture development; a women's
programme with focus on fish processing and trading; and a credit sub-component. As elaborated
earlier in the document, due to underestimated capacity constraints within the FD and following
speculative reports by a FAO Chambo Project in 1992 that indicated a problem of over-fishing in
9



Lake Malawi, most of the production component was suspended in 1993, as a precautionary
measure, until further studies were carried out by FD. Yet, since 1995 research had confirmed
that the over-fishing noted in 1993 was localised in extent, and that with adequate management of
the distribution of fishing effort the original production targets remained realistic and within the
limits of sustainability. At appraisal, the project was expected to support artisainal fishermen,
semi-commercial and commercial fisheries by enabling them to replace and buy new boats, as
well as fishing gear and other facilities so that they could produce an incremental fish output of
about 7,500 tons per year at full development. However, with the exception of the commercial
fishery, which was expected to account for about 20% of total output, the project dropped the
bulk of the production component in 1996. Most of the funds were then used in the civil works
part of the institutional strengthening component. The overall incremental annual production by
the project of 7,500 tons was therefore never achieved, and is really a missed opportunity by the
country and unsatisfactory performance of the project.
Both a description of each individual production sub-component and ani explanation
of why they failed to be implemented are presented below (additional background is provided in
Annex 7b):
Expansion of the Artisanal Fishery into Offshore Waters: The rationale for support
to the artisanal fishery was that the inshore waters were already fully or over-exploited, and that
helping fishermen to exchange dugout canoes for planked boats would redistribute effort over a
wider range of resources. Although it was known that offshore resources were available they had
not been quantified at the time of project appraisal, and the scale of this eniterprise was therefore
restricted to 50 additional units and 150 replacement units. The planned support to the artisanal
fisheries was not altered in the August 1993 restructuring, since the view was taken that any
transfer of effort further offshore would serve the interests of resource conservation. The vehicle
of support was to be a line of credit (discussed below), and the source of boats and motors was to
be the privatised Mpwepwe and Salima boatyards. For the reasons that are discussed in this
document, neither the line of credit nor the boatyards functioned in the intended manner during
the life of the project. The artisanal production sub-component was therefore never implemenited.
Fleet Renewal in the ("semi-commercial') Pair Trawl Fishery: At appraisal, 15
pair units were licensed, but only 10 were operational. The vessels were old, in a poor state of
repair, and annual landings were substantially below the assessed sustainable production targets.
Therefore, FDP was designed to finance the construction of eight new pair units. Contrary to
current belief, it was never the intention of the project to provide a credit facility for the purchase
of these vessels, as many of the existing fishing companies were sufficiently creditworthy to
obtain commercial loans. An important part of the plan for this fleet was to ensure that effort was
suitably distributed in accordance with the known disposition of demersal fish stocks, a
management measure that had not been enforced for some years.
The development of the pair trawl fleet did not go according to plan. During the early
years of the project, this was due mainly to uncertainty on the status of the trawl fishery.
Although by mid-1995, FRU conclusively indicated the availability of under-utilised demersal
trawl stocks, the project did not reinstate the previously planned support to the pair trawlers. It
should be recalled that support to the trawlers was synonymous with support to the Mpwepwe
Boatyard--another of the project's sub-components that was, for no clear reason, stalled.
Throughout the project life the boatyard was able to build only a very small number of new
vessels, and no power units or engine spare parts were supplied after the original Treasury Fund
stock was expended in the early 1990s. Import support via NDF was available for the supplv of
engines, spare parts, trawl nets and ice plants, but the FD made no use of this facility. The semi-
commercial fishery has now virtually collapsed, with only 4 units operating at minimum capacity.
10



The net loss of annual production, subtracting the 1996 catch (1,130 tonnes) from the mean catch
over 1986-91. (3,130 tonnes), is 2,000 tonnes (1996 is the most recent year for which an estimate
is available).
Reinvestment in MALDECO Fisheries Ltd: MALDECO was founded as a private
company in the 1950s to catch high value fish by means of trawling and ring netting. It was
nationalised after Independence, but although it continued to perform well in public ownership,
its profits were diverted to subsidise less viable enterprises, and necessary reinvestment in capital
equipment was discontinued. In 1989 the company was sold to its present owner, the Press
Corporation, now a public company listed on the Malawi Stock Exchange. At project appraisal
MALDECO was in visible decline. Refrigeration, freezing, cold storage and ice-making
machinery bought 30 years earlier had exceeded its useful life, and the condition of vessels anid
vehicles was equally poor. By the time of project start-up MALDECO was no longer profitable.
Under the project, NDF funds were reserved to provide import support to MALDECO,
administered as a local-currency loan by the Reserve Bank of Malawi on behalf of the MOF. This
would provide for the supply of a new 17 m multi-purpose fishing vessel as well as a range of
ancillary equipment. In order to prevent an excessive build-up of fishing capacity in southern
Lake Malawi (given the projected support to the pair trawlers) MALDECO was required to
remove from service two small stem trawlers after commissioning the new vessel: this was done
in 1995-96.
The supply of equipment proceeded fairly closely to plan, and between 1993 and 1997
the project provided the fishing vessel Kandwindwi, cold rooms, a blast freezer, a holding freezer,
an ice plant, a delivery truck, two fork-lift trucks. a new operational base at Chipoka (including
cold storage and a wholesale/retail shop) and an usipa fishing rig. The Kandwindwi exploits deep-
water demersal trawl stocks in the southern part of Lake Malawi and to a limited extent in the
Central Region. In pursuing this fishery MALDECO is making direct use of research conducted
under the ICEIDA supported FDP research component. Kandwindwi entered service in 1994, but
after a successful start was damaged by fire in 1996. The period 1997-99 saw continuous service,
with annual production averaging 1,110 tonnes (see Table 4 in Annex 7b). In addition, each of the
experimental usipa rigs, one of which was provided by the FDP, took on average 10
tonnes/annum during the period 1995-99. The two vessels that were replaced according to the
FDP prescription caught an average of about 200 tonnes/ annuLm during their final four years of
service. The net increase in annual production attributable to the project is therefore around 900
tonnes.
The company's financial performance improved markedly during the life of the project
(see Figure 4 and Table 4 in Annex 7b). The gross margin on fishing operations rose from a low
of about US$390,000 in 1994 to an annual average of about US$1 million in 1997-99. In 1995,
pre-tax profit emerged into positive figures for the first time since the late 1980s, at around
US$310,000, and has since grown slowly to slightly over US$400,000 in 1999. Recently,
sustained growth in the face of a short-term decline in fishing margins indicates improved
efficiency and expanded retailing operations. The contribution to profitability made by the
refrigeration equipment is included in the cost of sales and is therefore not separable from the
fishing operation.
Credit: At project appraisal it was acknowledged that small-scale fishermen and
those engaged in ancillary trades were effectively locked out of the formnal financial system
because of their inability to provide loan collateral and because of the perception of fisheries as a
high risk sector. Accordingly, a line of credit was to be provided through a pilot project for
implementation by the GOM's Smallholder Agricultural Credit Administration (SACA). on
commercial terms and conditions. Loan applications to SACA would require certification from
II



FD that the planned activity complied with appropriate technical, environmental and legal
standards. SACA was to lend to artisanal fishermen, for boats, engines and fishing gear, and to
women fish processors and traders. The project budget included US$662, 100 for investment in
the artisanal fishery and US$200,000 for the women's programme. While credit terms and
conditions were outlined clearly in the SAR, the practical mechanisms for setting up and
nianaging the credit component were again left to the FD, without guidance or technical
assistance.
By August 1993 SACA had prepared an action plan to implement the credit scheme,
and was awaiting approval of the MFNR to proceed. The IDA restnicturing mission of 1993
proposed to expand its scope to include small-scale boatbuilders, since the critical shortage of
fishing craft exacerbated by the closure of Salima boatyard was becoming increasingly apparent.
However at this time Malawi was undergoing a profound political change--the advent of multi-
party democracy. Democracy brought with it some unforeseen effects, one of which was
widespread political interference in the seasonal agricultural lending programme in 1993,
resulting in loan default on such a scale that it bankrupted SACA. By 1994 SACA had been
succeeded by a quasi-commercial venture--the Malawi Rural Finance Company (MRFC)--
initiated under the World Bank and IFAD supported Rural Financial Services Project.
The breakdown in credit discipline made for a difficult start for MRFC, and despite
approaches by FD. fisheries loans were not accorded high priority. It was only wlhen the WB task
management of both the FDP and MRFC fell to the same individual in 1996 that productive
discussions on the credit component were resumed. An important policy change made then was
the deletion of the line of credit but retention of the credit theme through MRFC, although it was
clear that this company would not extend medium- to long-tern credit to fishennen.
The credit programme started at the operational level in 1997 on the direct initiative
of MRFC. Fisheries staff received training in the modalities of MRFC business lending, and were
themselves involved in the establishment of credit groups (women's, men's and mixed), in
training each group over a 10-week period, and in supporting those groups which had passed
MRFC's screening process and had actually been provided with loans. By April 2000, 259 groups
had been formed and almost half of these had received loans (See Table 5 in Annex 7b). Groups
ranged in size from 10 to 25 members, and it is estimated that close to 4,000 people were
members of fisheries credit groups. Loans averaged about MK5,000 (say US$ 100) and were
given for a maximum period of one year, but usually repaid within a few months. Most of the
borrowers were women and they used the credit to trade consumer goods, with little of this being
for fish trade. The objective of this micro-credit was, therefore, completely different from the
original aim of the project of promoting investment in the developlment of capture fisheries, fish
processing and marketing.
During the latter part of the project interest rates increased substantially. The base
rate rose from 23% in the final quarter of 1997 to 43% in the same period in 1998, and 48% in
2000. MRFC's current business lending rate is 49%. This may be acceptable in rapid-turnover,
high-margin enterprises, and it is not surprising that trade in various commodities (crops, clothes,
sugar, salt, fish, oil) dominates the business activities of the fisheries credit groups. Short-term
loans at high interest rates are not suitable for financing capital items such as fishing craft or
engines, and no loans for boats or boatbuilding have been granted or are anticipated. Useful as it
is, the MRFC programme should not, therefore, be considered as a replacement to the original
FDP credit sub-component, which was to support fishery production and processing.
The Women 's Programme: The women's programme was conceived as a pilot
activity to be carried out in three districts in support of women's role in fish processing,
12



distribution and marketing. It was to incorporate training, in fish processing and business
management, and credit, for working capital and the acquisition of necessary equipment. The
success of the pilot programme was dependent on the operation of the credit programme, which
for reasons elaborated above was both delayed and downsized, and on the supply of ice, whiclh
had more or less been removed by the project. TA was to be provided in the form of a baseline
socio-economic study, and female officers were to be recruited and trained to manage the
programme.
During 1992-93 many women's groups were established by fisheries extension agents
in anticipation of a substantial credit programme--even in districts outside the three proposed for
pilot operations. In 1993 a Senior Women's Programme Officer (SWPO) was appointed to FD
Headquarters, and in 1994 three WPOs were recruited and posted in the field. The planned
baseline survey and action plan were both successfully completed during 1994. The needs of
women in the lakeshore communities were found not to match the project's initial emphasis on
fish processing, and were more broadly spread over a range of small business activities.
Implementation of the action plan was seriously impaired by the continued delay in the
availability of credit, and by March 1996 only 23 of the original women's groups remained. The
restructuring of the FDP in 1996 removed both the credit and the women's programme, and three
of the original four female officers left the FD in subsequent years (one stayed on as a District
Fisheries Officer). The only activity remaining from this programme is the modest short-term
credit programme extended to women through MRFC.
Aquaculture: Despite the availability of suitable land and appropriate teclnologies,
aquaculture has not had a history of success in Malawi. Past efforts have been characterised by
sporadic donor support, excessive concentration on research ratlher than on the dissemination and
support of proven methodologies, and the dispersal of limited human and financial resources over
a number of experimental projects. At project appraisal the aquaculture sector was producing less
than 50 tonnes/annum. The FDP pilot project conformed to the previous pattern of development
in this field. Another new experimental station was proposed, and two locally untried
technologies were to be the subject of pilot initiatives.
By 1993 no progress had been made in the aquaculture sub-component. Two other
aquaculture projects had recently started in both the Northem and Southern Regions, placing
considerable demands on an overstretched FD professional establishmenit, and again the sub-
component comprised only a sketchy design and a budget, with no technical assistance to help it
off the ground. It was judged that implementation of this sub-component would place
unsustainable demands on the FD and would duplicate work undertaken by the EU financed
Central and Northem Regions Fish Farming Project (1989-95). Accordingly, it was recommended
during project restructuring that the aquaculture component be removed from the project entirely.
d) Infrastructure. The original infrastructure component comprised three elements. The most
important of these was the restoration of Mpwepwe boatyard to full working capacity, also an
integral part of the planned expansion of fish production. In addition, the project planned to build
25 fishing beach access roads and two jetties at FD field stations. The Mpwepwe Boatyard was
not improved as envisaged under the project because it was targeted for privatisation. Hence, only
minor wood working machines were provided by the project. Contrary to initial project plans, the
construction of access roads was also excluded in order to simplify the project and because of the
reduced focus on increased production. In spite of this exclusion, however, the limited
infrastructural rehabilitation that was implemented under the project (new jetties at FRU in
Monkey Bay and at the District and Regional FD Office at Nkhata Bay) has been beneficial for
the operations of research and for other FD vessels. Hence, the outcome of this component is
considered satisfactory.
13



A description of the outputs produced under the infrastructure component is
presented below (additional background is provided in Annex 7b):
Mpwepwe and Salima Boatyards: At project start-up there were two commercial
boatyards in Malavvi, both owned by the FD. One at Salima produced very popular V-bottom
wooden boats for the artisanal fisheries. This yard was closed by the FD in 1993 in accordance
with the DCA provisions, but no attempt was made to privatise it. The staff were dismissed, and
some months later the tools and equipment were auctioned to local joinery finns, with FD
retaining the site. Supervision missions in 1993 and 1994 emphasised the need to attempt to
salvage this situation, but by this time the skilled workforce had dispersed, and no action was
taken.
The situation with Mpwepwe Boatyard, in Mangochi District, was rather different.
Mpwepwe was a larger establishment whose main line of construction was a 7.5 m V-bottom
boat, the basis of the pair trawl fleet. Maintenance of this fleet was estimated to require the
construction of six new vessels annually. By 1991 output had fallen to a very low level--one or
two boats per year--and the yard was in debt and in urgent need of rehabilitation. Thne
construction of new vessels was key to the proposed expansion of artisanal and semi-commercial
production, and therefore the redevelopment of Mpwepwe was seen as a priority activity. It was
intended under the project to rehabilitate the yard and to run it on a commercial basis within the
GOM management context. This option was selected because at appraisal the prospects for
privatisation appeared remote. In 1993 a consulting firm was appointed to provide technical
assistance for the rehabilitation, resulting in the preparation of new boat designs and outline
specifications for reconstruction. The boatyard staff was reduced to a bare minimum while the
rehabilitation was under way. By this time a number of entrepreneurs had expressed interest in
the acquisition of the boatyard, and privatisation appeared for the first time to be a real
possibility. The rehabilitation was therefore deferred on the recommendation of the 1993
restructuring mission, which considered it more appropriate to make available to the new owner,
on a loan basis, those funds which had been reserved for the boatyard redevelopment. The NDF
approved this course of action. The privatisation of Mpwepwe took almost six years, and was not
completed until May 1999. In a management buy-out the yard was sold to the Mpwepwe
Boatyard Company Ltd., comprising of staff previously employed by the FD. However, by this
time the yard was almost defunct, and most of the equipment unserviceable. ICEIDA made a
small grant available to buy minor tools, but there was insufficient time to arrange the NDF/GOM
subsidiary loan prior to project closedown. Furthermore, boatyard debts exceeding MKW 2
million formed part of the privatisation package. The yard is now on the verge of collapse, and
stands little prospect of survival unless it obtains rapid financial and management support.
Access Roads and Jetties: A construction programme for beach access roads--at 25
sites and of an average length of about 2km--was included in the project as a stimulus to trade in
locations where artisanal production was high and access poor. About 10% of the routes surveyed
were also to serve trawler landings and the two boatyards. No progress on this programme had
been made at the time of the project restructuring in 1993, and its deletion from the project was
recommended at this time and later in 1996. The principal argument used to support its removal
was that the FD was overloaded and did not have the capacity to implement this activity in
addition to other tasks which had higher priority. It was also claimed, however, that given the
shortfall in the national supply of fish, road access could no longer be considered a serious
constraint to production or distribution. Two new jetties did get constnicted under the FDP, one
at the FRU in Monkey Bay and one at the District and Regional Fisheries Office at Nkhata Bay.
Their primary finction is to provide safe landing points for research and patrol vessels, i.e. they
are part of the FD infrastructure rather than services to the fishing industry.
14



4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
At appraisal, the project was primarily justified on the basis of increased fish
production, which was expected to reach 7,500 tons per year or 10% of the tlhen national
production. Such a level of fish production was expected to yield an economic rate of return
(ERR) of about 20% over 20 years. Furthermore, significant improvement in the people's diet,
food security and off-farm incomes were to have resulted from the incremental fish outpult by the
project. Unfortunately, the project excluded the main production activities expected under the
artisanal and semi-commercial fisheries, keeping only the support to commercial fisheries, which
was a minor element in termis of project's expected production. As a result, the incremental annual
production at project completion was only about 900 tons by the commercial sector, i.e.
MALDECO, which accounts for only about 12% of the output forecasted at appraisal. This would
generate a negative ERR if it was to be recalculated based on the appraisal approach, because the
project costs at completion are about the same as estimated at appraisal, but fish production was
only a small fraction (12%) of the forecasted figure. The qualitative improvement in nutrition,
food security and off-farm incomes also were not realised. The divestiture of FD's commercial
activities have negatively affected the fishing community, because the new buyers did not ensure
the continuity of services in the making and selling of ice and supplying boats, boat engines,
spare parts and fishing gear.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
At appraisal, financial analyses were carried out for the artisanal fisheries, semi-
commercial fisheries, the Mpwepwe boatyard and MALDECO development proposals, and all
yielded satisfactory financial results. With the exception of MALDECO, whose financial rate of
return (FRR) was estimated at 20%, all other enterprises were expected to generate FRRs of 30%
or more. Since the proposed artisanal and semi-commercial fisheries and the Mpwepwe boatyard
development were not implemented under the project, only comparison with the MALDECO
fisheries development is possible. At appraisal, MALDECO was expected to improve its financial
performance and raise its pre-tax profit from about MKW 2.03 million (US$0.73 million) in
1990/91 to MKW 3.9 million (US$1.39 million) at full development, starting from 1992/93
onwards, in 1991 prices. At completion, the pre-tax profit of MALDECO accounted for about
MKW 18.63 million (US$0.43 million) in current prices, i.e. a third of what had been projected at
full development in US$ terms. This lower profit, compared to the appraisal estimate, is due to
reduced lower fish catch in general, and the proportional decline of the high value fish, i.e.
Chambo. Because of lack of information on the earlier years, it was not possible to carry out FRR
calculations.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The impact of the project has been modest compared to appraisal expectations,
principally because of the removal of the production component. Its major impact was on the
FD's institutional development, in that investments in physical infrastructure, vehicles and
operational support have shifted the FD from a state of immobility and dependency into one
which commands a significant field presence. More importantly, the FD is a better structured,
more professional and more capable institution than it was at project start-up. With project
assistance the FRU has conducted timely and relevant research, the results of which have been
made available through publication, and made use of by the industry. This has contributed to our
understanding of the exploited fish stocks, and has identified new stocks previously unexploited.
During the course of the project the FD has consulted widely in the development of a new
15



national fisheries sector policy, and in 1997 Parliament approved a new and progressive Fisheries
Conservation and Management Act (see Annex 7b). A national programme of fisheries extension
has been established, many of its staff trained and its activities monitored and periodically
reviewed. Co-management of the artisanal fisheries, provided for in the new legislation, has been
promoted through the extension programme, and although implementation remains at an early
stage, its principles are well understood within the FD and are becoming known and accepted in
the fishing communities. The relationship between these communities and the FD has improved
dramatically as a result of the latter's role in support of credit groups, and linking them to MRFC
lending. These are significant achievements, and are a tribute to the FD and to the guidance
provided by IDA during the later years of the project.
When attention is turned to the industry, the impact of the project has been minimal.
This is because only the MALDECO investment proposal was implemented, but not the artisanal
and semi-comrnercial investment proposals from which the bulk of the expected project
production and development impact were to originate. There are other extensive areas of zero-
impact in which a major fisheries development project might have been expected to make
improvements. The range of fishing gear available to the industry remains unchanged after 30
years: no new materials have been provided, or technologies extended. The pair trawlers continue
to fish with trawls designed in the 1970s. Boat designs are also unchanged, and access to fishing
beaches no better, or worse, than before the project. There have also been negative impacts,
principally associated with the FD's withdrawal from boat construction and the supply of other
services. The closure of Salima boatyard scattered skilled boatbuilders and their equipment to
local joinery shops in an unseemly end to FD's many years of workforce development. As
explained earlier, the Mpwepwe yard is in a very precarious state. After project start-up it was rmn
at an extremely low level of output, and many of its staff were laid off. When privatised 8 years
later, the boatyard was little nmore than a shell, its new owners inexperienced in business and
potentially crippled by inherited debts. The reduced availabilitv of seaworthy boats to the
artisanal fishery has contributed to the concentration of fishing effort in the inshore zone, to
increasing poverty in the fishing communities and ultimately to the resource management
problems whichi the FD now has to face. The mechanised fishery has been more visibly affected.
The pair trawl fleet was in a poor state when the project started, but after a decade without
replacement engines or spare parts, this fishery is now almost defunct.
FD's withdrawval from boat building and other services did have the intended impact
of freeing up the time of field professionals for other areas of responsibility. But overall the
impact on the FD itself was strongly negative, since field officers saw development of the
industrv as a prime responsibility and the dismantling of the services they had worked to establish
as incomprehensible. It confused field staff and soured working relationships between the FD and
the industry. It would be wrong to give the impression that FD's withdrawal from service
provision has left a total vacuum, and there are several examples of private sector development in
this field that probably would not have taken place had the FD continued its operations. Two
small-scale self-financed ice plants are known to be in operation, and several former Salima
boatyard employees continue to make boats to the popular designs developed by the FD.
However, the ice plants service mainly non-fishery businesses, and the boatbuilders operate as
village enterprises with very limited capital, and their inability to access other than locally
available construction materials means that their products have a very short working life. Fishing
gear is sold by a number of retail distributors throughout Malawi, but this is a risky and
unprofitable business, and annual sales by the Blantyre Netting Company have fallen from 80-
100 tonnes in the 1980s to only 50 tonnes in 1999--a remarkable statistic given that the number of
fishing craft has increased by 60% over the same period.
16



5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The project was not affected by any factors outside the control of government or
implementing agency. The change in the political and economic system of the country had no
particular effect on the project if not the general impact that this has made on all sectors as a
result of depreciation of the local currency, inflation, and the effect of measures aimed at
restructuring and stabilising the economy.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The main factor subject to government control that negatively influenced project
implementation is MOWS negligence in the execution of project's civil works, as it took five
years to commence works on the ground. Other factors (discussed in Annex 7b) included:
delay in the recruitment of senior staff agreed for under the project;
shortage of budgetary funds in the early years ofthe project;
delay in the release of funds;
=    uncertainty about the site for FD headquarters; and
lack of continuity in project coordination by the PCC.
On the positive side, GOM's agreement to the decentralisation of FD (including the
establishment of regional cost centres); preparation of the National Policy Statement on Fisheries;
and promulgation of the Fisheries Act, were important factors in turning around the project's
performnance from poor to better.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The most serious factor that affected project implementation, especially during the
initial years, was lack of project ownership. Overall, FD was passively accepting decisions made
by other bodies such as the MOWS or missions from the International Development Agency
(IDA), as if it did not have the most important role to play. FD took little initiative to turn around
negative situations to the way it believed were right for the fisheries sub-sector. Specific factors
subject to FD's control that affected project implementation included (see Annex 7b for a
discussion):
lack of decisive action in maintaining the production component within the project when it
became clear that there were many areas underfished in Lake Malawi;
weak project management and initial centralisation of project implementation;
weak project monitoring, evaluation and reporting; and
inadequate filing and documentation to the extent that important documents are not found in
project files.
An important factor that enhanced project restructuring and implementation
performance was FD's determination to prepare the Fisheries Development Project Document
(FDPD) along the lines indicated by the MTR for a new beginning.
17



5.4 Costs and financing:
Total project costs at appraisal were estimated at US$15.50 million. This was
expected to be financed as follows: US$8.8 million IDA; US$3.5 million NDF; US$ 1.0 million
ICEIDA; and the remaining US$ 1 .1 million by GOM. At completion, total costs amounted to
US$15.10 million consisting of US$7.88 million IDA; US$2.81 million NDF; US$2.13 million
ICEIDA; and US$2.3 million GOM2. In terms of financing, both ICEIDA and GOM doubled
their financing levels compared to appraisal, while IDA and NDF contributed slightly less than
had been planned. About half the costs were spent on civil works, which is a direct result of
delayed implementation and cost overruns. Most of the funds initially allocated to support
fisheries production by IDA were transferred to civil works. NDF's main financinig items were
support to commercial fisheries development (MALDECO) and ICEIDA's main expenditures
were on improving fishery research.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Overall, project's sustainability, compared to appraisal expectations, cani be rated as
unlikely principally because of the removal of the essential investments of the production
component from which the bulk of the expected project production and development impact were
to originate. If the assessment of project's sustainability is limited to the implemenited institution
building and research activities, sustainability could be considered as likely.
The sustainability of development interventions supported by the restmictured FDP
may be assessed on several levels. Ultimately, the intention is to put in place a variety of
mechanisms to ensure that Malawi's fish resources are used and conserved to the maximum
economic and social benefit to the nation. In the artisanal fisheries these mechanisms will
depend to a large extent on the emerging local-level fisheries institutions--BVCs and Fishermen's
Associations. These are yet at too early a stage in their development to permit a meaningful
discussion of sustainability. The only interventions that have gone all the way to the end-user are
the MALDECO loan and the FD/MRFC credit groups. Both of these initiatives are likely to be
sustainable on their own account, and are not dependent on a great deal of back-up support. The
remaining activities of the project concern the activities of the FD, and here sustainability may be
considered at both financial and institutional levels.
Financial sustainability is of immediate concem to the FD--even if support to the
fisheries sub-sector were to enter a second phase under the Lake Malawi Environmental
Management Project, it is now inevitable that a substantial funding gap would precede the new
project. Financial sustainability means essentially the sustained funding of field operations,
including provision for the maintenance and ultimate replacement of project investments in
infrastructure and equipment. Although GOM support to the fisheries sub-sector has declined
over the life of the project, MOF's position is that the project phase-out is understood and will be
compensated by an increase in the recurrent budget. The extent of the increase was. however, not
conveyed to the ICR mission.
The managers of two costly recurrent activities--the Ndunduma research programme
and the MCF--have taken proactive steps to assure future financial security by taking on
2 GOM's contribution increased because operating costs and expendituires on civil works, the only two
categories for which GOM financing was contemplated, had sky rocketted.
18



commercial enterprises in addition to their development functions. It is intended to sustain the
Ndunduma programme through commercial fishing at times when the vessel is not required for
research purposes and thus replenish its research fund continuously. Current thinking for MCF
points towards some degree of financial autonomy, with the college paying its way through cost
recovery, the renting of conference facilities, commercial fishing, competition in the regional
market for natural resources training, etc. These activities would certainly improve the
sustainability of project activities under these two FD Units. This thinking is currently in line with
that of GOM, where a number of ministerial departments are being encouraged to raise revenues
to finance their services and operations. However, they would take the FD through a full cycle
and back into a commercial role deliberately closed by FDP. This raises an important point of
development philosophy--should the GOM enter into commercial activities in order to sustain
necessary government functions? What is the justification for removing such functions into the
quasi-governmental grey area, and how do the answers to these questions match the likelihood
that GOM will in fact finance these activities from taxation revenues'? These are questions only
the GOM can answer, but they should be confronted openly and not answered by default.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
During the last budget piesentation for the fiscal year 2000/2001, the MOF has
proposed to include a portion of the project investment and operating costs under the recurrent
budget. However, it was not clear what level of the operating and maintenance needs of FD
would cover the MOF proposal. Another arrangement being made by GOM is the preparation of a
fisheries resource management and sector development component as part of the proposed Lake
Malawi Environmental Management Project. Discussions on the second-phase project are being
carried out with donors, including the World Bank and the Global Environment Facility (GEF),
and its final formulation is awaiting the finalisation of this ICR and that of the recently completed
(June 2000) Lake Malawi/Nyasa Biodiversity Conservation Project, financed by the World Bank
and the GEF. Quite correctly, the GOM intends to include lessons learned under the two projects
in the next phase.
Apart from possible shortage of funds, the FD's present structure and system of
work should be able to undertake the necessary development work and provide services to the
fisheries sub-sector. The question is will the fishing community continue to listen to the FD's
technical and resource management advice, while their capacity to fish where fish is abundant is
impaired by lack of adequate boats and fishing gear? If the fisheries sub-sector is to develop
further, and the FD is to be heard and respected by the fishing community, there must be a
concentrated effort aimed at resolving the problems of fishermen in tenis of provision of
adequate technology and equipment for improved and sustainable fishing. As findings from the
Beneficiary Impact Assessment Study suggest (see Annexes 8 and 9), meetings and discussions
with the fishing communities alone will not help the fishermen to improve their incomes, and
hence contribute to the national economy, if they lack suitable means for undertaking sustainable
fisheries. Future fisheries development efforts should therefore, endeavour to enable fishermen to
catch fish in underfished areas, which are mainly offshore. Encouraging offshore fishers would
generate significant benefits: higher catches (increased production to the nation and incomes to
fishermen) and reduced pressure on the biodiversity-rich nearshore areas, while minimising
environmental damage and threats to the biodiversity of Lake Malawi. However, offshore fishing
will call for major investment in enabling artisanal fishermen to catch fish through training and
provision of the necessary equipment and material. Certainly, FD should continue to monitor the
fisheries sub-sector to ensure that the resources are not over-exploited and that the use of fishing
technology and equipment are compatible with sustainable fishing practices. It should also
continue to practise co-management of the lake resources and to provide the extension activities
19



introduced under FDP. Support to such strategies and activities is being considered under the
proposed Lake Malawi Environmental Management Project.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
The Bank provided crucial assistance in the review of the fisheries sub-sector in
which the main issues facing fisheries in Malawi were identified. Th-e Bank s subsequent decision
to send an identification mission to assist GOM in the conceptualisation of a development project
and to provide IDA's financial support, opened a golden opportunity for inodernising the fisheries
sub-sector in Malawi. Investment in fisheries was long overdue and Banlk's assistance in the
review of the sub-sector and in the project identification in the late 1980s ivas satisfactory.
Unfortunately, this was not the case with regard to Bank's performance in the
appraisal of the project, which was clearly unsatisfactory. The appraisal mission came up with a
complex project for implementation by the FD, which earlier had been assessed as weak by the
same mission. Although the appraisal mission proceeded along the proposals made in the
preparation report, it eliminated important technical assistance inputs that were designed to boost
the implementation capacity of FD. The design of the supply of boats during project fornulation
was to strengthen the boat making in the country, and to procure the boats tnder the project, but
to finance them under a credit scheme through three different financing institutions in the
country. At appraisal, this was changed in that the support to be provided to boat building was
excluded and financing arrangements were expected to be with SACA to cater for small-scale
fishermen, leaving the semi-commercial fisheries to finance boats with their own funds or borrow
from any lender of the banking system. In addition, a new activity to support women involved in
fish marketing and processing was included at appraisal without sufficient study and without
equipping the FD to undertake the task. Other weaknesses that can be attributed to project
appraisal are failure to devise a system to ensure the continuity of services rendered by the FD
commercial undertakings after their divesture; lack of a clearly defined civil works programme,
and failure to emphasise the importance of completing a manpower development plan and
recruitment of professionals by making this an issue for agreement during negotiations (such
conditions were imposed on the restructuring of the Mpwepwe boatyard and SACA's adoption of
suitable credit procedures, although these were less critical items to the whole project compared
to the need for strengthening of the FD).
7.2 Supervision:
During the first half of the project until 1995, supervision by IDA was of mixed
nature, with some individual missions performing well, but overall functioning below
expectations. First of all, the supervision missions were not carried out regularly over the years:
only one mission each was undertaken in 1991, 1994 and 1995 and no supervision was made in
1992. In addition, the mid-term review scheduled to take place before mid-1995 was delayed. No
valid reasons were given for such irregularities, but an important factor might have been the
frequent changes of IDA Task Managers, with four different people up to the project restructuring
of 1996, and another one since September 1996. In addition to these anomalies, the earlier
supervision missions failed to assist the FD to come oult of its impasse. Thleir reports were more
of a criticising nature with generic recommendations and threats of suspending the project,
instead of suggesting a clear action plan for turning the project around and taking a firm stand to
implement them - like the approach adopted during the MTR. The supervision missions also
20



panicked at unconfirmed news that indicated overfishing in Lake Malawi, in spite of the thorough
studies and analysis carried out during project preparation, and advised for the suspension of the
production component. While such a precautionary measure may be justified until the issue of
resource availability is sorted out, it is not clear as to why this component was not reinstated at
least in partial form after it was made clear in 1995 that there were many areas with underfished
demersal fish in Lake Malawi. In addition, the requirement that GOM divest itself of some
commercial undertakings that were servicing the fishing community, without ensuring the
continued provision of such services to the sub-sector, proved to be a serious misjudgment
resulting from a project action.
In the assessment of the ICR teamn, there is no doubt that the project needed to be
restructured because of its complexity and the underestimated capacity constrainits within the FD
(i.e. even if there had been no concems about overfishing in Lake Malawi), which would have
made all the original objectives impossible to maintain. The main problem with the restricturing
was IDA's decision to cancel the entire production component, instead of being open to discuss
with GOM its possible reformulation. IDA also failed to address the impacts of the unprepared
privatizations on fish production which could have been dealt with at the time of restructuring. In
addition, the DCA was never revised to reflect the trimmed down number of components. On
the other hand, the focus on strengthening the FD, which was largely accomplished during the
last three years of the project, is to the credit of the project restructuring team.
IDA supervision improved markedly after the restructuring of the project in 1996.
By developing a clear programme of work and monitoring system with FD, the supervision
missions were able to improve significantly after the restructuring of the project. which was
confirmed (though never fonnalised in the DCA) by the September 1996 mission. Because of the
availability of the workplans agreed by FD and IDA, the supervision missions (two per year)
based their review on what had been planned under the previous six-month period of work.
Having reviewed such a programme, the supervision missions used to agree on another six-month
plan which would be reviewed by the next mission. This system of work enabled supervision
missions to follow project implementation systematically and to focus on the major issues that
required their assistance. In contrast to previous missions, IDA maintained the same Task
Manager from the project restructuring in 1996 until completion. This continuity greatly helped
the project as the flow of thought was not interrupted, and the working relationship with the FD
improved markedly. Therefore, implementation proceeded according to plans.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
It is difficult to give one rating for a nine-year project, in which the first five were
characterised by poor performance and the last three years by better performance. albeit on a
restructured project with significantly narrower objectives. The true picture of Bank-s
performance would have been unsatisfactory for appraisal and for supervision before the
restructuring of 1996, and satisfactory thereafter. If one rating should be made, however, the
overall bank performance should be rated as less than satisfactorv. This should be considered a
fair rating if account is taken of the fact that improved performance in the last years was on a
project that was significantly down-scaled after the main production activities were excluded.
Although it does not change the overall assessment of Bank perfom-ance and final
project outcome, it is important to understand the context under which the Bank adopted the
position to suspend the production component at project restructuring. The task team could have
felt that the precautionarv measure of suspending all production-oriented investments was
justified until the issue of resource availability was more fully sorted out. There was only a short
period of time between the date the issue of overfishing was made known and the refutation of
21



this finding by research conducted by the FD and others. Further, the issue of overfishing was
raised at a time of global focus on resource conservation issues following the 1992 UNCED. The
Bank had some reason to be cautious about its support for increasing fish production in the
biodiversity-rich Lake Malawi after it had come under heavy criticism for its past environmental
record. Together with lack of capacity within the FD to implement the original production
component, this may have had a bearing on the precautionary approach taken bv the Bank at the
point of restructuring. Still, questions remain on whether the correct intervention should have
been dropping the production component completely or modifying it through a change of strategy
or more targeted focus. Since research in 1995 had confirned that the over-fishing was localized
in extent, with adequate management of the distribution of fishing effort the original production
targets could have remained realistic and within the limits of sustainabilitv.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
T'he design of the project was too complex for the capacity of FD. but it was
believed that, with the support of technical assistance personnel, implementation would have been
less problematic. Agreement with the appraisal mission on the exclusion of most of the technical
assistance envisaged during preparation amounts to lack of recognition by FD of the principle
accepted during project formulation that project complexity was to be mitigated by the help that
would be provided by technical assistance personnel.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Borrower's performance in the early years of the project was characterised by
slow compliance with the agreements reached in implementing the project. Notably, GOM was
not able to provide the necessary budgetary funds and recruitment and appointment of staff on
time, and this held back progress in project implementation. Another example of poor
performance was the excessive delay (about 5 years) in tendering the civil works contracts by the
MOWS, leading to significant cost overruns. While the shortage of funds is explained by the
overall government budgetary control policy, the undue delay in finalising civil work contracts
can hardly be justified. In addition, the PCC did not function as anticipated, and did little to
resolve the problems faced by the project with regard to the availability of funds, staff recriitment
and the impasse in civil works. During this period,GOM's performiance was below expectations,
but improved significantly after the MTR. Signs of these improvements were the preparation of a
National Policy Statement for Fisheries in 1996, the promulgation of the Fisheries Conservation
and Management Act in 1997, and the decentralisation of FD, including financial responsibilities
to the districts.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The passive stance of FD during the early years of the project was one of the main
causes of the implementation difficulties. The FD was only peripherally involved in the most
crucial events and decisions made on the project. For instance, it was a FAO-sponsored report
which indicated that Lake Malawi was overfished, and not FD's learned judgement, that created
the initial difficulties to the production component of the project, leading to its suspension and
later exclusion. Yet, as the institution responsible for the country's fisheries, the FD did not
challenge this report until a study by FRU invalidated it 1995. But even after that time, perhaps
fearing the prospect of having the whole project closed, FD failed to make a case for the
production component or its reformulation, although it is clear, with hindsight, that FD senior
officials were in favour all along of supporting increased production on a sustainable basis. The
same could be said about their silence conceming the lost services in the supply of boats, ice,
22



motors, spare parts and fishing gear, after the divesture by FD. The fishing community was
expressing its disappointment and protesting on the lack of these necessary supplies, but the FD
failed to attempt to resolve the problems within the framework of the project or at project
restructuring. It should be very well acknowledged, however, that after restructuring of the
project in 1996, the FD significantly improved its performance. It introduced district based
planning of work, devolved power to the districts, and established a good working relationship
with fishing communities by initiating fish resource management committees through
establishment of BVCs.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Considering the delay and inadequate provision of funding, slow provision of key
staff and poor implementation that led to the elimination of important project objectives such as
the increased supply of protein and poverty alleviation, overall borrower performance is rated by
the ICR team as unsatisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
The main positive and negative lessons that could be leanied from the
implementation experience of the project are presented below (see also Annexes 8 and 9 for a
discussion of the findings from the Beneficiary Impact Assessment Study):
-          While it may seem obvious, the experience of the FDP makes it necessary to re-state
that the design of a project must be compatible with the capacity of the implementing agency to
carry out the planned activities. Even though the weak institutional capacity of the Fisheries
Development (FD) had been acknowledged, a complex project was proposed, including areas in
which the Department had little experience, such as major infrastructure construction
programmes, including access roads, credit and a women's programme. Despite the weak
capacity of the Department during project preparation, the appraisal mission omitted important
technical assistance inputs that could have boosted the implementation capacity of FD. There was
also failure to specify performance indicators and project targets, leaving the task of performance
monitoring unnecessarily vague and subjective.
-             The experience of the project also demonstrates that complex projects present
substantial and often unique management demands. Procurement and financial management are
critical functions that demand a level of expertise that is generally not found in govemment
departments and is difficult to attract and retain given govemment salary constraints. Poor
performance in these areas typically results in serious delays in implementation, frequent and
recurring ruptures in the flow of funds to implementing agencies, suppliers and contractors, and
additional cost to govemment and to the project. Technical project management, especially the
coordination, tracking, and support of a diverse array of programs and activities is particularly
time-consuming. Government departments are generally deficient in experienced project
managers and lack sufficient senior technical staff to be able to dedicate an officer for project
management, without pulling the officer away from other critical duties in the department. As a
consequence, public sector capacity is further weakened by the demands of project management
and reporting. The lesson here is that serious consideration should be given to placing project
management, including financial management and procurement functions, under professional
managers. This can best be done through contracting out these functions to a firm on a
competitive basis. Performance of the firm can then be reinforced through regular annual
evaluations.
23



-       One positive lesson of the restructured project was the fact that the FD did not need
to create a separate project implementation unit. In recognition of the slow project
implementation progress during the early years, the organisation and management system
was decentralised in 1996 to the district offices. Four cost centres were established in the
field through which funds necessary for the project were transferred, This gave the FD
greater ownership of the project and played an important role in the institutional development
of the department. In practice, the project was absorbed into the organizational stnmcture of
the FD, with the real planning of works being carried out by the district offices in agreement
with the relevant line Deputy Director- who was also responsible for supervision and
implementation monitoring. In addition to decentralization to district offices, a more efficient
system of workplan preparation and implementation was introduced and remains in effect
after project completion. These new capacities of the FD represent a solid basis for planning
of extension support services in the next phase of the Lake Malawi Environimental
Management Project.
-       [In every project involving sustainable management natural resources, the balance
between environmental and social objectives should always be negotiated with care. In the
FDP experience, an over cautious approach adopted to fisheries production was allowed to
take precedence over the development objectives of the project. In hindsight, there should
have been a more reflective discussion with the FD about the options available for
development interventions under the restnictured project. Although it is clear that the project
needed to be restructured because of its complexity and the underestimated capacity
constraints within the FD, IDA's decision to cancel the entire production component, instead
of being open to discuss with GOM its possible refonnulation, closed the door for
implementation of essential production activities intended to achieve development impacts
within the artisanal and semi-commercial fisheries. Since research in 1995 had confinned
that the over-fishing was localized in extent, with adequate management of the distribution of
fishing effort the initial production targets could have remained realistic and within the limits
of sustainability.
*         An important lesson stems from the project's insufficient attention given to the
role of the private sector in delivering the services that the FD was asked to divest. The
requirement that the Govemment of Malawi divested itself of some commercial undertakings
that were servicing the fishing community, without ensuring the continued provision of such
services by the private sector to the sub-sector, was a serious shortcoming of the project. FD's
withdrawal from boatbuilding and other services did have the intended impact of freeing up
the time of field professionals for other areas of responsibility. But the overall impact on the
FD itself was strongly negative, since field officers saw development of the industry as a
prime responsibility and the dismantling of the services they had worked to establish as
incomprehensible. It confused field staff and soured working relationships between the FD
and the industry. However, it would be wrong to give the impression that FD's withdrawal
from service provision has left a total vacuum, as there are several examples of private sector
development (though serving mainly non-fishery businesses) that probably would not have
taken place had the FD continued its operations.
-          Another lesson stems from the lack of a clearly defined civil works programme
which resulted in a great deal of time and effort devoted to the civil works component at the
cost of the mainstream fishery production activities. It is thus advisable to complete the
necessary agreement on tendering procedures and to finalise designs during appraisal or
before effectiveness in order to avoid lengthy discussions of these items during
implementation, as experienced under the project. Progress in the civil works programme
was extremely delayed, with no activity on the ground during the projectfs first five years.
24



The amount of work involved in acquiring land, seeking designs and supervising the
tendering process was prodigious, and successful implementation required coordinated and
timely actions on the part of several players. All of these activities were left to the FD, which
had no competence in this field. Finally, unreliable contractors occasioned several delays, in
some instances necessitating a repeat tendering process and, at the end. two contentious
project extensions for completion of the work.
-         Bank supervision of the project was negatively affected by the frequent changes
of IDA Task Managers during the first half of the life of the project. Thlese changes of Task
Managers did not provide IDA with the necessary focus on the project or establishing a solid
relationship with the FD. In contrast, IDA maintained the same Task Manager from the
project restructuring in 1996 until completion. This continuity greatly helped the project as
the flow of thought was not interrupted, and the working relationship with the FD improved
markedly.
-         A positive lesson stems from the use of bilateral donor support which can
provide flexibility to the implementation of specific components or project activities during
unexpected situations. Both NDF and ICEIDA contributed substantially to the
implementation of the project, particularly in support of commercial fishing and fishery
research, respectively. They participated in joint supervision missions and endeavoured to
respond positively to the emerging needs of the project in order to ensure its continued
implementation.
-         The decision to hold a joint review meeting of theICRs for the FDP and the
GEF/SADC Lake Malawi/Nyasa Biodiversity Conservation Project, given the significant
leaming potential of the two operations and the obvious linkages to the Lake Malawi
Environmental Management Project (currently under preparation), should be regarded as a
good practice. In addition, the preparation of an intensive leaming ICR (ILI) for the Fisheries
Development Project and the required Beneficiary Impact Assessment Study enabled a more
complete assessment of the impact of the project on groups of beneficiaries at the village
level, including shortfalls that affected the project's impact as perceived by these
beneficiaries, and beneficiaries' perceptions of the corrective measures that would have been
undertaken to address these problems (see Annexes 8 and 9). The beneficiary study
complements the assessment conducted by the FAO ICR mission team while providing
baseline data and field-level perspectives from selected stakeholder communities to help
evaluate FDP support to fisheries extension. This data set, together with the lessons leamt
from the GEF/SADC Lake Malawi/Nyasa Biodiversity Conservation Project ICR, provide
critical inputs and baseline information against which the intended development and
environmental impact of the next project will be evaluated.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
From 19 to 30 June 2000, the ICR mission team (led by FAO) met will all
beneficiary institutions and key govemment agencies that were involved in the
implementation of the project. The mission worked mainly with the Fisheries Department
(FD) and met with the Principal Secretary of the Ministry of Natural Resources and
Environmental Affairs. Discussions were also held with the Ministry of Finance, the Malawi
Rural Finance Company (MRFC), the Icelandic International Development Agency
(ICEIDA) and the GTZ assisted National Aquatic Resources Management Programme. Based
on the mission discussions and the Government inputs into the ICR process, the FAO-led ICR
25



team incorporated the comments and inputs into the final Aide Memoire that is presented in
Annex 7a. The Government also participated at the ICR Review Meeting in Washington on
December 19, 2000, via a video-conferencing link to the Malawi Country Office in Lilongwe.
The Government's Evaluation Report is enclosed as Annex 7d of this ICR.
(b) Cofinanciers:
An executive summary of the evaluation of the components financed by the
Nordic Development Fund (NDF) and ICEIDA is provided in Annex 7c.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector,):
No additional feedback on the ICR document had been received from other
partners by December 29, 2000.
10. Additional Information
In order to provide more detailed information on the implementation of the
project than is possible in the main text of the ICR, a note on the Background of the Fisheries
Subsector and Project Performance has been appended to this document as Annex 7b.
26



Annex 1.
Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome/Impact Indicators:
Indicators           Projected in SAR         Projected in Informal      Actual/Latest Estimate
Restructuring, August 1993
Increased fish production   Production from     No target specified           Net annual increase of 900
to improve nutrition and    artisanal, semi-                                  ton from MALDECO
protein supply          commercial and
commercial fisheries to
increase by 7,500 tonnes
annually
Production from         Deleted                       No action
aquaculture to increase:
no target specified
As per SAR                    No action
Boat builders and ancillary  No action
fisheries industries added as
target groups, but no target
outcomes specified
Increased off-farm      Women to be assisted in    General economic development  259 credit groups (c. 4,000
employment and income   fish processing and trade   in fishing communities added.    women and men) were
to alleviate poverty in  in three pilot districts  but no target outcomes specified  formed and linked to an
lakeshore communities,   through training and                                  independent lending
especially women        credit: no quantified                                  institution: 123 groups
targets set                                           received small loans,
Conservation of the                                                            mostly for trade in crops,
resource base of                                                               processed food, clothing,
Malawi's water bodies                                                          fish and other
commodities
Improved institutional  Interventions to achieve    Interventions to achieve   New fisheries policy
capacity for fisheries  management objectives    management objectives        formulated and Fisheries
policy formulation,     indicated but impacts /  emphasised in more detail, but   Conservation and
research, planning,     outcomes not specified    impacts / outcomes not       Management Act passed
monitoring and control                           specified                     by Parliament. Annual
resource management
plans initiated in 1995.
Annual workplans for
management-orientated
extension and research
initiated 1996
27



Annex 1.
Output Indicators:
Institution Building      Projected in SAR         Projected in Informal  Actual/Latest
Component                                          Restructuring,        Estimate
August 1993
Civil works programme     Fisheries Headquarters   As per SAR            Civil works
Building                                      programme
completed in full
4 new Fisheries Offices
2 Fisheries Offices
rehabilitated
Fisheries Training Centre
rehabilitated and
expanded
Staff houses constructed
or rehabilitated
Provision of vehicles, boats   Not detailed        As per SAR            41 vehicles, 57
and equipment                                                            motorcycles, 25
boats, computer
equipment and office
fumiture procured
Reorganization of the     6 additional senior posts    As per SAR        10 new senior posts
Fisheries Department      created; FD reorganised                        created; number of
according to an agreed                        professional / senior
human resources                              technical posts
development plan                              increased by 25;
number of junior
technical posts
declined by 79. New
structure had
increased efficiency
Withdrawal from all       Withdrawal from          Already completed     All commercial
commercial activities with    commercial fishing and                     activities except for
the exception of Mpwepwe    the provision of                             Mpwepwe Boatyard
Boatyard                  commercial support                            relinquished by mid
services by March 1992                        1993
Planning, Monitoring and  Targets not specified    As per SAR            PMEU established
Evaluation cell created                                                  1993 but became
visibly effective 1996
Staff training program    Targets not specified    As per SAR            An extensive staff
implemented                                                             training programme
completed.
Studies conducted         Study on attitudes of    As per SAR            Not completed
fishermen to lake
conservation measures
Study on the role of    As per SAR            Completed
women in fish processing                      satisfactorily in 1995
and marketing
28



Annex 1.
Research Component
Infrastructure development    FRU in Monkey Bay     As per SAR           Civil works programme
rehabilitated and                            completed in full
expanded
Provision of research vessel   17 m. 300 hp research  17m. 380hip        Vessel commissioned
vessel                   research vessel     1993
Vessel captain and       As per SAR          Captain and engineer
engineer 6 m/m each                          provided as planned,
local officers trained
Technical Assistance       Fisheries Biologist 12    As per SAR          Fisheries Biologist
m/m                                          provided for 48 monthls.
Senior and intennediate
staff training provided.
Assessments in S., C. and   As per SAR       Assessments conducted
N. Lake Malawi                               as planned 1993-2000.
Demersal fish stock        Development of demersal  As per SAR           Annual management
assessments                trawl management                              plans developed from
recommendations                              1995.
Lake resource conservation    Development of a       Lake resource       3 Fishenres Research
studies                    monitoring system to      conservation        Officers seconded to the
enable rapid response to    studies deferred in    SADC/GEF Lake
lake resource hazards    view of probable    Malawi Biodiversity
duplication of the  Conservation Project,
ecological studies    under which ecological
proposed and        studies were conducted
conducted under     as planned.
the SADC/GEF
Lake Malawi
Biodiversity
Conservation
Project
Aquaculture pilot          Outputs related to the    Aquaculture         No action.
programme                  integration of fish       programme deleted
farming into existing
cropping systems;
development of fish
ponds between reservoirs
and irrigated fields, and
integrated fish-with-rice
production
Fish Production Component
Artisanal fishery          50 additional chirimila   As per SAR        1 No action
development. via support to   units
boat building and a credit  200 existing dugout      As per SAR          No action
scheme                     canoes replaced with
small planked boats
5 additional units       Additional units    No action
introduced               deleted
5 units replaced         As per SAR          No action
29



ANNEX 1
Semi-commercial pair trawl   Trawl nets, marine     As per SAR          No action
fisherv development, via   engines, spare parts and
support to boat building   ice plants provided under
an import support scheme
New 15m 240hp
multipurpose fishing
vessel provided
Cold stores, ice plant,
freezing plants provided
Commercial fishery         2 refrigerated trucks    As per SAR          Commercial fishery
development, via import    provided                                     investment programme
support and commercial                                                  proceeded as planned,
lending                                                                 with minor changes.
Women's program, via       Training of female fish  As per SAR          No action
extension, training and a  processors
credit scheme
Provision of insulated
containers
Provision of smoking
kilns
Credit scheme to support the   Credit to support the  As per SAR but    No action
artisanal fishing industry,  supply of boats, engines    boat building added
fish processing and trade  and fishing gear to the  as a specific
artisanal fishery, and  additional category
equipment and working
capital to fish
processors/traders                                                 l
Infrastructure Component                                    ;
Improvement of Fisheries   Construction of jetties  As per SAR          Actions completed in
Department infrastructure  and rehabilitation of                        fill
marine workshops at
Monkey Bay and Nkhata
Bay
Support to boat building   Rehabilitation and re-   Privatisation of    Boatvard privatised 1999
equipping of Mpwepwe    Mpwepwe
Boatyard                Boatyard
Minor grant for hand
Rehabilitation and   tools. No rehabilitation
re-equipping of     or other re-equipping.
Mpwepwe             Boatyard unable to
Boatyard after      service the semi-
privatisation. via  comnmercial fishery
import support and
a commercial loan
Privatisation of   No action
Salima Boatvard
Improvement of beach       Construction of 46km of   Sub-component      No action
access                     beach access roads       deleted
30



Annex 2a.
Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
-    Appraisal         Actual/Latest        Percentage of
Project Cost By.Component               LEstimate             Estimate            Appraisal
US$ million         US$ million:
Institution Building                                 6.20               12.07                   195
Infrastructure                                       0.80                0.04                     5
Research                                      _      1.61                2.27                   141
Production                                          4.64                 0.72                    16
Contingencies                                        2.25
Total Baseline Cost                                 15.50               15.10
Physical Contingencies                                                                         97
Total Project Costs                        15.50                15.10
Total Financing Required                          15.50                15.10
Annex 2b.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (in US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure   Appraisal Estimates            Actual/latest Estimate             Percentage of Appraisal
Categories -_______
IC: NCB  Prudwft   Tot   ICB  NCB              Prudent  Total  ICB   NCB   Prudent:   Tot
B    ___    Shopping  alt                    Shopping         _   __ _          lopping  al
1. Civil                                         -  7.59                 7.59
Works
2. Goods &                                           0.45        3.29    4.27
Equip.               _      _                 0.53
3. Training &                                                    1.81    1.81
Consult.
4. Operating                                                     1.43    1.43
Costs
Total                _      _ __              0.53   8.04        6.53    15.1    _
--The column concerning appraisal estimates is left blank because there were no project cost
estimates by procurement arrangements at appraisal
Anex 2c
Pn4ect Finaiang by Cnanent (m US$ rrilion equvaIt)
irnfrstn'tre                                       004 a     c-ir  rg t =  -  -nw-1d.
Resdwch    _c |          |          -| oa      -| 013|  213                          -    213
Pro - n                351            -                -- 0721  -t I- 4- t-
ToW         1 71| 11               1.11 7 88j  231 281,  213  nLa|     9| 2991 2B:4213|  na|
11 BenelidariesiniLrded M&IDECO US$ 0.6nrillion andtargetgroLp US$0 5 rrillion AlpDetcoqed eticn, detils of M&LDEC(Ys
cxihJlonAerLern*tavailable, ard X cmmrnetomerurngrS etalrvtg pvasrot inplenEYed.
3 1



Economic Costs and Benefits
Cost Benefit Analysis                                  Annex 3
(MK '000)
B0,,:"-.B.. .. .. .   ; og0 : :  . .. .. . ............................ _'0300
'' ~ ~    ~    cjoicA1~ FX,,. e*aBysiI
Xr~~~Aprl Lates                     ppr"^a   Lat Best-a3:
148,247
Co rt~~ ~           43112
105'135
IF~RJNP (%)   ~   20              ____
ModelSv4 trR  ~30
70
40
F:~I~IR~{W) ._ -n 4  t.-40
1/ Model A = Replacement of dug-out canoe with one-plank canoe.
Model B = Replacement of two dug-out canoes with two-plank canoes.
Model C = New Chirimila units consisting of one-plank boat propelled with an engine.
Model D = New pairtrawl units consisting of two-plank boats propelled with two engines.
Model E = Rehabilitation of existing pair trawl units.
32



Annex 4.
Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle  -     :No. -of Persons:and Specialty       Performance Rating-
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)
Month/Year    Count           Specialty       Implementation     Developaient
.:___-__-_._____:_____:                                 Progress         Objective
Identification/Preparation
Not Avail.   Not Available
Appraisal/Negotiation
Not Avail.    Not available
Supervision
10/91                           3   FA, FI, T                S                 S
01-02/93                        2   E, FI                    S                 S
07-08/93                        4   C, E, Fl, Fl             U                 S
06/94                           5   E, Fl, N, R              U                 S
02-03/95                        5   E, Fl, Fl, N, R          S                 S
03/96                           2   E, Fl                    U                 U
09/96                           3   A, FI, R                 U                 U
12/96                           2   A,R                      U                 U
03/97                                A, FI, 1, N, R          S                 S
07/97                           3   A, I, R                  S                 S
12/97                           3   A, I, R                  S                 S
07-08/98                        4   A, E. , R                S                 S
03/99                            6   A, E, FI, I, N, R       S                 S
09-10/99                        6   A, E, E, I,N,R           S                 S
03-04/00                        5   A, E, I, N, R            S                 S
ICR
06/2000                         2    FI, Fl                  U                 U
1/ A=Agriculturist; C= Civil Engineer; E=Economist; FA=Financial Analyst: FI=Fisheries
Specialist; 1= ICEIDA Co-Lender; M=Management; N =NDF Co-Lender; R=Research Specialist;
T= Training Specialist
Task Managers: 1. Okidegbe = Financial Analyst; 2. Rozell = Economist; 3. Pohland =
Economist; 4. Fulton = Economist; 5. Kumar = Agriculturist
Note: The disconnect between the later supervision missions (since 1997) IP and DO ratings and
the final project outcome can be explained by the obvious difficulty of providing a single rating
for a restructured project, in which the first five years were characterised by poor performance
and the last three years by better performance, albeit on a restructured project with significantly
narrower development objectives and impact. When one rating is made based on appraisal
expectations, however, IP and DO ratings are unsatisfactory because of the removal of the
artisanal and semi-commercial investment proposals from which the bulk of the expected project
production and development impact were to originate. Only the projected support to the
commercial fisheries was kept, which was a minor element in terms of project's expected
production. Consequently, the expected incremental annual production by the project of 7,500
tons was never achieved. Furthermore, the expected improvements in the people's diet, food
33



security and off-farm incomes that were to have resulted from the incremenital fish output by the
project were never achieved. Still, the above SPN IP and DO ratings accurately reflect the
satisfactory progress and relative impact of the remaining institution building and research
activities that were implemented following project restructuring (see Section 4.5 for a discuission
of the proj ect's institutional development impact).
(b) Staff:
Actual/]Latest Estimate
Stage of Project Cycle         No. Staff weeks             US$ (,000)
Identification/Preparation               44.4                        34
Appraisal/Negotiation                    51.7                     133.8
Supervision                            185.92                     466.4
ICR                                        10                        20
Total                                  292.02                     654.2
Annex 5.
Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Neglig ble, NA=Not Applicable)
Ratings
Macro policies                        NA
Sector Policies                       M
Physical                              SU
Financial                             M
Institutional Development             M
Environmental                         M
Social
Poverty Reduction                N
Gender                           N
NA
Private sec tor development           M
Public sector management               SU
34



Annex 6.
Ratings for Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly
Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank perfoormance                      Rating
Lending                                     U
Supervision                                 U
Overall                                     U
6.2 Borrower performance                   Rating
Preparation                                 U
Government implementation performance       U
Implementation agency performance           U
Overall                                     U
Note: It is difficult to give one rating for a nine-year project, in which the first five
years were characterised by poor performance and the last three years by better
performance, albeit on a restructured project with significantly narrower objectives. If
one rating should be made, however, the overall Bank and Borrower performance
should be rated as unsatisfactory. This should be considered a fair rating even after
taking into account the fact that project performance improved considerably
following the 1996 restructuring and MTR, after it was significantly down-scaled,
with the production component being dropped. In the assessment of the ICR team,
there is no doubt that the project needed to be restructured because of its complexity
and the underestimated capacity constraints within the FD, which made the original
objectives impossible to maintain. However, IDA's decision to cancel the entire
production component, instead of being open to discuss with GOM its possible
reformulation, while also failing to address the impacts of the unprepared
privatizations on fish production, were major shortcomings at project restructuring.
After 1996 the performance of both the Bank and the Borrower improved
significantly. The Borrower's performance improved markedly, enabling the
restructured project, with its much reduced scope, to be implemented smoothly as
agreed in the latest project document (FDPD). IDA also maintained the same Task
Manager since 1996, and this benefited the project immensely as implementation of
the restructured project proceeded according to plans. But this improved Bank and
Borrower performance could not be considered to compensate for the unsatisfactory
performance of the first five years which largely determined the final project
outcome.
35



Annex 7.
List of Supporting Documents
Annex 7a: The final ICR Mission Aide Memoire prepared by FAO and discussed with the
Govemment in July, 2000, is presented in Annex 7a
Annex 7b: More detailed information on the project is given in Anlex 7b (below) entitled
"Background of the Fisheries Sub-sector and Project Implementation Experience." Figures
and Tables are also enclosed below.
Annex 7c: The Executive Summary of the Evaluation of the Components Financed by the
Nordic Development Fund (NDF) and ICEIDA is presented in Annex 7c.
Annex 7d: The Government's Evaluation report is included below as Annex 7d.
36



Annex 7A
ICR AIDE-MEMOIRE
Table of Contents
A. INTRODUCTION ............................................2
B. BACKGROUND ............................................2
C. IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS ............................................                                                      3
Overview ............................................3
Implementation of Specific Components ............................................5
Institution Building ............................................5
Research ............................................6
Fish Production ............................................7
Infrastructure ............................................7
Organization and Management ............................................7
Project Impact and Sustainability ............................................8
Borrower Performance ............................................9
IDA Performance ............................................9
Co-financiers ........................................... 10
D. LESSONS LEARNED ............................................10



Annex 7A
A. INTRODUCTION
1.        A mission1 from the FAO/World Bank Cooperative programme (CP) visited Malawi
from 19 to 30 June 2000 to prepare an Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Fisheries
Development Project (FDP). The mission worked mainly with the Fisheries Department (FD) and
met with the Principal Secretary of the Ministry of Natural Resources and Environmental Affairs
(MNNREA). Discussions were also held with the Ministry of Finance, the Malawi Rural Finance
Company (MNRFC), the Icelandic International Development Agency (ICEIDA) and the GTZ assisted
National Aquatic Resources Management Programme. Field visits were undertaken in four of the
seven project districts, i.e. Karonga, Nkhotakota, Salima and Mangochi. The mission met with
Beach Village Committees (BVCs), artisanal and semi-commercial fisheries, women's and men's
credit clubs and MALDECO Fisheries Ltd, which is involved in the commercial fishery of Lake
Malawi.
2.        The mission would like to express its appreciation to the govemment officials,
particularly the staff of FD, for the support and assistance provided during the ICR preparation
exercise. The mission's findings and conclusion are presented below. The mission would like to
acknowledge the FD's contribution to this aide memoire.
B. BACKGROUND
3.        The project stemmed from the Fisheries Sub-Sector Study carried out in 1988 by the
Govemment of Malawi (GOM) with the assistance of the International Development Agency (IDA).
This study identified the main issues facing the fisheries sub-sector and offered ideas and
recommendations on how to tackle the main problems. Based on these, a World Bank identification
mission visited Malawi and suggested that IDA provide assistance to the fisheries sub-sector.
Following IDA's agreement to support Malawi's fisheries, the GOM established a task force to take
the lead in preparing an investment project. With the active assistance of FAO, a preparation report
was finalised in November/December 1989, and was appraised by IDA in June 1990.
4.        As appraised, the project's main objective was to realise the potential contribution of
fisheries to the economy through: (a) increasing fish production to improve nutrition and protein
supply; (b) generating additional off-farm employment and income to reduce poverty among the rural
population, particularly women; (c) conserving the natural resources base of Malawi's water bodies
and preventing environmental degradation; and (d) improving institutional capacity in the fisheries
sub-sector.
5.        The project, to be implemented over seven years, was estimated to cost US$15.5 million,
and its components comprised: (i) institution building aimed at strengthening FD to enable it to
concentrate on regulatory functions, staff training in policy promotion, extension, monitoring and
evaluation and enforcement of fishery laws; (ii) strengthening FD's research capacity in fish stock
assessment, conservation and management programmes and in the development of fish farming
models to integrate aquaculture into farming systems; (iii) rehabilitation and development of existing
capture fisheries by supporting artisanal fishermen, semi-commercial and commercial fishing
Comprising Pietros Kidane (Mission Leader, Economist, CP), and Antony G. Seymour (Fisheries Specialist,
Consultant).
2



Annex 7A
activities, and establishing a pilot programme to increase the involvement of women in fish
processing and marketing; and (iv) rehabilitation of infrastructure consisting of up-grading and
building access roads, jetties for fish landing, and other shore-based facilities.
6.       In addition to IDA and GOM, the project was to be co-financed by the Nordic
Development Fund (NDF) and ICEIDA. Overall project responsibility was to be vested with the
Ministry of Forestry and Natural Resources (MFNR), presently MNREA, and FD would implement
the project in collaboration with other relevant institutions such as the Ministry of Agriculture, the
Office of the President and Cabinet (OPC), the Ministry of Finance and the Reserve Bank of Malawi.
A Project Coordination Committee (PCC) was to be established, and its members would be those
institutions most involved in project implementation. The PCC would be chaired by the Principal
Secretary of MFNR, the FD providing secretariat, and was expected to play an advisory role and
ensure conformity to government policies, resolve inter-agency problems and facilitate support from
other institutions.
7.        Within FD, its Chief (now Director) was to have overall responsibility for project
execution, and would be supported by an intemationally recruited Financial Management Advisor
and two senior staff that would be assigned to work full time for the project. This team would form
the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) to deal with the day-to-day project implementation and
communication with other institutions and donors. Under the Regional Fisheries Officers, the
District Fisheries Officers (DFOs) were to take charge of data collection, extension services,
women's issues and market survey, including quality control. The heads of the Fisheries Research
Unit in Monkey Bay and the Fisheries Training Centre in Mpwepwe would, respectively, be
responsible for the implementation of the research component and training programme.
8.        Following the fulfilment of all the conditions for the project to become operational, the
project was declared effective on 4 September 1991. After two extensions of six months each, the
project is scheduled to close on June 30, 2000. At completion, total project costs are estimated at
US$ 15.10 million, and overall disbursement at US$ 12.80 million (US$ 7.87 million IDA'; US$
2.80 million NDF, and US$ 2.13 million ICEIDA).
C. IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
Overview
9.        The project had a slow start up and poor performance during the first five years, and was
considered a problem project. It was restructured twice, in 1993 and in 1996 following the mid-term
review (MTR). It was only after the restructuring of 1996 and the preparation by the FD of a project
plan for 1996-1999 that the project turned around and improved its implementation performance.
This prompted IDA to extend the project closing date by one year, reversing the pre-1996 inclination
of closing the project prematurely. The project that was finally implemented was significantly
different from what had been appraised, particularly in relation to the production support activities,
which were largely excluded, except the support to commercial fisheries, through MALDECO.
10.       According to the supervision mission of January/February 1993, the project was judged
as progressing satisfactorily given that the PCU had been established, an action plan for project
Excluding the funds that are deposited in the special account.
3



Annex 7A
execution prepared and positive steps taken towards the reorganisation of the FD. In addition, the
research vessel financed under ICEIDA had been delivered, and plans for handing over the fishing
vessel to MALDECO by mid 1993 finalised. However, the same supervision mission also reported
some difficulties caused by shortage of operational funds, delay in the recruitment of essential staff,
and a lack of progress in the implementation of the production component. Hence it recommended
steps that needed to be taken to remove these constraints.
11.       Rather suddenly, during the following supervision mission of July/August 1993, a totally
different picture was depicted and calls for immediate restructuring of the project were made. This
was triggered by recent studies and research works that indicated over fishing in the near shore areas
and southem arms of Lake Malawi due to increasing population pressure and failure to regulate the
semi-commercial fishery. Widespread increase in fishing effort and use of small meshed nets in both
the artisanal and semi-commercial fisheries were reported.  Therefore, a restructuring was
recommended in order to shift the focus of the project and the FD away from increased production
and towards fishery resource management. Accordingly, it was proposed to intensify the institutional
building components, particularly in the areas of extension and enforcement of fishery laws and fish
stock assessment; while at the same time reducing the productive components by restricting the
supply of boats, and omitting activities related to infrastructural development and rural access roads.
By mid-1994, the FD was operating on the basis of the restructuring proposals, although the
amendment to the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) requested by GOM was sent to IDA only
in December 1994. These amendments were never reflected on the DCA, most likely because it was
assumed that the restructuring did not bring in new goals but rather shed some of the production-
related objectives.
12.       Although operating de facto under the 1993 proposed restructuring programme, the
performance of FD did not improve and little progress was made in project implementation. The FD
was not able to implement the plans it prepared, especially in extension and enforcement, mainly for
want of experienced field staff. The MTR reported that excessive centralisation of financial control
and other resources in FD headquarters had resulted in implementation difficulties in the field. These
were further compounded by the failure of the Ministry of Works and Supplies and IDA to agree
promptly on tendering procedures in civil works contracts. The MTR considered the overall
performance as unsatisfactory and recommended, among other things, not to take action on credit
withdrawal applications submitted by FD. The MTR also recommended a number of specific actions
to be taken by the FD within a defined timeframe. These included ministerial review and approval of
a national policy statement on fisheries and a resource management plan; intemal review of FD with
a view to producing a dated six month action plan that would improve its performance; preparation
of a Fisheries Development Project Document (FDPD) to outline FD's strategy for implementing the
remainder of the project until the closing date, and preparation of a management and financial system
for the proj ect.
13.       The findings and recommendations of the MTR have made an impact on FD as it has
come up with a clear strategy for addressing the major constraints and with detailed proposals for
implementing the project. By May 1996 all the tasks indicated in the MTR were completed and were
assembled in the FDPD for the period 1996-1999. This document, along with submission of a six-
month action plan and annual workplan became the basis for the supervision mission of September
1996 to agree with GOM on steps to proceed with project implementation. Subsequently, the
mission recommended IDA to remove its reservations on the project, and to give FD once more a
chance to tum it around. This was accorded by IDA, and project execution, along the lines of the
4



Annex 7A
FPDD, has continued to be carried out to date. At completion most of the implementation plans have
been realised. However, as indicated earlier, the project that was finally implemented was
significantly reduced in its scope from what had been appraised, particularly in relation to the
production support activities, which were largely excluded.
14.       Flaws in project design at appraisal can in part explain the difficulties encountered by the
project. Firstly, even though acknowledging the weak institutional capacity of the FD, a complex
project was proposed, including areas in which the Department had little experience, such as major
infrastructure construction programmes, including access roads, credit and a women's programme.
Secondly, project appraisal failed to finalise the tendering arrangements for the civil works contracts,
which were cause for long delays, and equally neglected designing a suitable system for the
utilisation of the credit line and detailing the requirements for project monitoring, evaluation and
reporting. Thirdly, the appraisal document failed to specify performance indicators and project
targets, leaving the task of performance monitoring unnecessarily vague and subjective. Finally, the
requirement that GOM divest itself of some commercial undertakings that were servicing the fishing
community, without ensuring the continued provision of such services to the sub-sector, has proven
to be a serious misjudgement (para. 17).
Implementation of Specific Components
Institution Building
15.       The project has resolved FD's constraints in shortage of office space, staff housing and
other facilities through the contraction of civil works. The Fisheries Training Centre - renamed the
Malawi College of Fisheries (MCF) - and the Fisheries Research Unit (FRU) were expanded and
renovated and a new FD headquarters established next to MNREA. Fisheries offices in the districts
have been provided with new office space, housing facilities and vehicles, including motorcycles for
the extension staff and boats for enforcement staff. A total of 41 vehicles, 57 motorcycles and 25
boats of different types and sizes were supplied to FD under the project. The provision of all these
facilities has improved the operational efficiency of the restructured department. The restructuring of
FD under the project included delegation of authority to the regional and district offices, including
the transfer of financial management directly to four field cost centres from FD. The district focus
adopted by the FD, together with improved mobility and training, made the activities of the field staff
more efficient. Extension services to fishermen and enforcement of fishery regulations were stepped
up. The extension staff intensified their meetings and dialogue with fishing communities and
induced them to establish BVCs in order to be involved in the sustainable management of the
resource. The enforcement officers also started to work closely with BVCs, the by-laws of which are
upheld and supported by the district staff. Participation of local communities in fish resource
management has been boosted by the promulgation, in 1997, of a new Fisheries Conservation and
Management Act, in the finalisation of which the project was instrumental. This Act has given the
local communities the necessary legal backing in undertaking the management of fishery resources
through their own organisations, such as BVCs. A total of 267 BVCs has been formed under the
project', but only 34 have been given the training required to make them effective.
'The GTZ financed National Aquatic Resources Management Programme and its predecessor, the Malawvi-German
Fisheries and Aquaculture Development Project, provided the leading impetus for BVC formation in the
5



Annex 7A
16.       In addition, the project has strengthened the FD in its capacity to carry out policy
analysis, the development of extension services and resource management through research. To this
end, considerable input has been made by the project in training the professional and senior staff. So
far the project has provided 19 staff with degree and diploma course training, and a considerable
number were given short-term training on various topics. Different types of technical level training
were also provided to the extension staff, mainly at the MCF which was substantially strengthened
under the project in terms of construction of classrooms, dormitories, offices and other facilities and
the provision of vehicles and equipment. The college's curricula have been revised to suit the current
and future needs of the fisheries sector, and its teaching staff upgraded through training. At project
completion, the college has emerged as a modem institution capable of responding to the demand for
training by fishermen and staff. The facilities provided appear to exceed the national capacity
requirement, but FD explains that the MCF will also service other SADC countries.
17.       In order to enable the FD to concentrate on regulatory and other management-related
functions, the project proposed the sale of or withdrawal from all its commercial activities. Therefore
the FD sold its commercial establishments, i.e. two boatyards and two ice plants, and discontinued
the repair of outboard motors and the retail supply of fuel, fishing gear and marine engine spare parts.
Unfortunately the privatization of these establishments and activities did not guarantee the continued
supply of services to the fishing communities. One boatyard and an ice plant were dismantled. The
second boatyard was eventually sold in 1998 after a prolonged period of very low activity, and has
since failed to regain momentum because of the new management's lack of financial resources.
There is no other functioning boatyard in Malawi, neither has there been a commercial service agent
for the engines of the semi-commercial pair trawl fleet since the FD discontinued this function at an
early stage in project implementation. The supply of fishing gear remains problematic in those areas
remote from the Blantyre Netting Company Ltd. (BNC) in southern Malawi, and in the Northem
Region the main source of nets and twines is alleged to be illegal imports from Tanzania.
Research
18.       One of the project components that took off the ground early on was research, thanks to
the expeditious supply of a research vessel by ICEIDA with the necessary support in technical
assistance and training. By 1993, the FRU had initiated, with project support, a new programme of
demersal fish stock estimation in Lake Malawi, the outputs of which were to have important
implications for management and future development. Since then, thirteen surveys have been
conducted by FRU, and some of these have been decisive in indicating the availability of a large and
previously unexploited demersal stock capable of sustaining an annual harvest of around 33,000
tonnes. Information on the location of these stocks has been published by FRU. Through the
collection and analysis of catch and effort data, FRU provided in 1999 a comprehensive set of
statistics on fish stocks in Malawi waters. Most of the studies carried out by research have been used
for developing fishery resource management in the country.
19.       In addition to the research vessel Ndunduma, another vessel (Nkhatamaran) was
rehabilitated by the project. The research centre in Monkey Bay was renovated, rehabilitated and
extended. New offices, staff housing and a jetty were constructed, and a number of staff members
were given degree course training. A Fisheries Research Fund was established under the project to
Mangochi, Zomba, and, to a lesser extent, Salima and Nkliotakota Districts, vith logistic and institutional
support from the FDP.
6



Annex 7A
finance research activities. It is expected that this fund will be sustained largely by revenues from
the sale of fish caught by the research vessels (para. 29).
Fish Production
20.       The expected production support to artisanal and semi-commercial fisheries was not
provided by the project following the worries of over-fishing expressed in 1993, and was formally
excluded from the project in 1996. The lack of the promised support was deeply resented by
fishermen, especially by the semi-commercial fishermen who are now reduced to marginal fishers.
Of the 20 trawlers that were operating during the start of the project, only four are now operational,
the remainder being grounded for lack of serviceable boats, engines or spare parts. Yet, research has
since confimied that the over-fishing noted in 1993 was localised in extent, and that with adequate
management of the distribution of fishing effort the original production targets remained realistic and
within the limits of sustainability.
21.       The only direct support to increased production was given to MALDECO in the form of
a fishing vessel, a blast freezer, cold rooms, an ice making machine, a cold truck and fishing gear.
To some extent, the project has provided support to improved quality of fish through training in fish
processing by district extension services, which also demonstrated the construction of fish smoking
kilns. The extension service also facilitated the formation and training of credit groups to receive
loans for income generating activities, including fish processing and marketing and the purchase of
fishing nets. In dialogue with the MRFC, the extension service established 259 groups, and 117 of
these have already received loans, although the amount of money is small - below MK10,000 - with
a maximum term of one year.
Infrastructure
22.       The project rehabilitated the shore-based facilities at Monkey Bay and Nkhata Bay. At
Monkey Bay, a jetty and a slipway were constructed and the research vessels are the main
beneficiaries of these facilities. At Nkhata Bay, a pontoon has been constructed, again for use by FD
vessels. The Mpwepwe Boatyard was not improved as envisaged since it was targeted for
privatization. Hence, only minor wood working machines were provided by the project. Contrary to
initial project plans, the construction of access roads was excluded, probably due to the reduced focus
on increased production.
Organization and Management
23.       Initially, the project followed a centralised project organisation in which the PCU under
the Chief of FD controlled the project. All planning, budgeting and financial management was
carried out at FD headquarters. This top-down project management style led to the concentration of
both professional staff and expenditures at headquarters, at the expense of field operations. Although
the PCC had been established and had met on a few occasions during the first three years of the
project, its effectiveness faded as time passed by, and it failed to play its expected role in resolving
project difficulties. Realising the slow implementation progress, the organisation and management
system was decentralised in 1996 to the district offices. Four cost centres were established in the
field through which funds necessary for the proj ect were transferred. The PCU was downgraded to
an administrative unit in which one coordinator, one staff from the planning and monitoring unit and
7



Annex 7A
a senior accountant assisted the Director in overseeing project activities. The real planning of works
was carried out by the district offices in agreement with the relevant line Deputy Director, who is
also responsible for supervision and implementation monitoring. In practice, the project has been
absorbed into the organisational structure of the FD.
24.       Together with  decentralisation, a new  system  of workplan  preparation  and
implementation was introduced and remains in effect to the present. This entails the assessment of
the type of support needed by the communities and the preparation, on the basis of the needs
assessed, of a work programme with clear targets and a timeframe for their realisation.
Implementation of the workplan is monitored by the district office by comparing output with planned
targets. Although this system is still in its infancy, it has proven to be a useful instrument for staff to
think on what needs to be done within their jurisdictions by sounding the fishing communities, and
preparing realistic programmes that are easily monitorable. The field workplans and achievements
are regularly reported to FD headquarters.
25.       The FD did not produce progress reports until the mid-term review, and it is difficult to
make an in depth study in project implementation before that period. In addition, the filing system of
FD was not up to the mark, conceming the project, and it is difficult sometimes to obtain important
reports on the project or produced by the project. Fortunately, the project accounts have been kept
well since the beginning and are readily available for any type of analysis. Since 1996, the FD has
been preparing six-monthly reports on the status of the proj ect, and these have facilitated the
understanding of the exact situation of project implementation, enabling the identification of
problems and the planning of remedial and follow on actions.
Project Impact and Sustainability
26.       The project's main achievements have been in strengthening the fisheries service in the
country and in instilling fish resource management with the participation of local communities. At
completion, the FD has emerged as a more focused and streamlined institution. Its capability in
policy analysis, planning and monitoring of fishing activities and fish stocks has been clearly
improved. In particular, fish stock assessment and monitoring capabilities have been markedly
improved and this has enhanced FD's planning in fisheries development and management.
27.       Following the decentralisation of fishery service management in the field and the
provision of staff training and improved facilities and working environment, the district staff were
better motivated to work with fishermen by providing extension services to BVCs and training them
on how to manage the resource on a sustainable basis. This message has been well received by
fishermen and they appear to feel a sense of ownership of the adjacent waters and are keen to protect
and use them judiciously and with care. Many BVCs have developed their own by-laws regarding
the use of the resource. An important achievement in this regard has been the excellent relationship
established between the fishing communities and the district staff.
28.       Sustainability of the project activities will depend on the level of resources that GOM
will be willing to provide to operate and maintain what has been put in place by the project.
Presently, most of the operating costs that are necessary for paying incremental staff, running of field
offices and vehicles as well as field allowances were financed through project funds. After the
project closes these funds must come from GOM's recurrent budget, if project activities are to
continue in servicing the fishing community at current levels, and are to facilitate the efficient and
8



Annex 7A
sustainable utilisation of the fish resources.
29.       Many FD staff are apprehensive that they may not be able to secure the funds required to
operate project activities at full scale. If this is the case, part of the project undertakings would not be
sustainable. According to the Ministry of Finance, the GOM will increase the FD budget at project
closure, but it cannot guarantee that all the funds needed to sustain current project activities will be
provided. In order to obviate budgetary difficulties, some FD units are thinking of generating their
own incomes in order to cover part or all of their operational costs. To this end, FRU is proposing to
increase its fishing activities and sell more fish to the public, and MCF intends to earn more income
through increased fishing and renting its facilities for seminars, workshops and conferences. These
initiatives, which are commendable, are encouraged by GOM and will certainly improve the
sustainability of these units. However, a careful balance must be struck between undertaking income
generating operations and the mainstream activities of supporting the fishery sub-sector by carrying
out meaningful research and appropriate training to staff and fishermen.
Borrower Performance
30.       The Borrower's performance in the early years of the project was characterised by slow
compliance with the agreements reached in implementing the proj ect. Notably, GOM was not able to
provide the necessary budgetary funds and recruitment and appointment of staff on time, and this has
held back progress in project implementation. Another example of poor performance has been the
excessive delay (4 - 5 years) in tendering the civil works contracts by the Ministry of Works and
Supplies, leading to significant increase of costs. While the shortage of funds is explained by the
overall government budgetary control policy, the undue delay in finalising civil work contracts can
hardly be justified. The PCC did not work out as anticipated and did little to resolve the problems
faced by the project with regard to the availability of funds, staff recruitment and the impasse in civil
works. During this period the Borrower's performance was less than satisfactory. Since 1996, the
Borrower's performance improved markedly, enabling the restructured project, with its much
reduced scope, to be implemented smoothly as agreed in the latest project document (FDPD). The
relationship between the Borrower and IDA also became cordial, contrary to the pre-1996 period,
where tensions were prevalent when the project was facing implementation difficulties and when
suspension or closure of the project were frequently talked about. Perception of lack of project
ownership by FD started to emerge within the staff, with some indications of waning interest in the
project. The frequent change of IDA Task Managers during the earlier years of the project (para. 32)
also exacerbated this situation.
IDA Performance
31.       The root cause of the project's implementation problems is to be found in the complex
design of the project. A weak FD should have been given a simple and straightforward project to
execute. Altematively, if it had to implement a complex one, provisions should have been made to
enhance its capabilities through a well thought out technical assistance support, until it was
sufficiently strengthened through staff training. Neither of these was done at appraisal. Additionally,
project appraisal failed to detail some components and activities (para. 14), as well as to provide
clear guidelines for the monitoring and reporting of project activities. All these deficiencies have
contributed to slowing project implementation, rendering IDA's performance less than satisfactory.
9



Annex 7A
32.       IDA carried out a total of 15 supervision missions, including the MTR. In the earlier
years, supervision was not constant. For instance, after the first mission in 1991, no supervision was
carried out in 1992, and only one each were undertaken in 1994 and 1995. Since 1996, however, two
supervision missions per year were carried out consistently by IDA. The first five years were
undertaken by five different Task Managers, and following a line of thought on improved project
implementation was continuously interrupted. The perception of the level of project difficulties were
not the same among the different Task Managers, and emphasis on how to proceed varied, creating
tension between FD and Task Managers. Since 1996, a clear programme of work and monitoring
system was agreed between FD and IDA, and the supervision missions based their review on what
had been planned under the six-month programme. Before leaving the FD, the IDA supervision
agreed on workplans for the following six months. Following its promise, IDA maintained the same
Task Manager since 1996, and this has benefited the project immensely as implementation of the re-
structured project proceeded according to plans.
Co-financiers
33.       Both NDF and ICEIDA have contributed substantially to the implementation of the
project, particularly in support of commercial fishing and fishery research, respectively. They have
participated in many supervision missions and have given their input while firming up follow-up
plans. They have endeavoured to respond positively to the emerging needs of the project in order to
ensure its success. For instance, ICEIDA has spent about US$ 2.13 million against its initial
commitment of US$ 1.0 million. Recently NDF has agreed to finance an IDA cost category, training
of staff, because this category was closed by IDA in December 1999. In general, the co-financing
arrangement has worked out well.
D. LESSONS LEARNED
34.       The main lessons that could be leamed from the implementation experience of the
project are shown below, and are subject to further elaboration during the finalisation of the ICR.
- Once cognisance is made of the institutional weakness of the designated implementation agency,
project design should seek to come up with simple proposals that aim at strengthening the
institution concemed and implementing activities that pertain to its field of specialisation and
experience. Otherwise underperformance will be inevitable as shown with FD during the first
five years of the project.
* One of the reasons why FD faced implementation difficulties initially was the lack of a clear
implementation plan for each component, attaching specific staff responsibilities for their
realisation. To the contrary, the main reason for its improved performance since 1996 was better
organisation and the preparation ofworkplans that are workable and monitorable, with clear staff
responsibilities for each task. These observations imply that commencing implementation in the
absence of detailed plan is a waste of time.
*  Disposing of Govemment commercial establishments without ensuring that the services they
provided to fishermen were guaranteed can result in a significant weakening of the small-scale
fisheries and undoing FD's past efforts in putting these services in place. Many fishermen have
suffered from the closure of FD services and establishments, since some of these were
subsequently dismantled by their new owners.
10



Annex 7A
A great deal of time and effort has been devoted to the civil works component under the project
at the cost of the mainstream fishery components. It is advisable to complete the necessary
agreement on tendering procedures and to finalise designs during appraisal in order to avoid
lengthy discussions of these items during implementation as experienced under the project.
*  Reservation on increased fish production are likely to linger even after conclusive scientific
results show the availability of fish stocks that can besustainably fished in specific areas. This is
probably due to excessive prudence in resource conservation, combined with reticence to adopt
complex fish resource management systems for the over-fished and under-fished areas. The
project's continued neglect of the fish production component and removal of the line of credit in
1996, even though the issue of over-fishing had been clarified, can be explained in this light.
*  The performance of a weaker institution can be markedly improved if it is provided with an
adequate working system and environment and if equipped with the necessary facilities, mobility
and up-grading of staff skills. This is proven by the field staff of FD who have tumed into better-
motivated and active group after the project's restructured approach starting in 1996.
*  Because of the flexibility they offer, co-financing with bilateral donors can resolve funding
problems for unexpected situations or items. Some financing of IDA cost categories that were
closed in 1999 have been taken up by NDF when these were judged necessary in 2000, indicating
the benefit of such co-financing in responding to emerging needs expeditiously.
*  Frequent changes of IDA Task Managers do not provide IDA with the necessary focus on the
proj ect or establishing a solid relationship with the Borrower agencies. On the contrary, if staff
continuity is maintained, IDA's focus on the project becomes consistent and issues become
clearer, ensuring a lasting relationship with the Borrower and co-financiers as has been proven by
IDA's last Task Team Leader.
11






ANNEX 7B
FISHERIES BACKGROUND AND
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
TABLE OF CONTENTS
A. INTRODUCTION  .............................................3
B. THE FISHERIES SUB-SECTOR .......3......................................3
C. PROJECT CONCEPT AND DESIGN .............................................4
Project Objectives and Components ............................................4
Project Start-up ..............................................4
Project Restructuring in 1993 ..............................................5
Mid-Term  Review .............................................S5
Project Restructuring in 1996 ..............................................6
D. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  .......6......................................6
The Institution Building Component ..............................................6
General ..............................................6
Elimination of Commercial Functions ..............................................6
Institutional and Human Resource Development ..............................................      7
Training .............................................8
Provision of Infrastructure and Equipment ..............................................8
GOM  Support Through the Budget Process ......................9.......................9
The Research Component ..............................................9
The Production Component .............................................                                 10
Expansion of the Artisanal Fishery into Offshore Waters .................................... 10
Fleet Renewal in the ("semi-commercial") Pair Trawl Fishery .......................... 11
Reinvestment in MALDECO  Fisheries Ltd ........................................................   11
Credit ........................................................                                 12
The Women's Programme ........................................................                  13
Aquaculture ........................................................                            13
The Infrastructure Component ........................................................                  14
Mpwepwe and Salima Boatyards ........................................................           14
Access Roads and Jetties ........................................................               15
E. PROJECT ORGANISATION AND MANAGEMENT                                       .         .................................. 15
F. PROJECT IMPACT ........................................................                                    16
G. SUSTAINABILlTY ........................................................ 17



ANNEX 7B
FIGURES
1.       Fish Production in Malawi, 1976-96
2.       Artisanal Fish Production from Lake Malawi and All Other Waters, 1976-96
3.        Fisheries Department Recurrent Budgets 1990/91 - 2000/01
4.        MALDECO Fisheries Ltd.: financial performance 1993-99
TABLES
1.       Fish Production in Malawi, 1976-98
2.       Fisheries Department Proposed and Actual Staff Complement 1996-2000
3.        FDP Civil Works Programme, 1996-2000
4.        Fishing and financial performance of MALDECO Fisheries Ltd., 1993-99
5.        Status of FD/MRFC Mudzi Credit Groups, April 2000
2



ANNEX 7B
FISHERIES BACKGROUND AND
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. INTRODUCTION
1.        This Annex is intended to provide more detailed information on the implementation
of the Fisheries Development Project (FDP) and on its bio-economic and institutional context than
is possible in the main text of the report. It draws on information from many sources, but mainly
from the Fisheries Department's published reports and Fisheries Bulletins, and from the series of
IDA supervision reports which chart the progress of the project. Liberal use was also made of the
wider literature on Malawi's fisheries, and as many people were consulted as possible during the
recent Implementation Completion Report (ICR) mission. The FDP spanned a period in which
Malawi underwent profound political change and adopted new policy principles for natural
resources management. To some extent the project was caught up in the uncertainties of change,
which slowed progress, and to some extent it has benefited from the more progressive policies and
new institutional opportunities of the democratic era. Other opportunities have been missed
though, and every attempt has been made to point these out for the benefit of future IDA
investments in this important sub-sector.
B. THE FISHERIES SUB-SECITOR
2.        The fishery sub-sector in Malawi is large and extremely diverse, contributing 2-3% to
GDP and employing in 1999 some 49,000 persons directly and an estimated 200,000 indirectly in
fish processing, distribution and associated trades. Fish is an important element in the national
diet, probably accounting for 60-70% of animal protein intake. The annual catch has varied
widely between 30,000 and 80,000 tonnes (para. 3), with landings in most years between 50,000
and 60,000 tonnes. Most of the catch (more than 90% during the 1990s) is landed by artisanal
fishermen deploying a range of simple gears from dugout canoes and small planked boats.
Mechanised fishing is currently confined to the southem part of Lake Malawi, and is carried out
by one medium-sized company, which owns steel fishing vessels up to 17 m and 380 hp, and a
number of smaller enterprises including pair-trawl units based on wooden boats of 7.5 m and
30hp.
3.        The catch is made up of a great variety of fish species, dominated by the endemic
Lake Malawi cichlids (of which 1,000 species may exist) but also including a typical Zambezi
fauna. Most of the commercially important species are cichlids and cyprinids of small size and
subject to considerable fluctuations in abundance, although the largerbagrid and clariid catfishes
also make up 10-15% of annual landings. Figure 1 and Table I provide an overview of fishery
production from 1976 to 1996. The principal features of this period are:
*  National fish production increased irregularly to a peak of 77,000 tonnes in 1990. After
this it declined steeply to 32,000 tonnes in 1995, recovering somewhat in 1996;
*  Most of this variability is attributable to the artisanal fisheries of waters other than L.
Malawi, which declined massively from a peak of 46,000 tonnes in 1990 to a trough in
1995 at only 7,000 tonnes (Figure 2). L. Chilwa alone lost 23,000 tonnes when it dried up
in 1995-96 in part of a long-term cycle of changing evaporation! inflow balance. Other
3



ANNEX 7B
changes include the collapse of the L. Malombe fisheries as a result of over-fishing, and a
downturn in production from the Lower Shire floodplains resulting from reduced effort
and the effects of water hyacinth and changes in the flooding regime.
  L. Malawi production increased to 38,000 tonnes in 1989, and since then has varied
without significant trend.
  Within the L. Malawi production there has been a steady decline in landings from the
mechanised fishery since the mid-1980s, resulting from lack of fleet maintenance,
balanced by a continuing increase in artisanal production to the present, achieved through
new entry into the fishery and intensified effort on near-shore resources.
4.         The Fisheries Department (FD) monitors catches and effort levels, although data
quality is variable and dependent on the intensity of supervision - itself a function of the limited
recurrent budget. Some major L. Malawi artisanal fisheries are substantially under-reported in the
current system. These include a light attraction fishery for the cichlid chambo, probably
underestimated by several thousand tonnes/annum, and a highly variable fishery for the tiny
cyprinid usipa, which in boom years may be underestimated by 50,000 tonnes. Both fisheries land
their catches at night, and yields can only be inferred through market data.
5.        It is believed that current catches from L. Malawi fall substantially short of biological
productivity. Some of the main constraints to improving yields include (a) the extreme complexity
of the L. Malawi ecosystem, with large year-on-year fluctuations in the abundance of the small
commercial species; (b) over-fishing within the coastal shallow waters by low-technology
artisanal fisheries; (c) a lack of investment in better technologies, at all levels; (d) the lack of
development of new fishing technologies to exploit recently-assessed pelagic andsemi-pelagic
stocks; and (e) the siltation of river spawning grounds as a result of agricultural expansion.
C. PROJECT CONCEPT AND DESIGN
Project Objectives and Components
6.        The original project's objective was "to assist Malawi to realise more fully the
potential contribution of the fisheries sub-sector to the economy, while ensuring thatofftake does
not exceed sustainable yields, through (a) increasing fish production to improve nutrition and
protein supply for the population; (b) generating additional off-farm employment and income to
reduce poverty among the rural population, particularly women; (c) conserving the natural
resource base of Malawi's water bodies and preventing environmental degradation; and (d)
improving institutional capacity for fisheries sub-sector policy formulation, research, planning,
monitoring and control."
7.        The original project comprised four components: (i) institution building, including
training and management improvements in FD as well as large civil works and procurement
programmes; (ii) research, aimed primarily at those fish stocks targeted for increased production
under the project; (iii) increased fish production through the provision of improved boats and
fishing gear, including credit to fishermen; and (iv) infrastructure, to include the rehabilitation of
boatyards and the construction of fishing beach access roads.
Project Start-up
8.        The project became effective in September 1991, when start-up actions included the
establishment of a Project Coordination Unit (PCU), the appointment of a Financial Controller,
4



ANNEX 7B
who established project accounts and initiated a procurement programtne, and the start of an
organisational review by the (then) Department of Personnel Management and Training (DPMT).
A project launch workshop was convened in November 1991, after which very little activity took
place for almost two years, mainly due to FD's management weakness and uncertainty on fish
resource availability as explained below.
Project Restructuring in 1993
9.        Working  papers  of the  FAO/UNDP  Chambo  Fisheries  Research  Project
(FI:DP/MLW/86/013) published in 1991-93 claimed that catch and effort data indicated severe
over-fishing in the demersal trawl fishery of the South East Arm of L. Malawi, and suggested that
stocks had collapsed during the late 1980s. FD trawl surveys conducted under the Demersal
Fisheries Reassessment Project (1989-93) also noted a decline in demersal stocks, although
geographically unrelated to the distribution of the fisherw. This apparent crisis in the trawl stocks
led to a restructuring of the original project in August 1993. The restructuring responded to three
areas of concern: (a) fears of over-fishing; (b) apparent lack of FD capacity in both resource
management planning and law enforcement; and (c) lack of progress in a complex project which
appeared overloaded with pilot activities in addition to mainstream tasks. The restructuring
proposed to shift project objectives away from production and towards improved resource
management:
"The goal of the project is to ensure that Malawi's fish resources are managed in a manner
which maximises food production and employment within the confines of resource
sustainability. The purposes of the reformulated project are (a) to improve the institutional
and management capacity of the FD for policy formulation, planning, research, extension,
monitoring and regulation, and (b) to improve the enabling environment for private sector
enterprise in fishing; fish processing, distribution and marketing; boat building and the
supply of gear and services."
10.       The restructuring was accepted by the FD and the Ministry of Natural Resources
(MNR) but was not formalised by an amendment to the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) at
that time because of reservations expressed by NDF. In practice, however, it served to guide the
project for the next three years. The principal modifications proposed were the deletion of the
aquaculture and beach access roads sub-components, on the grounds that the FD had already
reached task saturation and that these items were the most expendable in terms of expected
benefits. A modification to the production component was also proposed, removing a proposed
expansion of the pair trawl fleet but retaining the planned replacement of existing vessels as well
as investments in the artisanal and commercial sub-sectors. Boatyard privatisation was to be given
heightened priority, and in the institution building component additional emphasis was to be
placed on the development of management systems, extension services and law enforcement.
Mid-Term Review
11.       A mid-term review (MTR) of the project was carried out belatedly in March 1996. It
concluded that the project's performance was generally unsatisfactory, although the components
supported by NDF and ICEIDA were implemented in a fairly effectively and timely manner. Poor
performance in the IDA components was explained as the result of weaknesses in the central
fisheries administration, including poor organisational structure, inappropriate staffing and lack of
resources, compounded by extreme centralisation of financial control at FD Headquarters which
More recent information suggests that the Chambo project researchers had misinterpreted catch anid effort
data from fishing boats which were barely serviceable and confined to a very small area, while the FD survey
had recorded a natural fluctuation in stock abundance which had more than recovered by 1993 (para. 27).
5



ANNEX 7B
hindered timely access to operational resources by field stations. The MITR mission insisted that
the project should not continue unless important changes were made to improve its performance,
and recommended that IDA should not process withdrawal applications pending adjustments to
some budget categories and completion of the following corrective actions by FD:
(i)    Preparation of a national policy statement for fisheries, and the review and approval of
a resource management plan by the MFNR.
(ii)   Intemal organisation review of the FD to focus on essential research, extension,
enforcement and training activities.
(iii)   Preparation of a fisheries development project document.
(iv)   Preparation of a new management and financial system.
(v)   Preparation of an annual work programme approved by the Director of Fisheries.
The above actions were to form the basis for project submission to IDA for the resumption of
processing withdrawal applications. A moratorium of 60 days was suggested as adequate for the
FD to complete the actions.
Project Restructuring in 1996
12.       Following the MTR, FD prepared a Fisheries Development Project Document
(FDPD) within 60 days, detailing the completion of actions in compliance with the requirements
of the MTR mission. The FDPD, which became the basis for project restructuring in 1996,
essentially confirmed the overall project goals and immediate objectives proposed in the 1993
restructuring (para. 9). The restructuring of 1996 also deleted the aquaculture, access roads, credit
and women's programmes.
D. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
The Institution Building Component
General
13.       The institution building component was designed to address perceived weaknesses in
the FD's capacity to fulfil its legal obligations to the fishery sub-sector by (a) eliminating all
commercial functions in order to allow the FD to focus more on management and regulatory
functions; (b) institutional and human resource development, including reform of FD structure in
order to clarify roles and simplify the line of command, the creation of additional senior posts, and
training, at all levels; and (c) provision of infrastructure and equipment, including the construction
or rehabilitation of offices, research and training facilities and staff housing, and the acquisition of
vehicles, motorcycles, boats and ancillary equipment.
Elimination of Commercial Functions
14.       At project appraisal the FD was engaged in commercial activities of two kinds:
commercial fishing, and the provision of services to the fishing industry, includingboatbuilding,
the production and sale of ice, and marketing of fishing gear, motor spare parts, and fuel. With the
6



ANNEX 7B
exception of boatbuilding at Mpwepwe, the FD was required by the DCA to relinquish all
commercial activities according to an agreed timetable extending to March 31, 1992. The
objectives of this divestiture were twofold: to enable the FD to concentrate its limited resources
on fisheries extension, management and research; and to open the field of service provision to
private sector entry. The divestiture programme was followed in a timely manner, and by 1993 all
commercial activities, with the exception ofMpwepwe Boatyard, had ceased. There was in no
case any attempt to privatise the services relinquished (paras. 59 to 61).
Institutional and Human Resource Development
15.       The SAR refers to three actions that together can be taken as an institutional reform
package. These were (a) the creation of six additional posts at senior management level; (b)
implementation of an action plan to reorganize the FD (a condition of Board presentation), and (c)
the establishment of a Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (PMEU) within the FD
Headquarters. Albeit with two years delay, the six senior posts in FD Headquarters and in the
Fisheries Research Unit (FRU) were created and filled towards the end of 1994. Although the
DPMT produced a draft FD reorganization plan in early 1993, it was not formally presented to the
FD until February 1996. This plan embodied a substantial staff expansion, and was generally
considered to be unsustainable after the close of the FDP (Table 2). However, various interim
versions of the plan were useful in backing the FD's proposals to upgrade a further 10 posts,
effectively bringing its establishment into line with those of comparable sister departments.
16.       A danger anticipated early in the project was that the new senior posts would be filled
by promotion from within the FD, leading to a depletion in professional staff in the field stations.
Each supervision report up to and including the 1996 MTR made reference, in language of
increasing urgency, to the need to recruit professionals into the department. At the same time
many redundant junior technical posts associated with FD's former commercial operations
remained filled. After the MTR an emergency plan was implemented to fill key vacancies at field
level, including where necessary redeployment between disciplines. Over time the FD staff
structure has improved considerably, with the ratio of professional and technical staff changing
from 1:5 to 1:2 between 1996 and 2000 (Table 2).
17.       The PMEU was established in 1993 and assisted in the production of action plans in
extension and enforcement (1993/94) and, from 1995, annual resource management plans.
Outside of these activities, little monitoring or evaluation was carried out during this period. There
was no system for monitoring project activities or progress, and no evaluation reports were
prepared. A monitoring system was first put in place in October 1996, based on standardised field
reporting formats and providing a numerical record of activities in extension, data collection and
law enforcement. The utility of monitoring numerical, non-verifiable process indicators is open to
question, but now at least a system exists which may be improved over time.
18.       Two major changes in the GOM's financial management system had a considerable
negative impact on FDP performance. The first was the introduction of thecash budget in 1994.
In an attempt to regain control over voted expenditure, the Ministry of Finance (MOF) introduced
a system in which departmental warrants were replaced by current accounts held in commercial
banks. No overdraft facilities were allowed, and the MOF only paid out each quiarter the amoints
received in revenues during the previous quarter. Not surprisingly, this device was very effective,
but its first impact on the FD was a cut in the recurrent budget (Figure 3), and it also meant that
the disbursement of funds became extremely unpredictable. This was followed by the
consolidation of accounts in 1995 - a centralisation measure designed to simplify the budget
administration. Under this system budget management reverted from district level to
Headquarters, requiring station officers to travel to Lilongwe to collect cash and fuel coupons. A
7



ANNEX 7B
partial solution negotiated with the MOF in 1996 was decentralisation of the budget to four
regional cost centres within the FD (para. 55): this substantially improved system was first
implemented in FY 1997/98.
19.       The appraised project foresaw the need for technical assistance in the form of a
financial controller based at FD Headquarters but did not provide for any other long term TA at
management level, despite the FD's acknowledged weakness. The GOM rejected a suggestion by
the August 1993 supervision mission that the addition of a TA Proj ect Manager might accelerate
the FDP's slow performance. As a compromise, it was agreed that a project administrator, drawn
from the private sector and compensated on a competitive local salary, would be contracted to
expedite project activities. This plan backfired. Not only did it take two years to recruit the
administrator, but the appointee was a retired civil servant who did not possess the required
management qualities: his contract, budgeted for 36 months, was therefore ended after 14.
Training
20.       Training under the FDP comprised two parallel programmes: upgrading FD staff
skills, and training members of the fishing communities. The former was taken up with some
vigour, and 37 of 150 professional and senior technical staff underwent long-term training under
FDP: I at Ph.D. level; 5 at M.Sc; 6 at B.Sc.; 14 at Diploma and 11 at Certificate levels. In
addition, 9 short-term courses were conducted in subjects including project management; research
methods; procurement; court procedures; participatory extension and financial management.
21.       Pre-service and in-service training, as well as training for fishermen and artisans from
related trades were focused on Mpwepwe College of Fisheries (MCF), a facility which was
improved and expanded under the project. Physical reconstruction of MCF commenced in 1996,
and included classrooms; mechanical workshops; a library; an office; student hostels; dining
room; kitchen; a guest house and staff housing. A TA contract was awarded in 1994 for the
development of new training curricula, and these are now reviewed annually. All of the II
teaching staff received out-of-country training (Diploma/B.Sc./M.Sc.) in order to upgrade
teaching standards. About 300 individuals from fishing communities, mostly fishermen and Beach
Village Committee (BVC) members, attended 12 training courses at MCF, in subjects including
fisheries co-management and the new fisheries legislation; business management and group
dynamics.
Provision of Infrastructure and Equipment
22.       The project contained an ambitious civil works programme designed to provide
permanent office accommodation in those FD stations where offices were borrowed or rented
(including the FD Headquarters in Lilongwe), and to rehabilitate and expand the existing
facilities. Progress in the civil works programme was extremely delayed, with no activity on the
ground during the project's first five years. There were several reasons for this. At appraisal no
agreement was made with the Ministry of Works and Supplies (MOWAS) either to implement the
programme or to confer this responsibility upon another suitable agent. Neither were construction
specifications or tendering procedures agreed with MOWAS. All of these activities were left to
the FD, which had no competence in this field. The amount of work involved in acquiring land,
seeking designs and supervising the tendering process was prodigious, and successful
implementation required coordinated and timely actions on the part of several players. MOWAS
and IDA failed to agree, for a period approaching two years, on a format for civil works bidding
documentation, which should have been settled at appraisal. In addition, the GOM decided to alter
the location and design of the FD Headquarters, greatly expanding the project, rendering the
completed design redundant and delaying mobilisation by three years. Finally, unreliable
8



ANNEX 7B
contractors occasioned several delays, in some instances necessitating a repeat tendering process
for completion of the work. A summary of the civil works programme is presented in Table 3.
This shows that although some construction started in 1996, most of the work was carried out
between 1998 and 2000. The impact of these changes and delays on the project budget was
extreme. A programme budgeted at US$ 2.41 million finally costed US$ 7.59 million.
23.       A large procurement programme for equipment was implemented in a reasonably
timely fashion, although procedures and record keeping were strongly criticised by the MTR. The
FDP provided a total of 41 vehicles, 57 motorcycles and 25 boats, as well as computer equipment
and office furniture. The provision of this equipment has greatly facilitated FD's operations at
headquarters and in the field.
GOM Support Through the Budget Process
24.       The FD's recurrent budget, critically low at the time of project appraisal, was sharply
reduced between appraisal and start-up and has since halved in US$ terms over the life of the
project, from around US$ 1.0 million in 1990/91 and 1992/92 to US$ 0.5-0.6 million in 1998/99
and 1999/00 (Figure 3). This is not just a reflection of GOM's reduced financing capacity, since
the proportion of total voted expenditure allocated to the FD has also declined, from an average of
0.32% during FY 1992-94 to 0.20% in FY 2000. The bulk of the decline in the recurrent budget
was in salaries and other personnel costs, partly a result of the reduced staff complement. The
ratio of approved operational budget to personnel costs declined from 0.99 in 1991/92 to a low of
0.36 in 1994/95, but had recovered to 0.87 in 1999/00. In general this "mobility ratio" at FD
Headquarters was approximately double that awarded to the field services, with the gap widening
in years of higher overall budget. In other words, budget increases tend not to have been passed
on proportionally to the field but have been consumed at Headquarters.
The Research Component
25.       The research component comprised two items: stock assessment and lake resource
conservation. The former was to be directed specifically at those fisheries targeted for support
under the production component, with emphasis on demersal trawling. The latter would establish
a monitoring system to enable a rapid response to threats to L. Malawi's ecological integrity
posed by over-exploitation, environmental changes or other hazards. In practice,limnological and
pelagic ecology studies were undertaken between 1991 and 1994 under the SADC/ODA Pelagic
Resources Assessment Project, and were expanded from 1995 by the SADC/GEF Lake Malawi
Biodiversity Conservation Project. Since the FD researchers who specialised inlimnology were
assigned to these projects as counterparts, the lake resource conservation sub-component was not
actively pursued under the FDP, which concentrated instead on stock assessment.
26.       Physical inputs to the research component included a new 17 m and 380 hp research
vessel, the Ndunduma (provided under the ICEIDA grant); rehabilitation and expansion of the
FRU offices, laboratories and marine workshop and the construction of 7 staff houses in Monkey
Bay, the construction of ajetty and the provision of vehicles and equipment. In addition, technical
assistance was provided to commission the vessel and training provided to its officers and crew.
Several posts within the FRU were upgraded, the professional staff complement increased, and
several FRU scientists received postgraduate training. A fisheries biologist was provided by
ICEIDA from 1993-96 and 1997-99, with short-term inputs provided in the interim period.
The staffing of the FRU has varied markedly over time as the balance betfveen recruitnent and staff losses
(attrition, secondment, training) has changed. Currently, of 11 established posts in capture fisheries research
3 are vacant: I is based at HQ, 3 are seconded to the SADC/GEF project; 2 are on overseas training and 2 are
in post. The 5 staff on secondment/training are all expected to return to FRU.
9



ANNEX 7B
ICEIDA showed great flexibility in extending its support programme in an organic fashion in
response to the FD's expressed needs, to the extent that the donor's final account was more than
double the sum originally committed.
27.       The FRU conducted a series of monitoring trawl surveys in southem L. Malawi from
the research vessel Ndunduma, and also carried out exploratory surveys in the Central and
Northern Regions. An initial survey was performed in 1993 to examine allegations by the FAO
Chambo Project that the deep-water demersal stocks in the South East Arm had collapsed. No
evidence of over-fishing was found except in a small area adjacent to the trawler base. From
subsequent surveys in southern L. Malawi (1994-99) it was concluded that (a) biomass in the deep
waters (50-150 m) had increased by about 40% since the 1970s, and increases were also noted in
shallow. water in most areas; (b) only in the most heavily fished southern part of the South East
Arm had biomass decreased, by about 15%; (c) demersal fish stocks fluctuated in abundance but
overall were judged to be stable, and (d) the southern deep-water trawl fishery should be
expanded to take an additional 4-5,000 tonnes. Confidence in the long-term viability of the
southern trawl stocks increased quickly after theNdunduma surveys started, and by 1995 could be
said to have reached a sufficient level to validate theFDP's original rationale and objectives.
Exploratory surveys carried out in 1994-95 between Domira Bay and Nkhata Bay identified a
substantial deep-water stock in Domira Bay and, to a lesser extent, further north, and it was
recommended that trawling be licensed in these areas. These surveys also identified under-
exploited stocks further inshore which could be accessed by theartisanal fishery if better gear and
boats were made available.
28.       In all 13 monitoring surveys the quality of research conducted under the FDP was
high and its focus very relevant to the future of fisheries production and management. The
technical sustainability of the research component has been questioned on the grounds that
counterpart staffing levels in FRU were low and lacked continuity (see footnote).
The Production Component
29.       The production  component comprised six themes, with  considerable  inter-
dependency between some of them. They were: support to the artisanal, semi-commercial and
commercial fisheries; pilot scale aquaculture development, a women's programme, focused on
fish processing and trading, and a credit sub-component.
Expansion of the Artisanal Fishery into Offshore Waters
30.       The rationale for support to the artisanal fishery was that the inshore waters were
already fully or over-exploited, and that helping fishermen to exchange dugout canoes for planked
boats would redistribute effort over a wider range of resources. Although it was known that
offshore resources were available they had not been quantified at the time of project appraisal, and
the scale of this enterprise was therefore restricted to 50 additional units and 150 replacement
units. The planned support to the artisanal fisheries was not altered in the August 1993
restructuring, since the view was taken that any transfer of effort further offshore would serve the
interests of resource conservation. The vehicle of support was to be a line of credit, discussed in
paras 37 to 41, and the source of boats and motors was to be the privatisedMpwepwe and Salima
boatyards. For reasons that are discussed below, neither the line of credit nor the boatyards
functioned in the intended manner during the life of the project. Theartisanal production sub-
component was therefore not implemented.
10



ANNEX 7B
Fleet Renewal in the ("semi-commercial") Pair Trawl Fishery
31.       At appraisal, 15 pair units were licensed, but only 10 were operational. The vessels
were old, in a poor state of repair, and annual landings were substantially below the assessed
sustainable production targets. Therefore, FDP was designed to finance the construction of eight
new pair units. Contrary to current belief, it was never the intention of the project to provide a
credit facility for the purchase of these vessels, as many of the existing fishing companies were
sufficiently creditworthy to obtain commercial loans. An important part of the plan for this fleet
was to ensure that effort was suitably distributed in accordance with the known disposition of
demersal fish stocks, a management measure that had not been enforced for some years.
32.       The development of the pair trawl fleet did not go according to plan. During the early
years of the project, this was due mainly to uncertainty on the status of the trawl fishery. Although
by mid-1995, FRU conclusively indicated the availability of under-utiliseddemersal trawl stocks,
the project did not reinstate the previously planned support to the pair trawlers. It should be
recalled that support to the trawlers was synonymous with support to the Mpwepwe Boatyard -
another of the project's sub-components that was, for no clear reason, stalled. Throughout the
project life the boatyard was able to build only a very small number of new vessels, and no power
units or engine spare parts were supplied after the original Treasury Fund stock was expended in
the early 1990s. Import support via NDF was available for the supply of engines, spare parts,
trawl nets and ice plants, but the FD made no use of this facility. Thesemi-commercial fishery has
now virtually collapsed, with only 4 units operating at minimum capacity. The net loss of annual
production, subtracting the 1996' catch (1,130 tonnes) from the mean catch over 1986-91 (3,130
tonnes), is 2,000 tonnes.
Reinvestment in MALDECO Fisheries Ltd
33.       MALDECO was founded as a private company in the 1950s to catch high value fish
by means of trawling and ring netting. It was nationalised after Independence, but although it
continued to perform well in public ownership, its profits were diverted to subsidise less viable
enterprises, and necessary reinvestment in capital equipment was discontinued. In 1989 the
company was sold to its present owner, the Press Corporation, now a public company listed on the
Malawi Stock Exchange.
34.       At project appraisal MALDECO was in visible decline. Refrigeration, freezing, cold
storage and ice-making machinery bought 30 years earlier had exceeded its useful life, and the
condition of vessels and vehicles was equally poor. By the time of project start-up MALDECO
was no longer profitable. Under the project NDF funds were reserved to provide import support to
MALDECO, administered as a local-currency loan by the Reserve Bank of Malawi on behalf of
the MOF. This would provide for the supply of a new 17 m multi-purpose fishing vessel as well
as a range of ancillary equipment. In order to prevent an excessive build-up of fishing capacity in
southern L. Malawi (given the projected support to the pair trawlers) MALDECO was required to
remove from service two small stem trawlers after commissioning the new vessel: this was done
in 1995-96.
35.       The supply of equipment proceeded fairly closely to plan, and between 1993 and
1997 the project provided the fishing vessel Kandwindwi; cold rooms; a blast freezer; a holding
freezer; an ice plant; a delivery truck; two fork-lift trucks, a new operational base atChipoka
(including cold storage and a wholesale/retail shop) and an uisipa fishing rig. The Kandvvindwi
exploits deep-water demersal trawl stocks in the southem lake and to a limited extent in the
Central Region. In pursuing this fishery MALDECO is making direct use of research conducted
1996 is the most recent year for which an estimate is available.
11



ANNEX 7B
under the ICEIDA supported FDP research component. Kandwindivi entered service in 1994, but
after a successful start was damaged by fire in 1996. The period 1997-99 saw continuous service,
with annual production averaging 1,110 tonnes (Table 4). In addition, each of the experimental
usipa rigs, one of which was provided by the FDP, took on average 10 tonnes/annum during the
period 1995-99. The two vessels that were replaced according to the FDP prescription caught an
average of about 200 tonnes/ annum during their final four years of service. The net increase in
annual production attributable to the project is therefore around 900 tonnes.
36.       The company's financial performance improved markedly during the life of the
project (Figure 4 and Table 4). The gross margin on fishing operations rose from a low of about
US$390,000 in 1994 to an annual average of about US$1 million in 1997-99. In 1995, pre-tax
profit emerged into positive figures for the first time since the late 1980s, at around US$310,000,
and has since grown slowly to slightly over US$400,000 in 1999. Recently, sustained growth in
the face of a short-term decline in fishing margins indicates improved efficiency and expanded
retailing operations. The contribution to profitability made by the refrigeration equipment is
included in the cost of sales and is therefore not separable from the fishing operation.
Credit
37.       At project appraisal it was acknowledged that small-scale fishermen and those
engaged in ancillary trades were effectively locked out of the formal financial system because of
their inability to provide loan collateral and because of the perception of fisheries as a high risk
sector. Accordingly, a line of credit was to be provided through a pilot project for implementation
by the GOM's Smallholder Agricultural Credit Administration (SACA), on commercial terms and
conditions. Loan applications to SACA would require certification from FD that the planned
activity complied with appropriate technical, environmental and legal standards. SACA was to
lend to artisanal fishermen, for boats, engines and fishing gear, and to women fish processors and
traders. The project budget included US$662,100 for investment in the artisanal fishery and
US$200,000 for the women's programme. While credit terms and conditions were outlined clearly
in the SAR, the practical mechanisms for setting up and managing the credit component were
again left to the "weak" FD, without guidance or technical assistance.
38.       By August 1993 SACA had prepared an action plan to implement the credit scheme,
and was awaiting approval of the MFNR to proceed. The IDA restructuring mission of 1993
proposed to expand its scope to include small-scaleboatbuilders, since the critical shortage of
fishing craft exacerbated by the closure of Salima boatyard was becoming increasingly apparent.
However at this time Malawi was undergoing a profound political change - the advent ofmulti-
party democracy. Democracy brought with it some unforeseen negative effects, one of which was
widespread political interference in the seasonal agricultural lending programme in 1993,
resulting in loan default on such a scale that it bankrupted SACA. By 1994 SACA had been
succeeded by a quasi-commercial venture - the Malawi Rural Finance Company (MRFC) -
initiated under the World Bank and IFAD supported Rural Financial Services Project.
39.       The breakdown in credit discipline made for a difficult start for MRFC, and despite
approaches by FD, fisheries loans were not accorded high priority. It was only when the WB task
management of both the FDP and MIRFC fell to the same individual in 1996 that productive
discussions on the credit component were resumed. An important policy change made then was
the deletion of the line of credit but retention of the credit theme through MRFC, although it was
clear that this company would not extend medium- to long-term credit to fishermen.
40.       The credit programme started at the operational level in 1997 on the direct initiative
of MIRFC. Fisheries staff received training in the modalities of MR.FC business lending, and were
12



ANNEX 7B
themselves involved in the establishment of credit groups (women's, men's and mixed), in
training each group over a 10-week period, and in supporting those groups which had passed
NRFC's screening process and had actually been provided with loans. By April 2000, 259 groups
had been formed and almost half of these had received loans (Table 5). Groups range in size from
10 to 25 members, and it is estimated that close to 4,000 women and men are now members of
fisheries credit groups. Loans averaged about MK5,000 (say US$100) and were given for a
maximum period of one year, but usually repaid within a few months.
41.       During the latter part of the project interest rates increased substantially. The base rate
rose from 23% in the final quarter of 1997 to 43% in the same period in 1998, and 48% in 2000.
MiRFC's current business lending rate is 49%. This may be acceptable in rapid-turnover, high-
margin enterprises, and it is not surprising that trade in various commodities (crops, clothes,
sugar, salt, fish, oil) dominates the business activities of the fisheries credit groups. Short-term
loans at high interest rates are not suitable for financing capital items such as fishing craft or
engines, and no loans for boats or boatbuilding have been granted or are anticipated. Useful as it
is, the MRFC programme should not, therefore, be considered as a replacement to the original
FDP credit sub-component, which was to support fishery production and processing.
The Women's Programme
42.       The women's programme was conceived as a pilot activity to be carried out in three
districts in support of women's role in fish processing, distribution and marketing. It was to
incorporate training, in fish processing and business management, and credit, for working capital
and the acquisition of necessary equipment. The success of the pilot programme was dependent
on the operation of the credit programme, which for reasons elaborated above was both delayed
and downsized, and on the supply of ice, which had more or less been removed by the project. TA
was to be provided in the form of a baseline socio-economic study, and female officers were to be
recruited and trained to manage the programme.
43.       During 1992-93 many women's groups were established by fisheries extension agents
in anticipation of a substantial credit programme - even in districts outside the three proposed for
pilot operations. In 1993 a Senior Women's Programme Officer (SWPO) was appointed to FD
Headquarters, and in 1994 three WPOs were recruited and posted in the field. The planned
baseline survey and action plan were both successfully completed during 1994. The needs of
women in the lakeshore communities were found not to match the project's initial emphasis on
fish processing, and were more broadly spread over a range of small business activities.
Implementation of the action plan was seriously impaired by the continued delay in the
availability of credit, and by March 1996 only 23 of the original women's groups remained. The
restructuring of the FDP in 1996 removed both the credit and the women's programme, and three
of the original four female officers left the FD in subsequent years (one stayed on as a District
Fisheries Officer). The only activity remaining from this programme is the modest short-term
credit programme extended to women through MRFC (para. 40).
Aquaculture
44.       Despite the availability of suitable land and appropriate technologies,aquaculture has
not had a history of success in Malawi. Past efforts have been characterised by sporadic donor
support, excessive concentration on research rather than on the dissemination and support of
proven methodologies, and the dispersal of limited human and financial resources over a number
of experimental projects. At project appraisal the aquaculture sector was producing less than 50
tonnes/annum. The FDP pilot project conformed to the previous pattern of development in this
13



ANNEX 7B
field. Another new experimental station was proposed, and two locally untried technologies were
to be the subject of pilot initiatives.
45.       By 1993 no progress had been made in the aquaculture sub-component. Two other
aquaculture projects had recently started in both the Northern and Southern Regions, placing
considerable demands on an overstretched FD professional establishment, and again the sub-
component comprised only a sketchy design and a budget, with no technical assistance to help it
off the ground. It was judged that implementation of this sub-component would place
unsustainable demands on the FD and would duplicate work undertaken by the EU financed
Central and Northem Regions Fish Farming Project (1989-95). Accordingly, it was recommended
during project restructuring that the aquaculture component be removed from the project entirely.
The Infrastructure Component
46.       The infrastructure component comprised three elements. The most important of these
was the restoration of Mpwepwe boatyard to full working capacity, also an integral part of the
planned expansion of fish production. In addition, the project planned to build 25 fishing beach
access roads and two jetties at FD field stations.
Mpwepwe an(d Salima Boatyards
47        At project start-up there were two commercial boatyards in Malawi, both owned by
the FD. One at Salima produced very popular V-bottom wooden boats for the artisanal fisheries.
This yard was closed by the FD in 1993 in accordance with the DCA provisions, but no attempt
was made to privatise it. The staff were dismissed, and some months later the tools and equipment
were auctioned to local joinery firms, with FD retaining the site. Supervision missions in 1993
and 1994 emphasised the need to attempt to salvage this situation, but by this time the skilled
workforce had dispersed, and no action was taken.
48.       The situation with Mpwepwe Boatyard, in Mangochi District, was rather different.
Mpwepwe was a larger establishment who's main line of construction was a 7.5 m V-bottom boat,
the basis of the pair trawl fleet. Maintenance of this fleet was estimated to require the construction
of six new vessels annually. By 1991 output had fallen to a very low level - one or two boats per
year - and the yard was in debt and in urgent need of rehabilitation. The construction of new
vessels was key to the proposed expansion of artisanal and semi-commercial production, and
therefore the redevelopment of Mpwepwe was seen as a priority activity. It was intended under
the project to rehabilitate the yard and to run it on a commercial basis within the GOM
management context. This option was selected because at appraisal the prospects for privatisation
appeared remote. In 1993 a consulting firm was appointed to provide technical assistance for the
rehabilitation, resulting in the preparation of new boat designs and outline specifications for
reconstruction. The boatyard staff was reduced to a bare minimum while the rehabilitation was
under way.
49.       By this time a number of entrepreneurs had expressed interest in the acquisition of the
boatyard, and privatisation appeared for the first time to be a real possibility. The rehabilitation
was therefore deferred on the recommendation of the 1993 restructuring mission, which
considered it more appropriate to make available to the new owner, on a loan basis, those funds
which had been reserved for the boatyard redevelopment. The NIDF approved this course of
action. The privatisation of Mpwepwe took almost six years, and was not completed until May
1999. In a management buy-out the yard was sold to the Mpwepwe Boatyard Company Ltd.,
comprising of staff previously employed by the FD. However, by this time the yard was almost
defunct, and most of the equipment unserviceable. ICEIDA made a small grant available to buy
14



ANNEX 7B
minor tools, but there was insufficient time to arrange the NDF/GOM subsidiary loan prior to
project closedown. Furthermore, boatyard debts exceeding MKW 2 million formed part of the
privatisation package. The yard is now on the verge of collapse, and stands little prospect of
survival unless it obtains rapid financial and management support.
Access Roads and Jetties
50.       A construction programme for beach access roads - at 25 sites and of an average
length of about 2km - was included in the project as a stimulus to trade in locations where
artisanal production was high and access poor. About 10% of the routes surveyed were also to
serve trawler landings and the two boatyards. No progress on this programme had been made at
the time of the project restructuring in 1993, and its deletion from the project was recommended
at this time and later in 1996. The principal argument used to support its removal was that the FD
was overloaded and did not have the capacity to implement this activity in addition to other tasks
which had higher priority. It was also claimed, however, that given the shortfall in the national
supply of fish, road access could no longer be considered a serious constraint to production or
distribution.
51.       Two new jetties were constructed under the FDP, one at the FRU in Monkey Bay and
one at the District and Regional Fisheries Office at Nkhata Bay. Their primary function is to
provide safe landing points for research and patrol vessels, i.e. they are part of the FD
infrastructure rather than services to the fishing industry.
E. PROJECT ORGANISATION AND MANAGEMENT
52.       Responsibility for project implementation lay with Ministry of Natural Resources and
Environmental Affairs (MONREA) (formerly MFNR, MNR), and overall coordination was to be
overseen by a Project Coordination Committee (PCC) chaired by MONREA and representing:
other line agencies, the MOF, the National Economic Council, the Ministry of Human Resources
Management and Development (formerly DPMT) and MOWAS. Given the project's broad scope
and the need for inter-agency coordination, the PCC was expected to play a vital role in creating
and maintaining momentum and in resolving implementation difficulties. In practice, the PCC
functioned poorly, and by 1994 it had more or less broken down. Various attempts to revive the
PCC were made during the life of the project, but no record of meetings was available to the ICR
mission, and it is assumed that the PCC was more a series of ad-hoc meetings than a functional
committee.
53.       The internal organisation and management of the project underwent three
evolutionary phases. During 1991-94 the project was managed by a PCU within FD Headquarters
and headed by a Project Coordinator who reported directly to the Director of Fisheries. This
highly centralised management of project activities and resource flows contributed to ineffective
implementation at field level.
54.       A project management workshop held in June 1994 downgraded the role of the PCU
to one of administration, on the grounds that the FDP was supporting mainstream FD activities
and therefore did not require a parallel management structure. The role of the newly created
Project Administrative Unit (PAU) was to ensure that the project's heavy administrative workload
did not interfere with FD's technical and developmental responsibilities. The PAU was to be
staffed by a contracted Project Administrative Officer, the Financial Controller and support staff.
Control of project accounts was to be decentralised to Component Managers and, further, to those
field stations that had a good track record in managing the recurrent budget. This system was
15



ANNEX 7B
swept away soon after it started by the GOM's "consolidation of accounts" exercise in 1995
(para. 18).
55.        A more successful attempt to decentralise project management was undertaken in
1996/97, with strong support from IDA. This initiative established a Project Management Group
(PMG) within FD Headquarters to which authority for day-to-day implementation was formally
delegated, and re-established a decentralised field management by securing MOF approval for the
creation of four regional cost centres in addition to FD HQ. This was a considerable task, since it
required the creation of regional accounts offices, but this was accomplished within about 6
months. The cost centres operated initially with project funds, but were adopted by the MOF in
1998/99 recurrent budget allocations. In the 1999/00 budget, the number of regional cost centres
was reduced to two, a retrograde move made in the interests of cost-saving.
56.       Day-to-day management of the FDP at both field and Headquarters levels was, on the
whole, poor up to the time of the MTR, but improved markedly after the decentralisation effected
in 1996/97 and the introduction of management measures including (a) increased attention to
annual work planning throughout the FD, but with particular emphasis on research, extension and
law enforcement; (b) the establishment of a formal monitoring system for all routine field
activities, and (c) frequent and attentive supervision by IDA. Despite these improvements, poor
documentation at FD Headquarters made it difficult, and at times impossible, to track the history
of the project or other aspects of the fisheries sub-sector.
F. PROJECT IMPACT
57.       The impact of the project has been modest compared to appraisal expectations,
principally because of the removal of the production component. Its major impact was on the FD's
institutional development, in that investments in physical infrastructure, vehicles and operational
support have shifted the FD from a state of immobility and dependency into one which commands
a significant field presence. More importantly, the FD is a better structured, more professional and
more capable institution than it was at project start-up. With project assistance the FRU has
conducted timnely and relevant research, the results of which have been made available through
publication, and made use of by the industry. This has contributed to our understanding of the
exploited fish stocks, and has identified new stocks previously unexploited. During the course of
the project the FD has consulted widely in the development of a new national fisheries sector
policy, and in 1997 Parliament approved a new and progressive Fisheries Conservation and
Management Act.' A national programme of fisheries extension has been established, many of its
staff trained and its activities monitored and periodically reviewed. Co-management of the
artisanal fisheries, provided for in the new legislation, has been promoted through the extension
programme, and although implementation remains at an early stage its principles are well
understood within the FD and are becoming known and accepted in the fishing communities. The
relationship between these communities and the FD has improved dramatically as a result of the
latter's role in support of credit groups, and linking them to MRFC lending. These are significant
achievements, and are a tribute to the FD and to the guidance provided by IDA during the later
years of the project.
1 The Fisheries Conservation and Management Act (1997) replaced the 1974 Fisheries Act. Its principal
distinguishiing feature is its specific provision for a co-management regime through the conclusion of a
legally binding agreement between the government and a recognized fishermen's body. All fishing areas that
are not subject to a co-management agreement will continue to be managed by the FD, as in the past. The Act
is concerned with the regulation of all forms of fishing - commercial, subsistence or sport fishing - and
aquaculture, anywhere in Malawi except within the protected areas. It provides also for control over the
landing and processing of fish and all aspects of its distribution and marketing on both domestic and
international markets.
16



ANNEX 7B
58.       When attention is turned to the industry, the impact of the project has been minimal.
This is because only the MALDECO investment proposal was implemented, but not theartisanal
and semi-commercial investment proposals from which the bulk of the expected project
production was to originate.
59.       There are extensive areas of zero-impact in which a major fisheries development
project might have been expected to make improvements. The range of fishing gear available to
the industry remains unchanged after 30 years: no new materials have been provided, or
technologies extended. The pair trawlers continue to fish with trawls designed in the 1970s. Boat
designs are also unchanged, and access to fishing beaches no better, or worse, than before the
project. There have also been negative impacts, principally associated with the FD's withdrawal
from boat construction and the supply of other services. The closure of Salima boatyard scattered
skilled boatbuilders and their equipment to local joinery shops in an unseemly end to FD's many
years of workforce development. As explained earlier, theMpwepwe yard is in a very precarious
state. After project start-up it was run at an extremely low level of output, and many of its staff
were laid off. When privatised 8 years later, the boatyard was little more than a shell, its new
owners inexperienced in business and potentially crippled by inherited debts. The reduced
availability of seaworthy boats to the artisanal fishery has contributed to the concentration of
fishing effort in the inshore zone, to increasing poverty in the fishing communities and ultimately
to the resource management problems which the FD now has to face. The mechanised fishery has
been more visibly affected. The pair trawl fleet was in a poor state when the project started, but
after a decade without replacement engines or spare parts, this fishery is now almost defunct.
60.       FD's withdrawal from boatbuilding and other services did have the intended impact
of freeing up the time of field professionals for other areas of responsibility. But overall the
impact on the FD itself was strongly negative, since field officers saw development of the industry
as a prime responsibility and the dismantling of the services they had worked to establish as
incomprehensible. It confused field staff and soured working relationships between the FD and
the industry.
61.       It would be wrong to give the impression that FD's withdrawal from service
provision has left a total vacuum, and there are several examples of private sector development in
this field that probably would not have taken place had the FD continued its operations. Two
small-scale self-financed ice plants are known to be in operation, and several former Salima
boatyard employees continue to make boats to the popular designs developed by the FD.
However, the ice plants service mainly non-fishery businesses, and the boatbuilders operate as
village enterprises with very limited capital, and their inability to access other than locally
available construction materials means that their products have a very short working life. Fishing
gear is sold by a number of retail distributors throughout Malawi, but this is a risky and
unprofitable business, and annual sales by the Blantyre Netting Company have fallen from 80-100
tonnes in the 1980s to only 50 tonnes in 1999 - a remarkable statistic given that the number of
fishing craft has increased by 60% over the same period.
G. SUSTAINABILITY
62.       The sustainability of development interventions supported by the FDP may be
assessed on several levels. Ultimately, the intention is to put in place a variety of mechanisms to
ensure that Malawi's fish resources are used and conserved to the maximum economic and social
benefit to the nation. In the artisanal fisheries these mechanisms will depend to a large extent on
the emerging local-level fisheries institutions -BVCs and Fishermen's Associations. These are
yet at too early a stage in their development to permit a meaningful discussion of sustainability.
The only interventions that have gone all the way to the end-user are the MALDECO loan and the
17



ANNEX 7B
FD/MRFC credit groups. Both of these initiatives are likely to be sustainable on their own
account, and are not dependent on a great deal of back-up support. The remaining activities of the
project concem the activities of the FD, and here sustainability may be considered at both
financial and institutional levels.
63.       Financial sustainability is of immediate concern to the FD - even if support to the
fisheries sub-sector were to enter a second phase it is now inevitable that a substantial funding gap
would precede the new project. Financial sustainability means essentially the sustained funding of
field operations, including provision for the maintenance and ultimate replacement of project
investments in infrastructure and equipment. Although GOM support to the fisheries sub-sector
has declined over the life of the project, MOF's position is that the project phase-out is understood
and will be compensated by an increase in the recurrent budget. The extent of the increase was,
however, not conveyed to the mission.
64.       The managers of two costly recurrent activities - theNclunduma research programme
and the MCF - have taken proactive steps to assure future financial security by taking on
commercial enterprises in addition to their development functions. It is intended to sustain the
Ndunduma programme through commercial fishing at times when the vessel is not required for
research purposes. Current thinking for MCF points towards some degree of financial autonomy,
with the college paying its way through cost recovery, the renting of conference facilities,
commercial fishing, competition in the regional market for natural resources training, etc. These
activities would certainly improve the sustainability of project activities under these two FD
Units. However, they would take the FD through a full cycle and back into a commercial role
deliberately closed by FDP. This raises an important point of development philosophy - should
the GOM enter into commercial activities in order to sustain necessary government functions?
What is the justification for removing such functions into the quasi-governmental grey area, and
how do the answers to these questions match the likelihood that GOM will in fact finance these
activities from taxation revenues? These are questions only the GOM can answer, but they should
be confronted openly and not answered by default.
18



ANNEX 7B - FIGS
Figure 1. Fish Production in Malawi, 1976-96
9 0 ,0 0 0  -  ............................................. ......................................... ................................... ....... ......................................................... .....................................
8('0(0                                                    --w- ~~~~~~~~~~National catch
90,000.-.  .L. Malawi total
:  70,000                                                                     --a-L   alawi artisanal
oa-\ L. Mablawi mechanised
c 60,000
5 40,000
= 30,000
: 20,000
10,000
CO      co       0       CN               t o      co     OC       CN 1              co
1-     fj-       CO      cO       00      00       CO      a)       0)      0)       0)
0)      0)       0)      0)       0)      0)       0       0)       0)      0)       a)
Source: Fisheries Department Resource Report, 1999.
Figure 2. Artisanal Fish Production from Lake Malawi and All Other Waters, 1976-96
50,000 ______  ____._-_ _   _                                                          _ __
45,000 -  :
4,000          -  Al other w aters 15'
4 40,000
3= 5'000                                                 d>
0
3 0,000 -                                                                                      -
tp~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
*~25,000
c
_20,000
15,000 -
10,000                                                                                 __
0
rD      O      a      C%j    't    (c       co      0       JN     v       D      cO
-      t-      co     co    co       CO     CO      0)     0       0    )         0)
0)     0)      0)     0       0      0)     0)      0)     0n      0)0C           0)
Source: Fisheries Department Resource Report, 1999.
19



ANNEX 7B-FIGS
Figure 3. Fisheries Department Recurrent Budgets 1990/91 - 2000/01
1,200,000 00         |                           r 
1,000,000 
cm  800000  
0~600,000-
o.  400'000            .  .
200000
0
N -              L          rD -    CO  c 
0)   0)   0)   cn   0)    c    m    o)    m    o
o     -                4    Lo                            C 8    a o
0)    )    0    0)   0)   0    0)          0)   
Source: Budget documents ORT  Other Recurrent Transactions, i.e. all non-personnel costs.
Approved (2) and Approved ORT (2) figures for 1999,'00 and 2000/01 include USAID budget support
targeted under the NATURE programme.
Figure 4. MALDECO Fisheries Ltd.: financial performance 1993-99
140 -
E, 0 40 
1 020 -
1000
040
Source: MA4LDECO end-of-year accounts.
20



ANNEX 7B -TABLES
Table 1. Fish Production in Malawi, 1976-98
National   Lake      Lake                      Artisanal Fisheries (all waters)
Total   Malawi   Malawi
Catch    Total  Mechanised  Lake         All    Lake    Lake    Lake   Upper   Lower
Catch               Malawi  Other Malomb  Chilwa  Chiuta   Shire    Shire
Waters     e
1976     54,646    23,575     6,654     16,921    31,071    4,776   15,115      700      823    9,657
1977     65,842    31,314     6,604     24,710    34,528    4,937   21,200    1,800    1,153    5,438
1978     62,985    27,607     6,458     21,149    35,378    6,841   20,800    1,500      637    5,600
1979     53,731    21,148     7,117     14,031    32,583    2,917   24,310    1,589      418    3,349
1980     50,948   22,869      6,601     16,268    28,079    4,969   16,839      777    1,716    3,778
1981     53,030    28,835     6,792     22,043    24,195    7,559    9,797      937    1,624    4,278
1982     59,477    23,969     7,012     16,957    35,508   12,936   15,567    1,229      551    5,225
1983     62,605    31,197     7,297     23,900    31,408    9,677   14,447    1,053      444    5,787
1984     59,808    28,795     7,532     21,263    31,023   10,375   13,026    1,838      862    4,922
1985     58,415   28,181      7,948     20,233    30,234    8,313   13,040    1,307      223    7,351
1986     69,574    32,759     7,302     25,457    36,816   12,618   13,720      698      739    9,041
1987     70,093    38,743     7,656     31,087    31,350   12,330    7,990    3,223      651    7,156
1988     60,881    33,219     7,081     26,138    27,662   10,535    6,708    1,659      582    8,178
1989     66,619    38,466     5,235     33,231    26,153    6,607    7,023    1,109      358   11,056
1990     76,532    31,008     6,205     24,803    45,524   12,084   23,558    2,381      504    6,997
1991     57,631    29,511     5,960     23,551    28,120    9,625    7,389    1,773      283    9,050
1992     59,171    35,027     5,548     29,479    24,144    7,600   10,459    2,687      440    2,958
1993     50,876    27,391     3,549     23,842    23,485    5,811   10,810    3,532      439    2,893
1994     53,920    34,239     4,778     29,461    19,681    4,134   10,186    3,350      265    1,746
1995     32,271    26,385     4,915     21,470     7,214    2,653    1,328    1,159      174    1,900
1996     49,393    39,612     2,896     36,716     9,781    3,573        0    4,035      326    1,847
1997                                                        2,790    4,510    2,733
1998                                                        4,789    4,973    3,250
Source: Fisheries Department Resource Report, 1999.
2 1



ANNEX 7B - TABLES
Table 2. Fisheries Department Proposed and Actual Staff Complement 1996-2000
Location/function                           Professional   Senior       Junior       Accounts,         Total
Technical  Technical   Admin. &
Support
(a) Structure proposed by the (then) DPMT, 1993-96
Fisheries Headquarters                                9            0           0          26              35
National Field Programme                             16           3 1        130          79            256
Capture fisheries research                           15            5          16          23              59
Aquaculture programme                                16           1 1         34          45             106
Fisheries Training                                    6            6           1          1 7             30
Mpwepwe boatyard                                      0            0           00                          0
Departmnent Total                                    62          53          181         190            486
(h) Stff in post in---March                                        i9-6
Fisheries Headquarters                                8            1           4          22              35
National Field Prograimme                             3            7         165          30             205
Capture fisheries research                            3            4          18           7              32
Aquaculture programme                                 5            5          34          1 6             60
Fisheries Training                                    2            5           4           9              20
Mpwepwe boatyard                                      0            1           0           6               7
Department Tota[                                     21          23          225          90            359
(c) Staff in post at June 2000
Fisheries Headquarters                               10            0           1          29              40
National Field Programnme                            I11          12         103          35             161
Capture fisheries research                            5            4          20          14              43
Aquaculture programme                                 5           1 1         22          20              58
Fisheries Training                                    3            8           0           9              20
Mpwepwe boatvard                                      0            0           0           0               0
Department Total                                     34          35          146         107             322
22



ANNEX 7B - TABLES
Table 3. FDP Civil Works Programme, 1996-2000
Station                       Nature of Works                                                                                   Implementation
dates
Karonga                       Construction of District Fisheries Office                                                                  1998-1999
Chilumba                      Cosrcinofsu-ititFseesOfc19820
~     ~  ~ ~  ~ ~ ~~~~~~J   .     .. .........   ................................... ............. ................. ........... ............................ ......... ......   .......   --.............. ... . ................................................................
Nkchata Bay                   Rehabilitation of Regional and District Fisheries Office                                                   1998-2000
Construction of 2 staff houses                                                                            1998-2000
Saia                                                                                                                         1999-20000
Sa ir a ~~onstruction of District Fisheries Office19-20
Construction of I staff house                                                                             1999-2000
................ ............ ...................   .i       .................   ........ .........   .    ......   ..    .......  I.
Lilongwe                   - Construction of Fisheries Departmental Headquarters                                                         1999-2000
Monkey           ------ BayFiseri-s Research Unit rehabilitation and e.xpansion196 99
Monkey Bay                           9n6e99
Renovation of marine workshop                                                                              1999-2000
Constructon of 7 staff houses                                                            .1999-2000
Mpwepwe             Mpwepwe College of Fisheries: classrooms; workshops; library; -                               -      -          6-l99
office; dormitories; dining room; kitchen; guest house and staff
housing.
Mangochi                      District Fisheries Office rehabilitation and expansion                                                     1996-1998
Construction of I staff house                                                                             1999-2000
Zomba.--.-. Construction of staff houses                                                                                                    998-2000
....................... .     ............................  .........................  ............. ..................  ............   ................   ....................  ....................  ...........  ...    .....   ..  ....................  ........   .............
E Bangula                     Construction of District Fisheries Office                                                                  1998-2000
________. _______ Construction of staff houses                                                                                           1998-2000
23



ANNEX 7B - TABLES
Table 5. Status of FD/MRFC Mudzi Credit Groups, April 2000
Karonga  Nkhata  Nkhotakota   Salima   Mangochi   Zomba    Bangula    Total
Bay
Mns                7       10             0          1          29           025                   72
Womien's            40        11            13          5          43          0          10        122
Mixed                2         0             0         33           0         30           0         65
Total               49        21            13         39          72         30          35        259
Trained             45        19             5         27          46         25          29        196
Tested              25        19             2         27          46         25          29        173
Screened            25        10            2          27          46         25          26        161
Loans               15         5             2         27          46         25           3        1231
Source: Fisheries Department.
25



ANNEX 7C
EVALUATION OF THE COMPONENTS FINANCED BY THE NORDIC
DEVELOPMENT FUND AND ICEIDA
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
I.       Lake Malawi (about the same size as Denmark) is one of the most important and most
productive inland fisheries in Africa. This is partly because of the Lake's unique ecology and the
fact that the majority of the fish species are endemic to the Lake. Artisanal fisheries has been
conducted in the lake from earliest times, but commercial fishing did not really start taking hold
until the 1960s when Greek businessmen established a fishery near Mangochi. There has been
considerable debate on the sustainable yield of fish in the Lake and estimates have varied widely.
At the beginning of the 1990s there was considerable concern over possible over-fishing.
However, subsequent field research, using the vessel (and the scientists) provided to the project by
the Icelandic Intemational Development Authority (ICEIDA), has shown these concerns to be
exaggerated and that there are probably sizeable resources of unexploited fish in deeper waters in
the Lake. Some recent estimates have suggested that there are up to 33,000 tonnes of unexploited
fish resources accessible to semi-industrial or commercial fisheries. The total catch in the Lake is
not estimated to exceed 35,000 tonnes whilst the sustainable yield is put at well over
100,000 tonnes. However, there are striking regional variations. There was therefore considerable
scope in 1991 for the establishment of a Fisheries Development Project, led by the World Bank
and the Government of Malawi.
2.        This is the report of an Evaluation of the components of the Fisheries Development
Project, Malawi, funded by the Nordic Development Fund (NDF) and ICEIDA. These
components consist of production vessels, training, fisheries research and various infrastructure.
The value of the NDF contribution is SDR2.8 million, i.e. US$3.8 million, and the ICEIDA
contribution amounts to SDRO.8 million (about US$1.9 million). The project is due for
completion on 31 December 1999. The World Bank is supporting institution-building,
infrastructure and human resource development.
3.        Over half of NDF's contribution consists of credits for the purchase of one trawler by
the private company, MALDECO. This is performing well and MALDECO is catching over
2,000 tonnes of fish commercially every year. This constitutes a value of about US$2.5 million
with a potential of supplying over 150,000 persons with their total animal protein needs. The
remainder of the NDF contribution has gone to various infrastructure associated with production
fisheries and training of fisheries personnel.
4.        ICEIDA's contribution has consisted of the research vessel "Ndunduma" and the
Technical Assistance services of two fisheries research biologists. This assistance has helped firm
assessment of fish stocks in the Lake both for artisanal and commercial fisheries. A number of
scientific publications on the Lake fisheries have been produced by the Fisheries Research Unit
with Icelandic assistance. It is interesting to note that the "Ndunduma" has become financially
sustainable through the judicious use of revenues from the sale of fish caught during its
commercial/non-research operations.
5.        Both the production and research components of the NDF/ICEIDA assistance appear
to have met expectations. It is therefore considered that the bulk of the NDF/ICEIDA assistance to
the project is relevant, given the circumstances of Malawi.
I



ANNEX 7C
6.       It is considered that the project was well managed and the World Bank functioned
efficiently as the lead agency. This is taken to be a good model for future co-financing projects.
7.        The Evaluation finds that, by and large, the Nordic procurement aspects of the project
have functioned well, although NDF has sometimes had problems in presenting the reasons and
justification for Nordic procurement, and might make more effort in that direction to informing
borrowers of potential Nordic suppliers.
8.       It is recommended that both ICEIDA and NDF consider continuing to participate on
the next phase of this project under the World Bank because of the success of the present project.
It would appear that there is a continuing role for both agencies in Malawi.
9.        Experience from this project shows that it is important to have as a Lead Agency an
agency like the World Bank which has extensive experience of co-financing routines and
procedures.
10.       Experience of cooperation between ICEIDA and NDF is good and has been
strengthened by the presence of resident ICEIDA Project Coordinators (in Malawi, Mozambique
and Cape Verde).
2



ANNEX 7D
GOVERNMENT OF MALAWI INPUT INTO
FDP IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
1.    Introduction
The background and description of the Fisheries Development Project in the ICR is consistent
with the GOM's own view. The only additions to the backgrotmd are as follows:
Deficiencies at the Inception ofDP
Major deficiency at inception was the weak FD capacity reflected in lack of project and financial
management skills to effectively implement the project without external support, resulting in
unsatisfactory use of consultants, particularly in financial management. Secondly, the absence of
baseline data on the beneficiaries restricted the development of appropriate monitoring system
with clear indicators for performance and impact.
Project Monitoring
Joint Government and donor periodic supervision of the project constituted the major moniitoring
facility for the project. During the later half the project has been supervised every quarterly in the
year.
2.    Performance Profile of the Fisheries Development Project (FDP)
The following is a performance profile of the project:
2.1    Summary of Achievements and Shortfalls
In general, the institutional building has been successful. In particular, capacity building in
extension, research, enforcement and training has been mostly achieved. In extension and
enforcement programs, the introduction of monitorable targets provides a basis for assessing
performance among extension staff in the field. Provision of better equipment such as vessels,
motorcycles and vehicles, buildings and other utilities has motivated staff as a result of better
working environment. Research programns have been implemented with the multi-purpose
Ndunduma research vessel. The technical assistance provided by ICEIDA and training of
research staff have enhance capacity of research staff which has resulted in discovery of
underutilized fish stocks of around 33,000 tonnes in Lake Malawi and some of the research
results have assisted small-scale and large-scale fishers to adopt certain measures for improved
fishing operations and conservation of the aquatic resources. The expansion of the Fisheries
Department through a number of establishments for implementation of the project activities has
resulted in timely completion of several planned activities which could not be achieved with a
small contingent of staff. These achievements were mostly realized after the restnmcturing of the
project in September, 1996. At the time of restructuring the project components, it was reported
that capacity of the Fisheries Department was weak and hence some components like Women's
Program and Credit Components were dropped.
However some weaknesses were also noted mostly by dropping the Fish Production Component
which was to support the semi-commercial and artisanal sectors. This component could have
made an impact on fish supply to the Malawians. The closure of ice plants, boatyards and the
phasing out of fishing input supplies by the Fisheries Department was not properly considered, as
the private sector has not had much of the required capacity to sustain the activities. This has
I



ANNEX 7D
resulted in problems associated with supply of spare patts for boat engines, use of dug out canoes
for in-shore fishing and fish storage. The project design had some problems as issues related to
project management were not thought of as a useful element in implementation especially in
terms of management and procurement. The changing of staff in the project either from the
Banks side or the Government's side had an influence on the overall performance as new staff
had to learn first before coming with new ideas. Procurement of project items was therefore
either delayed or contracted out especially before the mid-term review.
2.2    Outline of Component Performance Assessment
a)     Institutional Building Component
i)    VReview of the Fisheries Legislation
The old Fisheries Act (1974) was repealed and a new one was drafted. This new Fisheries
Conservation and Management Act was passed in 1997. The major highlights of the new Act
include the Local Community Participation whereby local communities are empowered to
participate in the management of fisheries resources
ii)    Restrutcturing of the Fisheries Department
In order to implement the programmes effectively, the Fisheries Department was restructured.
The restructuring has made the Department to be more functional and it has acquired district
focus. Authority has been delegated to the regional and district offices in line with Govemment's
policy of decentralization. Four cost centres were established to decentralize financial
management.
iii)    Closing down of commercial areas
FD closed down its commercial establishments. This included the closing down the Salima
boatvard, ice making, marketing of fishing nets and motorboat spares. The Mpwepwe boatyard
was also privatised (1998).
iv)    Participation of fishing communities through local institutions
The established of BVCs is a way of decentralizing the management of fisheries resources. The
BVCs have been empowered to enforce the fisheries regulations and allow entry into fishing of
new fishers.
b) Strengthening Of Extension And Enforcement At District Level
Through the four regional levels (Zomba, Mangochi,Salima and Mzuzu), planning and execution
of field activities was decentralized and as such tasks became clearly defined because of
monitorable targets set by the extension and enforcement staff. There have been monthly training
sessions whereby target reviews are monitored. The field staff have been allocated with
appropriate means of transport such as motor vehicles, motor cycles and boats for extension and
enforcement activities. Cost centres established at each regional office have facilitated flow of
financial resources to the field staff for the planned activities.
i)     Beneficiary Imnpact assessment at a Fishing Community Level
While it is noted that the weakest point with the implementation of the FDP is lack of
achievement indicators during the project design period, in most areas along lake shores of
Malawi the project has enabled regular contacts between the fisheries staff and fishing
community through provision of motorbikes and vehicles. These meetings are conducted to
assess needs of the fishing communities, dissemination of information on fishing communities,
dissemination of information on fishing technology and fish resource management and
2



ANNEX 7D
conservation. About 267 Beach Village Committees were formed for collaborative resource
management with Fisheries Department have been fonned (in some districts these BVCs were
formed with assistance from GTZ-MAGFAD/NARMAP). Several men's and women's credit
groups have also been formed, trained, screened and linked to financial institutions for credit
packages.
ii)    Impact Assessment at Fisheries Department Level
The FDP has had an impact on the Fisheries Department as a secondary beneficiary. In general,
capacity building through training and procurement of various equipment and buildings has been
done. The FD has been expanded through several establishments. The rehabilitation of the old
Malawi College of Fisheries building and construction of new buildings have been done. The
college has also been supplied with new teaching materials.
iii)    Overall Assessment
In general the FDP has made an impact on its intended beneficiaries such as the fishing
community in terns of collaborative resource management and the institutional building but its
impact on fish production has been weak due to closure of certain important components. The
fish production could have made a very big difference on the income and protein supply to the
Malawians. However despite the fact that the credit and women's components were closed,
through some initiatives and expected loans for the fishing community has been supplied by
financial institutions especially the Malawi Rural Finance Company (MRFC).
The FD has also benefited from FDP through capacity building in policy analysis and regulatory
measures, resource management through proper research, message development and delivery and
training.
c) Participation Of Local Communities In Fish Resource Management
The FD, with support from FDP, MAGFAD/NARMAP and ODA has involved local fishing
communities in the management of fisheries resources. This has been achieved by encouraging
the communities to form local management institutions called Beach Village Committees
(BVCs). A number of women's credit groups have been formed in several areas. Through these
women's groups credit facilities are channelled to beneficiaries (mainly by Malawi Rural
Financing Company) for small-scale businesses. In some areas such as Karonga men's groups
have also benefited from these credit facilities.
d) Field Programmes
The FDP has run more effective outreach programmes in extension. Field reports have indicated
the following achievements, which have mostly been monitored since September, 1996. In terms
of cumulative total targets, the Extension Service has recorded 2,000 needs assessment meetings,
2500 extension messages disseminated to the local communities, 2300 meetings with fishers
including the BVC were conducted and over 1000 demonstrations on various aspects of fishing
e.g processing, net and boat repair were conducted. Needs assessment follow-up is central to the
extension service operations. For example, extension has helped to establish 259 credit groups
(80% women groups) of which 117 groups have received credit (some have received twice or
thrice) for fish processing, fish trading, agricultural procedure marketing, food and groceries
business, restaurants. Extension staff were trained by Malawi Rural Finance Company to provide
preparatory training to the credit groups, based on which the groups were tested and given loans.
The altemative income generating activities have helped to increase fisher family incomes as well
as helping fishing pressure. The FDP has also trained fishermen to maintain their records of daily
catch and income and to open savings account. This has helped the groups to credit-worthy for
securing institutional financing.
3



ANNEX 7D
i)    Improving working environment, capacity and efficiency.
The provision of the following has helped fisheries staff to have a conducive working
environment and this has improved the departmental efficiency. This has also enhanced
motivation and morale of staff in the FD: better office space and housing tlhrough civil works (7
offices have been constructed/rehabilitated and 25 staff house have been
constructed/rehabilitated), enhanced mobility (25 vehicles, 57 motor cycles, 52 bicycles and 12
boats were provided), better office equipment (35 computers, 9 photocopiers and fax machines
have been procured) and improved communications through establishment of a radio network.
e)    Structured planning and monitoring
Tasks for various extension and enforcement personnel levels were clearly and annual targets
fixed. Monthly monitoring and training sessions were held.
f) Human Resource Development (Training)
The Extension Manual was developed for use by extension staff. Through monthly
district meetings, extension staff have been monitoring activities and sharing their
experiences. To this effect since 1996, over 252 training sessions have been conducted in
all the regions attended by all the 57 TA, 7 TO and 7 DFOs. A Technical Officer upgrading
course (Technical Assistant-Technical Officer) was conducted where 12 TAs were trained and
promoted to TO grade upon completion of the trained and some short courses in Participatory
Extension Methods were conducted in all the regions attended by the 57 TA, 7 TO and 7 DFOs.
In terms of short term and long-term training to the fisheries staff, 37 officers have been trained
abroad in various fisheries specialised areas, 150 technical staff have received higher training (1
P.hD, 5 MSc, 14 Diploma and 11 certificates). Over 9 short-term courses were conducted to
enhance skills and expertise in areas such as Project Management, Research Methods,
Procurement, Prosecution, Participatory Extension Methods, and Financial management. Almost
the entire professional staff has attended at least one short-term course.
I)     Training for fishers
Over 290 fishers and local leaders have been imparted with knowledge in the 12 training courses
in subjects such as BVC leaders' course, business and loan management, group dynamics and
sensitisation of he Fisheries Conservation and Management Act.
ii)    Enhancing the training capacity ofMalawi Fisheries College (4FC)
New buildings have been constructed which include: staff houses, classrooms, workshops,
library, main office, guest-house for visiting lecturers and researchers, kitchen and dining room.
A plan for the utilization of the enhanced capacity recommended by the inter-ministerial
committee has been developed, finalized and adopted and is currently under implementation.
This includes a cost recovery system which has been introduced for the Pre-Service Fisheries
Assistant course and proposals have been made to hire out conference and meeting facilities and
residential facilities to raise resources. The college has new syllabus which have been developed
for new courses. About 11 lecturers have been trained to upgrade their skills. The library has also
been equipped with some new books and jourmals.
g)     Research Component
The research capacity has been enhanced through: rehabilitation and expansion construction of
offices and laboratory, upgrading of positions for Fisheries Research Station (FRS) staff and
provision of' Research Advisors and other Technical Assistance to the FRU. The first part of the
4



ANNEX 7D
Research Master Plan (RMP) has been completed. The FD research component has acquired a
multipurpose Research Vessel and a research vessel (Nkhatamaran) at Nkbata Bay was
rehabilitated in April, 2000. This enables the research station to conduct research effectively in
all parts of the lake. So far 13 surveys have been conducted since 1993. Discovery of unexploited
demersal fish stocks in Lake Malawi was possible with the new research vessel, RV Ndunduma
The FD research has been able to determine for the first time the potential availability of demersal
stocks of 33,000 tonnes of fish that can be exploited sustainability annually in the deeper waters.
The catch data for all strata in Lake Malawi and other water bodies have been regularly collected
to maintain a time series stratum catches. Based on this the FRS established statistics on fish
stocks in Malawi water bodies in July, 1999. In terms of other infrastructure, a jetty has been
constructed at Monkey-Bay and Nkhata Bay. There has been a development of Fisheries
Resources Management Plan and its annual updating. Based on this plan, regulations are
developed as needed and gazetted. The FD is now operating a Fisheries Research Fund. This
fund was established to sustain the activities of research and operations and maintenance of the
research vessel. The FRS has facilitated three Annual Research symposia. These provide a
forum where the FRU present its research findings to a wider audience. Three such symposia
were held.
h)    Fish Production Component
The component was not fully implemented as expected. The component was dropped due to some
reported on fish decline in Lake Malawi. However, to a certain extent, the FDP provided support
to MALDECO Fishing Company to procure a fishing vessel exploit deep-water stocks. It assisted
MALDECO to rehabilitate Chipoka harbour, its offices and workshop in Mangochi. Support was
also provided to procure refrigerated trucks for long distance transport. This resulted in
MALDECO opening some satellite markets in various parts of the country although later on some
of these markets were been closed.
i)    Fish Processing and Marketing
Although this sub-component was dropped the following activities were performed with the help
of district extension service in its facilitating role: training in fish processing was provided to fish
processors, smoking kilns were constructed in some strata in the North, the extension service
facilitated formation and training of the credit groups (259 credit/Income Generating Activities
groups out of which 117 groups have received loans). Socio-economic studies on how best to
reach women engaged in the fisheries sub-sector was conducted and 3 women officers were
recruited and training on how to assist women.
j)    Infrastructure Component
In terms of the infrastructure component, landing facilitates at Monkey-Bay and Nkhatabay have
been rehabilitated and upgraded. At Monkey-Bay a solid jetty and a slipway were constructed.
At Nkhata-bay a pontoon is to be constructed. The Mpwepwe Boatyard was rehabilitated with
provisions of wood working machines and was later privatised. However, construction of access
roads was dropped.
2.3   Impact of the Fisheries Development Project.
a) Restructuring of the Department with clear line of command and decentralisation to districts
supported by a strong training program has improved institutional capacity of the Fisheries
Department.
5



ANNEX 7D
b) Morale and efficiency of staff has improved because of good working conditions (good
offices, housing, transport, operating resources etc) and training.
c) The F'PD has contributed in developing measures that would help in sustaining activities of
the fisheries Department. These include empowerment of communities whichi has helped in
checking illegal fishing practices thereby to extent reducing enforcement costs by the FD,
establishrnent of FRF for sustainable research and introduction of user fees and other cost
recovery measures at Malawi Fisheries College.
d) The enhanced capacity of Malawi Fisheries College has created an enabling environment and
potential to provide training to higher levels (Diploma) and can meet intemnational needs
within the Southern African Development Community (SADC).
e) Infrastructure and equipment provided by the project has helped implementation of activities
by other donors.
f) Organised extension system with defined activities, annual targets and monthly monitoring
has in some way set a monitoring system for field activities.
g) Although the Women's Component was dropped, the extension service in its facilitating role
has helped to establish 259 credit groups of which 117 have received credit. This has
improved the family income and empowered the women economically.
h) Extension service also helped in the establishment of 267 BVCs with over 4,000 members.
The BVCs have in some areas assisted to set up regulations govemment exploitation of
fisheries resources and licensing has in some cases been done by the groups. In some water
bodies such as Lake Chilwa, the roles of the BVCs have facilitated recovery of the fishery
after the 1995/96 recession.
i)  Discovery of exploitable demersal fish stocks 33,000 tonnes per year has helped plan for
more fish for the people.
j) Support to MALDECO led to the effective utilization of demersal fish stocks. The
refrigerated trucks prompted MALDECO to set up satellite markets thereby making fish
available to more people contributing to good nutrition. Had the project implemented the
production component with support to semi-commercial and commercial fisheries the impact
would have been more significant.
2.4    Weaknesses in Project Design and Implementation and Lessons Learned.
a) The dropping of artisanal and semi-commercial sub-components of the Production
Component was not well thought out. These sub-components could have made some
significant economic difference to the ordinary people through fish landings from semi-
pelagic and the under-exploited stocks in the north.
b) Aquaculture was also an important sub-component. This sub-component would have helped
people to raise fish in their areas thereby increasing fish supply and reduce fishing pressure in
capture fisheries. This should be deemed an important program in a follow-up project.
6



ANNEX 7D
c) Similarly, Credit Component and Infrastructure including access roads could have improved
the marketing of fish and should have been pursued. These should be important components
in future projects.
d) Inadequate project management arrangement remained a major problem until about mid-termn.
The Government tried several arrangements for project management (Director, Project
Manager, Project Administrator and Director assisted by an advisor) but these did not work
well. Finally, the current arrangement of an empowered Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
established within the FD in September, 1996 worked somewhat satisfactory until project
closing.
e) Apart from MALDECO, there was limited private sector involvement. No incentives were
developed for increasing private sector participation for exploiting the under-exploited
demersal fisheries. The semi-commercial sector did not receive much encouragement under
the project.
f) There was over capacity created at Mpwepwe College of Fisheries. One of the considerations
for building a large campus was SADC proposal to utilize MFC for fisheries training for
participating countries.
g) During the life of the project there were six Task Managers. Frequent chaniges in Task
Managers until the mid-term review led to different approaches being advocated by the Task
Managers and shifting project focus on implementation.
h) In the initial years of the project, the tasks of field implementers were not fully defined and
annual targets were not set. After mid-term review this was done and performance regularly
monitored. This helped in the improving implementation.
i)  Poor procurement performance affected project implementation and disbursement of funds in
the first 5 years. The lack of capacity in FD for procurement function was the main reason
for this. In the future it would be important to have a full-time procurement specialist on the
project, at least in the initial 2 to 3 years.
j)  Some design problems in the project are self-evident. The Staff Appraisal Report recognized
that FD had weak implementation capacity. However, the design included Credit Component
and strong infrastructure development, which required strong capacity. It is therefore, ironic
that the World Bank and the Government dropped these sub-components later citing lack of
capacity. The components could have been scheduled for implementation later after the
capacity had been appropriately strengthened.
k) The early closing of Salima boatyard, ice-plants in Salima and Mangochi and FD's other
commercial activities such as sale of nets and other fishing fear had negative impact on
availability of boats, ice for fish catch preservation, since the private sector did not develop
for several years. No transitional planning was included in the project design to address the
sudden disappearance of these essential inputs. The fishers and fisheries suffered as a resuilt.
Any privatisation efforts in future must be accompanied by an appropriate transition plan.
I) Despite institutional arrangements made for holding research-extension linkage meetings. this
linkage remained weak.
7



ANNEX 7D
2.5    Fisheries Development Project Sustainability
a)     Resource Use Sustainability
The most important outcome of the project is the surety that the recurrent resource management
activities initiated by the project are sustained beyond the project life, if the overall goal of full
fisheries sub-sector contribution to the national economy is to be realized. Sustaining the project
activities into the long term will facilitate the achievement of the desirable goal of sustainable
fishery resource utilization. To this end the responsibility for managing the fishery resources has
been divested from being a sole Government activity to one of participation between Govemment
and the resource users who include the communities along the lake shore and river banks. This
development has been ably supported through revision of the fisheries laws and regulations to
accommodate direct participation by the local communities in the promulgation and enforcement
of regulations specific to particular fishery situations. In addition Government policy to
decentralise local government administration to the district assembly as part of the
democratisation process guarantees local fishers community participation in decisions pertinent to
their local fisheries situations. The establishment of Beach Village Committees as foci for
community participation has facilitated easier formation of managemenit and business groups that
are now eligible for credit funding for various business enterprises includinig fishing. It is
expected that through their participation, resource users will develop a sense of ownership and
responsibility towards sustainable utilization of the fishery resources within their localitv.
Govemment would, however, have to go further than this by guaranteeing f ill community of
resources with rights for entry restriction should communities find it necessary to control fishing
pressure as a management tool.
b)     Financial sustainability
Sustaining the project goal will require, primarily, government's commitment to adequately fund
the critical recurrent management activities that formed the core of project activities. It will also
require participation by the donor community in assisting bridging up financing gaps that may
exist where Govemment may not meet full financial requirements to implement all recurrent
project activities. In this regard the Fisheries Department recurrent budget for fiscal year 2000 to
2001 has been jacked up by 12.5% from the normal annual increase of 4%. Estimations are that
this increase is to take care of at lest 50% of the core field recurrent activities that have othervise
been funded by the FDP. Negotiations are currently underway with existing and new bilateral
donors for support that would invariably absorb the rest of the activities FD budget may not
cover. The GHTZ funded NARMAP project will continue to support extension and enforcement
activities in Mangochi area, extending to areas in the center and north of Malawi in the next
planning period. There is a possibility of a follow-on programme to the FDP under the Lake
Malawi Environmental Management Project where some of the activities of the current phase
would be formerly consolidated. The establishment of the Fisheries Research Fund, which will
draw resources from proceeds of fish sales from the project acquired research vessel, will ensure
that research programmes are not hampered by lack of financial resources. Financial
sustainability of project activities in post-project era will much depend on effective FD
management control over the budget in terms of priority financial allocations during budget
implementation. Stricter fiscal discipline would have to be enforced to ensure proper use of the
allocated funds.
c)     Environmental Sustainability
There exists a consensus among all stakeholders and govemment lead agencies over the need for
protecting the aquatic environment for both its aesthetic as well as economic benefits derived not
just from fish but, from other features including tourism potential. While the FDP activities did
not dwell directly on this aspect, the concept for the follow-on project to both the FDP and the
8



ANNEX 7D
SADC GEF Project for Lake Malawi/Niassarecognizes the need for multi-sectoral intervention in
the monitoring and control of the lake catchment's utilization to redress/halt/prevent possible
detrimental economic activities that would negatively impact on the lake ecosystem. It is hoped
that during preparation phase of the follow-on project this consensus will crystalise into
appropriate practical solutions through activities which, upon successful implementation, would
lead to maintenance of a stable lake ecosystem for the long term preservation of Malawi's
indigenous fish fauna, and therefore assure Malawi of a long term stable fish resources base.
d)    Technical Sustainability
The FDP has invested into the FD and MALDECO technological interventions through
state of the art computer equipment, fisheries research vessel and fishing vessel and shore
facilities, among others. Maintenance of these technologies in proper shape will
guarantee the required efficiencies in the implementation of the planned activities. The
FDP has executed training programmes for key personnel both in the FD and for
MALDECO who would provide technical services to these institutions. It is worth noting
that scientifically the research Unit at Monkey Bay has been enhanced by the inclusion of
a training component at the scientific and technical levels to guarantee sustainability of
the research programmes through specialized skills and requisite competences for
effective design and conduct of fisheries research programmes.
9






ANNEX 8
BENEFICIARY SURVEY RESULTS
8.1 Introduction
A Beneficiary Impact Assessment study was conducted by the Agrcultural Policy
Research Unit at Bunda College (University of Malawi) to evaluate the impact of the project
at the community level and to provide valuable lessons for fature interventions. The study
complements the assessment conducted by the ICR mission team while providing baseline
data and field-level perspectives from selected fishing communities to help evaluate FDP
support for fisheries extension. This data set, together with the lessons learnt from the FDP
and the GEF/SADC Lake Malawi/Nyasa Biodiversity Conservation Project ICRs, provide
valuable inputs and baseline information against which the intended development impact of
the Lake Malawi Environmental Management Project, currently under preparation, can be
evaluated.
The specific objectives of the Beneficiary Impact Assessment study included:
*  to develop measurable indicators (quantitative and qualitative) of the impact of the FDP
on groups of beneficiaries at the village level;
*  to assess the shortfalls that affected the project's impact as perceived by these
beneficiaries; and
*  to determine beneficiaries' perceptions of the corrective measures that would have been
undertaken to address the shortfalls.
The study was conducted using both quantitative and qualitative research approaches.
This included beneficiary household surveys, participatory rural appraisals (PRA), focus
group discussions, interviews and literature review. Five groups of beneficiaries from
artisanal fishermen, fish traders, processors, wholesalers and retailers, and middlemen were
randomly sampled. There were a total of 600 respondents, half of whom came from villages
with established Beach Village Committees (BVCs). Villages with established BVCs were
considered to be direct beneficiaries of the project as their establishment was encouraged and
facilitated bv the Fisheries Department extension service with support from the FDP. The
other half of the respondents came from non-BVC villages and were to act as a control for
the study. The two groups were assessed according to a variety of indices ranging from
fishing trends and fishermen awareness and compliance of regulations, to food security and
household welfare issues. An impressive amount of data was produced from this study and
incorporated into the final report of the Beneficiary Assessment Study is available from the
project files.
In this ICR Annex, a synthesis of the beneficiary assessment findings is made and is
presented according to four headings:
a)   Project impact on the artisanal fishing industry;
b)   Project impact on food security and household welfare;
c)   Project impact on fisheries resource management; and
d)   Project impact on institutional development.
8.2  Impact on the artisanal fishing industry
In general, about 90% of the respondents interviewed in the study were involved in
fishing-related economic activity. Out of this, between 40-50% were engaged full-time in
I



ANNEX 8
the fishing, industry. This includes a sizable portion of women who participate in fish
processing and trading. The remaining 50-60% participate in a mixed economy involving
both fishing and agriculture.
The study found a strong perception among the fishing communities that the fish
stocks were experiencing a decline over the last decade. This perception is supported by
Fisheries D)epartment records which showed that fish stocks were in general decline. In some
areas such as the near-shore zone and the more accessible waters of the south-east arm of
Lake Malawi, there is also evidence of localized overfishing. These observations suggest that
the project did not have any significant impact in arresting or reversing the observed
downward trend of the artisanal fishery.
In addition, the project was perceived to have adversely affected the fishing
community by removing various essential services that used to be provided by the Fisheries
Department. Under the FDP, commercial activities that used to be undertaken by the FD
such as boat building, production and sale of ice, and the marketing of fishing gear, motor
spare parts and fuel were required to be terminated. The expectation at appraisal was for
these services to be taken over by the private sector. Unfortunately, private sector response
was sluggish at best and many of these services have either fallen into disrepair or have
been discontinued altogether. This has had a debilitating effect on the fishery. With no
functioning boatyard in Malawi, there has been a decline of new plank boats and visible
signs of prolonged wear and tear on existing boats (both dugout and plank). It is this
reduction of seaworthy boats that has been a contributing factor for the concentration of
fishing effort to the inshore areas. In addition, fishermen in areas out of the reach of the
Blantyre Netting Company face difficulties in accessing new supplies of fishing gear. Ice
supplies too have fallen dramatically with a few of the privatised service changing their
focus to supporting non-fishery activities. Unsurprisingly, the common reason given by the
fishermen for their declining catch trends has been their lack of access to improved gear and
boats.
In the original design of the project, provisions were made for a line of credit to be
provided through the GOM's Smallholder Agricultural Credit Administration (SACA) for
fishermen and women involved in fish processing and fish trading. However, SACA never
managed to take off having fallen into bankruptcy in 1993 due to large scale defaults and
political interference in its management. Consequently, the FDP's credit component was
dropped when the project was restructured. The loss of access to credit was perceived
negatively by the fishermen. They had harboured high expectations that credit facilities
would be made available to renew their existing gear and craft and to upgrade their efforts in
order to exploit the deeper water fishery.
Access to credit for the fishing community was only re-established in 1997 through
the World Bank and IFAD supported Rural Financial Services Project. Unlike the previous
credit component, this was a micro-credit scheme with loans averaging USD100 for a
maximum period of only one year. Through support from the FDP, fisheries staff assisted
and facilitated the establishment of credit groups among the fishing community. Even
though this was not a direct initiative of the FDP, it was perceived positively by the
communities as a benefit arising from the project. By April 2000, 259 credit groups had been
formed with an estimated total of 4,000 members, mainly women. The provision of credit to
women enabled the expansion of economic activities such as groceries, bakeries, restaurants,
textile retail as well as fish trading. This has helped to improve the livelihood of the women
involved and served the wider interest of the community through the provision of services
and necessities. This is particularly important for the areas that are more remote from the
2



ANNEX 8
commercial centres. The credit scheme, however, received a mixed reception by the
fishermen respondents who felt that the loans were too small to help them improve their
productivity and that the scheme was biased towards helping the women-folk.
8.3    Impact on food security and household welfare
The impact of the FDP onthe fishing community was also gauged through an
assessment of the changes in food security and household welfare. A household survey was
conducted to measure changes of such indices as meal frequency, nutritional well being, and
household assets over a 5-8 year period. The study found no significant difference in results
among the respondents, pointing again to the absence of impact of the FDP. Meal frequency
remained the same at an average three times daily. The perception of their nutritional well-
being was more mixed with about half the respondents saying that they were nutritionally
better off, about 30% who felt that they were worse off, and the remainder maintaining that
there had been no change. The study, unfortunately, could not establish any plausible
explanation for the differences in response.
The household assets of the villagers were used as a proxy indicator for household
wealth. In general, the study found an improvement in the availability of a variety of
household assets now compared to 5-8 years ago. The quality of dwelling units, for instance,
has improved with more fishermen and traders moving away from mud and grass/straw
thatched houses to brick walled, cement floor and iron sheet houses. Other household assets
such as kitchen utensils show visible signs of improvement with earthen pots and plastic
cups being replaced by metal pots and cups. In addition, more households now have radios
and household fumiture such as chairs and beds.
T'he apparent improvements in household assets point to a general enhancement in
the level of incomes of communities over the past 5-8 years. However, it is difficult to
attribute this change to the FDP since improvements are reported in both project and non-
project areas. If anything, this change could reflect improvements in the regional economy.
8.4   Impact on fisheries resource management
The study attempted to assess the practices and ethics of resource conservation and
management among fishing communities. There appeared to be a very high level of
awareness and understanding about existing fisheries regulations in both BVC and non-BVC
villages (at 99.4% and 97% respectively). This points to the existence of an effective mode
of communication exchange between the different fishing communities. However, despite
their awareness of the regulatory regime, when queried about their level of compliance with
the fisheries regulations, about 70% replied in the affirmative while another 20% replied in
the negative. The study suggests that the level of non-compliance is actually more pervasive
than the statistics indicate. One of the main reasons for the apparent recalcitrance of the
fishermen is their lack of confidence with the rationality of the FD's regulations. The fishing
regulations were often perceived to be at odds with the fisherman's own understanding of
fish ecology. Arguments for fish scarcity, for instance, were countered with explanations
ranging from the fact that the FD was ignorant about fishing and breeding grounds to the
argument that there was no absolute decline of fish stocks but simply a migration of stocks
to the deeper waters. Similarly, mesh size restrictions were challenged on the grounds that
some adult fish species were naturally small in size and should not be prevented from
exploitation.
3



ANNEX 8
A second reason cited for fishermen non-compliance was the argument that fishing
was a livelihood issue and any efforts to restrict their ability to fish would seriously impact
their very survival. The third reason for fishermen non-compliance was that the fishing
regulations were discriminatory. There was a strong perception that the regulations were
applied too stringently on the artisanal fishery while the semi-commercial and commercial
fishery were left unchecked. A common demand among the fishermen to alleviate the crisis
that was building within the fishery was for greater access to better gear and boats in order to
shift the fishing pressure away form the near-shore zone to the deeper waters.
8.5    Impact on Institutional Development
An important aspect of the FDP was the facilitation of a co-management program
that witnessed an increasing decentralisation of the department and a greater emphasis on
community focused extension. The latter resulted in the FD participating in the facilitation of
credit groups from the community and the formation of Beach Village Committees (BVCs).
The credit aspect has been discussed in section 8.2. The BVCs were seen as a platform for
community participation in the management of the fisheries. To date, about 260 BVCs have
been formed in the eight districts that benefited directly from the FDP. The BVCs, besides
acting as a focal point for local fisheries extension, have begun to actively participate in
management through the creation of their own by-laws and the collection of licensing fees.
Not surprisingly, the BVC has been seen by the authorities and donors alike as a positive
achievement of the project'.
The view of the communities on the BVC concept, however, was much more mixed.
While some viewed it as a useful development, others were either unclear or doubtful about
its usefulness. This reaction may be partly due to the fact that most of the BVCs are still in
its infant stage, having been established only within the last year. Another reason relates to
the role of the BVCs in the landscape of power relations in the village. There was a
tendency, for instance, for the committee to be made up of village members and relatives
who were close to the village headman. Some BVCs, further, were dominated by
agriculturalists with either a minority or no fishermen in its composition. In some cases,
there was also an ethnic dimension to the BVC identity. In addition, there were instances of
BVC members participating with the wrong motivations due to the practice in the past of
providing material and financial incentives to members by some donors. These observations
suggest that some of the BVCs do not truly represent the collective interests of the
community and, especially, those involved in the fishing economy.
The lack of a sense of community ownership of the BVC is also suggested from the
perception of some BVC members. There was a concern about the lack of recognition, and
therefore legitimacy, of their role by the community. They complained of being ridiculed or
even attacked when attempting to enforce regulations. In general, they viewed all the
solution to the problem to be a further vesting of authority and legal powers by the state to
the BVC. This, however, is unlikely to resolve the crisis of legitimacy that lies at the root of
the issue.
iThe idea of the BVC gained impetus from the GTZ-financed National Aquatic Resources
Management Program (NARMAP) and its predecessor, the Malawi-German Fisheries and
Aquaculture Development Project, and was implemented in the Mangochi, Zomba, Salima and
Nkhotakota districts. The FDP assisted this initiative through logistical and institutional support.
4



ANNEX 8
8.6    Way Forward
From the above discussions it is apparent that the artisanal fishing community on the
whole has received limited positive impact from the project. In many aspects the
communities were untouched by the project, while in some they were adversely affected by
the dropping of the production component of the project. Considering their pivotal role in the
success or failure of Malawi's fisheries, this state of affairs is a cause for concem. An
obvious implication of this is for the artisanal fishery to be at the focus of any future
interventions within the sector. Unfortunately, the study failed to provide a proper synthesis
of the fishing community's vision of a sustainable fishery that would have formed an
invaluable input for the design of the Lake Malawi Environmental Management Project,
currently under preparation. In addition, the study suffered from a variety of inconsistencies
resulting from flaws in its methodology. This drawback is elaborate upon in section 8.6.
What the study did, instead, was to synthesise a list of recommendations that
emerged from their discussions with the Fisheries Department. These recommendations are
provided below:
a) The development of the artisanal sector
In the future, focus needs to be placed in the development of the artisanal sector. The
development of this sector should consider opportunities for increasing added value to the
fishery through fish processing and other methods.
b) Development of in-land fishing projects
To complement the attempts at relieving the pressure on the capture fisheries while ensuring
the continued supply of fish for the country, efforts to develop in-land fishing projects
should be investigated. This should be done with caution as it requires substantial changes in
practice, involves a higher reliance on extemal inputs, and may inflict potential adverse
environmental impacts. They should also learn from the mistakes of the FDP which included
an aquaculture component that failed to get off the ground.
c) Provision of sustainable financing mechanisms to the artisanal sector
The future development of the sector would require greater investments in gear and craft in
order to sustainably exploit the deeper water stocks. This cannot be sustainably implemented
by a project of limited duration. It requires that options for financial services be evaluated
in the broader context of financial policy and regulation in the country.
d) Development of the private sector involvement in the fisheries industry
Since the FD dropped its involvement in the provision of commercial services such as the
selling of gear, manufacturing and selling of crafts, ice plants and other support structures,
there has been a serious void in the provision of such facilities for the fishery. There is a
need to engage in a program to develop a viable and sustainable private sector involvement
in this area.
e) Development of sustainable community participation in resource management
The future of the sustainable management of the fishery requires meaningful participation of
the communities in the management regime. This has to be based on the principles of co-
management where the FD, fish traders, fisher-folk, and other stakeholders regard one
another as genuine actors in a common management strategy. A key requirement would be
the development of an effective mechanism for communication across the range of actors
and a system for achieving consensus in the decision making process.
5



ANNEX 8
f) Development of the BVC institution as a platform for community empowerment in
resource management
The BVC has the potential to be an effective platform and institution for advancing
the community-based management regime. This, however, can only be achieved if the
individual BVCs are accepted as legitimate bodies that work for the interest of the
community. Hence, efforts should be made to develop the BVCs with a sensitivity to the
specific concerns of individual villages so that the community achieves full ownership of the
BVC.
8.7 Drawbacks in the Beneficiary Assessment Study
A statement on the drawbacks of the Beneficiary Assessment Study is
necessary in order to provide a proper understanding of the findings of the study and to act
as a guide to reading the final report.
While the beneficiary assessment study managed to collect an impressive
amount of data, it was felt that it could only provide conclusions of a limited scope. This was
due to certain weaknesses inherent in its methodology. The most important implication of
this is the under-representation of actual fishermen in the study. For example, there was
significant ambiguity in the categories of respondents as the study did not take into sufficient
consideration the differentiations within the lake communities in general, and the fisher-folk
in particular. Hence, for instance, the category of 'fishermen' that was used by the study,
failed to distinguish between fishing boat owners, gear owners and fishing crew. The
majority of 'fishermen' interviewed were boat and gear owners who were not necessarily
directly involved in fishing activities. Similarly, the study failed to distinguish the
composition of BVCs, some of which were dominated by non-fishing members such as
agriculturalists and traders. Also, the under-representation of actual fishermen is most
glaring in the two stakeholder workshops that were held as part of the study (see Annex 9).
In a related issue, there are reasons for skepticism over the quality of data collected in the
interviews. 'These were largely non-anonymous interviews that required specific information
such as the name and location of respondents. To conduct such an interview with questions
relating to resource use patterns and compliance to regulation amongst a community of
resource users with a well-known suspicion of government authority raises doubts about the
accuracy of response received.
Against the background of a significantly differentiated community of resource-users
among these communities, the study focused its analysis exclusively on the impact of the BVCs.
This poses a problem since the BVCs are not necessarily representative of the collective interests
of the community. Most of the BVCs are less than a year old. These institutions, furthermore, are
not a homogenous category and their respective composition and histories of formation reflect the
complex socio-economic and political considerations that shaped their development. The above
problems and weaknesses mean that the beneficiary assessment study could only provide useful
conclusions of a general nature. Specific findings that would have established valuable inputs for
the design and evaluation of future projects and activities were significantly lacking. At present,
the data that had been collected during the interviews are being desegregated into various sub-
orders of categories in order to extract a more detailed data-base for the design of the Lake
Malawi Environmental Management Project.
6



ANNEX 9
STAKEHOLDER WORKSHOP RESULTS
9.1 Introduction
Two stakeholder workshops were convened during the course of the Beneficiary Impact
Study. The first workshop (August 2 - 3, 2000), which involved the presentation of the study
inception report, was aimed at getting stakeholder feedback on the methodological issues and
tools of the study. The research team also took this as an opportunity to understand the project as
well as the expectations from the study. The workshop also provided an insight, from the project
management point of view, into the limitations, critical success factors and the perceived effects
and impacts of the project on the beneficiaries.
The second workshop (September 5 - 6, 2000) was convened to discuss the findings of
the study. This workshop provided a number of comments and suggestions that have been
incorporated into the final report.
9.2 Summary of the Proceedings of the First Stakeholder Workshop
One of the main objectives of this workshop was to analyze, together with the
stakeholders, perceptions on the performance of the Fisheries Development Project. To this end,
each component of the project as specified in the original project document was analyzed to
assess the extent to which its intended objectives were achieved, including the success factors,
key constraints, and the effects and impacts on the target beneficiaries.
A strategic objective analysis methodology was used to follow each of the project
components through the following steps: super goal, programme goal/aim, programme objectives,
key actions under each objective, perceived achievements, success factors, limitations, failures,
and challenges, critical constraints, general perceived effects and impacts.
a) National Goal for the Project
The project's national goal was to increase the country's food availability by promoting
optimal exploitation of the fisheries resources. The main aim behind this goal was to increase the
contribution of the Fisheries sub-sector to the national economy while ensuring that the off-take
does not exceed sustainable yields. This was to be achieved through four activities namely:
I.  Improving the institutional capacity of the FD in policy formulation, research, extension,
planning, monitoring and control;
2.   Increasing the fish production to improve the nutritional and protein supply;
3.   Providing additional employment and income to reduce poverty among the rural
population;
4.   Conserving the national resource base of thecountry's water bodies and preventing
environmental degradation.
l



ANNEX 9
A summary of the results from the strategic objective analysis is presented in
Table I below.
Achieve
Objective    Activities    ments to     Fisheries Development Perceptions             Beneficiary Perceptions
date           Effects      Inipacts                  Effects                Impacts
Institation   Functional   Functiona   Improved          Positive change in      Improved            Less imnpact on
al         review of    I review     relationship       community attitude on    beneficiary         behavioral
Capacity   the FD        conducted   between fishing    roles and functions of    awareness of the   change of
Building    which        and a       communities and     FD on the fishery       roles and           fishing
inicluded    supportin   FD                                          functions of the    communities.
the          g                                                       FD in fisheries
developme   organizati
nt of an     onal
organizati   structure
onal         is now
structure    in
and         operation
creation of   al and
additional   while
posts        additional
posts
created
Staff       Staff have   Tracer study
training    been         needed to assess
trained    the impact of
i.e.       training and tthe
I Ph.D.    functional review
pending     of the FD on
8 MSc,      organizational
19 B.Sc.,   efficiency
19
Diplomas,
certificate
courses
and over
30
refresher
courses
Training     Training
of user      has been
communiti  conducted
es          in some
of the
communit
ies
Procureme   Procurem    Improved
nt of plant,  ent of     communication
radio        vehicles    and delivery of
equipment,  and          extension services
motorcycl   equipmen
es and      t been
vehicles.    done
Revision     The
and         fisheries
2



ANNEX 9
implement   policy
ation of    and
sectoral    legislatio
polity       n has
been
reviewed.
Decentrali   FD's        Services have
zation of    Financial   improved
financial   managem
manageme   ent have
nt          been
decentrali
zed
Developm    Planning,
entofa      M&E
planning     system
andM&E   has been
system for   designed
extension    &
implemen
ted
Procureme   Research    Improved            Use of research findings
nt of       vessels      knowledge of       to increase catch i.e.
research    procured    demersal fish       exploitation of deep
vessels                  stocks             water fish by
MALDECO
Increase    Provision    MALDE       Better catches by    MALDECO is better       Reduced morale
fish        of support   CO has      MALDECO i.e. an   able to serve the public   & poor catches
productio   to the       been        increase of 90% in  in the provision of fish  among the semi-
n           artisanal,    provided    catches, a 20%     and ice for cooling      commercial and
commercia   with a       increase in                                 artisanal sectors.
1, and      fishing      employment.
semi-       vessel,     Increased
commercia  two           distribution
I           delivery     channels
fishennen   trucks, ice
making
plant and
a cold
room
No
support
has been    (MALDECO is
provided    now able to serve
to the      other areas like
semi-       Mchinji and
commerci   Kasungu)
al and
artisanal
fishermen
Provision    Formation    Nearly     Increased           Business diversification
of          of           280 credit  diversification of    especially among women
3



ANNEX 9
employm    credit/IGA    groups      economic
ent and     groups      have been   activities within
income to   when        fonmed in   fishing
the         credit      the          communities as a
fishing     component   Karonga,   result of provision
communit  in the FDP   Salima,       of credit
Y           was         Nkhotako
dropped.    ta,
groups      Nkhataba
fonned      Y,
were        Mangochi
trained and   . Zomba
linked to    and
MRFC        Lowershir
through     e (refer to
the Mudzi   table 7 for
window      details)
funded by
IFAD
Over 200
groups
have been
trained
and
linked to
NMRFC
and
DEMAT
_________      T
Piivatizati   The       Decreased
on of FD    boatyard    availability of
commercia  and ice      services and high
I activities   making   prices of ice, craft
plants      and gear
were
privatized
Business
manageme
nt skills
training at
communit
y level
Establishm    Processin    Limited
ent of fish    g skills  community
processing    establishe   adoption but
facilities at  d at     varied among
landing     several     districts
sites for   beaches
demonstrat  along
ion         Lake
purposes    Malawi
Infrastruct   Building  District     Better working
ural        of offices    and        conditions
4



ANNEX 9
Developm    and staff    central     established
ent         houses      level
offices
and staff
houses
constructe
d
Conservin   Review of   With the    Comnmunity          Improved information on   Improved           Behavior of
g the      the           help of     empowerment in    flow to communities        community          fishing
fisheries    Fisheries   NATURE   fisheries                                       awareness of its   communities
resource    Policy and   project     management e.g.                              roles and          has not
base        Legislatio    and        Lake Malawi                                  responsibilities in   changed much
n            MAGFA                                                   fisheries           in view of the
D a new                                                 management          awareness
sectoral
policy has
been
legislated
and is
being
implemen
ted
Formation    Over 260    Improved           Improved community
and         BVCs         community          involvement in decision
training of   have been   awareness of its  making regarding
BVCs         formed     roles and           resource management
and half    responsibilities in
of them    fisheries
have been   management
trained
Strengthen   Provision    Enhancement
ing of      of           compliance and
enforceme   equipmen   monitoring of
nt and      t and       fisheries
extension    training    regulations
sections
and
production
of fisheries
Extension
manual
Conductin   Annual       Facilitated the
g regular    stock       production of
fish stock    surveys    management plans
monitoring   are being
surveys     implemen
ted



ANNEX 9
9.3 Issues raised in the Second Stakeholder Workshop
The following comments were raised in the second stakeholder workshop and were
requested to be incorporated into the final beneficiary assessment report.
a) The Fisheries Department felt that in some areas the study team had to compare its findings
with what was contained in the existing fisheries literature. The team was infonned about a study
that laid the basis for the FDP. This study had established some of the baseline variables with
which the beneficiary study team could compare its findings and reflect these in the study's
conclusions. The team has now summarized the report of the study and the comparative analysis
will be incorporated in the final report.
b) The FD laid stress on the positive benefits received by MALDECO from the FDP. However,
representatives of fishenmen particularly from the Southern part of Lake Malawi expressed
concem that MALDECO's fishing practices have, in most cases, conflicted with local fishermen.
It was agreed that the areas of potential and actual conflict between MALDECO and the artisanal
and pair trawler fishermen be investigated.
c) The FD questioned the beneficiary assessment team's calculation of the returns to fishing and
fish trading. FD felt that it was difficult to produce realistic estimates through the methodology
used by the research team. The study team is currently coordinating its efforts with researchers
from the Fisheries Research Unit to find a way of resolving this issue using the catch data of the
FRU. The results will be submitted as an addendum to the final report.
d) The FD stressed the need to adequately assess the impact of removing the essential support
services that used to be provided by the FD to the artisanal and pair trawler fislhernen. The
stakeholders were of the opinion that since the FD stopped its involvement in commercial
activities e.g. boat construction, gear selling, ice plants etc, the provision of these services by
the private sector has been erratic.
6



ANNEX 9
9.4 List of Participants to the Stakeholder Meetings
The following two tables contain the list of participants to the two stakeholder workshops
described above:
List of participants to the First Stakeholders Workshop (August 2 - 3, 2000).
Name               Position              Organization/Address
Joe K.S. Mfune     Fisheries Officer     Salima Fisheries, P.O. Box 316, Salima.
D.A.M. Banda       Acting Principal      Malawi College of Fisheries, P/Bag 7,
Mangochi.
D.D. Bandula       Deputy Director       Fisheries Dept. HQ, P.O. Box 593, LL.
(Extension)
M.K. Nyirenda      Training Coordinator    Fisheries Dept. Box 593 LL.
E.L. Ng'ombe       Dep. Director (Dev.   Fisheries Dept. P.O. Box 593, LL.
Coordinator)
Rodney Lunduka    Research Fellow        APRU, P.O. Box 219. LL.
(APRU)
O.M. Kachinjika    Deputy Director       Fisheries Dept. P.O. Box 593, LL.
(Research)
R.K. Phoya         Head, Animal Science,  P.O. Box 219, LL.
Bunda
H. Tchale          Research Fellow,      Bunda College, P.O. Box 219, LL.
APRU                _
C.S. Mataya        Director, APRU        Bunda College, P.O. Box 219, LL.
J.S. Likongwe      Head, Aquaculture and  Bunda College, P.O. Box 219, LL
Fisheries Science,
Bunda College
F. Ngaiyambe       Documentalist, APRU,  Bunda College, P.O. Box 219, LL.
R. Hauya           Facilitator, Strategic    Save the Children (US), P/B 254, Blantyre
Planning Consultant
M. Banda           Fisheries Officer     Fisheries Research Unit., Box 27, Monkey Bay
GVH Balamanja      Group Village         Mangochi
Headman
E.C. Chirwa        Fisheries Officer     Fisheries Inspectorate Unit, P.O. Box 227.
(Inspectorate)        Mangochi.
S.J. Donda         Principal Fisheries   Fisheries H/Q, Box 593, LL.
Officer.
GVH Ndembo         Group Village         Salima
Headman
Enet Nyando        Fisheries Officer     Mangochi Fisheries, P.O. Box 47, Mangochi.
Friday Njaya       Fisheries Officer     Fisheries Dept, Box 206, Zomba
7



ANNEX 9
List of participants to the Second Stakeholders Workshop (Sept. 5 - 6, 2000)
Name                  Position              Organization
Mr. Makwinja          District Fisheries    Nkhotakota
Officer
Mr. Lipunga           District Fisheries    Bangula
Officer
Mr. S. Mapila         Director of Fisheries    Lilongwe
Mr. R. Rashid         Fisheries Headquarters  Lilongwe
Representative        MALDECO               Mangochi
Joe K.S. Mfune        Fisheries Officer      Salima Fisheries, P.O. Box 316,
Salima.
D.A.M. Banda          Acting Principal      Malawi College of Fisheries, P/Bag 7,
Mangochi.
D.D. Bandula          Deputy Director       Fisheries Dept. HQ, P.O. Box 593, LL.
(Extension)
M.K. Nyirenda         Training Coordinator    Fisheries Dept. Box 593 LL.
E.L. Ng'ombe          Dep. Director (Dev.   Fisheries Dept. P.O. Box 593, LL.
Coordinator)
M. Madola             Research Fellow       APRU, P.O. Box 219. LL.
(APRU)
O.M. Kachinjika       Deputy Director       Fisheries Dept. P.O. Box 593, LL.
(Research)
H. Tchale             Research Fellow,       Bunda College, P.O. Box 219, LL.
______________   APRU
C.S. Mataya           Director, APRU        Bunda College, P.O. Box 219, LL.
J.S. Likongwe         Head, Aquculture and   Bunda College, P.O. Box 219, LL
Fisheries Science,
Bunda College
F. Ngaiyamnbe         Documentalist, APRU,  Bunda College, P.O. Box 219, LL.
M. Banda              Fisheries Officer      Fisheries Research Unit., Box 27,
Monkey Bav
GVH Balamanja         Group Village          Mangochi
Headman
E.C. Chirwa           Fisheries Officer     Fisheries Inspectorate Unit, P.O. Box
(Inspectorate)        227. Mangochi.
S.J. Donda            Principal Fisheries   Fisheries H/Q., Box 593, LL.
Officer.
GVH Ndermbo           Group Village          Salima
Headman
Enet Nyando           Fisheries Officer      Mangochi Fisheries. P.O. Box 47,
Mangochi.
Friday Njaya          Fisheries Officer      Fisheries Dept, Box 206, Zomba
8



IBRD 22693
To Oar Es Salaao
%  |-           \                                    MA LAW I
0 Miks--
Spa
;il!iIPa~ o kengn 
-m y   z.              FISHERIES
00  cnisenga  Qkw   \DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1 } / >    XMAJOR FISHING AREAS
hilumba     ' 
r 0000 000000000 0 Ib 00denom                                               Named
Ilssm d=mp;r :M1he   v   i (t t  in red   Major Fishing Areas
XaroWO~~~~~~~~~~~~n e
0ffd>1tXj14tw0   4>; <+ Rooplr                     l                         Principal Roads
T    RN                                .         Rivers
Ekw-ndeno   Lake                      0    Towns
tr z u z u                        0     District Capitals
F FOi             oaJ2 nt nsaNational Capital
A-   .                 /(MALAWI)                   Region Boundaries
Mz,nbaT     St                          /
t  maLuwrele -hisum.lu I  International Boundaries
ZAM BI}A                    k-i koms 
AMalawi  ,               IOMETERS  0   20  40  60  s0  10o
MILES        20      40     60
O  199MOZAMBIQUE
r. L-ska    n          ' t j56 
\    <         z~~~~~Oda                                   T._ N-I
>alak- XJTERN 
M OZAM BI Q UE                                                        Z. <Mchng 
r    w         QZomba 4         :hSilba
\   ANZANIA  tI0f                               ^Ciw                      n      it
A NCA    O CE A~~~~~~~CEN_                                      0 kne90      rT        W     r       T e
NA  BOTSVA( \ 
r  0     }      ~~~~MAt)ACA'2                                        _S
October 1 990



