CREDIT NUMBER 2225 MAI
Development Credit Agreement
(Fisheries Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                       , 1991


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2225 MAI
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     A      _ _              , 1991, between
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)   the Borrower intends to contract from Nordic Development
Fund (NDF) a loan (the NDF Loan) in an amount equivalent to
$3,500,000 to assist in financing the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement (the NDF Loan Agreement) to be
entered into between the Borrower and NDF;
(C)   the Borrower intends to contract from the Icelandic
International Development Agency (ICEIDA) a grant (the ICEIDA Grant)
in an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 to assist in financing the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the
ICEIDA Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and
ICEIDA; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
(a)   "MFNR" means the Borrower's Ministry of Forestry and
Natural Resources;


﻿-2-
(b)   "Project  Preparation  Advance"  means   the  project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated January 31, 1991, February
8, 1991 and February 15, 1991 between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion;
(c)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(d)   ".KGA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture;
(e)   "EP&D" means the Borrower's D-.cartment of Economic
Planning and Development;
(f)  ."FD" means the Fisheries Department within MFNR;
(g)   "SACA" means   the  Smallholder  Agricultural  Credit
Administration within M0A; and
(h) "RBM" means the Reserve Bank of Malawi, the Borrower's
Central Bank.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to six million two hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 6,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the


﻿-3-
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advanco withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower;
and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.


﻿-4-
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable on each January 15 and July 15
commencing July 15, 2001 and ending January 15, 2031. Each install-
ment to and including the installment payable on January 15, 2011
shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two p,rcent (2%) of such principal
amount.
(b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lenting, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due considera-
tion by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify
the terms of repayment of installkents under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revisi such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requLsted by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through FD
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
financial, administrative and fishery development and management
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those
for the Special Account for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after


﻿-6-
(ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of
the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)    furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)   retain, until at least one year after the
Association has received the audit report for
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from
the Credit Account or payment out of the Special
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)    enable  the Association's representatives    to
examine such records; and
(iv)    ensure  that  such  records and accounts are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely that
the NDF Loan Agreement or the ICEIDA Grant Agreement shall have
failed to become effective by December 31, 1991 or such later date
as the Association may agree, provided, however, that the provisions
of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the
satisfaction of the Association that adequate funds for the Project
are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that, pursuant to paragraph 7 (b) of Schedule
4 to this Agreement, the Borrower: (i) has appointed a manager for
the Mpwepwe boatyard; and (ii) has adopted a plan, satisfactory to
the Association, for restructuring the boatyard
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿-8-
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 30049
Capital City
Lilongwe 3, Malawi
Cable address:                 Telex:
FINANCE                   44407 MI
Malawi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                 Telc.:
INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿-9-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By ///
Regional Vice Pre ident
Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceezs of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil Works                2,100,000       90%
(2) Goodi, including           1,200,000       100% of foreign
Vehicles and                               expenditures,
Equipment, under                           100% of local
Parts A, B,                                expenditures
C.1 (a) and D                              (ex-factory
of the Project                             cost) and 80%
of local
expenditures for
other items
procured locally
(3) Consultants'                 830,000       100%
Services,
Training and
Studies


﻿- 11~ -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(4) Goods and services           350,000        100%
under Parts C.1 (b)
and C.2 (b) of the
Project
(5) Operating Costs            1,050,000        80%
(6)   Refunding                   70,000        Amounts due
Project                                   pursuant to
Preparation                               Section 2.02 (u)
Advance                                   of this Agreement
(7)   Unallocated                600,000
TOTAL                    6,200,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "operating costs" means incremental recurrent
expenditures incurred for fuel and repair and maintenance of
vehicles, vessels and equipment financed under the Project.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and (b) Category
4 in the table set forth in paragraph 1 above, unless SACA has
adopted procedures, satisfactory to the Association, for channeling
credit under Part C.1 (b) and C.2 (b) of the Project.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) increase fish
production to improve nutrition and protein supply for the popula-
tion; (b) generate additional off-farm employment and income to
reduce poverty among women and the rural population; (c) conserve
the natural resource base of Malawi's water bodies and prevent
environmental degradation; and (d) improve the institutional
capacity for policy formulation, research, planning, monitoring and
control of the fisheries sub-sector.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Institution Building
Strengthening of FD's capability in policy formulation, research,
extension, monitoring, evaluation and enforcement including the
construction and rehabilitation of office buildings, the acquisition
of office equipment and vehicles, and training and technical
assistance.
Part B:     Research
Strengthening FD's capability to undertake research on fish-stocks
assessment, pilot programs on lake conservation and management, and
research on aquaculture by developing pilot fish-farming models,
including technical assistance and training, civil works and the
acquisition of equipment, vehicles and a research vessel.
Part C:     Fish Production
1.    (a)   Rehabilitation and development of existing capture
fisheries in the artisanal, semi-commercial and commercial sub-
sectors through rehabilitation of the Mpwepwe boatyard and the
facilities of MALDECO Fisheries Ltd., the refurbishing of a trawler,
the acquisition of a multi-purpose fishing vessel, and the acquisi-
tion of boats and trucks with appropriate fishing and refrigeration
equipment and plants.
(b)   Provision of credit to artisan fishermen for the
acquisition of boats, engines and fishing gear.


﻿- 13 -
2.    (a)   Establishment of a pilot program to increase the
involvement of women in fish processing and marketing through
training and the acquisition of basic fish processing and marketing
equipment and facilities.
(b)   Provision of credit to women fish traders for working
capital and the acquisition of fish storage and processing equip-
ment.
Part D:     Infrastructure
Rehabilitation and construction of access roads, jetties for fish
landing and shore-based facilities at Monkey Bay, Nkata Bay and at
Mpwepwe boatyard.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.


﻿-14-
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, civil works and goods
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for the procurement of
goods shall be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Malawi may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
-paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Civil works up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $3,400,000
and items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $300,000 may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association,
including the opening of bids in public.
2.    Items or groups of items for training aids, equipment and
spare parts may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers from at least three different countries eligible under
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
3.    Small off-the-shelf items, needed urgently     for project
implementation estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or less


﻿- 15 -
per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
4.    Contracts for scientific journals, textbooks and spare parts
which are proprietary in character, may be awarded after direct
negotiations with suppliers, in accordance with procedures accep-
table to the Association.
5.    The aggregate value of items procured under paragraphs 2, 3
and 4 above shall not exceed the equivalent of $100,000.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract for civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more, and goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth
in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)    With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies
of the contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
authorized withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.


﻿- 16 -
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfac-
tory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consul-
tants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
Project Coordination
1.    The Principal Secretary, MFNR, assisted by a Project Coordina-
tion Committee (PCC), shall have overall responsibility for the
coordination and monitoring of the Project. PCC, chaired by the
Principal Secretary MFNR, shall include representatives of MFNR,
RBM, EP&D and the Ministry of Finance as members. The Chief
Fisheries Officer of FD shall serve as member and secretary of the
Committee.
2.    Under the overall guidance and supervision of the Principal
Secretary, MFNR, FD shall be responsible for the implementation of
the Project. FD, headed by the Chief Fisheries Officer (CFO), and
with the assistance of a financial and management advisor and two
senior staff of FD, will be responsible for day-to-day implementa-
tion of Project activities, coordination with other Ministries and
agencies, credit institutions, and Project beneficiaries.
3.    FD shall be responsible for the preparation of annual work
programs, including operating budgets, financial plans and detailed
implementation schedules for each Project component, and for
submission of: (a) work program proposals to the Association for its
comments and review, by January 31 of each year of Project implemen-
tation; and (b) adopt and furnish to the Association a final work
program incorporating the Association's comments, by March 31 of the
same year.
4.    FD shall prepare and furnish to the Association detailed
annual and semiannual reports covering the physical and financial
implementation of the Project, by April 30 of each year, including
FD's budget for that financial year.
5.    FD shall, by not later than June 30, 1995, carry out a mid-
term review of overall Project implementation, including progress
in the performance of women and private sector beneficiaries of the
Project. After obtaining the Association's views on the mid-term
report, FD shall, by December 31, 1995, furnish to the Association
an action program, satisfactory to the Association, including
recommendations made after the review, for the further implementa-
tion of the Project.


﻿- 18 -
Part A of the Project
6.    FD shall, with effect from April 1, 1992, carry out the action
plan for reorganizing FD, including the manpower development
program, in accordance with an implementation schedule satisfactory
to the Association.
7.    FD shall carry out its action plan to divest all its commer-
cial operations, except the Mpwepwe boatyard, in accordance with an
implementation schedule satisfactory to the Association, which shall
include:
(a)   the divestiture: (i) by not later than September 30,
1991, of commercial fishing at Monkey Bay and Nkhata Bay, of gill
net fishing at Nkhota-Kota, the sale of fishing gear at Karonga,
Nkhata Bay, Nkhota-Kota and Salima and the sale of spares of
outboard motor engines at Mangochi; and (ii) by not later than
March 31, 1992, of the sale of ice at Namiasi and Salima, the sale
of diesel fuel at Namiasi and Malembo, commercial fishing at Mpwepwe
and Salima and the construction of boats at Salima;
(b)   with respect to the boatyard at Mpwepwe: (i) the
appointment of (A) a manager of the boatyard with qualifications
and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, (B) a
consultant to assist the manager in the drawing up of a plan for
restructuring the boatyard, and (C) an interministerial committee
to oversee the restructuring plan on behalf of the Borrower; (ii)
the preparation and adoption of a restructuring plan, satisfactory
to the Association, and the full implementation thereof by not later
than March 31, 1992; and (iii) the appointment, by not later than
June 30, 1992, of a consultant to assist the Borrower in the drawing
up of a scheme, satisfactory to the Association, for the privatiza-
tion of the boatyard.


﻿- 19 -
Part B of the Project
8.    FD shall, with effect from April 1, 1992, carry out its
research program in accordance with an implementation schedule
satisfactory to the Association.
Part C of the Project
9.    SACA shall be responsible for the provision of credit,
pursuant to Part C.1 (b) and Part C.2 (b) of the Project, to
artisanal fishermen and women engaged in fish processing, storage
and marketing, under terms and conditions which shall be approved
by the Association.
10.   The Borrower shall annually review and revise, as appropriate,
interest rates on credit referred to in paragraph 9 above, to ensure
that such rates are market determined and are in line with the
overall interest rate structure in Malawi.
11.   The Borrower shall, by not later than June 30, 1992, furnish
to the Association a satisfactory action program for involving women
in the implementation of the pilot program on fish processing and
marketing.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of
$300,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association
requests for deposits into the Special Account
at such intervals as the Association shall
specify.
(ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association


﻿- 21 -
the documents and other evidence required
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
payment or payments in respect of which reple-
nishment is requested. On the basis of each such
request, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and
deposit into the Special Account such amount as
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall
have been shown by said documents and other
evidence to have been paid out of the Special
Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time.as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding  the provisions of paragraph     3 of   this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(b)   once  the  total unwithdrawn   amount  of the   Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have


﻿- 22 -
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to
the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


