              Document of
           The World Bank




                                         Report No: 25994-GE

IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
   (IDA-28521; IDA-28520; PPFI-P9370)

                 ON A

                CREDIT

 IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 11.9 MILLION
    (US$ 16.7 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                  TO

               GEORGIA

                 FOR A

           HEALTH PROJECT




              JUNE 26, 2003

        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

     (Exchange Rate Effective June 13, 2003)

          Currency Unit = Georgian Lari (GEL)
             GEL 10.00 = US$ 4.67
                 US$ 1 = 2.14 GEL

                FISCAL YEAR
            January     - December

     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CCE                 Center for Continuing Education
CMSI                Center for Medical Statistics and Information
DO                  Development Objective
FSU                 Former Soviet Union
HPP                 Health Promotion Program
IDA                 International Development Association
IMR                 Infant Mortality Rate
JICA                Japan International Cooperation Agency
MCH                 Maternal and Child Health
MMR                 Maternal Mortality Rate
MOLHSA              Ministry of Labor, Health and Social Assistance
NHMC                National Health Management Center
ObGyn               Obstetrics and Gynecology
PCU                 Project Coordination Unit
SAR                 Staff Appraisal Report
SATAC               Structural Adjustment Technical Assistance Credit
SDR                 Special Drawing Rights
SIDA                Swedish International Development Agency
SMIC                State Medical Insurance Company
SRS                 Structural Reform Support Project
STD                 Sexually Transmitted Disease




         Vice President:     Johannes Linn
      Country Director:      Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
       Sector Manager:       Armin H. Fidler
      Task Team Leader       Kari L. Hurt

                                          GEORGIA
                                FIRST HEALTH PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            17
6. Sustainability                                                                18
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 19
8. Lessons Learned                                                               22
9. Partner Comments                                                              24
10. Additional Information                                                       26
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             27
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             31
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             33
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             34
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             36
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                37
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            38
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                              39
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                            41

Project ID: P008414                                                      Project Name: HEALTH PROJECT
Team Leader: Kari L. Hurt                                                TL Unit: ECSHD
ICR Type: Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR                          Report Date: June 26, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: HEALTH PROJECT                                           L/C/TF Number: IDA-28521; IDA-28520;
                                                                                                     PPFI-P9370
   Country/Department: GEORGIA                                                            Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Health (84%); Central government administration (10%); Health
                            insurance (6%)
                  Theme: Health system performance (P); Population and reproductive health
                            (P); Fighting communicable diseases (S); Civic engagement,
                            participation and community driven development (S); Child health
                            (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    01/18/1995                                        Effective: 08/07/1996              08/07/1996
   Appraisal:    09/07/1995                                            MTR: 09/30/1998                11/21/1998
    Approval:    04/25/1996                                         Closing: 06/30/2001               12/31/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF GEORGIA/MINISTRY OF HEALTH
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Johannes F. Linn                               Wilfried Thalwitz
Country Director:               D-M Dowsett-Coirolo                            Basil G. Kavalsky
Sector Manager:                 Armin H. Fidler                                James Harrison
Team Leader at ICR:             Kari L. Hurt                                   Antonio Campos
ICR Primary Author:             Monika Huppi


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:SU

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

Context: The Health Project was the Bank's first social sector project in Georgia and the second Bank
supported health sector project in the Former Soviet Union. The health care system which Georgia inherited
at independence was characterized by centralized organization, management and financing of health care,
heavy emphasis on curative and specialist care and substantial over capacity even by Soviet standards. It
had one of the highest densities of hospital beds and physicians in the world, but poor maintenance and the
effects of civil war left most of the infrastructure severely dilapidated. Independence from the Soviet Union,
civil unrest and armed conflict led to an economic crisis which called for stark fiscal adjustment to
re-establish macro-economic stability. These expenditure cuts severely affected the social sectors. By 1994,
public sector expenditures for health care had dropped to less than $1 per capita per year, from over 13%
of Government spending prior to independence to only 0.5%. The drastic decline in public expenditures in
an overextended health system which was primarily funded by public resources led to the virtual collapse of
the system. The state program of purchasing and delivering drugs and supplies collapsed and effective
delivery of health services had essentially come to a halt by the end of 1994. Access to care was largely
limited to those who could afford to pay for services and provide their own supplies. The population's
health status deteriorated significantly, reflected by a considerable drop in life expectancy, marked
increases in infant and maternal mortality rates and an increase in communicable diseases.

The Government responded to the crisis in the health system with the adoption of an extensive health sector
reform program in 1995. Cornerstones of the program were: (a) a reorientation of the role of the Ministry
of Health away from delivery and financing of health services towards strategic planning, policy
formulation, regulation and monitoring; (b) a reduced role for the State in financing of clinical services and
increased focus on preventive public health services; (c) separation of health care delivery and health sector
financing through the establishment of a State Health Fund to be financed by a wage tax and budgetary
contributions for specific programs; (d) financial and administrative autonomy of hospitals, resulting in the
removal of hospital staff from the public sector payroll; (e) legitimization of previously illegal direct
payments from users to providers; and (f) promotion of solidarity and equity through the provision of a
basic package of publicly financed services to all and extended public coverage for vulnerable groups.
Furthermore, the legal basis for privatization of health sector establishments under Government regulation
was created. The Health Project was designed to support the Government's reform program. The project's
specific objectives, as outlined in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) were to:

(a)     Reorient the health system towards cost-effective public health interventions like preventive and
primary health care, assuring in particular, better quality of care for women and children and focusing
MOLHSA's activities on regulation of public and private providers;

(b)     Rehabilite selected facilities and equipment that would be downsized and dedicated to cost-effective
provision of maternal, perinatal and pediatric care;
(c)     Develop human resources to support health reform through continuing education for public health
doctors, family practitioners, nurses, health administrator and other personnel; and

(d)     Support the development of an independent health fund with regional branches, in order to finance
a package of basic clinical services in a cost-effective and equitable manner.

Assessment of Objectives: The objectives clearly reflected important priorities for the health sector at the
time of project appraisal and were in line with the Government's sectoral reform program. The objectives



                                                       - 2 -

also fit within the CAS objectives at the time, which included strengthening of the Government's
institutional capacity, prevention of further degradation of physical and social infrastructure and
development of a social safety net to alleviate the social collapse of the 1990s. However, it appears in
retrospect that the complexity of implementing such wide ranging reforms was underestimated and neither
the resources, nor the time frame of the project were significant enough to support the wide range of
interventions needed to fully achieve the above objectives and have the expected impact on health outcomes.

3.2 Revised Objective:
Project objectives were not revised during project implementation. As it will be shown later, the indicators
for determining the final impact of the project re-evaluated and considered, the project objective as phrased
in the Credit Agreement (to "support the health reform efforts initiated by the Borrower to improve the
health of the Borrower's population") and the objectives as stated in the Staff Appraisal Report were
determined to be of such a flexible nature not to require revision.

3.3 Original Components:
The original project design included five components as follows:

Component 1: Health System Reorientation ­ US$ 4 million appraisal estimate. This component aimed
at reorienting the health system through (a) the modernization of the public health system at central,
regional and local levels and the development of vertical health promotion and disease prevention programs
and community based programs; (b) the introduction of improved reproductive, perinatal and pediatric care
services and, (c) the realignment of the MOLHSA towards planning, monitoring, regulatory and quality
assurance functions. The component was in support of the first project objective and included three
sub-components:

(1.1) Modernization of Public Health Services, Health Promotion and Disease Prevention ­ US$ 1.6
million appraisal estimate: This sub-component was designed to support the institutional development of
the newly established Public Health Department at central and regional level, the development of a health
information system and the strengthening of the Health Promotion Program (HPP). The latter was to
finance six high priority programs including tobacco control, cardiovascular disease prevention, traffic and
occupational injury control, family planning, prevention of AIDS and sexually transmitted diseases (STD)
and substance abuse. In addition the HPP would also fund a competitive grant scheme to support
community based health promotion activities.

(1.2) Healthy Children and Safe Motherhood ­ US$ 1.2 million appraisal estimate: This
sub-component aimed to reduce infant and maternal mortality by 30% nation wide and by 50% in the
Tbilisi and Kutaisi area which were to serve as high quality referral centers for pre-natal, perinatal and
obstetrical care. To this effect the subcomponent included six key areas of intervention: (i) strengthening
the capacity of MOLHSA's Department of Maternal and Child Health to develop health policies and
promotion activities for women and infants; (ii) development of a national policy of care for women and
infants including a minimum benefits package, protocols of care, a system to license health care
professional and health facilities, guidelines for privatization and reorganization of services and the
establishment of a perinatal surveillance system; (iii) establishment of quality perinatal care services in
Kutaisi, Tbilisi and Tsageri; (iv) the development of a perinatal referral system for Eastern Georgia in
Tbilisi and for Western Georgia in Kutaisi; (v) development of training programs in maternal and child
health, obstetrics and pediatrics; and (vi) creation of a national Task Force for Child and Maternal
Survival.

(1.3) Realignment of the Ministry of Health ­ US$ 1.2 million appraisal estimate: The sub-component



                                                     - 3 -

aimed to generate monitoring, regulatory and quality assurance capacity in the MOLHSA. To this effect
the project foresaw interventions in three key areas -- licensing and certification of health facilities and
physicians; improvement of the regulatory framework and enforcement capacity in the pharmaceutical
sector; and quality assurance.

Component 2: Rehabilitation and Maintenance of Health Facilities and Equipment ­ US$ 9.7 million
appraisal estimate: This component foresaw to (i) strengthen the capacity of the MOLHSA's Building
Technical Department to set standards for programming, design, rehabilitation and construction of health
facilities; (ii) strengthening the capacity of the Committee of Medical Technologies and Equipment to
identify needs, conduct technology assessments and procure medical equipment; (iii) provide training to
hospital programmers, architects, biomedical engineers, maintenance specialists and hospital staff on
facilities design, construction and equipment maintenance; and (iv) partially rehabilitate and equip three
facilities which were to serve as centers of clinical excellence for perinatal care. In Tbilisi the project was
to partially rehabilitate two unfinished blocks of Tbilisi City Hospital # 2, so as to establish a perinatal
center in the renovated facilities and provide a locus for residency training in obstetrics and pediatrics. In
Western Georgia, the project was to support the merger of the Kutaisi Maternity and Pediatric hospitals
into a single building which was to demonstrate the scaling down and rationalization of facilities, introduce
modern hospital management and establish a perinatal center. The third facility to benefit from
rehabilitation was the Tsageri District Hospital, where perinatal and maternal services were to be partially
rehabilitated and equipped to demonstrate the pyramid of integrated primary and secondary services in
mountainous rural areas.

Component 3: Development of Human Resources ­ US$ 0.9 million appraisal estimate: This
component was designed to support the newly established National Health Management Center (NHMC) as
an agency to coordinate and supervise medical education and develop a system of continuous education to
provide training in new specialties needed in a restructured health care system. Specifically the component
would help NHMC (i) create a system for accreditation of medical schools; (ii) develop modern curricula
for post-graduate physician and nursing education; (iii) carry out health services research to support the
MOLHSA; and (iv) establish a Center for Continuing Education (CCE) within the NHMC.

Component 4: Modernization of the Health Financing System ­ US$ 1.1 million appraisal estimate:
This component was designed to support the Government's health sector financing reform through the
establishment of an independent health financing agency, the State Health Fund and its regional branches.
The project was to help (i) develop a management information and financial accounting system for the
Fund's central and regional offices; (ii) strengthen the Funds' capacity in financial accounting and
planning; (iii) provide for training of Fund staff in health financing and management in cooperation with the
CCE, as well as through external training courses and study tours; and (iv) support the regular collection of
data to monitor private expenditure on health and the accessibility and affordability of services to the poor.

Component 5: Project Management ­ US$ 0.8 million appraisal estimate: This component supported
the establishment of a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) within the MOLHSA to help strengthen project
administration and coordination.

The wide range of objectives embraced by the project led to the design of a project which was complex,
particularly for a new borrower. The large number of activities to be implemented made it difficult to
adequately plan, manage and coordinate project implementation and assure that there was adequate
interaction between agencies working on cross-cutting issues. Implementation involved 12 different
departments and institutions under the MOLHSA of which several had been newly established. The
complex project design led to significant implementation delays during the first two and one half years of


                                                       - 4 -

project implementation.

3.4 Revised Components:
The project was never formally restructured, although a number of originally planned activities were
dropped during the course of project implementation, as it became clear that the project attempted to act on
too many fronts with too few resources and implementation delays would not allow to implement all
foreseen interventions. Furthermore, important adjustments were made to the second project component,
because the hospital in Tbilisi which had been slated for rehabilitation needed to be changed for reasons
beyond the implementing agency's control. The following section summarizes the changes introduced
under various components around the time of the mid-term review.

Component 1: Health System Reorientation ($1.49 million actual amount or 76% of estimate). All
three sub-components were maintained, but some adjustments were made to the second and third
sub-components. Under the second sub-component, plans to rehabilitate and modernize a perinatal care
center in Kutaisi were cancelled and a decision was taken to establish the perinatal referral centers in
Kutaisi and Tbilisi using existing facilities (pending completion of the general hospital renovation in
Tbilisi). The third sub-component was limited to supporting the establishment of a licensing and
certification system and strengthening the regulatory and supervisory capacity of the Pharmaceutical
Department.

Component 2: Rehabilitation and Maintenance of Health Facilities and Equipment ($12.20 actual
amount or 105% of estimate). This component was significantly reshaped during project implementation
for two main reasons: (i) the hospital which had been slated for rehabilitation and as recipient of the
perinatal center in Tbilisi was occupied by refugees and it proved impossible to vacate the facility and, (ii)
the two facilities which were expected to merge as a condition of the partial rehabilitation in Kutaisi
opposed the merger. The facility in Tbilisi on which the Government and the Bank finally settled required
more substantial rehabilitation and it was was agreed to expand the scope of works from partial
rehabilitation for the establishment of a perinatal center to full rehabilitation of a facility which would
accommodate a 196 bed general hospital (Gudushauri hospital) including a perinatal center. The expanded
scope resulted in an initial budget shortfall of over 40% which was solved by (i) cancellation of
rehabilitation plans in Kutaisi; (ii) transferring the responsibility for some works, including demolition
works, site preparation and connection to utilities to the Tbilisi Municipality; (iii) reallocation of funds
from other components for which additional grant funding was partially mobilized from other donors; (iv)
parallel JICA funding in the amount of about US$ 5 million equivalent to help equip the hospital; and (v)
approval of a supplemental IDA credit in the amount of US$ 2.7 million equivalent which also helped
offset a substantial depreciation of the SDR against the US dollar. The rehabilitation of the site in Kutaisi
was officially removed from the Project description as part of the Amending Agreement for tehe
Supplemental Credit.

Component 3: Development of Human Resources ($1.01 million actual amount or 94% of estimate):
No changes were introduced to this component.

Component 4: Modernization of the Health Financing System ($0.86 million actual amount or 65% of
estimate): While the component design was not changed, IDA financing for the component was
considerably reduced from an initial US$ 1.2 million to US$ 0.5 million, as a grant from the Government
of Netherlands became available to support most of the technical assistance needs under the component.

Component 5: Project Administration ($1.07 million actual amount or 117% of estimate): No
substantive changes were introduced to this component. Costs of project administration additional due to


                                                     - 5 -

the 1.5 year extension of the project.

Although the loan closing date was extended twice for a total of 18 months, activities under all components
except the rehabilitation component were for the most part closed during the course of 2000 as per the
original implementation schedule and Credit closing date.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project was not subject to a quality at entry review by QAG which did not exist at the time of Project
approval. The project was prepared under difficult circumstances, in a country which had just emerged
from civil unrest and armed conflict and where the health sector had essentially collapsed. The information
base was extremely thin and although key players, such as the Minister of Health were reform oriented,
other stake holders in the sector still expected to return to a health system with a strong public sector
presence. Project preparation was supported by a PHRD grant which allowed for a wide range of technical
expertise to assist the Government with the detailed formulation of reform policies and prepare project
activities. The Bank supported this process through four preparation missions which were adequately
staffed with specialists needed to support detailed project preparation in all relevant areas. It is widely
acknowledged by the Borrower and sectoral stake holders that the Bank's support during project
preparation and beyond made a significant contribution towards the formulation of health sector reform
policies and direction setting. The Bank's dialogue with the Government up to the highest levels during
project preparation resulted in decisive steps to reshape the health financing system and reorient the role of
the MOLHSA. The pillars of reform were legally anchored prior to project start up. The reform dialogue
and project preparation benefited from stability in the ministerial leadership as well as a core group of
MOLHSA staff.         The establishment of several institutions (e.g. Health Fund, the National Heath
Management Center) key to successful project implementation were significant steps towards effective
implementation and gave the appraisal team confidence that a relatively complex project could be well
implemented. While these were indeed all signs that augured well for satisfactory project implementation,
the project team's appraisal of the readiness to implement a project with far reaching objectives in a
difficult environment proved too optimistic in hindsight, leading to unrealistic expectations in terms local
absorptive capacity, the impact on health outcomes as well as how far reform implementation could
advance within the time of the project.

A key issue which significantly affected project outcomes was the continuous underfunding of the health
sector. Although the appraisal team sought assurance from the Government that budgetary resources in
support of the health sector would be increased, the extremely low amount of financing for health care at
the time of appraisal (0.3% of GDP in 1994) and the Government's overall precarious fiscal situation
should have raised the team's awareness that shortage of sectoral funding might create a serious hindrance
to project implementation. Increased awareness of this issue might have led to a project which would have
focused on a more limited number of interventions but allowed for more credit funds to be allocated to each
one of them, thus averting problems of underfunding.

Although counterpart staff were involved in project preparation, many of them expressed the feeling upon
project completion that they did not fully understand what the project was attempting to achieve at the time
of preparation and that there generally was not sufficient ownership of the project among those expected to
implement it. This in their mind resulted in a project which set out unrealistic targets and was fragmented,
with little effective linkages between components where cross-support would have been important. All of
this can be easily foreseen in hindsight with a new Borrower to the World Bank, in a country that was just
starting to emerge from a substantial social, political and economic upheaval and in a sector that did not
have a lot of experience with international projects and donor cooperation. Although the context is
understood, it is still recognized that project component coordinators did not understand well what their role



                                                     - 6 -

was and what they were expected to implement and some of the project activities had not been prepared in
sufficient detail to allow for prompt implementation upon project effectiveness. This would suggest that a
relatively compressed project preparation period of about 11 months may not have been sufficient time for
counterparts at the working level to internalize suggested project interventions, subsequently leading to
implementation delays. Overall thus, the project's quality at entry is rated as unsatisfactory due to (i)
complex project design which was not in line with the country's absorptive and implementation capacity;
(ii) the lack of a clear monitoring and evaluation framework with credible baseline indicators and targets;
(iii) failure to budget for full implementation of activities initiated under the project; and (iv) difficulties
with respect to involving inexperienced counterparts in project design. The project's quality at entry rating
notwithstanding, it is recognized that the Bank's support towards the Borrower's overall health policy
reform formulation -- which is very much the foundation for the current Georgian health policy, nearly 10
years later -- was substantial and of satisfactory quality.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

At the outset is should be stated that the evaluation of this Project was difficult. As mentioned previously,
it was the first Bank-supported social sector project in a country which was just starting to recover from a
major shock of political, social and economic change and which was new to international cooperation and
implementation of reform, rather than humanitarian assistance projects. At the time of preparation, there
was a general sense of optimism about the country's future -- renewed political stability, double-digit
economic growth, and an ambitious reform program. The Project was designed to support this reform
program in the health sector. It supported the re-orientation and institutional development of the state's
health system and initially proposed to meet ambitious progress in health outcome indicators. The reality
of the country in which the project was implemented was different, however. The originally foreseen
economic and fiscal growth did not materialize and the political mandate of the government for reform was
uneven. As such, there were very little resources going into the state-financed health system. The ability of
the project -- supporting the re-organization of the health system -- to impact access and quality of health
services and the health outcomes of the population was very limited.            Yet, the project was largely
successful in the reorientation of the system and institutional development which was at the core of many of
the stated objectives. Therefore, the evaluation of the project is mixed -- generally dissatisfied with the lack
of direct impact on the health of the population given the lack of resources in the Credit and in the public
health system more broadly and satisfied with the impact that the project had on a signficant reorientation
and capacity development of the system which has put the system in a better position to handle its current
and future challenges. The Georgian health system finds itself in a better position today than it was at the
start of the health reform and Bank-supported Project, but nearly where we had wanted it to be.

Turning more directly to those objectives stated in the SAR, the project's ability to meet those objectives
was mixed. Overall, the health reform, partly with the support of the project, has resulted in a health sector
which is fundamentally different from that which Georgia inherited at independence. The health reform was
successful, with the project's support in (i) establishing the public health system, (ii) developing a system
of licensing and accreditation, (iii) developing a regulatory framework for the pharmaceutical sector and an
essential drug list; (iv) separating the purchasing from the provision of health care and rendering providers
autonomous, (v) establishing a system of financing which provides a minimum, albeit insufficient, amount
of public support for priority health services and population groups and (vi) introducing the concept of
continuing education into the health sector. The project made an important contribution towards reorienting
the role of the MOLHSA and strengthening its institutional capacity. The latter is no longer engaged in
service provision and has made significant progress towards assuming its new role as a policy maker,



                                                      - 7 -

sectoral regulating body and proponent of public health issues. The establishment of several new
institutions and departments which have been key to supporting this reorientation was directly supported by
the project. The project was, however, less successful in improving the quality of service provision,
achieving better health outcomes and establishing a sustainable health finance system which assures
equitable access to essential clinical services.

To the extent that the SAR identified outcome indicators and set targets to monitor progress towards
development objectives (some indicators were identified but no targets set), many of them have not been
met (see annex 1). It must, however, be pointed out that the impact indicators were overly ambitious,
unrealistic, and not completely within the Project's ability to influence. This was recognized by several
supervision missions. Following the mid-term review, a new set of output indicators was introduced, but
again no targets were set. The attempt of the mid-term mission to revise the indicators showed recognition
that the impact of the project was mainly on the instutional development of the sector and would have less
direct impact on health status. The attempt to revise the indicators, however, as not adequate in their
ability to measure the impact and were not particularly owned by the Ministry either. All this made it
difficult to adequately monitor progress towards achieving development objectives. The mixed record of
achieving development objectives (see below for a discussion of attainment of individual objectives) and the
lack of credible indicators make it difficult to assign an overall outcome rating. While the outcome can not
be considered fully satisfactory, the project's substantial contribution towards reorienting the sector and
strengthening institutions at the central level can not be discounted. The most appropriate rating would
thus be "moderately satisfactory".

Objective 1: Reorient the health system towards cost-effective public health interventions like
preventive and primary health care, assuring in particular, better quality of care for women and
children and focusing MOLHSA's activities on regulation of public and private providers. DO
Rating: Satisfactory.

The reorientation of the MOLHSA's functions towards regulation of providers has been successfully
carried out. A licensing system for health facilities has been established and as of credit closure 53% of
existing facilities had been licensed, despite delays brought about by a change in the legal framework
pertaining to the licensing of entrepreneurship in general. In the years to come, minimum facilities
standards for licensing will need to be improved to help lead to better quality of care. However, an
immediate introduction of more stringent standards would have resulted in the vast majority of facilities not
being able to meet standards, which would have been politically difficult to enforce. The licensing system
should also be developed into a more aggressive instrument to provide licenses in line with needs outlined
by the master plan. A certification system for physicians has been developed and has helped reduce the
number of completely unqualified new and practicing physicians as part of the rationalization process.
Plans to introduce an adequate system for accreditation of medical schools did not materialize, as
accreditation of medical schools was moved from the jurisdiction of the MOLHSA to that of the Ministry
of Education. There still are over 50 private medical schools in the country, many of questionable
standards. The project also helped develop and introduce a regulatory framework for the pharmaceutical
sector, including a licensing system and a drugs registration system. Enforcement of the system remains,
however, still somewhat inadequate, partly because MOLHSA does not have the legal authority to take
immediate action against those not complying with the law.

On the public health front, a Public Health Department with regional and rayon centers was established
through which the Government operates several vertical public health and immunization programs,
supports primary health care in rural and mountainous areas, runs a limited number health promotion
activities and operates a basic health information system. The project has effectively contributed towards


                                                      - 8 -

expanding the focus of the public health system from the control of infectious diseases alone to a broader
program of disease prevention and health promotion. It has also helped establish the basis for an improved
health information system and develop the capacity at central level to analyze health indicator data. While
the agencies and systems have been put in place, the capacity and resources available to effectively carry
out public health initiatives need further strengthening to have the expected impact on health outcomes.
Additional support will be provided under the recently approved Primary Health Care Development
Project.

The Government has put significant emphasis on financing maternal and child health services (for children
up to 3 years of age), allocating over one third of SMIC resources (2001) to this end and the project
supported this through technical assistance for the definition of the original benefits package. However, this
has not been sufficient to allow for universal access to adequate prenatal care and only about half of all
pregnant women complete 4 prenatal visits. The project has not succeeded in significantly improving the
quality of prenatal care. While infant and perinatal mortality rates have somewhat improved over the last
few years, maternal mortality rates have not changed significantly.

Objective 2: Rehabilitation of selected facilities and equipment that will be downsized and dedicated
to cost-effective provision of maternal, perinatal and pediatric care. DO Rating: Unsatisfactory.

Although the project partially rehabilitated a rural hospital and fully rehabilitated a general hospital in
Tbilisi, there was little evidence at project completion that these rehabilitations had resulted in the provision
of higher quality and more cost-effective maternal, perinatal and pediatric care, nor had rehabilitation
efforts resulted in the effective downsizing of facilities. The lack of adequate monitoring data prevents a
definitive conclusion about the impact of the rural hospital rehabilitation on the quality of maternal and
pediatric care. Anecdotal evidence, however, suggests that care did not substantially improve, partly
because conditions in Tsageri, including staff motivation, skill levels and resources to provide adequate
care remained limited and partly because of the late and only partial implementation of the perinatal
referral system in Western Georgia. Gudushauri general hospital in Tbilisi was fully renovated and
technical assistance was provided under the project to plan and design the establishment of a perinatal
center. However, at the time of credit closure, the hospital was not yet operational (opened in June 2003),
thus not providing quality and cost-effective services that might have resulted in reduced infant and
maternal mortality rates as set out by the relevant development objective.

The significant change in the scope of the second project component (from partial rehabilitation of two
facilities to establish perinatal care centers to full rehabilitation of a general hospital) and the framework
within which the hospital rehabilitation work took place resulted in an implicit change of the second
development objective. The decision to shift to full rehabilitation of a general hospital was partly motivated
by the perceived need to rally support for sector reforms through a "flagship" investment that could
demonstrate the positive outcomes of hospital consolidation and restructuring. It was also seen as an
opportunity to develop a model general hospital to demonstrate the benefits of multi-profile hospitals and
modern hospital management. Thus, the objective implicitly evolved from the provision of improved
perinatal care to reduce maternal and infant mortality rates to supporting the Government's much needed
hospital rationalization reform program and demonstrating that rationalization can lead to improved quality
of general hospital services. In this context the Bank's agreement to support renovation of Gudushauri
hospital under the project was linked to the Government's commitment under SACIII to merge the services
of four facilities into Gudushauri hospital as part of the first phase of a hospital consolidation program
which had been legally sanctioned by a Presidential decree in May 2001. However, at the time of ICR
preparation implementation of the consolidation program had been suspended by the Supreme Court
pending further review of the case by the District Court and the planned merger of facilities had not


                                                       - 9 -

materialized. As a result, neither the original objective to rehabilitate facilities to provide cost-effective and
quality maternal and child health care services, nor the implicitly revised objectives to rehabilitate a facility
to demonstrate the positive results of downsizing through merger and the benefits of modernly managed
multi-profile hospitals had been met at the time of ICR preparation. Furthermore, there were concerns
about the hospital's ability to operate on a transparent and financially sound basis, while guaranteeing
access to vulnerable groups, although the Bank and the Government had agreed to monitor hospital
performance to mitigate these risks and the Government had made a commitment to concentrate SMIC
resources for clinical care of vulnerable groups, emergency care and prenatal care and delivery towards
Gudushauri hospital through selective contracting.

Objective 3: Development of human resources to support health reform through continuing education
for public health doctors, family practitioners, nurses, health administrators and other personnel. DO
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.

The project made an important contribution towards strengthening the human resource base of several
newly established or reorganized departments and units of the MOLHSA, including the Public Health
Department, the Center for Medical Statistics and Information, the Pharmaceutical Department, the
Maternal and Child Health Unit, the Department of Medical Technology and the State Medical Insurance
Company. The beneficiary assessment showed that there is wide agreement among stakeholders that the
project's impact on human resource development at the central level was a key achievement and that the
project had made a substantial contribution towards raising the technical capacity of MOLHSA and SMIC
staff in the areas where the project was active.

The project also helped establish the Center for Continuous Education (CCE) and raise awareness within
the MOLHSA of the importance of continuous education. The recent decision to make re-certification of
medical professionals partly conditional on their having completed a certain number of continuous
professional training hours clearly attests to this. The project was somewhat less successful at substantially
strengthening the capacity among staff at the local level, including medical providers. This is due to two
key factors: first, the project allocated a very limited amount of resources towards financing courses at the
CCE, as it was expected that the CCE would be auto-financed through course tuitions and Government
contributions and, second, there are some concerns about the effectiveness of some of the courses taught so
far. During a time of severe budgetary constraints, the CCE received very limited budgetary support and
only in the later project years, while levying tuitions proved unrealistic. The CCE remained thus largely
dependent on contributions from other donors to hold courses, which limited the extent of coverage it could
provide and resulted in a somewhat haphazard way of organizing training courses as the opportunities
arose. The CCE nevertheless succeeding in offering 166 short term courses with somewhat over 2360
participants during the time of the project, mainly financed by other donors. Although no formal evaluation
of these courses has been carried out, some have raised concerns about their effectiveness because of their
limited duration and the fact that many professionals returned to an environment in which it was difficult to
apply the newly acquired knowledge due to lacking supplies and equipment and inadequate support from
superiors.

Objective 4: Support the development of an independent health fund with regional branches, in order
to finance a package of basic clinical services in a cost-effective and equitable manner. DO Rating:
Satisfactory.

The project has succeeded in supporting the establishment of SMIC as a semi-autonomous agency with
reasonable technical capacity to purchase and finance health services. Substantial efforts have been made
to focus SMIC resources towards financing priority services, such as maternal and child health care and


                                                      - 10 -

clinical services for vulnerable groups. Georgia has taken decisive steps towards reforming the health
financing system. The purchasing and the provider function are fully separated, the MOLHSA has
withdrawn from the provision of health care and providers are financially autonomous, receiving public
funds only to the extent that they are contracted through one of the three public purchasers (SMIC,
Municipal Health Funds, Public Health Department). Public funding for health care has been streamlined
into a Basic Benefits Package financed by SMIC and Municipal health funds. SMIC is moving towards
concentrating its limited resources on fewer providers through selective contracting. While these are
impressive steps which many of the FSU countries yet have to take, they have not been sufficient to lead to
a sustainable health care finance system which guarantees equitable access to a basic package of essential
services. Access to essential services which are in principle guaranteed by SMIC and the Municipal Health
Funds still remains largely driven by care seekers' ability to pay. Household surveys show that the need to
pay for health care formally and informally constitutes a significant access barrier for the poor. Overall
this outcome is, however, largely due to the country's poor fiscal performance and limited priority accorded
to the financing of health care, rather than the inability of the project to strengthen SMIC as an institution
and support important policy reforms which Georgia has taken on the health finance side. While public
sector spending on health care has increased as a share of GDP (from 0.7% in 1997 to 1.3% in 2001) and
as a share of consolidated Government expenditures (from under 4% in 1997 to 7% in 2001) over the past
four years, they remain significantly below what they are in countries with comparable income levels.

SMIC was established as a semi-autonomous agency and the project made an important contribution
towards strengthening its capacity as an entity to purchase health services. Although SMIC has a limited
say over the benefits package which it finances and how its limited resources should be allocated within the
benefits package, decisive steps were taken to define a positive list of priority services and target groups for
which SMIC provides funding. Thus in 2001 over one third of SMIC expenditures were accorded to
maternal and child health care services and about one fifth were allocated to financing clinical care for
vulnerable groups. However, due to public pressures the SMIC benefits package has grown over the years
without a concomitant increase in public resources available to cover the benefits. Due to the small formal
sector and low collection rates, revenues from payroll taxes remain inadequate to meet SMIC's obligations
and transfers from the state budget have remained insufficient to cover the shortfall. As a result SMIC has
continued to incur arrears to providers. The situation has, however, improved over the past three years,
thanks to a combination of more realistic planning and an increased allocation of central budget funding to
SMIC, as part of the Government's commitment to increase health care expenditures under SACIII. Thus,
actual payroll tax collections as a share of planned collections increased from 68% in 1999 to 89% in
2001, while new arrears as a percentage of provider claims incurred by SMIC decreased from 31% in 1999
to 11% in 2002. Despite the establishment of SMIC as a health care financing agency, sectoral funding
remains fragmented with SMIC, Municipal health funds and the Public Health Department all financing
separate programs and concluding separate contracts with providers. There are indications that neither the
population nor all medical professionals clearly understand what services are covered by public funding,
with the ensuing uncertainty creating ample room for informal payments.

4.2 Outputs by components:

Component 1: Health System Reorientation

Sub-component 1.1:       Modernization of Public Health Services, Health Promotion and Disease
Prevention. Moderately Satisfactory. The Department of Public Health was established in 1995. The
project supported the Department's establishment through the rehabilitation of facilities, provision of
equipment, technical assistance and short and long term training of selected staff. The project also
provided for technical assistance to initiate the development of a health information system and develop



                                                    - 11 -

training modules for public health courses to be provided by the Center for Continuing Education. The
project's main contribution in the area of health information was the strengthening of the Center of Medical
Statistics and Information's (CMSI) capacity to adequately collect and analyze key health indicators. A set
of health indicators in five priority areas was defined in accordance with international standards and forms
to collect and report the information were designed, adopted and introduced throughout the country.
However, attempts to devolve responsibility for data processing and analysis to the local level were only
marginally successful as insufficient resources were available under the project to fully train and equip
local staff and offices. The capacity to use the data for informed decision making and planning remains
limited, particularly at the local level. Plans to upgrade the software used by CMSI to allow for the
establishment of an integrated health information system were cancelled due to the lack of funds. The
recently approved Primary Health Care Development Project will support the further development of the
health information system.

With the exception of the health promotion grants program, most health promotion activities were only
initiated during 1999, because of a delay in the establishment of the health promotion unit. The lack of
funds, staff and capacity called for a reduction in the number of promotion programs that the project
foresaw. The project helped develop a national tobacco control strategy, a family planning strategy and
legislation on food labeling and traffic safety. Actual implementation of these strategies was mainly
supported with funding by other donors. The main focus of project supported health promotion initiatives
remained the health promotion grant program. The delay in the establishment of the health promotion unit
led to the health promotion grants program initially being managed by the PCU without clear direction and
priority setting. Partly due to concerns about the grant program's effectiveness and the transparency in use
of funds and partly due to the project's overall funding shortfall, the program was cancelled after two
rounds and remaining funds were reallocated towards hospital rehabilitation. A key shortcoming of this
activity's design was the lack of clear criteria to evaluate and select grant proposals, as well as a
framework to adequately assess the impact of grant funded initiatives.

The third activity involved the development of curricula and materials for training modules in public health,
with the objective to provide this training to regional and local public health department staff at the CCE. A
four module course was developed with the help of international consultants, but only two of them were
actually implemented with a total participation of only 40 health care professionals.

Overall the sub-component suffered from a shortage of funds. The project had not adequately budgeted for
implementation of many of the activities, assuming that the development of programs and technical
assistance would suffice, while budgetary resources (not included as part of counterpart funds) would allow
for actual implementation of developed programs. The precarious fiscal situation and the resulting chronic
under funding of the health sector during most of the project years, however did not allow for this.

(1.2) Healthy Children and Safe Motherhood: Unsatisfactory. Many of the activities under this
component got off to a late start and suffered from a shortage of funds. The component did not succeed in
substantially improving access to quality maternal and child care in the target areas, nor did it lead to the
expected impact on maternal and child mortality rates. Perinatal care in Georgia remains fragmented with
minimal communication between prenatal, intra-partum and neonatal care providers. The use of written
treatment protocols and guidelines still remains foreign to many physicians, midwives and nurses and there
are indications that the protocols which were developed under the project are not as widely followed as
expected. Four main factors account for the limited success of this sub-component: the limited availability
of public sector resources to support the introduction of training programs and treatment protocols
developed under the project; a component design which failed to focus on the provision of relatively low
cost equipment and supplies to support the effective introduction of new treatment protocols, particularly in


                                                     - 12 -

rural areas which post high maternal and infant mortality rates; the delayed establishment of the perinatal
referral systems and, the failure to establish modern perinatal centers to provide quality care for high risk
deliveries and neonates.

The project supported the establishment of a Maternal and Child Health Department in the MOLHSA and
provided assistance to the department in the formulation of maternal and child health (MCH) policies which
became an integral part of the National Health Policy adopted in 1999. The basic benefits package funded
under SMIC accords substantial priority to MCH care, although it has not been reviewed for cost
effectiveness on a regular basis as foreseen by the project and has in the meantime grown to also include
other, less cost effective benefits. Concrete achievements in the area of MCH policy included the
establishment of a system of certification for obstetricians, gynecologists, neonatologists and pediatricians
and the development of guidelines for the licensing of maternal and child health care facilities. A new
perinatal surveillance system was introduced in 1998, but in-depth analysis of perinatal information has so
far been limited to a one off effort for Tbilisi, due to the lack of funds.

The project supported the development of a limited number of treatment protocols and guidelines for
perinatal and neonatal care, but not all protocols were adopted due to the lack of funding for their
introduction. Training programs were developed to help introduce the use of the adopted protocols. The
project, with the support of other donors, provided training to a limited number of pediatricians, mid-wives
and a more significant number of nurses on leading causes of neonatal diseases, neonatal resuscitation and
leading life threatening complications of delivery. Although training programs were developed and adopted
by the Ministry, training for obstetricians and gynecologists did not take off under the project and there are
indications that this has negatively affected the introduction of new guidelines and protocols for labor and
delivery. Such training was subsequently supported by UNICEF. Some stakeholders have raised concerns
about the effectiveness of training, as many of the trained staff returned to an environment where they could
not fully apply their new skills, due to a shortage of supplies and equipment and an overall environment
which did not foster behavioral change. Some clinical staff also felt that the introduction of new protocols
would necessitate more than a short term training course. The project supported the development of
curricula for residency programs of obstetricians/gynecologists and pediatricians. However, partly due to
the lack of resources, these programs were initiated 3 years later than foreseen at project appraisal and only
12 residency places for ObGyn and 11 for pediatricians were created during the life of the project.

The project's original design put significant emphasis on the establishment of perinatal referral systems to
modern perinatal centers in Western Georgia (Kutaisi) and in Tbilisi (Eastern Georgia). The centers were
to provide access to quality obstetric and perinatal care for high risk deliveries and neonates and also serve
as training sites for residency programs. Following the mid-term review, a decision was taken to establish
the referral systems with limited investments, referring high risk cases to existing medical facilities in the
two cities. The referral system was initiated in Tbilisi in mid-1999 and in Kutaisi in mid-2000. Initial
results show a reduction in peri-natal and maternal mortality rates, as well as in still-births among cases
referred to the centers. Full development of the system as originally foreseen, however, will have to await
the establishment of a modern perinatal referral center at Gudushauri hospital. The latter was not
operational at the time of ICR preparation. Furthermore, the system will only be able to reap its full
benefits once critical outreach to primary care physicians in rural and mountainous areas, which post high
perinatal and maternal mortality rates, will be established. The Bank's recently approved Primary Health
Care Development Project proposes to do so.

(1.3) Realignment of the Ministry of Health: Satisfactory. The project helped reorganize the MOLHSA's
Pharmceuticals Department, in particular it helped establish and clearly define the functions of the
Committee for Pharmaceutical Products and Pharmacopoeia and helped increase its capacity through


                                                       - 13 -

training and the establishment of a quality control laboratory. The component also helped develop a
sectoral regulatory framework and set up a licensing system for pharmaceutical producers, importers,
wholesalers and retail pharmacies. Similarly, a registration system for pharmaceuticals was developed and
an essential drugs list which had been prepared with the assistance of WHO was adopted. While the
regulatory framework has been successfully developed, the MOLHSA's ability to enforce it remains
somewhat constrained by limited resources and legal limitations which prevent it from seizing illegally
imported drugs or from revoking a pharmacist's license without court order. As a result, the
pharmaceutical sector continues to suffer from several weaknesses, including a continued relatively high
share of illegally imported products The European Observatory on Health Care Systems estimated that
20% of drug are imported illegally (HIT Report for Georgia, 2002, p. 54) which raise concerns about the
quality and safety of drugs. The original project design foresaw an education campaign to help raise
physicians, pharmacists and the population's awareness of drug quality issues and the risks
self-administration of prescription drugs, but this activity was not implemented on a sufficiently large scale
to have the desired impact.

The other main achievement under this component was the development and implementation of a licensing
system for health facilities and of a certification systems for physicians. The systems for licensing of health
establishments was at the forefront of enterprise licensing in Georgia and indirectly provided an impetus
for the Government to move more aggressively on the development of legislation pertaining to licensing of
entrepreneurship. By credit closure, 53% of facilities had been licensed, despite an implementation delay
caused by the introduction of the law on licensing entrepreneurship. In the medium term standards for
facilities licensing will need to be upgraded to ensure improved quality of care and the system should strive
to increasingly align the issuance of licenses with the need for facilities defined by the hospital and the
primary health care master plans. Under the physician certification system, 87% of physicians who had
taken the certification examination had passed and received certification by the end of 2002, while those
who failed to obtain certification were no longer allowed to practice. Amendments to the regulations on
certification adopted in 2002, make re-certification partially conditional upon completion of a minimum
number of hours of continuous education or publication of scientific articles.

Component 2: Rehabilitation and Maintenance of Health Facilities and Equipment.
This component included the rehabilitation of facilities as well as institutional strengthening of the
Department of Medical Technique and Technologies.

(2.1) Institutional Strengthening of Department of Medical Techniques and Technologies: Satisfactory
. With the help of the project the Department successfully developed modern medical equipment standards,
a strategy for the management of medical equipment and procedures and guidelines for the maintenance of
medical equipment. The project also supported the establishment of a national coding system for medical
equipment and training of medical equipment engineers on equipment maintenance and new medical
equipment standards. Further training was subsequently supported by SIDA. Limited support to the
Department on facilities construction standards did not result in the adoption of new standards and
significant additional support will be necessary in this area.

(2.2) Rehabilitation of Health Facilities: Moderately Satisfactory. Under this sub-component a rural
hospital was partially rehabilitated during the early project years and Gudushauri general hospital in Tbilsi
was fully renovated. The need to find an alternative facility for renovation and establishment of a perinatal
center in Tbilisi resulted in significant implementation delays for three main reasons: (i) initial disagreement
between the Bank and the Government on an appropriate replacement site; (ii) the need to repeat planning
and design work which had already been carried out for the originally selected facility; and (iii) a
significant budget shortfall for rehabilitation of the selected site due to the increased scope of works, which


                                                      - 14 -

amongst other measures necessitated the approval of a supplementary IDA credit. During rehabilitation
several implementation problems were encountered which were mainly due to the lack of updated standards
for medical facilities construction and insufficient experience and authority of the locally contracted
construction project manager. Supervision reports prepared by the foreign designer were not always taken
seriously, sometimes resulting in quality problems and delays.

Technical assistance was provided under the Bank supported Structural Reform Support (SRS) project to
prepare a financial feasibility study, a business plan and a human resource management plan. The
Government has made a commitment in principle to concentrate SMIC contracting for care of vulnerable
groups, emergency care and prenatal and delivery services to Gudushauri hospital. The financial viability
of the hospital as a guarantor of care for vulnerable groups remains nevertheless of concern. Expected
operating costs are in the vicinity of 10 million lari per year of which 70% are expected to come from
SMIC and 30% from fee for service payments. Total SMIC disbursements in 2002 were 44 million lari of
which about 35% went to care for vulnerable groups and prenatal care and delivery. Some have voiced
concerns that excessive concentration of these resources towards Gudushauri hospital could raise serious
questions about access to SMIC guaranteed services by those not within easy reach of the capital. To help
mitigate this risk the Government has augmented the SMIC budget for 2003 by funds for emergency care
previously managed by municipal funds and Gudushauri hospital will be one of four facilities contracted to
supply emergency care. The issue of access to SMIC financed services by those outside easy reach of the
capital nevertheless deserves close monitoring as an important share of SMIC resources will be directed
towards Gudushauri hospital. The Government also committed to making a one time budgetary
contribution to the hospital to allow for the start-up of its operations and help clear debts from the
hospital's predecessor, although this contribution had only partially materialized at the time of ICR
preparation.    Technical assistance to support hospital management and operational issues during the
hospital's first few years of operation will be provided by USAID. Aside from financial viability issues,
there were also concerns at the time of ICR preparation about the hospital's ability to operate on a fully
transparent basis and to assure access to care of SMIC covered vulnerable groups by effectively ensuring
that informal payments would not be tolerated. To mitigate these risks, the Bank and the Government
agreed on a set of indicators to monitor hospital performance and further support to the hospital foreseen
under the SRS project will be conditional on satisfactory performance during the first six months of the
hospital's operations. Thus, while the actual rehabilitation of the hospital was completed in a satisfactory
manner, the situation at the time of ICR preparation was such that successful operation of the hospital on
all accounts remained uncertain and the key development objectives of the project in this area ­
demonstrating the merger of hospitals and the benefits of a modern multi-profile hospital and providing
equitable access to high quality perinatal care ­ had not yet been met.

Component 3: Development of Human Resources: Satisfactory. Aside from technical assistance and
training provided to MOLHSA and other agency staff under various project components, the project
contributed to human resource development by supporting the establishment of the Center for Continuing
Education at the National Health Management Center. The project provided for rehabilitation and
equipment of the Center's facilities, development of selected training materials and, mainly through the
other components, for the development of training curricula. It also provided for limited technical
assistance to help support the development of an overall business development strategy for the center. The
component's key shortcoming was that essentially no project funds had been budgeted to finance the actual
implementation of training courses, as it was assumed that these would be funded trough a combination of
Government budget and tuition fees. The introduction of tuition proved impossible, while budgetary
contributions remained extremely limited. As a result the center had to mobilize resources from other
donors to finance its operations. While the center eventually did so quite successfully, this delayed the
start-up of training programs and limited the training coverage. Nonetheless, the center carried out a total


                                                    - 15 -

of 166 short term courses with somewhat over 2360 participants during the time of project, mainly
financed by other donors. The Government's recent decision to accord responsibility for continuous
medical education to the Medical Academy raises the question of CCE's future role outside education in
health care management and health finance, though some have suggested that CCE may be sub-contracted
to continue providing education in the medical field under the Academy's supervision.

Other activities, for which the component was to provide technical assistance included the development of
an accreditation system for medical schools and the development of post-graduate curricula for physician
and nursing training. Although work was initiated on the medical school accreditation system, the latter
was never adopted as the responsibility was shifted to the Ministry of Education. Curricula development
for post-graduate education was supported by other donors, with the exception of curricula for residency
programs for obstetricians/gynecologists and pediatricians which were developed under the project. Long
term fellowships had a limited effectiveness on ministerial capacity as several staff who benefited from
such fellowships abroad subsequently did either not return to or leave their job shortly there after. This was
recognized as an issue during the mid-term review and the decision was taken to reallocate the limited funds
left for fellowship towards short term training.

Component 4: Modernization of Health Financing System: Satisfactory.               The project successfully
supported the development of SMIC and its regional branches into an agency with reasonable technical
capacity to contract for health services, which is what this project component was designed to achieve.
Technical assistance under the component was substantially financed by a Dutch Grant, while IDA funds
provided training, equipment, accounting and information systems and local TA. The project made an
important contribution towards strengthening the capacity of SMIC's central and to a more limited extent
also its regional offices in financial management, accounting and planning. It also helped develop SMIC
staff's technical capacity to conclude, manage and monitor contracts with providers, though there remain
concerns about the capacity of regional branches to verify provider performance and execution of services
for which claims are submitted under retrospective reimbursement mechanisms. The vast marjority of
treatments are reimbursed on a tariff based system with an overall cap on the contract amount, but the
price paid has little resemblance with actual costs and the system provides only little incentives for cost
containment. A short coming of the component's design was that, aside from a limited number of courses
at CEE, it did not foresee any significant interventions to strengthen the capacity of provider managers to
act as adequate interlocuteurs for SMIC on the contracting side. With the support of project provided
technical assistance, the Government also developed a draft health finance strategy which spells out the
future direction of health finance reform, clearly building on the achievements on the technical side by the
project. The successful establishment of SMIC as a financing agency and the streamlining of its benefits
into a package of essential services not withstanding, the SMIC system has not succeeded in assuring that
the services which are covered under its benefits system are available to all beneficiaries on an equitable
basis. The limited resources available to SMIC result in rationing of its services, while informal payments
abound, thus presenting access barriers to low income groups.              Concerns about the continued
fragmentation of the overall health finance system and financial fragility were described under the relevant
development objective.

Component 5: Project Management: Satisfactory. Overall coordination and administration of the project
was assured by a PCU which was established as an integral part of the MOLHSA. The project supported
PCU establishment through initial technical assistance on project management and staff training.
Management of individual sub-components was the responsibility of component coordinators, though many
of them expressed a concern at project completion that the PCU had not granted them sufficient room to
actively take charge of their components. The project was headed by three different PCU directors and
other PCU staff also frequently changed. This resulted in implementation delays to the extent that new


                                                    - 16 -

incoming staff were neither familiar with the project nor Bank rules and procedures. There was a lack of
regular coordination, communication and planning with component coordinators, which amongst others
resulted in lack of coordination among components and sub-components which supported complementary
activities. During the early phase of technical assistance, contracts were not always adequately managed
and component coordinators and other stakeholders of beneficiary agencies were not involved enough in the
preparation of TORs, nor in the decision making about consultant visits and work programs. Many of these
problems were due to the fact that this was the Bank's first project in the sector and as such not
unexpected. While they led to some implementation delays, particularly during the first years of project
implementation, they did not have a substantial negative impact on the project's overall performance. The
PCU carried out its fiduciary responsibilities, particularly financial management and procurement, in a
satisfactory manner. Considering that it was the Bank's first project in the sector, the component's overall
performance is rated as satisfactory.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

During project preparation a cost-effectiveness and a cost-benefit analysis of health promotion activities
and certain MCH investments were undertaken. The analysis used burden of disease methodology and was
carried out over a time frame of ten years. The analysis, based on projected declines in the incidence of
smoking, ischemic and cerebro-vascular diseases, traffic accident injuries and reduced infant and maternal
mortality rates, projected that by 2005 198,908 DALYs would be saved as a result of health promotion
activities and 16,498 as a result of MCH investments in Kutaisi at a total program cost of US$ 2,278
million. Repetition of a burden of disease analysis is beyond the scope of this ICR. However, as the data in
annex 1 show, the health promotion activities did not result in improved health outcome and the economic
benefits expected at appraisal did thus not materialize. The vast majority of MCH investments in Kutaisi
did not take place, nor did maternal and infant mortality rates substantially improve. The biggest benefit of
the project is clearly the contribution to overall sectoral reform formulation and the significant impact on
strengthening the institutional capacity at central level. These are benefits which are difficult to quantify.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The project has had a substantial impact on institutional development in Georgia's health sector. Several
departments and agencies key to a reoriented health sector and to the Ministry's revised role in the sector
were established or substantially restructured with the direct support of the project. These include the
Department of Public Health (including CMSI and Health Promotion Unit), the Maternal and Child Health
Unit of the Health Policy Department, the Pharmaceutical Department, the Department of Medical
Technology and Techniques, the Department of Licensing and Accreditation, the Center for Continuous
Education and the State Medical Insurance Company. Discussions with stakeholders and the results of a
stakeholder assessment workshop showed that there was general agreement among stakeholders that the
project's impact on institutional development at the central level was one of its key achievements. The
project made a substantial contribution towards raising the technical level of the policy dialogue which in
turn led to the formulation and adoption of reform measures which many transition countries yet have to
take.   It also helped develop the regulatory framework in several key areas (pharmaceutical policy,
licensing, accreditation and certification, equipment standards). The project also helped many MOLHSA
policy makers and department heads gain an international perspective on health policy and reform issues.
For many key players in the sector the project provided the first opportunity to engage with international



                                                      - 17 -

experts in such a dialogue, a contribution which is widely valued and recognized by many stakeholders.
While further assistance will be needed in several areas, the project has made as much of an institutional
development contribution as it could have hoped to make, given its time frame and limited resources. The
project was somewhat less effective at building institutional capacity at the local level, principally due to
resource constraints.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The Russia financial crisis of 1998 which had a substantial negative impact on the Georgian economy was
a key contributor to the country's ensuing fiscal crisis with its negative implications for health sector
financing. Two key factors which negatively affected the health facilities rehabilitation component were the
occupation by refugees of the hospital which had been selected for rehabilitation in Tbilisi and, more
recently, an opposition party's challenge of the presidential decree stipulating the first phase of hospital
restructuring. The hospital occupation resulted in the need to identify another suitable facility for
rehabilitation which significantly delayed implementation of the rehabilitation component and consequently
also resulted in a substantial disbursement delays. The challenge of the hospital merger program resulted in
the suspension of the program by the Supreme Court and has thus far prevented the merger of facilities that
were to fold their operations into the hospital which was rehabilitated under the project

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The project benefited from continuity in the leadership of the MOLHSA, with a reform minded Minister
who had been involved with the project since it's preparation remaining in his position through most of the
project's life and his replacement being the former Deputy-Minister who had also been involved with the
project since its beginning. While these factors worked very much in favor of project implementation, the
country's continued dire fiscal situation and the resulting under funding of the health sector in general, and
project supported initiatives in the areas of public health, continuous education and health care finance in
particular, significantly affected the project's ability to fully reach all development objectives. While the
fiscal crisis was partly due to external factors (Russia crisis), the country's overall limited ability to collect
taxes, including wage taxes for health insurance contributions, and the low share of public expenditures
allocated to health care were factors outside the control of the implementing agency, but not of the
Government as a whole. The merger of the Ministry of Health with the Ministry of Labor and Social
Affairs in 2000, focused much of the Ministry's attention towards defining and implementing the new
organizational set-up at the central and regional level, diverting attention from issues more directly linked to
effective management of the health sector and its transition. Changes in the legislation pertaining to
licensing of entrepreneurial activity affected the speed with which health facilities and physicians could be
licensed and certified until 1999, but significant efforts were undertaken by MOLHSA to move licensing
and certification ahead once the law on licensing entrepreneurship was adopted.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The project benefited from continued support and commitment from the Minister of Health and his
associates. Many of the project component coordinators remained in charge through most of project
implementation. As many of the project coordinators were heading departments in the Ministry that
benefited directly from the project, the latter also enjoyed strong support from implementing departments.
Key factors which negatively impacted project implementation were lack of continuity among staff in the
PCU (the project had 3 directors and saw frequent changes in other staff positions) and a somewhat
tenuous relationship between project component coordinators and the PCU. The latter led component
coordinators to believe that they had little control over timing and financing of activities to take place under
their components. At project completion, component coordinators overall felt that there had not been
enough inter-component coordination and information sharing and that throughout implementation it had


                                                      - 18 -

been difficult for them to have a clear overview of what the entire project entailed. Particularly during the
early project years, component coordinators did not clearly understand what their role was, a situation
which was further exacerbated by the PCU's tendency to not adequately involve component coordinators in
overall implementation planning.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The original project cost estimate was US$ 19.7 million, of which US$ 14.0 million equivalent was to be
financed by the IDA credit. The change in scope of the health facilities renovation component and a
significant depreciation of the SDR against the US$ led to a shortage of credit funds, despite additional
funding from JICA in the equivalent of US$ 5 million for hospital equipment. As a reduction in the scope
of hospital rehabilitation would have compromised the functionality of the hospital, a supplementary IDA
credit in the equivalent of US$ 2.7 million was approved in August 2001. At credit closure, the total project
cost was US$ 18.76 million, of which US$ 15.3 million equivalent had been financed from IDA funds.
About US$ 0.2 million was cancelled from the two credits following Project closure; the difference of US$
1.2 million equivalent being the result of fluctuations in the SDR/US$ exchange rate. Actual expenditures
on the first project component (health systems reorientation) were only about 75% of appraisal estimates.
This was largely due to a reduction in Government financing for health promotion and maternal and child
health activities forced by severe budget constraints. In addition, IDA funds from the cancelled health
promotion grant program and the health information systems software were reallocated towards the health
facilities rehabilitation component. Similarly, IDA and Government financing for the health financing
component were substantially lower than appraisal estimates, as a Dutch grant financed much of the
component's TA and investment costs for computer systems were lower than expected. Overall, the project
suffered from funding shortfalls for the first and third project components, principally because it was
expected that Government funding outside the project would help implement many of the programs
designed under the project, but also due to the need to reallocate as much funding as possible to the
rehabilitation component in the outer project years.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The institutional changes and reforms supported by the project remain a high priority of the Government's
health sector policy and figure prominently in the Georgia National Health Policy which outlines the
sectoral strategy for the current decade and was adopted by Parliament in 1999. In particular, the strategy
confirms the importance accorded to public health, health promotion, improved maternal and child health
services, protecting vulnerable groups' access to health care and strives to substantially increase public
sector expenditure for health care by 2005. It also confirms the steps taken thus far on the health financing
side, including separation of the purchasing and the provider functions, autonomous management of health
facilities, private participation in health services provision and the need to concentrate the use of limited
public sector resources on fewer providers.         The project's achievements on the policy reform and
institutional side thus have a high likelihood of being sustainable. The technical capacity in the area of
public health, health information, licensing and accreditation, equipment planning and maintenance,
pharmaceutical regulation and contracting for health services has substantially improved as a result of the
project and will thus have lasting effects. The Bank's recently approved Primary Health Care Development
project will build on these achievements and further support the institutional development of the Public
Health Department, health information and policy development as well as initiatives in the area of Maternal
and Child Health. However, many of the project's achievements will not be able to bear their full fruit
unless public resources flowing into the sector will increase and the Government will make an increased
commitment towards using these resources in a cost-effective manner.




                                                      - 19 -

Two areas where sustainability is uncertain are the system of continuous education and the operation of
Gudushauri hospital. Experience has shown that CCE needs financial support from donors and the
Government to operate as an effective training provider. Although Government funding did come forth to
help support the training of health managers and general practitioners towards the end of the project, it is
unlikely that the center will be able to operate effectively without further financial support from donors.
The Government's recent decision to accord overall responsibility for continuous education to the Medical
Academy also raises the question of CCE's future role in continuous education outside health
administration, though the curricula, training materials and instructors prepared under the project could
obviously also be used in a different setting. The extent to which Gudushauri hospital will be able to
operate on a financially sustainable basis while also assuring access of vulnerable groups to its services
will depend on the extent to which the Government, through SMIC, will be able to fulfill its commitment to
concentrate contracting on Gudushauri hospital and on the quality of hospital management and supervision,
including management's commitment to not tolerate informal payments. Technical assistance to support
hospital management is in place and the Bank and the Government have agreed on a plan to monitor
hospital performance and make further support for rehabilitation in the hospital under the SRS project
conditional on the satisfactory performance during the hospital's first six months of operation. To assure
satisfactory performance and transparent operation of the hospital it will be of critical importance that the
Bank and the Government continue to monitor its performance beyond the initially agreed upon six months
period. The sustainability of project outputs from the Maternal and Child Health sub-component is
questionable, as training was not sufficient to have an adequate impact on the quality of care, conditions for
wide spread adoption of new treatment protocols and guidelines were less than favorable and further
technical and financial support are necessary to fully institutionalize the perinatal surveillance and the
referral system. Broader support in this area will be provided under the recently approved Primary Health
Care Development Project.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
All project activities with the exception of the Gudushauri hospital renovation were completed by early
2000. Despite limited public sector funding, activities in most areas supported under the project continued
partly with Government funding and partly with support from other donors. For the operation of
Gudushauri hospital, technical assistance to support hospital management and planning is in place and the
Government has made a commitment in principle to concentrate SMIC resources for hospital care on
Gudushauri through selective contracting.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
It is widely acknowledged by key figures in the Government and the implementing agencies that the Bank's
support during project preparation and beyond made a significant contribution towards the formulation of
health sector reform policies and direction setting. The borrower has also pointed out that the Bank's
support provided credibility and momentum to sectoral reforms internally and externally and helped attract
additional support from other donors. The Bank was clearly responsive to the request of the Borrower for
technical and financial support on a wide range of issues needing reform and provided support for the
preparation of all components, brining in experts in public health, MCH, medical education, health finance,
health management, pharmaceutical regulation as well as architects and facilities planners. Where the
Bank's performance during project preparation fell short, however, was in making a more realistic
assessment of a first time borrower's ability to implement such a wide range of activities expeditiously and
to meet very ambitious development objectives. Expectations were not commensurate with available funds.
A more selective approach to what the project would support and then a more significant allocation of
resources in those areas, may have allowed to have a larger impact in selected areas and address issues


                                                    - 20 -

such as high infant and maternal mortality rates, or sectoral human development more effectively. A
shortcoming of project design was the failure to adequately budget for full implementation of activities on
the health promotion and continuing education side. The expectation that budgetary funds would be able to
support health promotion programs developed under the project or to finance continuing education courses
and residency programs for which the project had developed curricula and materials was unrealistic in light
of the grim fiscal situation in the country at the time of project preparation. The monitoring and evaluation
framework was weak. While outcome and output indicators were identified at appraisal, no efforts were
made to establish a credible baseline, nor were specific targets against which project progress could have
been monitored set for many indicators. To the extent that targets were set (such as targets on health
outcomes and health behaviors) these were unrealistically ambitious. Thus while the Bank's performance
with respect to project design could have been stronger, it must be recognized that it made a substantial
contribution towards helping the Government formulate fundamental policy reforms and that its support in
this area was fully satisfactory. Therefore, the Bank's overall performance during preparation is rated
moderately satisfactory, event if the project's quality at entry was not fully satisfactory.

7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's overall performance during supervision is rated moderately satisfactory. While the Bank
carried out regular supervision missions to monitor project progress, these were generally not staffed with
sufficient technical specialists to supervise the many diverse aspects of the project on a regular basis. The
budgetary implications of supervising a highly complex project do not seem to have been taken into
consideration adequately. Counterparts have noted that the only full supervision mission looking at all
aspects of the project from a technical point of view took place during the mid-term review. In the view of
many counterparts this was rather late to help provide detailed technical guidance and address
implementation problems which had delayed implementation during the first two years of the project, all the
more so as most activities other than hospital rehabilitation were winding down within about 15 months of
the mid-term review. In response to project management difficulties and implementation delays clearly
noted during the mid-term review, the Bank placed an international operations analyst in Georgia to
support management of the health and other social sector projects and subsequently also engaged a local
health projects officer. The presence of these staff helped to strengthen planning, coordination and contract
supervision functions in the PCU.

Recognizing that the project was underfunded, particularly after the scope of rehabilitation works was
changed, the Bank undertook significant efforts to help mobilize additional grant funding from other donors
to help finance the project. Dutch funding made an important contribution towards the health finance
component and Italian funding provided technical assistance under the medical equipment sub-component,
while JICA provided for most of the equipment for Gudushauri hospital. The Bank also allowed for
effective support from other Bank projects to supplement investments under the First Health Project. Thus
technical assistance under the first SATAC helped develop the legal framework for health insurance, while
funding under SATACII provided for the development of a hospital masterplan which helped outline a
rationalization strategy in relation to Gudushauri hospital. The SRS project provided for technical
assistance to develop a financial feasibility analysis, a business and a management plan for Gudushauri
hospital.

There are several areas where the Bank should have been more proactive during implementation, these
included the need: (i) to clarify at the outset the role of component coordinators and to help establish
mechanisms that would have guaranteed adequate coordination between component coordinators and the
PCU and across component coordinators; (ii) to establish and maintain an appropriate monitoring system
which would have helped to more adequately monitor progress towards development objectives and keep
implementation focused on the objectives; and (iii) to assure early on that the board and the management of



                                                     - 21 -

the hospital under rehabilitation were selected in line with required qualifications and that mechanisms were
put in place to guaranteed that informal payments would not be tolerated and vulnerable groups' access to
care at the rehabilitated hospital would thus be assured.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance is rated moderately satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The borrower's performance during project preparation was satisfactory. The borrower showed strong
leadership and willingness to proceed with sectoral reforms during project preparation, taking decisive
steps to initiate reforms prior to project start-up. The borrower actively engaged in project preparation and
policy dialogue throughout project preparation.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The key issue which afflicted the health sector during the entire project implementation period was the
severe shortage of public sector funds for the health sector. During the initial project years this was due to
the need for severe fiscal retrenchment to restore macro-economic stability. In the later years it was due to
the fiscal crisis in the aftermath of the Russia crisis and the country's overall limited ability to enforce tax
collection. Low wage tax collections and the low priority accorded to social sectors, including health, in the
state budget limited the extent to which sectoral reforms could have the expected outcomes in areas where
public funding was called for (e.g. public health, protection of vulnerable groups' access to health care,
essential basic care including MCH). While it can be argued that the MOLHSA should have resisted
pressures to expand the contents of the basic benefits packages and thus have taken measures to use funds
more effectively to protect vulnerable group's access to essential health services, the overall sectoral fiscal
envelope was and remains insufficient to support the areas which the Government made a priority for
public funding (e.g. preventive and essential primary care and access of vulnerable groups to essential
clinical care). The dire fiscal situation also frequently resulted in the late release of counterpart funds which
then led to implementation delays. This was particularly a problem during hospital rehabilitation, where
delays in payments to contractors resulted in implementation delays and penalty payments.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The project enjoyed strong support from and stability in the ministerial leadership and a core group of
ministerial staff who were directly involved in project preparation and implementation. Contrary to many
first generation projects in other FSU countries, the project was implemented by the MOLHSA and the
PCU was an integral part of the Ministry, in charge of overall coordination and administration, rather than
implementation. This set-up assured that project activities were in direct support of relevant agencies' work
program and increased project ownership and support by implementing departments.

The PCU's performance was mixed. The PCU performed its fiduciary management functions
(procurement, financial management, and disbursement) satisfactorily. There were a few large tenders for
ambulances, computers, rehabilation (including prequalification) and medical equipment. Although these
tenders were not without their issues, they were completed well and in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
The financial management system of the PCU has, through other capacity assessments, found to be quite
good. The annual audits were produced on time and each were unqualified. The PCU did suffer from high
staff turn over and at times a somewhat tenuous relationship between the PCU and the component
coordinators. Frequent staff turn over led to implementation delays because incoming staff had to acquire
project management skills and get acquainted with World Bank rules and procedures. There was a clear
lack of regularly coordinating, communicating and planning implementation with component coordinators.



                                                      - 22 -

Following the MTR, component coordinators engaged in the preparation of detailed implementation
programs and budgets which in many cases were approved by the Ministry, but eventually coordinators
were informed by the PCU that funds were no longer available and programs could thus not be
implemented. Component coordinators generally felt that there was a lack of transparency in the way
funding allocation decisions were made. During the early phase of technical assistance, contracts were not
always adequately managed and component coordinators and other stakeholders of beneficiary agencies
were not involved enough in the preparation of TORs, nor in the decision making about consultant visits
and work programs. The PCU also fell short of adequately monitoring project progress. It must, however,
be pointed out that this was largely due to the fact that neither the Bank nor the Government put enough
emphasis on regularly monitoring performance based on an agreed upon set of indicators. Many of these
problems were due to the fact that this was the Bank's first project in the sector and that it was a complex
project which involved a large number of agencies. Overall, the implementing agency's performance during
implementation is considered satisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Considering the complexity of the project and the fact that this was the first Bank project in the health
sector in Georgia, the Borrower's overall performance is rated satisfactory. The key issue was the
inadequate financing of the health sector, a problem well beyond the control of the implementing agencies.

8. Lessons Learned

The following lessons can be drawn from the implementation experience of the Bank's first health project
in Georgia:

Expectations must be aligned with available resources: Faced with broad and demanding reform needs
and a sectoral infrastructure which required substantial upgrading, the project invested its limited resources
in many different areas in support of policy reform, human resource development and infrastructure
rehabilitation to improve service delivery. Due to limited resources, investments in many areas did not
allow to have a significant enough impact to bring about the expected results in health outcomes and
service delivery. Interventions in many areas allowed to "scratch the surface" but there will be a need to
take a longer term perspective and to invest more decisively and pointedly for far reaching results. The
development of an effective public health system or far reaching changes in the quality of service delivery
are a case in point.

Adapt project complexity to local conditions: While health reform is inherently complex and demanding,
projects in support of reforms should be selective, with their complexity adapted to local implementation
capacity. The Bank's first Health Project in Georgia was too ambitious for a first time borrower where
tough reforms met with resistance among stakeholders and absorptive capacity was limited.

Payment reform alone is insufficient to bring about rationalization in the hospital sector, nor is it
realistic to expect market forces alone to bring about the necessary hospital rationalization: The
experience in Georgia (and elsewhere) has shown that introduction of a purchaser provider split, coupled
with hospital autonomy and contracting for health services are not sufficient to lead to the necessary
reductions and rationalization in the hospital sector. These steps need to be supported by more decisive
measures to concentrate resources on selected providers to have the desired impact. There are indications
that the recent decision to contract more selectively has helped spur voluntary mergers, particularly outside
Tbilisi. However, to have the desired effects, selective contracting should be based on a health planning
approach reflecting population needs and available resources.




                                                    - 23 -

Continuous dialogue with stakeholders is critical to assure support for reforms: Critical reform
measures were not supported by sufficient communication with concerned stakeholders. There are
indications, for example, that the strong opposition to merging the maternity and pediatric hospitals in
Kutaisi could have been overcome, had stakeholders been better informed about the benefits of merging the
two hospitals.

Investment projects can support but seldom bring about policy reform: While the project made an
important contribution to help build the institutional capacity needed to implement reforms, it on its own
was not able to bring about reforms which were controversial or difficult to implement, nor was it able to
rally support in the Government to allocate more budgetary resources to the sector. Only when linked to
adjustment credits, were decisive decisions, such as an albeit limited increase in budgetary funding for
health or a more comprehensive approach to hospital rationalization taken. Similar commitments made
during negotiations for this investment credit (e.g. commitment to increase budgetary allocations for health,
commitment to allocate funds to health promotion, commitment to merge facilities for renovation in
Kutaisi) did not yield the expected results.

Provide for adequate resources to fully implement activities initiated under projects: The failure to
budget for full implementation of health promotion strategies, training courses for which programs were
developed or investments to support the introduction of new treatment protocols and guidelines severely
hampered the effectiveness of certain project activities. Had sufficient funds been allocated under the
project to fully support their implementation, the project would like have had a larger impact albeit
conceivably in fewer areas.

Draw on international expertise to support complicated procurements: Experience with the
procurement of medical equipment under the project suggests that drawing on international expertise to
help with needs analysis, maintenance planning, preparation of technical specifications, bid evaluation,
installation and testing could have resulted in a significantly smoother process for large medical equipment
procurements.

Limited effectiveness of fellowship training: The project provided for a significant number of long term
fellowship trainings abroad. However, many of those who benefited from such training did not return to
their jobs and often not even to the country. Therefore this training did not produce the desired increase in
human resource capacity in support of reform implementation. This was recognized during implementation
and a decision was made to reallocate remaining funds from fellowship training to local training which
allowed to reach a larger number of beneficiaries who stayed within the system. The lesson thus is that long
term fellowship training should be used with caution and linked to an obligation of beneficiaries to return to
their sponsoring institution for a minimum period of time.

Clearly outline expectations and roles of all involved in project implementation and establish a
mechanism to assure regular communication and coordination across project components: Not all
component coordinators clearly understood what was expected from them, while the PCU often failed to
adequately involve them in planning of activities and contract management. Many component coordinators
felt that a mechanism (such as regular component coordinator meetings) to regularly exchange information
and plan implementation could have assured better coordination across components and provided for an
opportunity to better understand the rational behind what often seemed arbitrary decisions to reallocate
resources between components. To the extent that many component coordinators were also department
heads in MOLHSA, the same mechanism could have been used to better coordinate input from other donors
with those of the project.



                                                     - 24 -

Technical assistance works best if it involves a long term relationship between consultants and
counterparts and TORs are supported by implementing agencies as well as policy makers. The
experience of the project showed that those components which benefited from technical assistance provided
by the same consultants over much of the project duration valued the assistance provided more and overall
made better use of it. An important lesson pertaining to technical assistance also is that TORs for
consulting assignments should be developed in close collaboration with the beneficiary agency, but also be
supported by relevant policy makers to assure that outputs will be adequately utilized.

Support investments in public health and health promotion with an adequate monitoring system
which not only helps show the impact on health outcomes (which is the ultimate goal, but will occur with a
time lag), but also on health behaviors. There is anecdotal evidence that the health promotion program
institutionalized under the project helped raise awareness of public health issues among the population, but
there is no hard evidence. Had there been a way to demonstrate the immediate benefits of such programs to
policy makers, it might have been somewhat easier to get albeit limited budgetary resources allocated to
such activities.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

Date:            June 10, 2003
To:              Mukesh Chavla, Human Development Economics
cc:              Tamar Gotsadze, Projects Officer
                 Kari Hurt, Operations Officer
Subject:         Completion of the World Bank Supported Georgia First Health Project

Dear Mukesh,

The World Bank Health Project I completed on the 31st of December 2002 in Georgia was very important
in terms of the development of national health care system and the country, as a whole. The given credit
was necessitated by the critical situation that had been created then in the country, in general, and in the
health care system, in particular. Therefore, this Program became an integral part of the Stabilization
Program initiated by the Government of Georgia in the middle of 90s of the last century and made its
significant contribution to the successful implementation of current reforms.

The Project played a key role in transferring the health care system to the principles of market economy, as
well as in differentiation of health care providers and financing authorities. In addition, it enabled the
Ministry of Labor, Health and Social Affairs to ensure a significant increase and optimal use of the
resources available in the sector. In particular, the development of the potential in a number of institutions
and departments ensured the fulfillment of obligations and tasks in a more qualitative manner. Intensive
cooperation between international and local experts and jointly organized training and professional
retraining efforts resulted in the development of human resources within the sector and provision of local
facilitators, who are now able to train specialists throughout the country, and what is more important, in
the fields that have not been developed in Georgia before.

As a result, the Ministry of Labor, Health and Social Affairs, as well as other state institutions, has now
been staffed by highly skilled specialists, who can solve rather complicated and complex problems.

Consequently, the assistance under the World Bank Health Project-I of Georgia enabled the significant
development of human resources and local capacity building in the field of expertise that may serve as an



                                                     - 25 -

invaluable input for further project implementation purposes.

It is also worth mentioning that the implementation of this World Bank Project played one of the key roles
in setting up the system of accreditation and licensing.

Various institutes have been established and developed through the Project, such as the National Health
Management Center, Center for Continuous Education, Center for Medical Statistics and Information,
State Medical Insurance Company and others.

It must be particularly mentioned that the establishment of Public Health Department and its regional
infrastructure played an important role in taking necessary health care measures for the population.

With the assistance provided under the World Bank Health Project-I, the health care financing system has
been set up and is now developing independently, the elaboration and fine-tuning of new management
principles and institutes is underway. During the period of Project implementation, the legal and regulatory
environment was almost fully renewed and is continuously fine-tuned. In fact, this Project laid a solid
foundation for introduction and gradual development of market relations.

The World Bank Health Project-I was also of special importance for the system in terms of the investments
made in the infrastructure. During six years of Project implementation, two hospitals, National Health
Management Center, Center for Continuous Education, Center for Medical Statistics and Information,
State Medical Insurance Company and Public Health Care Department were reconstructed and equipped,
the medicine quality control laboratory complying with the international standards was purchased. Tbilisi
Acad. O. Gudushauri National Medical Center, which is unique in the country in terms of its available
capacities and service quality, must be specially noted.

The Project implementation gave a fresh impetus to the introduction and development of cutting-edge
computer technologies, as well as of information system and analytical capacities in the health care system.

Regardless of certain problems encountered in the course of its implementation, the World Bank Health
Care Project-I was implemented effectively and in a satisfactory manner, that played a decisive role in
achieving the stabilization and in mobilizing the development potential in the system. The experience
gained in the process of Project implementation will serve as a significant factor for successful
implementation of further objectives set by the Ministry of Labor, Health and Social Affairs, as well as
current and future projects of the World Bank and other donor organizations.

Sincerely,
/s/Amiran Gamkrelidze
Minister of Labor, Health and Social Affairs

(b) Cofinanciers:

Not applicable.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

Not applicable.

10. Additional Information

Not applicable.




                                                     - 26 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


OUTCOME INDIACTORS:

Development            Outcome Indicator Appraisal Target         Outcome Indicator Actual
Objective
Reorient the Health   §prevalenceofsmokingdecreasesby            Information not available
System Towards         15% in 1999
Cost-Effective Public
Health Interventions  §incidenceandmortalityfrom                 Incidence increased by 239%
like Pimary and        ischaemic hart disease reduced by 2%      absolute mortality increased by
Preventive Care,       annually                                  196% between 1995-2001
assuring in Particular                                           according to official data, 1995
Better Quality Care                                              data may be of questionable
for Women and                                                    quality
Children and
Focusing MOLHSA's
Activities on         §incidenceandmortalityratefrom             Incidence increased by 375%
Regulation of Public   stroke reduced by 3% annually             absolute mortality increased by
and Private Providers                                            225% between 1995-2002,
                                                                 baseline may be of questionable
                                                                 reliability

                      §incidenceandmortalityratefrom             Absolute number of injuries
                       traffic accident related injuries reduced remained more or less stable
                       by 5% annually                            between 1995 and 2001

                      §STDs:30%reductionamongtarget              No age specific information
                       group high school and college students available. Syphilis increased by
                                                                 52%, Gonorrhea by 18% and
                                                                 AIDS by 425% in general
                                                                 population between 1996-2001


                      §Impactofcommunityhealth                    No      independent    evaluation
                       promotion programs in final report         carried out

                      §%oflowbirthweightnewborns                  6.5% in 1995, 6.8% in 2001
                       (indicator but no target in SAR)

                      §100%infantsbreastfedafterdelivery,         Figures for 2001 are: 98%,
                       50% breastfed after 3 months, 25%          44,2% and 42.6%
                       breastfed after 6 months

                      §%ofcesareansections(indicatorbut           3.5% in 1995; 6.3% in 2001
                       no target in SAR)

                      §abortionratio0.4by1999                     0.39 in 1999; 0.32 in 2000


                                                   - 27 -

                       §infantmortalityratedecreasesby            6% decrease in national rate
                       30% in 1999 nationwide and by 50%          between 1993 and 2001.
                       in Tbilisi and Kutaisi                     Information for Tbilisi and
                                                                  Kutaisi not available.


                       §perinatalmortalityratedecreasesby         decrease of 8% between 1996
                       50% by 1999                                and 2002

                       §maternalmortalityratedecreasesby          national rate increased 6.7%
                       30% nation wide and by 50% in              between 1996 and 2000,
                       Kutaisi and Tbilisi                        Tbilisi rate increased by 48%,
                                                                  Kutaisi rate decreased by 1%.
                                                                  Baseline rates may be of
                                                                  questionable reliability.




Development of Human§% of hospital administrators trained at 55% of certified health care
Resources to Support   CCE (indicator but no target in SAR)       managers trained.
Health Reform
                       §#ofcertifiedfamilypractitionersin
                       practice (indicator but no target in SAR), 133

Support Development    §totalhealthexpenditurebysourceand         Health spending as % of
of an Independent      exp. Category (indicators but no           consolidated Gov. spending rose
Health Fund to         targets in SAR)                            from 3.4% in 1997 to 7% in
Finance Package of                                                2001, as share of GDP from
Basic Clinical                                                    07.% in 1997 to 1.3% in 2001
Services in a                                                     Wage tax funded health
Cost-Effective and                                                expenditure execution rate rose
Equitable Manner                                                  from 72% in 1997 to 89% in
                                                                  2001; central budget health
                                                                  budget execution rate rose from
                                                                  41% in 1997 to 91% in 2001



OUTPUT INDICATORS:

Development Objective &      Output Indicator Appraisal Target    Output Indicator Actual
Project Component

Component 1.1:
Modernization of Public      § Number&valueofgrants               18 grants, US$ 569,486, grant
Health Services, Health      awarded by HPF (indicator but no     program was stopped after 2



                                                   - 28 -

Promotion and Disease      target in SAR)                       rounds
Prevention
In support of DO 1         § ReportHealthofNation               Report is published annually
                           published by 7/1/1988


Component 1.2: Healthy     § %ofwomenusingfamily               IUD use: 0.8%, contraceptive
Children & Safe            planning services (indicator but no use: 0.7%
Motherhood                 target in SAR)
In support of DO 1

                           § 90%pregnantwomen                  53% in 2001
                           completing 4 prenatal visits &
                           having full risk adjustment

                           § #ofMSCHtrainingmodules            3 modules developed; 408
                           for health professionals (indicator medical staff trained in
                           but no SAR targets)                 management of newborn diseases
                                                               and neonatal resuscitation; 191
                                                               midwives trained in safe delivery

                                                               1709 institutions (53%) licensed
Component 1.3:             § #and%ofhealthcare                 by 2002
Realignment of MOH         institutions licensed (indicator but
In support of DO1          no targets in SAR)
                                                               21,933 physicians (87%)
                           § #and%ofphysicianslicensed certifiedbyend2002
                           (indicator but no targets in SAR)


                           § #ofstudiesforselectedtracer noinformationavailable
                           health care -quality indicators
                           conducted (SAR sets no targets)

                           § #and%ofpharmaceutical             1487 retailers (47%) licensed
                           retailers licensed (no targets in
                           SAR)



Component 2: Rehabilitation§ % of works completed              100% as redefined during
of Health Facilities                                           implementation
In support of DO 2
                           § %ofequipmentpurchased             100% as redefined during
                                                               implementation
Component 3:               § numberofcoursesheldand
Development of Human       number of trainees in
Resources                  o family practice                    7 courses, 133 trained
In support of DO 3         o nursing                            66 courses, 1122 trained



                                                 - 29 -

                        o public health                       2 courses, 40 trained
                        o health admin& management            41 courses, 1071 trained, same
                        (indicators but no targets in SAR)    individual counted more than
                                                              once if taken several modules
                                                              (most courses not financed by
                                                              project)
Component 4:             § %ofhealthinstitutions              38 % of all institutions
Modernization of Health  privatized (indicators but no target privatized, including dentists
Financing Systems        in SAR)                              and pharmacies. However, only
In support of DO 4                                            3% of hospitals and 5% of
                                                              policlinics privatized




                                              - 30 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                           Appraisal     Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                           Estimate       Estimate       Appraisal
                       Component                           US$ million   US$ million
                                                              1.97             1.49             76
1.1. Modernization of Public Health Services & Health
Promotion
1.2. Healthy Children and Safe Motherhood                     1.39             1.03             74
1.3. Realignment of the Ministry of Health                    1.43             1.10             77
2 . Rehabilitation of Health Facilities and Equipment        11.58           12.20             105
3.   Human Resource Development                               1.08             1.01             94
4.   Modernization of Health Financing                        1.32             0.86             65
5.   Project Administration                                   0.91             1.07            117


Total Baseline Cost                                          19.68           18.76
                         Total Project Costs                 19.68           18.76
                  Total Financing Required                   19.68           18.76


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     1
                                                 Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB            NCB                2        N.B.F.    Total Cost
                                                                Other
1. Works                             7.30            0.70         0.00          0.30        8.30
                                    (5.90)          (0.50)      (0.00)          (0.00)      (6.40)
2. Goods                             3.50            0.00         2.10          0.00        5.60
                                    (2.40)          (0.00)      (1.50)          (0.00)      (3.90)
3. Services                          0.00            0.00         3.70          0.00        3.70
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)      (3.20)          (0.00)      (3.20)
4. Miscellaneous                     0.00            0.00         0.00          1.60        1.60
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                     0.00            0.00         0.50          0.00        0.50
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.50)          (0.00)      (0.50)
6. Miscellaneous                     0.00            0.00         0.00          0.00        0.00
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)
   Total                             10.80           0.70         6.30          1.90        19.70
                                    (8.30)          (0.50)      (5.20)          (0.00)     (14.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     1
                                                 Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB            NCB                2      N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                                Other
1. Works                             7.83           0.93         0.00           0.00       8.76
                                    (6.26)         (0.54)       (0.00)         (0.00)      (6.80)



                                                 - 31 -

   2. Goods                                 4.62               0.42              0.49             0.06              5.59
                                           (4.62)             (0.42)            (0.33)            (0.00)           (5.37)
   3. Services                                                                   3.30             0.81              4.11
                                              ()                ()              (3.09)            (0.00)           (3.09)
   4. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.30                               0.30
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.08)            (0.00)           (0.08)
   5. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
        Total                               12.45              1.35              4.09             0.87             18.76
                                           (10.88)            (0.96)            (3.50)            (0.00)           (15.34)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                IDA         Govt.        CoF.         IDA          Govt.      CoF.       IDA      Govt.     CoF.
1.1 Public Health & Health      1.30         0.60         0.10        1.18         0.16       0.14       90.8      26.7    140.0
Promotion
1.2 Healthy Children &          0.90         0.40         0.00        0.87         0.08       0.07       96.7      20.0      0.0
Safe Motherhood
1.3 Realignment of MoH          0.80         0.30         0.00        0.92         0.12       0.06       115.0     40.0      0.0
2. Rehabilitation of            8.50         2.90         0.20       10.20         1.80       0.20       120.0     62.1    100.0
Facilities & Equipment
3. HR Development               0.80         0.20         0.00        0.85         0.16       0.00       106.3     80.0      0.0
4. Health Financing             0.90         0.40         0.00        0.49         0.11       0.25       54.4      27.5      0.0
5. Project Admin.               0.80         0.10         0.00        0.82         0.17       0.08       102.5    170.0      0.0
Total                          14.00         5.00         0.40       15.34         2.61       0.84       109.6     52.2    210.0




                                                           - 32 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

During project preparation a cost-effectiveness and a cost-benefit analysis of health promotion activities
and certain MCH investments were undertaken. The analysis used burden of disease methodology and was
carried out over a time frame of ten years. The analysis, based on projected declines in the incidence of
smoking, ischemic and cerebro-vascular diseases, traffic accident injuries and reduced infant and maternal
mortality rates, projected that by 2005 198,908 DALYs would be saved as a result of health promotion
activities and 16,498 as a result of MCH investments in Kutaisi at a total program cost of US$ 2,278
million. Repetition of a burden of disease analysis is beyond the scope of this ICR. However, as the data in
annex 1 show, the health promotion activities did not result in improved health outcome and the economic
benefits expected at appraisal did thus not materialize. The vast majority of MCH investments in Kutaisi
did not take place, nor did maternal and infant mortality rates substantially improve. The biggest benefit of
the project is clearly the contribution to overall sectoral reform formulation and the significant impact on
strengthening the institutional capacity at central level, benefits which are difficult to quantify.




                                                      - 33 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              01/95 - 05/95             6    MISSION LEADER (1);
                                             SOCIAL SCIENTIST (1);
                                             HEALTH SPECIALIST (2);
                                             HEALTH CONSULTANT (2)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              09/95 - 12/95           11     MISSION LEADER (1);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                             (1); HEALTH SPECIALIST
                                             (2); IMPLEMENTATION
                                             OFFICER (1) ARCHITECT
                                             (1) EQUIPMENT AND
                                             MAINTENANCE
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (4)


 Supervision
              July 1996                 4    OPERATIONS (1);                  S
                                             PROCUREMENT (1);
                                             TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             PROJECT MANAGEMENT
                                             (1)
              Dec. 1996                 2    TASK MANAGER (1);                HS              S
                                             HEALTH SPECIALIST (1)
              July 1997                 5    HEALTH ECONOMIST & TL            S               S
                                             (1); OPERATIONS ANALYST
                                             (1); HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT (1); RM
                                             PROJECT OFFICER (1)
              Dec. 1997                 3    HEALTH ECON. & TTL (1);          S               S
                                             HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT/IMPLEMENT
                                             ATION OFFICER (1)
              Nov. 1998                14    HEALTH ECON. & TTT (1);          U               U
                                             HEALTH ECON (1) MEDICAL
                                             EQUIP SPECIALIST (1);
                                             HEALTH SPECIALIST (1)
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                             ECON. SECTOR LEADER (1);
                                             PHARMACEUTICAL
                                             REGULATORY SPEC. (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT/IMPLEMENT
                                             ATION OFFICER (1);
                                             CONSULTANTS (5); TEAM
                                             ASSISTANT (1)




                                              - 34 -

               May 1999                      2   HEALTH ECON. & TTL (1);            S    U
                                                 OPERATIONS ANALYST (1)
               Oct. 1999                     3   TASK TEAM LEADER (1);              S    U
                                                 IMPLEMENTATION (1)
                                                 PUBLIC HEALTH SPECIALIST
               Apr. 2000                     4   TASK TEAM LEADER (1);              S    S
                                                 IMPLEMENTATION (3)
               Sept. 2000                    2   OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);            S    S
                                                 HEALTH PROJECT OFFICER
                                                 (1)
               Dec. 2001                     2   OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);            S    S
                                                 HEALTH PROJECT OFFICER
                                                 (1)
               Nov. 2002                     4   PTL AND ECONOMIST (1);             S    S
                                                 TTL AND OPERATIONS OFF
                                                 (1); LOCAL PROJECT
                                                 OFFICER (1); PROCUREMENT
                                                 CONS (1)

 ICR
                                            3    OPERATIONS OFFICER &               S    S
                                                 TTL (1), LOCAL PROJECT
                                                 OFFICER (1), SR. HD.
                                                 ECONOMIST (1)
                                                 BENEFICIARY
                                                 ASSESSMENT
                                                 CONSULTANT (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                     Actual/Latest Estimate
                                     No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation         not available                       411,567
  Appraisal/Negotiation              not available              included in above
                                                                          amount
  Supervision                        not available                       562,167
  ICR                                        14.93                        60,480
  Total                            staff weeks for                     1,037,214
                                LEN/LENA/LENP
                                         /SPN are
                                 unavailable prior
                                to 2000, therefore
                                 any inclusion of
                                 total staff weeks
                                 would not be an
                                   accurate count




                                                 - 35 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 36 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 37 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Staff Appraisal Report No. 15069-GE

Memorandum of the President of IDA to the Executive Directors on a Proposed Supplemental Credit in the
Amount of SDR 2.2 million to Georgia for the Health Project. Report No. P 7480-GE.

Bank mission back to office reports and Aide Memoires from 1996- 2002.

Project Implementation Progress Reports 1996-1999.

Beneficiary Assessment Study of the World Bank Supported Georgia Health Project, prepared by George
Shakarishvili, consultant, May 2003.




                                               - 38 -

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results

In April/May 2003, a beneficiary assessment was carried out by an independent consultant familiar with
the Georgian health sector and reform program. The beneficiary assessment was focused on direct
beneficiaries of the project, namely policy makers and staff of the MOLHSA and its affiliate institutions at
the central and local level and a limited number of health care professionals, rather than the population as
consumers of health care services. The assessment was carried out through semi-structured interviews and
focus group discussions. Interviews with policy makers focused on their perception of achievements of the
health care reform and the Bank's role in supporting the Government's sectoral reform program. Interviews
with MOLHSA staff involved in project implementation focused on project design, implementation and
outcomes and interaction with Bank staff and local counterparts. Similarly, discussions with health care
professionals focused on project design, effectiveness and overall outcomes. The conclusions of the
assessment are as follows:

Health Care Reform: The assessment found that there was wide agreement among stakeholders that health
care reform was indispensable to halt the decline in the population's health standards, improve the quality
of health care provided and increase sectoral efficiency. Stakeholders, particularly policy makers,
considered that the reforms were design adequately and in line with the sector's needs. Stakeholders
indicated that the reform had successfully helped reorient the role of the MOLHSA through the
establishment of several key institutions (e.g. Department of Public Health and its Center for Disease
Control, the Department of Health Policy, including the MCH Unit, the Department of Pharmaceuticals
etc.) which were supported by the project. The reform also helped change the population's attitude towards
their own health and health care. People are believed to overall assume more responsibility for their own
health status, as they realize that health care is not a free good. Stakeholders attributed a trend in improved
quality of care to reform induced competition among health care providers and the introduction of
standardized treatment protocols. A key shortcoming identified by stakeholders was the lack of wide spread
public debate and communication with stakeholders to explain the need for and nature of health sector
reforms. This in the view of stakeholders has led to a situation where health reform issues are being
exploited for political purposes. Many stakeholders pointed out that the human resource base at the local
level needed significant further strengthening, particularly in areas where new needs arose as a result of
reforms, such as hospital administration and health care finance. There is also wide spread agreement that
the country's overall weak fiscal situation has negatively affected the achievements of health care reforms.

First Health Project: There is a widespread belief among stakeholders that the Bank's backing of the
Government's health sector reform program was important, as it provided the Government with necessary
technical support and helped strengthen the program's credibility. Stakeholders believe that the Bank's
support through the first health project was an important catalyst to mobilize other donor resources in
support of the health reform program. It is also widely acknowledged that the project made an important
contribution towards strengthening the technical capacity of policy makers, MOLHSA staff and health care
professionals at the central, but less so at the local level. In this respect, the human resource development
component of the project was considered as a critical ingredient towards strengthening sectoral technical
capacity. According to several stakeholders, one of the key achievements of the project was the support
provided with the establishment of the Public Health Department and SMIC as an agency to purchase and
finance health care.

A majority of stakeholders consider that the project's design was too complex and ambitious, particularly
in view of the fact that this was the Bank's first social sector project in Georgia. The ambitious project
design resulted in underfunding of several key project activities. Some stakeholders found that project
components were not sufficiently integrated, leading to a project with isolated interventions in various


                                                      - 39 -

areas. Some stakeholders expressed concern with respect to the MCH sub-component's design and over
ambitious expectations. Similarly, some stakeholders expressed concern about the financial sustainability
of Gudushauri Hospital, pointing out that the hospital's annual operating budget amounts to a significant
share of the country's public sector expenditures for health, which raises concerns about equity in access to
health care by those not within easy reach of the capital and concerns about the hospital's ability to
effectively bar informal payments.

Government Performance During Project Implementation: Stakeholders considered that local
involvement and ownership was not sufficient during project preparation, leading to an over complex and
over ambitious project design. Several stakeholders directly involved in project implementation voiced
concern about the lack of transparency in decisions about allocations of project funds and an overall lack of
coordination between various components due to a sometimes tenuous relationship between the PCU and
component coordinators and overall complex project design. Stakeholders also pointed to a need for better
coordination of various donor interventions in the sector and for basing health sector interventions on needs
analysis. The project did not make enough of an effort to disseminate project related information to local
stakeholders.

Bank Performance During Project Implementation: Stakeholders generally expressed satisfaction with
the Bank's assistance both during project preparation and implementation. It was mentioned that the project
significantly helped raise the technical level of the policy dialogue, leading to MOLHSA being considered
as a more equal partner in the reform dialogue upon project completion than during the project design
phase. A key concern raised by those directly involved in project implementation was the lack of the Bank's
support with the establishment and routine utilization of an effective monitoring and evaluation system that
would have allowed to better assess implementation progress and project achievements.




                                                     - 40 -

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results

The workshop took place in Tbilisi on May 7, 2003 and was attended by representatives of the MOLHSA
and associated institutions, including regional health departments, representatives of concerned health care
providers and key donors involved in the health sector. A list of participants is presented in appendix 1 to
this annex. The workshop was opened by the Minister of Labor, Health and Social Affairs and consisted of
a plenary session in the morning, followed by focus group discussions and a wrap-up session during which
focus groups reported their key conclusions in the afternoon. During the morning plenary session, the
consultants contracted by the Government to carry out an independent evaluation of                 the project's
achievements presented their findings. A Bank staff discussed the purpose and nature of the ICR exercise
and key questions which arose during the preparation of the ICR of the Georgia Health I project.
Preliminary findings of the stakeholder assessment were also introduced. Presentations were followed by a
plenary discussion on various issues raised during the foregoing presentations. Focus group discussions in
the afternoon centered around four key topics including (i) reform and project achievements in the area of
maternal and child health; (ii) reform and project achievements in public health; (iii) reform and project
achievements in health sector finance and, (iv) project coordination.

Key conclusions of the workshop are as follows:

General Assessment:

The project significantly helped reorient the role of the MOLHSA and contributed towards the successful
establishment and/or reorganization of key departments in and institutions affiliated with MOLHSA.

Expectations set for project achievements were too ambitious, measurable indicators which would have
allowed to monitor the project's progress towards achieving its objectives were lacking which made it
difficult to determine how well the project was performing and to assure that it remained focused on the
originally stated objectives. Various project components and sub-components were often implemented in
isolation, leaving the impression that the project consisted of a collection of relatively disjoint interventions
without a clear overall focus.

Future projects could benefit from the establishment of a mechanism that would allow for regular
communication and coordination between various implementing agencies and their designated component
coordinators and the PCU. Similarly, increased efforts should be made to coordinate activities of various
donors to assure a coherent approach and complementarity rather than duplication of efforts.

Public information and communication with stakeholders needs to be strengthened to better share the
objectives, purpose and detailed design of sectoral reforms in general and project supported activities in
particular.

Maternal and Child Health:

Health outcome related expectations of the project in the area of MCH were unrealistic. The project did not
have sufficient resources to have an important impact on the quality of MCH care and to visibly affect
maternal and infant mortality rates. Implementation delays and the change in scope under the health
facilities rehabilitation component negatively affected the ability of the MCH sub-component to improve
MCH services, as it did not allow for the full development of the referral system to modern perinatal
centers and wide spread training. The lack of funds for relatively small investments in equipment and
supplies in support of effective application of new treatment protocols was a design flaw which will be



                                                    - 41 -

addressed under the Primary Health Care Development Project. The first health project nevertheless made
an important contribution towards raising the awareness of the importance of MCH services, helping
prioritize SMIC resources towards MCH and supporting the establishment of the MCH unit in MOLHSA.
The project also made an important contribution towards setting up a health information system which
collects perinatal information in line with international standards

Public Health: The project made an important contribution towards helping establish a modern Public
Health System in Georgia. While the system is in place, additional support is needed to strengthen capacity
at the local level and ensure full acceptance of the concept of public health centers and the role of public
health specialists at the local level. The regulatory framework requires further improvement to allow for the
effective functioning of the public health system at the local level and assure adequate collaboration and
interaction between health care providers, public health services and health financing agencies. There is a
need to further integrate public health and primary health care interventions. The project helped introduce
the concept of health promotion, but implementation of health promotion activities was not on a large
enough scale to have a significant impact health outcomes. Health promotion continues to be starved for
resources. Awareness of the need for health promotion and a healthy lifestyle needs to be significantly
raised among policy makers.

Health Finance: The health reform was successful in introducing a purchaser provider split, establishing
SMIC as a health finance agency and defining a basic benefits package supported with SMIC financing.
The project supported these reforms, particularly through its assistance to strengthening SMIC's technical
capacity. While the SMIC system it is in principle conceived as an insurance scheme, benefits provided
under SMIC are independent of contributions made, thus limiting incentives to pay wage taxes. The recent
merger of SMIC with the rest of the social insurance system raises concerns about the health finance
system's ability to secure the originally conceived 3+1 wage tax contribution for health care, as the new
system does not separate contributions at the source, providing room for cross-subsidization between the
various branches of the unified social insurance system. SMIC's ability to verify provider claims remains
extremely limited, which is of concern under a system of retrospective provider payments. Managerial
capacity at provider level remains limited and provider managers thus remain weak contracting partners to
SMIC.

Project Coordination: The focus group agreed that the establishment of a PCU within the Ministry was
important to assure effective project implementation, particularly as this was the first Bank supported
project in the sector. The role of project component coordinators and their relationship with the PCU should
have been defined better at the outset of the project. The project would have benefited from regular
coordination meetings which would have allowed to exchange information across component coordinators
and between component coordinators and the PCU. Such meetings could also have been used as a vehicle
to increase inter-component coordination and for joint decision making on the allocation of resources. They
could also have been used to more effectively plan the coordination between activities implemented under
the Bank supported first health project and other donor projects.




                                                      - 42 -

List of Stakeholder Assessment Workshop Invitees:

Amiran Gamkrelidze,          Minister of Labour, Health and Social Affairs of Georgia
Marina Gudushauri,           First Deputy Minister, Chair of the Board of Gudushauri National
Medical Center
Iagor Kalandadze,            Deputy Minister of Health, former Deputy Chair of Public Health
Department
Victor Metreveli             Former PCU Director
George Nikolaishvili         PCU Director
Demna Sakltkutsishvili       PCU Financial Manager
Vakhtang Beridze             PCU Procurement Manager
Lela Shanidze                PCU Civil Works Coordinator
Nino Moroshkina              PCU TA Coordinator
David Khubua                 PCU Planning and Monitoring Coordinator
Eka Ekizashvili              PCU Office Manager
Ramaz Urushadze              Chair, Department of Public Health;
Nata Avaliani,               Regional Director ­ AIHA, Health Promotion Component Coordinator
Ketevan Nemsadze,                    Clinical Director of the Children's Hospital # 3, MCH Component
Co-coordinator
David Kherodinashvili,       Professor, Research Institute of Reproductive Medicine
Tengiz Asatiani,                             Chairman of the Ob/Gyn Association (former MCH Component
Co-Coordinator)
Nata Kazakhashvili,          Former Head of MCH Department (MoHLSA)
Nick Nutsubidze,             Health Policy Department ( Former Deputy Head of MCH Department)
Levan Lazarashvili,          Chair of the Department of Medical Technics and Technologies
Guram Gogichadze,            Deputy Chair of the Department of Rehabilitation of Medical Facilities
George Baliashvili,          Deputy Director of Gudushauri National Medical Center
Otar Vasadze,                Director, NHMC
Otar Gerdzmava,              Director, CCE
Temur Kalandadze,            Deputy Director of SMIC, former Director of SMIC
Soso Bregvadze,              Deputy Director of SMIC
Manana Tsintsadze            Director, Center of Medical Statistics
Alexander Tomadze            Chair, Department of Pharmacology Department
George Gotsadze              Consultant
Levan Jugeli                 Consultant
David Gzirishvili                    Consultant
Tata Chanturidze             Consultant
Lia Mamaladze                President of Association of Nurses
Tamar Gotsadze               WB Resident Mission Tbilisi
Kari Hurt                    The World Bank
Monika Huppi                 The World Bank
UNDP
WHO
DFID
USAID
EU
AIHA
OXFAM


                                              - 43 -

Save The Children
UMCOR

Public Health Focus Group
Leila Kasradze           Chief of Poti Public Health Department
Tamar Andriadze          Chief of Dusheti Public Health Department
Pati Khabuliani          Chief of Akhaltsikhe Public Health Department
Kote Gvenetadze          Chief of Kutaisi Public Health Department
Neli Khizanishvili       Chief of Telavi Public Health Department
Revaz Tataradze          Head of the Board of Cardio-vascular Disease Prevention Committee
Lela Sturua              Head, Center for Health Promotion

Health Care Financing Focus Group
Archil Salakaia          TB Disease Center
Merab Pruidze            Director, S/R Institute of Neurology
Marina Shikhashvili      Director, Children's polyclinic N9
Irina Karosanidze        Director, Family Medicine and Diagnostic Center
Tengiz Verulava          Chief of Social Insurance United Fund, Samegrelo-Upper Svaneti Region
Temur Kartsivadze        Adjara SMIC Regional Purchaser

MCH Focus Group
Temur Nadiradze          Director, Kutaisi Children's Hospital
David Gzirishvili        East Georgia region MCH:
Dimitri Abelashvili      Intensive Care Department of Childrens' Republica Hospital
Manana Odisharia         Children's Hospital N2
Teimuraz Khambarashvili  Chief Ob/Gyn of Kakheti Region
Tamar Taimurazashvili    Director of Children's Hospital, Kakheti region

GHSPIC and Project Component Coordinators Relations
Demna Sakltkutsishvili   PIC Financial Manager
Nino Moroshkina          PIC TA Coordinator
David Khubua             PIC Planning and Monitoring Coordinator
Eka Ekizashvili          PIC Office Manager
Ramaz Urushadze          Chair, Department of Public Health
Ketevan Nemsadze,        Clinical Director of the Children's Hospital # 3, MCH Component
Co-coordinator
Tengiz Asatiani,         Chairman of the Ob/Gyn Association (former MCH Component
Co-Coordinator)
Alexander Tomadze        Chair, Department of Pharmacology Department




                                           - 44 -

- 45 -

