Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2852 GE
                    Development Credit Agreement
                          (Health Project)
                               between
                               GEORGIA
                                 and
                INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          Dated May 9, 1996
                                                  CREDIT NUMBER 2852 GE
                    DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated May 9, 1996, between GEORGIA (the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS (A) The Association has received a Statement of Development
Objectives (SDO) dated February 14, 1996 from the Borrower describing a
program of actions, objectives and policies in the health sector;
      (B)   the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
has requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
and
      (C)   the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia of the
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                              ARTICLE I
                   General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications thereof set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute
Page  2
an integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
                  "Except as the Association and the Borrower shall
                  otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on
                  account of expenditures in the territories of any
                  country which is not a member of the Association
                  or for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
                  such territories; or
            (b) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities,
            or for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to
            the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision
            of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter
            VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
      (a)   "Local Contribution Account" means the account to be opened
in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.01 (b) of this Agreement;
      (b)   "MOH" means the Borrower's Ministry of Health;
      (c)   "PCU" means the Project Coordination Unit, established
within MOH referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
      (d)   "Programs" means health promotion and preventive programs
to be carried out under Part A.2 of the Project and which are eligible
for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit;
      (e)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation
advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of
letters dated July 3, 1995 and August 21, 1995 between the Borrower and
the Association;
      (f)   "SHF" means State Health Fund established pursuant to the
Decree No. 400 issued by the Head of State on December 23, 1994; and
      (g)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                               ARTICLE II
                               The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to nine
million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 9,700,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in U.S. dollars a special deposit account (the Special Account)
in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure
or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall,
Page  3
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to
itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the
Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date
and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the
authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon
be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30
of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty
(60) days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower
from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the
June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a)
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the
next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii)
in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section
4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant
to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semi-annually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual
installments payable on each April 1 and October 1 commencing October
1, 2006 and ending April 1, 2031.  Each installment to and including
the installment payable on April 1, 2016 shall be one and one-fourth
percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in
constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank
shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by
them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the
Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due
until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so
requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of
such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with
the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the
Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained
under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may,
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment
Page  4
to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph
(a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                             ARTICLE III
                      Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through the PCU with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial,
administrative and health practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
      (c)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section, the Borrower shall, in order to ensure the timely
availability of the funds required for the Project, maintain the Local
Contribution Account within its National Bank and replenish such
account in quarterly intervals with such amounts as shall be needed to
reestablish a balance in the equivalent of $400,000.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General
Conditions, the Borrower shall:
      (a)   prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6)
months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for
this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the
future operation of the Project; and
      (b)   afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan.
                             ARTICLE IV
                         Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures
in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
           (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
                  (a) of this Section, including those for the Special
                  Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
                  with appropriate auditing principles consistently
                  applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
                  Association;
          (ii)    furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but
                  in any case not later than six months after the end
                  of each such year, a certified copy of the report of
                  such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
Page  5
                  detail as the Association shall have reasonably
                  requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and the audit thereof
                  as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
                  request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall:
           (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                  reflecting such expenditures;
          (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Association
                  has received the audit for the fiscal year in which
                  the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made,
                  all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
                  receipts and other documents) evidencing such
                  expenditures;
          (iii)   enable the Association's representatives to examine
                  such records; and
           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included in
                  the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
                  Section and that the report of such audit contains a
                  separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                  statements of expenditure submitted during such
                  fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be relied
                  upon to support the related withdrawals.
      Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (i) take all necessary measures
to ensure the financial viability of the SHF without narrowing the scope
of the basic benefit package supported by it; and (ii) monitor closely
the financial performance of the SHF and prepare quarterly reports in
such scope and such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
      Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall contribute to financing of
the Programs from the SHF's budget, provided that the annual aggregate
amount of such contribution shall equal 1% of the yearly income of the
SHF.
      (b)   For the purpose of this Section, the term "income of the SHF"
means its revenues out of the state budget, payroll tax and tax on
hazardous products.
                              ARTICLE V
                     Effective Date; Termination
      Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   The Borrower has issued regulations setting a ceiling,
acceptable to the Association, on new entrants in medical schools,
effective for the academic year 1996-97 and thereafter; and
      (b)   The Borrower has opened the Local Contribution Account in
its National Bank and deposited an amount equivalent to $400,000 into
such account.
      Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
                              ARTICLE VI
Page  6
              Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            70 E. Abashidze St.
            380062 Tbilisi
            Georgia
                                            Telex:
                                            212348 MOFIN SV
       For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                   Telex:
                  INDEVAS                    197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA),
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                              82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  GEORGIA
                  By /s/ Tedo Japaridze
                                          Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Basil Kavalsky
                                     Acting Regional Vice President
                                            Europe and Central Asia
                               SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
                              Amount of the
                            Credit Allocated          % of
                              (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category                SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
Page  7
(1) Civil works                 4,100,000        80%
(2) Equipment supplies          2,400,000        100% of foreign
    and vehicles                                 expenditures;
                                                 100% of local
                                                 expenditures (ex-
                                                 factory cost) and
                                                 80 % of local
                                                 expenditures for
                                                 other items
                                                 procured locally
(3) Consultants' services,      1,400,000        100%
    training and study
    tours
(4) Refunding of Project          400,000        Amount due pursuant
    Preparation Advance                          Section 2.02 (c) of
                                                 this Agreement
(5) Unallocated                 1,400,000
                                 ________
    TOTAL                       9,700,000
                                =========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of
the Borrower; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the
date of this Agreement.
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures: (a)
for works under contracts not exceeding $300,000 equivalent; (b) for
goods under contract not exceeding $300,000 equivalent; (c) for services
provided by consulting firms under contracts not exceeding $100,000
equivalent; and (d) for services provided by individual consultants under
contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent, under such terms and
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                              SCHEDULE 2
                     Description of the Project
      The objective of the Project is to support the health reform
efforts initiated by the Borrower to improve the health of the Borrower's
population.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Health System Reorientation
1.    Provision of technical assistance, training and equipment to
strengthen the Department of Public Health of MOH and upgrade its
facilities.
2.    Provision of technical assistance, training, minor equipment and
materials, for the carrying out of community-based and national health
promotion Programs in the following areas:  drug addiction and hepatitis;
Page  8
AIDS and sexually-transmitted diseases; cardio-vascular diseases;
anti-smoking; family planning; traffic accidents; and other priority
areas as identified by MOH.
3.    Provision of technical assistance, training, materials and
equipment for: (a) the strengthening of the Department of Maternal and
Child Health of MOH; (b) development of national policies and guidelines
for the care of women and children, including protocols for a minimum
benefits package of care, guidelines for health services, guidelines for
licensing of staff and accreditation of health services, guidelines for
privatizing and reorganizing health services, and establishment of a
perinatal mortality surveillance system; (c) organization of the
delivery of perinatal care in three localities: Tsageri, Kutaisi and
Tbilisi; (d) development of pilot referral systems in Tbilisi and
Kutaisi; (e) development of training modules in maternal and child
health and residency programs in obstetrics and pediatrics; and (f)
creation of a national task force for child and maternal survival.
4.    Provision of technical assistance, fellowships, training
educational materials and equipment, medical and laboratory equipment,
computers and software, vehicles, office equipment and furniture for:
(a) reform of the licensing system for health care providers to perform
clinical activities and establishment of a data base of registered
doctors and nurses; (b) improvement of registration, licensing and
inspection of health care facilities through the establishment of a
data base of physical resources to ensure quality standards; (c)
development of internal quality assurance programs in selected health
care institutions; and (d) reorganization of the Department of
Pharmaceuticals and Pharmaceutical Industry of MOH and improvement of
the registration of products, quality assurance, inspection and
information activities.
Part B:     Rehabilitation and Maintenance of Health Facilities and
            Equipment
      Provision of technical assistance, furniture, office and medical
equipment, vehicles, computers, software, testing instruments and
carrying out of civil works for the:
      (1)   partial rehabilitation of two blocks in Tbilisi City
Hospital #2;
      (2)   merger of Kutaisi Maternity and Pediatric Hospital into a
single building and partial rehabilitation of their facilities;
      (3)   partial rehabilitation of the facilities of the maternal
and prenatal service in the Tsageri District Hospital;
      (4)   reinforcement and modernization of the MOH to improve the
setting of standards for programming, design, rehabilitation and
construction of health facilities, as well as of the standardization,
need identification, setting procurement rules and technology assessment
of medical equipment; and
      (5)   training of specialists and hospital staff in facilities
design, construction and medical technology.
Part C:     Development of Health Human Resources
      Provision of technical assistance, fellowships, training, books
and journals, equipment and teaching materials, vehicles, and furniture
and carrying out of civil works for the:
      (1)   strengthening of the National Health Management Center to
create a system for accrediting medical schools, develop a curriculum
for post-graduate physician and nursing education, support the
development of professional associations, and develop health service
research to support the MOH in policy making; and
      (2)   creation and initial operation of the Center for Continuing
Education within the National Health Management Center, carrying out of
training programs in continuing health education, development of
Page  9
training the trainers activities, creation of a desk-top publishing unit
and provision of continuing education for the operational needs of other
components of the Project.
Part D:     Modernizing the Health Financing System
      Provision of technical assistance, training, equipment and
furniture for:
      (1)   development of a management information system and
strengthening of the financial procedures and accounting and planning
capacity within the SHF and its regional branches;
      (2)   development of accounting and financial management systems,
and interface between health care providers and SHF including its
regional branches;
      (3)   organization of training in health financing and management,
hospital and health management; and
      (4)   collection of data on utilization and expenditures of
health services not included in the basic benefits package in order
to monitor private expenditure on health and the accessibility and
affordability of services.
Part E:      Assistance in Project Administration
      Provision of technical assistance and office equipment to the PCU.
                                   ***
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.
                             SCHEDULE 3
                Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     General
      Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 (the
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as
applicable.
Part B:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix
1 thereto.
2.    The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of
this Part B:
      (a)   Grouping of contracts
            To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
            grouped in bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent
            of $300,000 or more each.
      (b)   Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic
            contractors
            The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines
            and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in
            the territory of the Borrower, and works to be carried out
            by domestic contractors.
Page  10
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Limited International Bidding
      Specialized medical and laboratory equipment, which the Bank
agrees can only be purchased from a limited number of suppliers,
regardless of the cost thereof, may be procured under contracts awarded
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.
2.    National Competitive Bidding
      Works estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $800,000 equivalent, shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines and the Borrower shall use the
Standard Bidding Documents, Procurement of Works, Smaller Contracts,
issued by the Bank in September, 1995 with minimum changes, acceptable
to the Bank, as necessary.
3.    International  and National Shopping
      (a)   Goods estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent,
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5
and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
      (b)   Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent,
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs
3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Procurement Planning
      Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts,
the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to
the Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement
of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.    Prior Review
      With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of
$300,000 or more, and the first contract awarded on the basis of
international shopping procedures in accordance with paragraph 3(a) of
this Schedule, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.    Post Review
      With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded
in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on
the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the
Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the
Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been
issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Association
shall be used.
Page  11
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall
not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts
for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000
equivalent each.  However, said exceptions to prior Association review
shall not apply to (a) the terms of reference for such contracts, (b)
single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) assignments of a
critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Association, (d)
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising
the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments
to contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the
contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                             SCHEDULE 4
                       Implementation Program
1.    During execution of the project, the Borrower shall: (i) maintain
the PCU with functions and responsibilities acceptable to the
Association; (ii) employ, at all times, individuals for the positions
of director of the PCU, procurement officers (two positions), financial
officer, planning and monitoring officer and administrative assistant,
whose experience and qualifications are acceptable to the Association;
and (iii) employ, at all times, seven component coordinators whose
experience and qualifications are acceptable to the Association.
2.    The Borrower shall ensure that the Programs to be carried out
under Part A.2 of the Project shall be selected on a competitive basis.
3.    By January 1, 1998, the Borrower shall merge the Kutaisi Maternity
Hospital into the Kutaisi Pediatric Hospital.
4.    The Borrower shall take all necessary actions to implement the
activities and fulfill the benchmarks set forth in the Borrower's
Statement of Development Objectives (SDO) and shall review with the
Association annually all actions with respect to the SDO.
5.    The Borrower shall through the PCU:
      (a)   maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators
satisfactory to the Association, the carrying out of the Project, the
achievement of the objectives thereof, and the implementation of the
statement of development objectives and report to the Association at
least semi-annually on the progress of Project execution;
      (b)   prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association, and furnish to the Association, on or about June 30, 1998
a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such
date; and
      (c)   review with the Association, by September 30, 1998, or such
later date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and
recommendations of the said report and the Association views on the
matter.
                             SCHEDULE 5
                           Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
Page  12
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2)
and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent
to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule,
provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to
$250,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 2,000,000.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account
shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into
the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                  shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits
                  into the Special Account at such intervals as the
                  Association shall specify.
           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                  documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                  paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                  withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                  the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                  shall have requested and as shall have been shown by
                  said documents and other evidence to have been paid
                  out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and
other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably
request, furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Association shall not be required to make further deposits into
the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from
Page  13
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement;
      (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Association, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
      (c)   if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to
the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
      (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated
to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify
by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only
after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of
the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule;
or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless
the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover
further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such
outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to
the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
