Report No. PID10090
Project Name             Chile-Lifelong Learning and Training (@)
Region                   Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                   Vocational/Technical Education & Training
Project ID               CLPE68271
Borrower(s)              REPUBLIC OF CHILE
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
Address: Teatinos 20 - Piso 9,
Santiago, Chile
Contact Person: Carlos Concha,
Project Preparation Coordinator
Tel: 56-2-3904042
Fax: 56-2-380-0336
Email: cconcha@mineduc.cl
SENCE
Address: Huerfanos 1273, Santiago, Chile
Contact Person: Daniel Farcas,
Director Nacional
Tel: 56-2-879-6103
Fax: 56-2-696-5039
Email: dfarcas@sence.cl
Environment Category     C
Date PID Prepared        February 13, 2002
Projected Appraisal
Date                     November 18, 2001
Projected Board Date     Expected by March 26, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
Chile has achieved almost universal coverage of basic education, 87
percent of young people in the 15-19 age group are enrolled in secondary
education, and about a little less than one third of the tertiary
education age-cohort population is enrolled in higher education
institutions. Notwithstanding these accomplishments there are inequitable
educational average attainments - in the lowest income decile is about 7.4
years as compared to nearly 13.1 years for the highest decile. In
addition, there is a need to continue improving the efficiency and quality
of the basic (grades 1-8) and post-basic (grades 9-12) levels. According
to a recent survey, almost 50 percent of the literate working force does
not meet the reading, writing, communication and analytical skills
considered nowadays as minimum standards required in the modern employment
sector - a high percentage of workers do not understand reading
instructions and have difficulties in making inferences from
observations. In addition, Chile has an inadequate training system. Only
8.7 percent of the labor force - estimated to be about 6 million workers -
have received some type of training of which, only 20 percent are women.
About 30 percent of the total number of productive firms in the country



contribute to the training levy-rebate tax scheme, but only 2.8 percent of
these firms, mostly large, make use of its training benefits. Finally,
the education system, especially at the secondary and
technical-professional tertiary systems and the employment/productive
sectors are largely uncoupled.
2. Objectives
The developmental objective of the proposed project is to assist the
Government of Chile (GC) in establishing the foundation of an articulated
lifelong learning and training system with the participation of the
private sector (employers and workers). This developmental objective
which supports and reinforces the country's continued economic and social
transformation would be accomplished by: (i) reducing the social deficit
in the provision of lifelong education and training opportunities for
adults, especially those unemployed youth and workers living in conditions
of poverty who seek a second-chance to improve their employability and
quality of life and move up the career ladder; and (ii) upgrading the
skill-level of the Chilean workforce to improve the country's productivity
and competitiveness in the international arena. These two resulting
outcomes become the project's specific objectives and are to be achieved
through the following three project components: (a) providing new
opportunities for lifelong learning and training; (b) improving the
quality and increasing the coverage of technical-professional education;
and (c) establishing instruments to support the provision of a lifelong
learning and training services. A fourth component - Institutional
strengthening - is included to ensure an effective and efficient
coordination of project implementation at the national and regional levels
and strengthening the participating institutions.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The impetus for the Bank's involvement in supporting lifelong learning and
training policies, strategies and interventions is threefold. First, the
Bank's neutrality in providing advisory services is being fully
appreciated and demanded by the Chilean authorities. Secondly, the Bank
has the ability to bring to Chile timely global expertise associated with
successful interventions in the areas of adult outreach, technical
education and training, as well as in setting competency norms and
certification systems, especially from the OECD countries as well as from
other middle-income countries. Likewise, through the Bank's accumulated
sector knowledge, prudent advice would be provided to the Chilean
authorities in order to avoid blind alleys that have proven elsewhere not
to be reasonable and cost-effective avenues in discussions on the thematic
areas being covered by this operation. Finally, this proposed
multisectorial Chilean project becomes an important laboratory for the
Bank to continue learning and updating its internal capacity to better
position itself in the near future for assisting other countries address
their lifelong learning and training needs.
4. Description
Component 1 (Providing new opportunities for lifelong learning and
training). This component will finance: (a) the promotion and the
increasing of the private and public supply of basic and secondary
education opportunities for adults; (b) the establishment of a learning
assessment and certification system for adults seeking to complete their
basic and secondary education; and (c) the establishment of new modalities
- 2 -



that harmonize adult basic and secondary education with training.
Specific outcomes of this component include: (a) providing basic education
for 71,5000 adults and secondary education for 48,500 adults; (b) ensuring
that about 120,000 adults complete and certify their basic and/or
secondary education; (c) ensuring relevant training to 12,000 workers from
about 6,000 small and medium-size enterprises (SMES); (d) providing adult
education through new education technologies, including distance
education, to about 18,500 adults; (e) piloting other demonstrative
programs articulating education and training to about 2,500 adults; and
(f) preparing about 75 distance adult training modules to benefit 250,000
adult users.Component 2 (Improving the quality and increasing the coverage
of technical-professional education). This component will finance: (a)
the vertical articulation of technical secondary with tertiary
technical-professional education through the establishment of
technological curricular pathways (curricular progression maps); (b) the
horizontal articulation of technical secondary and tertiary education with
the labor market in selected regions of the country through the
constitution of regional networks encompassing technical secondary
schools, tertiary technical education institutions (Centros de Formacion
Tecnica, Institutos Profesionales and regional universities), training
providers, employers and workers; (c) the validation by the education
system of the skills acquired on the job and/or in the training
institutions; (d) the quality improvement of technical secondary and
tertiary education in the regional networks established under the project;
(e) the increase in access to tertiary technical education; and (f) the
quality and pertinence improvement of the pre and in-service teacher
training institutions for technical-professional education. Specific
outcomes of this component include: (i) 65,000 students enrolled in
pertinent tertiary technical-professional programs of appropriate quality;
(ii) graduate profiles and improved quality education for 142,000 students
in 662 technical municipal and private subsidized technical secondary
schools; and (iii) about 5,000 better prepared technical education
teachers (either technicians and professionals with ample work experience
wishing to become technical-professional education teachers and/or
"improvised" teachers of technical secondary schools and tertiary
technical-professional institutions needing to upgrade their pedagogical
and technological skills). Component 3 (Establishing instruments to
support the provision of a lifelong learning and training services). This
component will finance: (a) the establishment of a national system of
competency framework and vocational-professional pathways in nine selected
sectors of the Chilean economy; and (b) the establishment of four lifelong
learning and training proactive and guiding management information systems
(MISs). Specific outcomes of this component include: (a) nine sector of
the Chilean economy with established system of national competency
framework and vocational-pathways; (b) about 29,000 workers of these nine
economic sectors that have certified their competencies and given the
opportunity to upgrade them; (c) four proactive guiding MISs; and (d)
about 1.5 million adults consulting these MISs during the life of the
project.Component 4 (Institutional strengthening). This component will
finance a national Project Coordination Unit (PCU). In addition, this
component will support the strengthening of the national and regional
representations of the National Service for Training and Employment
(SENCE) by financing: (i) the acquisition of additional computers and
peripheral equipment and software for SENCE and its regional offices; (ii)
training; and (iii) technical assistance.    Finally, this component will
-3 -



finance a continuous communication and dissemination strategy by the soon
to be established Lifelong Learning and Training Steering Policy Board
through the Project Coordination Unit.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
IBRD                     75.75
Total Project Cost       150.75
6. Implementation
There are three implementation arrangements levels. The first level,
known as the national policy level, will be concerned with the setting of
lifelong learning and training long-term policies and strategies in the
entire country, ensuring consistency and congruency of project activities
with stated objectives and providing the political oversight and
coordination required among participating public and private entities to
achieve synergy. This level is to be assumed by a Lifelong Learning and
Training Steering Policy Board, known as the Directorio (soon to be
established by a Presidential Decree), chaired by the Minister of Economy
and including the Ministers of Education and of Labor and Social
Security. Since the Directorio is barred by Law of being an executing
agency to implement the proceeds from international Loans (to do so, it
needs to be created by a Law of Congress), the Minister of Economy, on
behalf of the Ministers of Education and Labor and Social Security, has
sent a written communication to the Bank on December 6, 2001, announcing
that a decision has been made to make the Ministry of Education the
responsible implementing agency for purposes of the Loan Agreement. The
second level, known as the national project coordination unit (PCU) to be
located within the Ministry of Education, will be concerned with the
day-to-day management and coordination of the execution of this
demand-driven project. The third level is constituted by the different
executing entities in charge of implementing the project's sub-components
at the regional level.The Borrower will adopt the Reimbursement to the
Government scheme for this project. Accordingly, based on the yearly
budget authorized by the Chilean Congress, and the payment calendar
approved by the Ministry of Finance, funds are allocated to the project's
programmatic entry (glosa presupuestaria) and allocates the authorized
resources in the Ministry of Education. The PCU will then release funds
to the following executing entities according to their funding needs,
operational characteristics, signed agreements (if appropriate for
executing agencies outside the ME) and payment calendar stipulated in the
annual working plan and budget approved by the Directorio for the project.
7. Sustainability
The financial recurrent liability during the post-implementation period
has been estimated at about US$12 million per year. It is expected that
approximately 80% of this recurrent liability will continue financing
non-personnel costs, such as: (i) the provision of basic and/or secondary
adult education (by qualified eligible private and public providers); (ii)
the development of learning and skill assessment tests and assessment and
certification processes; (iii) the scaling up of successfully proven
models articulating adult education with training; and (iv) the operation
of the MISs. The promotional nature of this demand-driven project places
the institutional implementation responsibility on existing public and
private providers of services. Thus no technical sustainability issues
- 4 -



are envisaged with the implementation arrangements of project activities
at project completion. The only outstanding technical sustainability
issue to be addressed during project implementation is the one concerning
the legal, organizational and institutional implications associated with
the evolution of the project's Steering Policy Board (Directorio) into a
more permanent National Commission for Lifelong Learning and Training. No
blueprint of an evolution strategy makes sense at this stage prior to
project implementation. Instead, a more realistic and feasible evolution
strategy and action-plan could be proposed mid-way project implementation
from project impact evaluation studies carried out by qualified external
institutions. During negotiations, agreement was reached with GC that
during the in-depth review missions to be carried out during the fourth
and last years of project implementation, the Borrower will discuss with
the Bank the appropriateness of consolidating the Steering Policy Board as
a permanent institution.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The Bank is supporting the preparation of some multi-sector investments in
Eastern Europe sharing some similarities with the proposed project, but
none are as ambitious and holistic in scope. Therefore, the lessons
learned incorporated in the project's design are derived from: (i) other
youth employment, vocational training and adult outreach projects financed
by the Bank; (ii) a thorough review of Vocational Education and Training
Reforms recently undertaken by the Bank in 19 countries worldwide; (iii)
the recently completed ICR for the Bank-financed Chile: Secondary
Education Project (Report No. 22979 October 19, 2001); and (iv) OECD
experience and 10-year evaluation of youth, employment and lifelong
learning policies and programs. The following are the main lessons learned
derived from the ICR of the Chile: Secondary Education: (a) combine supply
(State) and demand-driven (market) interventions like the use of
competitive funds included in the proposed project; (b) include
appropriate targeting criteria and performance indicators; (c) ensure
enabling conditions such as political stability, continuity in education
and training policies, sound macro-economic and fiscal policies, good and
consistent communication with the financial authorities, and preservation
of skilled and seasoned personnel at the national and regional project
coordination units; (d) pilot and evaluate project activities before
taking them to scale; (e) build-in learning systems based on evaluation
studies mid-way project implementation, then fine-tuning the project
accordingly; (f) ensure relevant stakeholders have a sense of ownership at
the outset of project implementation; (k) ensure appropriate dissemination
and cross-fertilization during project implementation; and (g) plan a
timely exit strategy at the early stages of project implementation.With
respect to occupational standards and certification bodies the lessons
learned indicate the desirability of: (i) establishing independent
tripartite mechanisms (comprising representatives of government,
employers, workers and unions) rather than certification at institutional
levels (government as well as educational/training institutions); (ii)
certifying skills with respect to broad occupational standards rather than
narrowly-defined sectoral occupational standards that tend to limit labor
mobility between sectors and result in overly specialized training
programs; and (iii) carrying out an inductive (bottom-up) approach to
occupational analysis rather than the typical top-down sector approach
which has proven to be less useful. Finally, the ingredients of success
in vocational education and training reforms, according to the Bank study,
- 5 -



make school-based vocational education more like general education and the
vocational-technical track, less dead-end.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)      Y
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :   This project does not envisage any significant
environmental issues.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Juan Prawda
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-473-9342
Fax: 202-522-1202
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
February 22, 2002.
-6-



