Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 23632-CH
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$75.75 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
FORA
LIFELONG LEARNING AND TRAINING PROJECT
FEBRUARY 8,2002
Human Development Sector
Argentina, Chile, Paraguay and Uruguay Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective )
Currency Unit = Chilean pesos
Ch.$1 = US$0.00143 (November 2001)
US$1 = Ch.$700 (November 2001)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AC                    Advisory Council of the Project's Steering Policy Board
CAS                   Country Assistance Strategy
CASEN                 National socioeconomic survey
CEU                   Curriculum and Evaluation Unit of the Ministry of Education
CFT                   Technical Tertiary Institutions
CEIAs                 Adult Education Centers
CORFO                 Promotion Corporation of the Ministry of Economy
DEPROV                Provincial Offices of the Ministry of Education
DIRECTORIO            Lifelong Learning and Training Steering Policy Board
EC                    Executive Council of the Project's Steering Policy Board
FONCAP                National Training Fund
GC                    Government of Chile
IALS                  International Adult Literacy Survey
IDB                   Inter American Development Bank
IP                    Professional Institutes
LACI                  Loan Administrative Change Initiative
ME                    Ministry of Education
MECE-SUP              Bank-financed Higher Education Project
MEI                   Irrevocable Special Mandate
MIS                   Management Information System
NSECU                 National Secondary Education Coordination Unit of the ME
OECD                  Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development
OMILS                 Municipal Office for Labor Intermediation
OTECs                 Training institutions
PCU                   Project Coordination Unit
RAC                   Regional Advisory Council
REC                   Regional Executive Council
RPCU                  Regional Project Coordination Unit
SENCE                 National Training and Employment Service
SEREMIS               Regional Ministerial Offices
SMES                  Small and medium-size enterprises
TORs                  Terms of reference
TPI                   Tertiary professional institutes
Vice President:   David De Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:    Myrna L. Alexander
Sector Manager/Director:   Ana-Maria Arriagada
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:     Juan Prawda



CHILE
LIFELONG LEARNING AND TRAINING PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                           2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      3
2. Main sector issues and Governnent strategy                                           3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                   9
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  11
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       14
3. Benefits and target population                                                      15
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       15
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          20
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies          21
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                                22
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                    24
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                         24
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           25
2. Financial                                                                           25
3. Technical                                                                           26
4. Institutional                                                                       27
5. Environmental                                                                       28
6. Social                                                                              28
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                  30



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     31
2. Critical risks                                                                     31
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     33
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            33
2. Other                                                                              34
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          34
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         34
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          35
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                    45
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         54
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                   55
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                               63
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       66
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     71
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   72
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  73
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            75
MAP(S)



CHILE
Lifelong Learning and Training Project
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and Caribbean Region
LCSHE
Date: February 8, 2002                           Team Leader: Juan Prawda
Country Director: Myrna L. Alexander             Sector Director: Ana-Maria Arriagada
Project ID: P068271                              Sector(s): EV - VocationalTechnical Education &
Training
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Education
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Program Financing Data
[X] Loan     [ 1 Credit   [ Grant      [ Guarantee      [ ] Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 75.75
Borrower Rationale for Choice of Loan Terms Available on File: II Yes
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
Grace period (years): 7.5                      Years to maturity: 9.5
Commitment fee: 0.85% 1st 4 years/0.75% after  Front end fee (FEF) on Bank loan: 1.00%
Initial choice of Interest-rate basis:
Type of repayment schedule:
[  Fixed at Commitment, with the following repayment method (choose one):
] Linked to Disbursement
Financing Plan (US$m):    Source                           Local        Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                     62.20          12.80        75.00
IBRD                                                         74.39           1.36        75.75
Total:                                                      136.59          14.16        150.75
Borrower: REPUBLIC OF CHILE
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
Address: Teatinos 20 - Piso 9, Santiago, Chile
Contact Person: Carlos Concha, Project Preparation Coordinator
Tel: 56-2-3904042           Fax: 56-2-380-0336           Email: cconcha@mineduc.cl
Other Agency(ies):
SENCE
Address: Huerfanos 1273, Santiago, Chile
Contact Person: Daniel Farcas, Director Nacional
Tel: 56-2-879-6103           Fax: 56-2-696-5039           Email: dfarcas@sence.cl



Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY         2002      2003.      2004     2005      2006       2007      '008
Annual    2.37       12.27     23.92     18.97      9.74     6.27       2.21
Cumulative   2.37       14.64     38.56     57.53     67.27     73.54     75.75
Project implementation period: Six years from April 01, 2002 to March 31, 2008.
Expected effectiveness date: 04/01/2002  Expected closing date:  09/30/2008
OCS PAD FoP R. d, 2MM
-2 -



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The developmental objective of the proposed project is to assist the Government of Chile (GC) in
establishing the foundation of an articulated lifelong learning and training system with the participation of
the private sector (employers and workers). This developmental objective which supports and reinforces
the country's continued economic and social transformnation would be accomplished by: (i) reducing the
social deficit in the provision of lifelong education and training opportunities for adults, especially those
unemployed youth and workers living in conditions of poverty who seek a second-chance to improve their
employability and quality of life and move up the career ladder; and (ii) upgrading the skill-level of the
Chilean workforce to improve the country's productivity and competitiveness in the international arena.
These two resulting outcomes become the project's specific objectives and are to be achieved through the
following three project components: (a) providing new opportunities for lifelong learning and training;
(b) improving the quality and increasing the coverage of technical-professional education; and (c)
establishing instruments to support the provision of lifelong learning and training services. A fourth
component - Institutional strengthening - is included to ensure an effective and efficient coordination of
project implementation at the national and regional levels and to strengthen the participating institutions.
Lifelong learning, in its broader sense, provides individuals with the opportunities to acquire the general
and sector-specific skills and knowledge necessary for them to adapt to different stages in life, including: (i)
early separation from family as a youth; (ii) life as a wage eamer and member of society during adulthood;
and (iii) life as an older adult, during which time individuals withdraw from the workforce and enter
retirement. The proposed project includes a more restricted scope of lifelong leaming. The project aims to
finance private and public providers of adult basic and/or secondary education to provide learning
opportunities of appropriate quality and relevance, for about 71,500 adults in the 15-65 age bracket
seeking to complete their basic education, and for another 48,500 adults in secondary education. The
project also aims to ensure that about 120,000 adults certify the completion of their basic and/or secondary
education. In addition, the proposed operation aims to provide training to about 12,000 workers of 6,000
small-and medium-size enterprises (SMES). Consistent with the gradual approach GC has followed in
implementing its education reform, the proposed project is seen as a first demonstrative step in some
regions of the country towards moving into the broader scope of lifelong learning and training to benefit in
the long-term a universe of 500,000 illiterate adults, 6.5 million adults with incomplete secondary education
and about 7 million workers in need of further training of appropriate quality and relevant to the productive
sector.  Precisely, this gradualness, alongside the competitive process for accessing funds for this
demand-driven project, are perhaps the two most important lessons (from the many explained in section
D3) derived from the implementation of the previous two Bank-financed sector investments in Chile and
other worldwide related projects, that have been incorporated into the design of this project.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The following five key output performance indicators will be used to monitor the implementation progress
of the proposed project: (i) decrease in the trend of the percentage of adults (15-65 year-olds) with
incomplete basic and/or secondary education using as the baseline data the 1990-2000 trend provided by
CASEN; (ii) increase in the percentage of SMES in selected sectors of the economy making use of the
tax-rebate training/education scheme (the selected sectors of the economy are those where SMES make a
low use of the tax-rebate scheme) using as baseline data the 2001 information provided by SENCE; (iii)
percentage of adults that benefited from this project in both adult education and training using as baseline
data information provided by the Project Coordination Unit during the first year of project implementation;
- 3 -



(iv) increase in the enrollment of the Centros de Formaci6n Tecnica (CFTs) using as baseline data the 2001
enrollment provided by the Ministry of Education (ME); and (v) increase in the transition rates from: (a)
technical secondary education into tertiary technical-professional education and/or the labor market within
six months after graduation in the regional networks financed by the project; and (b) tertiary technical
education to the labor market within six months after graduation in the regional networks financed by the
project. The baseline for these last performance indicators will be the information for 2002 (first year of
project implementation) provided by the PCU. They will be updated during the second, fourth and last
years of project implementation and be compared with similar indicators from non-project regions (control
group).
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: CAS document number: 14370-CH Date of latest CAS discussion: May 9, 1995
With respect to Chile: Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) discussed with the Board on May 9, 1995, this
project would contribute to the CAS's goal of "upgrading Chile's human capital, with a view towards
improving the country's competitiveness in the intemational arena." Alongside, this project would also
continue seeking the reduction of poverty levels and the deficits in the provision of household social
services, in particular in the education sector, and achieve greater social integration and equity through
increased and better targeted social expenditures.
Building on these goals, the new CAS discussed with the Board on February 19, 2002, aims to support
programs and activities which deepen and sustain that process. In particular, this project will contribute to
the CAS's objectives of: (i) sustaining overall economic growth and social progress; and (ii) heightening
inclusion with an emphasis on opportunity and social services. The technical and financial assistance to be
provided through this project will act as a catalyst for further poverty reduction, reduction in disparities
and improved productivity.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The following four relevant sector issues have set the discussion framework for project preparation: (i)
inequitable educational attainment, especially among the population 15 years-old and over; (ii) lack of a
state policy and strategy to ensure the provision of relevant technical-professional education of appropriate
quality; (iii) inadequate and insufficient training of workers belonging to the SMES; and (iv) disjointed
systems providing relevant lifelong learning and training opportunities of appropriate quality.
Inequitable educational attainment of adults 15 years old and over. Chile is at a relatively advanced
stage of educational development with respect to other middle-income countries. It has achieved almost
universal coverage of basic education. About 84 percent of young people in the 14-17 age group are
enrolled in secondary education, and a little less than one third of the tertiary education age-cohort
population is enrolled in higher education institutions. The Chilean education system features a high degree
of private sector participation covering about 43 percent of total enrollment in basic education.
Notwithstanding these accomplishments, the educational attainment of the Chilean population over 15
years old is very uneven across the income distribution - the average attainment in the lowest income decile
is about 7.4 years, as compared to nearly 13.1 years for the highest decile. Adults over 45 years-old
belonging to the lowest income decile, many of them workers, have an average educational attainment of
less than 5.7 years. Approximately 4.5 million adult Chileans (39 percent of the total adult population)
have not completed their basic compulsory eight-grade education cycle. Another 2 million adults with
basic education have not completed their secondary education. In summary, about 70 percent of adults
- 4 -



over 15 years-old have not completed their secondary school. There are about 500,000 illiterate adults
(4.3% of the adult population), most of them over 45 years-old living in the rural areas. According to a
recent survey, almost 50 percent of the literate working force does not meet the minimum standards in
reading, writing, problem-solving, communication and analytical skills required in the modem employmnent
sector. This survey also shows that this high percentage of workers do not understand reading instructions
and have difficulties in making inferences from observations.
Recent research findings point to the following factors which condition the low and uneven educational
attainment of adults, especially among those belonging to the three lowest income-deciles: (i) lack of
appropriate incentives to foster additional demand for adult education and learning; (ii) lack of appropriate
incentives to increase the private and public supply of adult education programs of appropriate quality; (iii)
perceived outdated and useless adult education curricula which tends to discourage adults' participation;
(iv) lack of targeting of the private and public adult education supply; (v) insufficient targeted
dissemination campaigns to increase the demand for adult education; (vi) rigidity of most of the private and
public adult education supply which is not attuned to the time availability of adults willing to enroll in adult
learning programs; (vii) insufficient fiscal incentives to foster productive firms to invest in the continuing
education of their workers; and (viii) inappropriate and not sufficiently rigorous adult education assessment
and certification systems.
Lack of a state policy and strategy to ensure the provision of relevant technical-professional
education of appropriate quality. There is currently a pedagogical and structural disconnect between the
technical secondary education (grades 11 and 12th) and the tertiary technical-professional education
system. The private-paid and private-subsidized as well as the public (municipal) technical secondary
schools operate under an approved revised curriculum set by the Ministry of Education (ME). The latter
two types of secondary schools are also subject to a set of supply and demand-driven interventions and
investments (established by the Bank-financed MECE-Media project) aimed at increasing their efficiency,
quality, equity and pertinence. On the other hand, the private and public tertiary technical-professional
institutions, especially those operating in a two-year track system, function in a context void of any state
education policy and strategy. As a consequence, there is a lack of a curriculum articulation and
pedagogical progression for students graduating from 12th grade of a technical and/or human-scientific
secondary school continuing their technical-professional education in tertiary education institutions. Many
tertiary technical-professional institutions (TPIs) operate under an outdated curriculum insufficiently
attuned to the needs of the productive sector. TPIs lack an accreditation system, thus hindering any effort
to improve their quality and pertinence. There are no learning and skill assessments of TPIs' students. The
few financial incentives set in motion for TPIs' students, most of them financed by MECE-SUP, lack
appropriate targeting. In addition, these incentives are not sufficiently attractive to ensure an improvement
in the inflow of TPIs' students. Finally, there are no significant investments and programs to improve the
efficiency and quality of TPIs and of the pre-service teacher training institutions forming TPIs' teachers.
In spite of the fact that the proportion of students that have chosen the technical secondary track has
increased from 29 percent in 1981 to 45 percent in 1999, the enrollment in the tertiary
technical-professional system comprised by the Centros de Formaci6n Tecnol6gica (CFT), the Institutos
Profesionales (IPs) and other higher education technical schools operated by universities has decreased
from 101,000 in 1990 to 77,000 in 1998, a 24 percent decrease. In particular, the enrollment in CFTs
decreased 17% from 61,400 to 50,800 students in the 1996-1999 period. This reduction in enrollment
shows a pattem contrary to the tendency manifested in OECD and other medium-income countries, where
the two-year tertiary technical-professional education scheme is being strongly encouraged. Low quality of
the services provided by these TPIs in Chile, the terminal education nature of the CFTs, the lack of
pedagogical articulation between secondary and tertiary technical education and the disconnect of the CFTs
- 5 -



with the productive sector, partially explain this situation.
Notwithstanding the intense and continuous efforts of GC in addressing effectively inefficiency issues in
basic and secondary education in the past 11 years, about 140,000 students between the ages of 14 and 17
years-old (40 percent of which belong to the lower income decile), have dropped out from the secondary
education system. The quality of the technical secondary education, as measured by learning outcomes
(under the old SIMCE assessment system), is in need of significant improvement.  Most of the
infrastructure and equipment of the technical secondary education and TPI schools is extremely deficient
and out-of-date.
Finally, Chile's existing pre-and in-service teacher training institutions and programs for
technical-professional education are not appropriately aligned with the ongoing curriculum reform in
technical secondary schools nor well positioned to ensure an effective contribution in improving the quality
of technical-professional education. Most of the technical-professional education teaching force includes
unqualified "improvised" teachers lacking pedagogical skills and, in many cases, sufficient work experience
in the productive sector related to their areas of teaching.
Inadequate and insufficient training of workers belonging to the SMES. Only 8.7 percent of the labor
force - estimated to be about 7 million workers - has received some type of training, either through the
earmarked training levy-rebate scheme operated by the Servicio Nacional de Capacitaci6n (SENCE) under
the Law 19518, or by other government subsidized schemes under the Fondo Nacional de Capacitacion
(FONCAP), like Chile J6ven (co-financed by IDB), Programa de Capacitacion para Mujeres Jefas de
Hogar, Programa de Reconversi6n de Trabajadores del Carb6n, Programa para Trabajadores
Preceptores de Salario Minimo, etc. Of the workers that have received some type of training, only 20
percent are women. About 30 percent of the total number of productive firms in the country contribute to
the training levy-rebate tax scheme, but only 2.8 percent of these firms, mostly large, make use of its
training benefits. SMES have, in general, not benefited from these training schemes. There is also a
regional imbalance as regions V (Valparaiso), VIII (BioBio) and XIII (Region Metropolitana) tend to
benefit most from the training provided in the country. Many of the training centers approved by SENCE
are underfinanced, using out-of-date approaches for training (relying mostly on inappropriate youth
training materials and delivery methods for adults). The training received and credited by SENCE or any
other reputable training provider is currently not recognized by the education sector for education credit
purposes.
Recent research findings point to the following three factors explaining why SMES and their workers are
not making sufficient use of the training opportunities being offered in Chile. First, the training levy-rebate
scheme operated by SENCE assumes that interested firms acquire with their own funds the training for
their workers before they are reimbursed by the Chilean Government. SMES lack in general seed financial
capital to finance the acquisition of these training courses. Second, a significant amount of the training
provided currently in Chile is being driven by the suppliers rather than by the demand of firms and workers.
As a consequence, an important number of these training modules are not necessarily relevant to the need
of the firms, especially of the SMES. Finally, insufficient dissemination and cross-fertilization campaigns
have caused many SMES and their workers to not sufficiently appreciate and value the positive
externalities of training.
Disjointed systems providing lifelong learning and training opportunities of appropriate quality and
relevancy. There is a structural disconnect between the education, labor and private productive sectors in
the provision of lifelong learning and training opportunities, resulting in insufficient information on job
supply and demand, and weak links between education, training and the work place. As mentioned before,
- 6 -



this disconnect is also manifested to a certain degree between the technical secondary and tertiary
technical-professional education subsystems. in addition, both the educational as well as the training
systems in Chile show rigidities hindering: (i) the recognition, evaluation, certification and accreditation of
the knowledge, skills and competencies acquired through life, outside the formal systems; and (ii) the
portability of the acquired learning and training gains from one educational institution to another and from
one job center to another. As stated before, the education sector does not credit for educational purposes
the skills acquired through training.
In addition to the four sector-related issues above, there are two other non-sector issues that, although they
are not going to be addressed directly by the proposed operation, they will probably be impacted by the
interventions to be financed under this project: unemployment andpoverty.
Unemployment. Unemployment in Chile has generally been low in the last decade, with an upsurge in
1999 estimated at about 10 percent which was not reversed during 2000. However, unemployment
amongst the age group 15-19 years is estimated to be 28 percent, and 21 percent for the 20-24 year-olds.
The chances of having one household member unemployed among Chile's poorest families rose to one in
ten, 60 percent greater than for the average-income families. There are about 205,000 unemployed people
between the ages of 15 and 24 years out of a total labor force of 630,000 in the same age-cohort (32
percent). Out of the total unemployed people in the 15-24 year cohort, 39 percent are women, 13 percent
are located in the rural areas and 42 percent belong to the fifth income quintile. Recent surveys indicate the
small probability of people with less than 12 grades of completed education inserting themselves into the
labor market. Those with the most employment difficulties were the young, those in agriculture, mining and
industry and in Regions IV, V, VIII and IX. The lack of job creation was most notable among smaller
firms with less than 50 employees.
Poverty.   Accompanying Chile's sustained economic growth since the mid-eighties averaging an
unprecedented rate of 6.8 percent per year through 1999 (real per capita income increased at an annual rate
of 5.7 percent in this period), there has been a dramatic reduction in levels of poverty. Recent studies show
that Chile's poverty rate has declined from about 40 percent of the population in 1987 to only 17 percent in
1998, using the lower bound poverty line; or from 47 percent in 1987 to 21 percent in 1998 using the upper
bound line. Remarkably, only about 4 percent of the total population was below the indigence line in 1998,
down from 13 percent in 1987. Notwithstanding these achievements, about 3 million adults are still below
the poverty line, experiencing significant deficits in the provision of social services, like education, health
and housing. Of these 3 million poor people, about 610,000 are in extreme poverty. Inequality trends as a
measure of mean household incomes by decile showed a slight improvement between 1987 to 1994 but,
since then, there has been a slight rise in inequality. There is in general a perverse intergenerational
reproductive cycle among the children of poor people hindering their future escape from poverty conditions.
If Chile wants to increase the standard of living of its population, the above deficits need to be urgently
addressed and poverty levels to be significantly decreased.
Government Strategy. The proposed project is being formulated in the context of Chile's two profound
reforms to improve the quality, efficiency and equity of its educational system started in the seventies. The
first, a market-based reform launched in the 1973-90 period, aimed at promoting greater efficiency through
administrative decentralization, capitation-based financing and open competition between public and
privately administered schools.  The second reform, supported over the last eleven years by three
democratic governments, aims to reorient public investment towards greater efficiency, quality and equity,
especially in the compulsory basic (grades 1- 8) and the non-compulsory secondary (grades 9-12)
education.  This second reform  has: (i) been gradually incorporating the entire municipal and
private-subsidized school system in the full-day schedule; (ii) revised the curriculum and learning
- 7 -



assessment system from preschool to grade 12; (iii) been improving the pre and in-service teacher training
for basic and secondary education; and (iv) been piloting educational innovations in 51 secondary schools
in the entire country known as Liceos Montegrande. These interventions have been complemented with
increased and targeted spending in the sector and by the enactment of a Teacher Statute regulating the
teacher profession.
During the last 10 years, the Government of Chile (GC) has successfully launched, with its own resources
and the support of the World Bank and other donors (Denmark and Sweden), a series of demand and
supply-driven interventions to improve the efficiency, quality and equity of their public and
private-subsidized basic and secondary education systems. These initiatives have produced excellent
examples of good student-centered, knowledge-centered, assessment-centered and community-centered
educational practices like the 900-School Program and the Bank-financed Primary and Secondary
Education Projects. In addition, in the last three years, the CG has also launched with the assistance of the
Bank, an ambitious demand-driven MECE-SUP project to improve the coherence, efficiency, quality,
relevance and equity of the higher education system, mostly targeted to the universities but including also
IPs and CFTs. In line with the goals of the proposed project, the GC through ME's Division of Higher
Education has decided to set a policy aimed at: (i) increasing coverage in tertiary technical-professional
education; (ii) modifying the financial structure of technical tertiary-professional institutions including the
financial aid to CFT's students (3,000 CFT's student fellowships in CYOI to be increased to 6,000 in
CY02); (iii) introducing mechanisms (technological curricular pathways) for the articulation of technical
secondary education with tertiary technical-professional education; (iv) enhancing the coordination with the
private productive sector; (v) introducing mechanisms, criteria and procedures for the accreditation of
tertiary technical-professional institutions including the revamping of the corresponding supervision
system; and (vi) providing monetary incentives to ensure significant quality improvement in the inflow of
applicants who wish to study in accredited technical-professional pre and in-service teacher training
institutions.
Given the positive impact of these interventions in having significantly reduced inequities and improved the
quality and efficiency of the basic and secondary education systems (as explained elsewhere in the Bank
ICR Report No. 22979 of the Chile Secondary Education Project), the GC has assigned high priority to
continue maintaining these gains with its own financial resources, especially with respect to the educational
needs of students at risk. In the years to come the formal basic and secondary education system (grades
1-12, including preschool) is expected to develop: (a) opportunities for increased access for students at risk,
especially into secondary education; (b) more school empowerment (contestability) and participation of
school stakeholders to define and manage their own educational projects, including teacher training; (c)
further strengthening of the regional and municipal capacity to manage the social services entrusted to them
through the professionalization of their technical staff, school directors and school supervisors to enhance
decision-making authority, management and leadership; (d) a more thorough utilization of evaluation and
feedback on school and management performance; and (e) stronger incentives and mechanisms for ensuring
accountability for performance.
Furthermore, looking at the contextual transformations lying ahead during the next decade, and with the
aim of remaining competitive and building on its impressive growth performance of the past two decades,
the GC has decided to complement the above-mentioned efforts in the formal basic and secondary education
system with an additional emphasis on upgrading skills and competences of its labor force, particularly the
most disadvantaged (those working in SMES), and to address the educational deficit of the adult
population, especially those living below the poverty line. The context of a hitherto successful economy
currently employing administrative/financial and education reforms, provides the setting for the
government's expressed intention to promote lifelong learning and training programs, especially for youth
- 8 -



and workers in the 15-65 age bracket. This proactive effort recognizes that: (i) the formal education
system, especially at the basic and secondary level, and the provision of learning and training opportunities
to working adults are but means to meet the aim of investment in human capital in the most cost-efficient
and cost-effective manner possible; and (ii) it will set the solid foundations for the implementation in the
medium-and long-term of a much broader scope of lifelong learning and training programs. The above
strategy to upgrade Chile's human capital is aligned with the regional development strategies set in motion
by the current administration. To complement these efforts, the ME is currently strengthening with its own
resources the two units to be involved in the steering of the lifelong learning and training activities - the
Secondary Coordination and the Higher Education Units. The project aims to complement this institutional
strengthening effort in SENCE of the Ministry of Labor and Social Security. These efforts will support the
above-mentioned government units proposing adequate policies and strategies and monitoring the
implementation of a lifelong learning and training system in Chile.
Congruent with the above, the Ley de Reforma del Estatuto de Capacitaci6n y Empleo (Law 19518) has
been recently amended by the Chilean Congress allowing finns a tax-rebate on the investments made to
provide further the education of their workers. With this amendment, finns can now deduct investments in
education and/or training from their taxes and provide further learning and/or training opportunities to their
workers. In addition, to address the issue of lack of seed capital for the acquisition of training programs, in
particular in the case of the SMES, the GC set in motion in the summer of 2000 a new training financial
mechanism (Mandato Especial Irrevocable - MEI) complementing the SENCE tax-rebate scheme. Under
this new mechanism, interested enterprises contract with the Chilean banks the pre-financing for the
acquisition of training/education services of their interest. Once the training/education module has been
provided, the banks collect from the GC the amount corresponding to the cost of the module and charge a
service fee. This innovative mechanisms has resulted in the number of SMES acquiring training/education
jumping from about 20,000 to 60,000 in the last 18 months.
In the last three years, CORFO has been piloting under a Grant fromi the IDB the establishment of a system
of national competency framework and vocational-professional pathways in four sectors of the Chilean
economy (mining, tourism, construction [gas and electricity] and information technology). CORFO has
contracted with the Fundaci6n Chile, a non-governmental entity established in July 9, 1976 under Law
1,528, the implementation of this pilot project, which is being conducted with the participation of the
corresponding sector employers (through their respective associations known as Camaras Empresariales)
and employees (through their respective unions).
To address the issue of unemployment, the GC established under the framework of the National
Employment Plan, a Contingency Fund Against Unemployment (Fondo de Contingencia Contra el
Desempleo) in 2000. This fund is targeted to heads of households of the lower income-decile that have lost
their jobs. In 2001, this fund supported the creation of 150,000 jobs paying minimum wages. In addition,
the GC has also established a series of fiscal incentives for the hiring of the unemployed labor force.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The proposed project will address the following four sector issues: (i) inequitable educational attainment,
especially among the population 15 years-old and over; (ii) lack of a state policy and strategy to ensure the
provision of relevant technical-professional education of appropriate quality; (iii) inadequate and
insufficient training of workers belonging to the SMES; and (iv) disjointed systems providing lifelong
learning and training opportunities of appropriate quality and relevancy.
The following two strategies are considered to address the inequitable educational attainment, especially
-9-



among the population 15 years-old and over belonging to the three lowest income-deciles. The first strategy
will include a change in the ME's financing and selection mechanisms for the public and private providers
of adult basic and secondary education. This change will modify the current payment criteria based on
average attendance of enrolled adult students to payments based on demonstrated completion of a learning
module. The payment, under an established module fee by the ME, will be allocated only to those certified
private and public providers that comply with the revised basic and secondary adult education curriculum
(recently approved by the ME) and selection criteria. The second strategy will allow for a user-friendly,
but rigorous, highly decentralized system to assess and credit knowledge acquired by individuals
throughout their lives regardless of the source of learning.
The following three strategies are considered to address the inadequate and insufficient training of workers
belonging to the SMES. Based on the recent amendment by the Chilean Congress of the Ley de Reforma
del Estatuto de Capacitaci6n y Empleo (Law 19518) allowing firms a tax-rebate on the investments made
to provide further education/training to their workers, and the establishment of the MEI pre-financing
instrument, the first strategy includes the provision of technical assistance to "promote and educate" the
SMESs' demand for relevant training for their workers and align the private and public supply of training
modules accordingly. The second strategy includes the use of a competitive fund to finance a menu of pilot
projects proposed by private and public providers articulating learning with training. Distance education
will be included among one of these options to be financed by the project. Finally, the third strategy will
include the strengthening of the national and regional units of SENCE in charge of setting policies and
operational strategies and overseeing the implementation of the training being financed by the tax-rebate
scheme.
The following three strategies address the lack of a state policy and strategy to ensure the provision of
relevant technical-professional education of appropriate quality.  The first strategy envisages the
introduction of the technological curricular pathways (vias tecnol6gicas) in selected sectors of the Chilean
economy as the instrument to ensure vertical curricular articulation between grades 11 and 12 of the
technical secondary schools and the tertiary technical-professional education (see Annex 2, component 2
for further information). This strategy incorporates remedial propedeutic courses for students entering
accredited TPIs to ensure an homogeneous curricular/skill floor for all TPIs' freshmen in the region. Based
on the national system of competency framework defined and approved in selected sectors of the Chilean
economy, this strategy will also include graduation criteria (exiting profile) for students attending TPI in
the participating regions. This strategy also aims at canceling the terminal education nature of the CFTs
allowing their graduates to continue with their professional education in either IPs or universities. The
second strategy involves the promotion of concerted efforts at the regional level, involving technical
secondary schools, TPIs, training providers, the productive sector employers and employees, to improve the
relevancy and quality of the technical-professional education in the region. This strategy, comprising the
establishment of regional networks. is intended to ensure horizontal articulation between the productive and
education sectors in the given region. The third strategy provides a competitive fund to finance proposals
in established regional networks, including a package of supply and demand-driven interventions to
accredited tertiary CFTs, pre and in-service technical-education teacher-training institutions and other
TPIs, to improve the quality of the educational services provided and align them with the
productive/employment sector in the region, in the framework of the technological curricular pathways that
have been established for such purpose. The above-mentioned strategies will dovetail with the education
reform in secondary education (especially for the I 1 and 12 grades of technical secondary schools) and the
tertiary-professional education strategies set in motion by the ME.
The following two strategies will be included to bring the disjointed educational, labor market and
productive systems into alignment to provide relevant lifelong learning and training opportunities of
- 10-



appropriate quality. The first strategy will be to ensure continuous participation of the employers and
workers of selected sectors of the economy in the establishment and operation of a national system of
competency framework and vocational-professional pathways. The sectors of the economy will be chosen
based on the following criteria: (i) importance in terms of employment (to achieve a Pareto-logic of about
20% of the economic sectors generating 80% of the employment in the country); (ii) relevance for the
country's economic development strategy; (iii) identifiable demand of employers and workers of the given
sector in participating in the establishment of such a competency framework and vocational-professional
pathways system; and (iv) the degree of intemal organization of the sector (better organized and less
fragmented sectors are assumed to involve less risk). The second strategy will be to establish three highly
decentralized, demand-driven and proactive guiding management information systems - one for
intermediation in the labor market and vocational counselling in secondary schools, one providing
information of project-related services to the general public and the last one comprising findings of labor
market studies and project-related research.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The proposed project includes the following four components: (a) providing new opportunities for lifelong
learning and training; (b) improving the quality and increasing the coverage of technical-professional
education; (c) establishing instruments to support the provision of a lifelong learning and training
services; and (d) institutional strengthening.
Component 1 (Providing new opportunities for lifelong learning and training). This component
addresses the first and third sector issues described in section B3 of the PAD. This component will finance:
(a) the promotion and the increasing of the private and public supply of basic and secondary education
opportunities for adults (sub-component 1.1); (b) the establishment of a learning assessment and
certification system for adults seeking to complete their basic and secondary education (sub-component
1.2); and (c) the establishment of new modalities that harmonize adult basic and secondary education with
training (sub-component 1.3).
Accordingly, this component will finance: (i) accredited public and private providers (schools and
institutions) offering learning modules in adult basic and secondary education (attuned to new adult
education curriculum approved by the ME) towards the completion of these two levels; (ii) the design of
learning modules; (iii) the production and distribution of pertinent adult learning materials (for students and
teachers) of appropriate quality including those to be provided through distance education delivery
modalities; (iv) the development of relevant training modules of appropriate quality (to be offered by the
Organismos Tecnicos de Capacitaci6n [OTECs], Centros de Formaci6n Tecnica [CFTs], CEIAS or any
other accredited provider) aligned to SMES' demand; (v) the analysis, development and validation (ex-ante
and ex-post) of instruments for learning assessment, most likely through the selection of qualified
consultants and/or research institutions or universities; (vi) the printing and distribution of testing
instruments and certificates; (vii) the training of examiners; (viii) local consultants to provide technical
assistance; (ix) the application and processing of the learning assessment tests by learning module and
educational level; (x) the statistical analysis of learning assessment results; (xi) promotional and
dissemination campaigns and workshops; (xii) the conducting of diagnostic and impact evaluation studies;
(xiii) the safe-keeping of the bank of learning assessment tests; (xiv) supervision and monitoring; and (xv)
the issuing and public recording of certificates. The proposed Loan will finance the provision of adult
education based on established fees/module/level/, technical assistance (consultants) and the training
- 11 -



required in the implementation of the above activities. Counterpart funding will complement the Loan's
financing and will absorb 100% of the acquisition of goods (teaching aids, materials, textbooks), the
competitive fund and the incremental recurrent salaries and operational costs associated with the
implementation of the above-mentioned activities.
The implementation of this component is based on a five-pronged approach. First, setting appropriate
incentives to align and significantly increase the private and public supply of adult basic and secondary
learning opportunities ensuring pertinence and appropriate quality. These incentives, as explained in more
detail in Annex 2, are designed to ensure targeting to the poorest segments of the Chilean society (belonging
to the lowest three income-deciles, including indigenous population) and equity in the provision of adult
education services. Second, the payments to the public and private providers of adult education will be
based on the demonstrated completion of a learning module by students instead of being based merely on
attendance. Third, provide technical assistance to the SMESs' to guide their request for relevant training
(educating the demand) and align the training supply accordingly. The actual acquisition of training
modules by the SMES will be done outside the project's resources using the tax-rebate and pre-fmancing
mechanisms set by the GC for such purposes. Fourth, by allowing adult education institutions to provide
relevant training also, and training institutions to offer adult education. Fifth, by developing adult distance
education and training modules to be delivered through new education technologies, including distance
education modalities.
Specific outcomes of this component include: (a) providing basic education for 71,5000 adults and
secondary education for 48,500 adults; (b) ensuring that about 120,000 adults complete and certify their
basic and/or secondary education; (c) ensuring relevant training to 12,000 workers from about 6,000
SMES; (d) providing adult education through new education technologies to about 18,500 adults; (e)
piloting other demonstrative programs articulating education and training to about 2,500 adults; and (f)
preparing about 75 distance adult training modules to benefit 250,000 adult users.
Component 2 (Improving the qualty and increasing the coverage of technical-professional education).
This component addresses the second and fourth sector issues described in section B3 of the PCD. This
component will finance: (a) the vertical articulation of technical secondary with tertiary
technical-professional education (sub-component 2.1) through the establishment of technological curricular
pathways (curricular progression maps) fully explained in Annex 2; (b) the horizontal articulation of
technical secondary and tertiary education with the labor market in selected regions of the country through
the constitution of regional networks encompassing technical secondary schools, tertiary technical
education institutions (CFTs, Institutos Profesionales and regional universities), training providers
(OTECs), employers and workers (sub-component 2.1); (c) the validation by the education system of the
skills acquired on the job and/or in the training institutions; (d) the quality improvement of technical
secondary and tertiary education in the regional networks established under the project (sub-component
2.1); (e) the increase in access to tertiary technical education (sub-component 2.1); and (f) the quality and
pertinence improvement of the pre and in-service teacher training institutions for technical-professional
education (sub-component 2.2).
Accordingly, this component will finance, through a competitive fund, up to 40 proposals from established
regional networks that aim to achieve the above-mentioned objectives (vertical and horizontal integration,
improved tertiary education quality and increased coverage). Under this fund, those qualified public and
private third parties belonging to the regional network established under the project may receive funding
for: (i) the acquisition of learning materials and equipment; and (ii) technical assistance for the development
and implementation of proposals. In addition, this component will also finance: (iii) cross-fertilization
activities, dissemination campaigns, local workshops and one international seminar in teacher training for
- 12 -



technical-professional education; (iv) monitoring and impact evaluation studies; (v) the establishment of
remedial courses to ensure an equal starting base of learning standards for all incoming students seeking
tertiary technical education in the participating regional networks; (vi) apprenticeships and internships; (vii)
the development of modularized curricula for pre and in-service teacher training; (viii) the setting of
appropriate graduation standards for students completing their tertiary technical education and those
graduating from pre and in-service teacher training in the area of technical-professional education; (ix) up
to three institutional plans prepared by accredited pre and in-service teacher training institutions to improve
their pre and in-service teacher training services, including technical assistance and modular and distance
learning inputs through a competitive fund set up for that purpose; and (x) the training of teachers of
accredited institutions (master trainers). The proposed Loan will finance the technical assistance and the
training required in the implementation of the above activities. Counterpart funding will complement the
Loan's financing and will absorb 100% of the acquisition of goods (learning equipment, teaching aids,
materials, textbooks), the competitive fund and the incremental recurrent salaries and operational costs
associated with the implementation of the above-mentioned activities.
Each regional network financed under the project would have clearly defined guidelines on: (i) learning and
employment objectives and targets; (ii) steering, cooperation and advisory roles to be played by the
academic and training institutions, the employers and workers; (iii) regulation, coordination, monitoring
and operational procedures; (iv) technological curricular pathways for the articulation and linkage of the
last two grades of technical secondary schools with the first two years of tertiary professional education
including expected exit standards (competences, knowledge and learning skills);and (v) the instruments
(national competency framework and vocational-professional pathways) to articulate technical-professional
education with training. In cases where intemational exit standards exists in the economic sector related to
the regional network they will be used to make them compatible with the labor strategies being implemented
by the regional markets. The project will start piloting this component in four regional and one national
networks where alignment efforts are underway in different sectors of the economy. The regional networks
are: Copiap6 (Region III) in mining, Concepci6n (Region VIII) in the metal-mechanic sector, Temuco
(Region IX) in the tourism and gastronomic sectors and Valparaiso (Region V) in new technologies. The
national network is in the health sector. The four regional networks and one national networks will be used
as pilots during the first two years of the project, and, based on impact evaluation findings, scaled up to a
total of 40 regional proposals over the life of the project. It is expected that there will be a
cross-fertilization across components, as the competency framework and pathways (established as part of
the third component) feed into the regional networks, thus creating bridges and instruments which help
align the technical-professional education with the productive sector. It is also expected that the outcomes
of the implementation of this component will feed into the ME's efforts in setting a national policy in
technical-professional education.
Specific outcomes of this component include: (i) 65,000 students enrolled in pertinent tertiary
technical-professional programs of appropriate quality; (ii) graduate profiles and improved quality
education for 142,000 students in 662 municipal and private-subsidized technical secondary schools; and
(iii) about 5,000 better prepared technical education teachers (either technicians and professionals with
ample work experience wishing to become technical-professional education teachers and/or "improvised"
teachers of technical secondary schools and tertiary technical-professional institutions needing to upgrade
their pedagogical and technological skills).
Component 3 (Establishing instruments to support the provision of a lifelong learning and training
services). This component addresses the fourth sector issue described in section B3 of the PCD. This
component will finance: (a) the establishment of a national system of competency framework and
vocational-professional pathways in nine selected sectors of the Chilean economy; and (b) the establishment
- 13-



of four proactive and guiding lifelong learning and training management information systems (MISs).
Accordingly, this component will finance: (i) the refining of the ongoing system of national competency
framework in the four sectors of the Chilean economy (gas and electricity in the construction sector,
mining, tourism and information technology) currently covered by an IDB Grant that close in 2002; (ii) the
extension of this system to about five new economic sectors (to be defined during project implementation
based on criteria explained in Annex 2); (iii) the developing of new capabilities among local training
providers to design and deliver competency-based training programs; (iv) the delivery of relevant training to
workers in the nine sectors of the economy considered by the project; (v) the establishment of incentives to
stimulate and maintain demand for certification of different users, in particular self-employed,
small-medium and micro enterprises; (vi) the implementation of the institutional arrangements required for
assessing and certifying labor and employability competencies under a fully recognized and legitimate
national competency framework; (vii) the development, production and dissemination of training and
assessment materials; (viii) the direct cost for assessing and certifying skills in the nine selected economic
sectors; (ix) the development of vocational-professional pathways; (x) the development of a system to
monitor the quality and pertinence of the services provided by the technical secondary schools; (xi) the
development of a system to monitor the quality and pertinence of the services provided by the training
institutions; (xii) technical assistance; (xiii) training workshops, seminars, dissemination campaigns and
study tours to other relevant related experiences worldwide; (xiv) monitoring and impact evaluation studies;
(xv) the development of specific software and project-related Web-site; and (xvi) the training and technical
assistance to about 1,400 vocational orientation counsellors already functioning in the 1,340 secondary
schools in the country and personnel of the 118 private and municipal employment information offices.
The proposed Loan will finance the technical assistance and the training required in the implementation of
the above activities. Counterpart funding will complement the Loan's financing and will absorb 100% of
the acquisition of goods (training aids and materials, assessment instruments) and the incremental recurrent
salaries and operational costs associated with the implementation of the above-mentioned activities.
Specific outcomes of this component include: (a) nine sector of the Chilean economy with established
system of national competency framework and vocational-pathways; (b) about 29,000 workers of these
nine economic sectors that have certified their competencies and given the opportunity to upgrade them; (c)
three proactive guiding MISs; and (d) about 1.5 million adults consulting these MISs during the life of the
project.
Component 4 (Institutional strengthening). This component will finance a national Project Coordination
Unit (PCU). In addition, this component will support the strengthening of the national and regional
representations of SENCE by financing: (i) the acquisition of additional computers and peripheral
equipment and software for SENCE and its regional offices; (ii) training; and (iii) technical assistance.
Finally, this component will finance a continuous communication and dissemination strategy by the
Directorio/PCU.
The national PCU will be in charge of: (i) planning and programming; (ii) monitoring project
implementation including disbursements and collection of expenditure documentation; (iii) providing
technical assistance and guidance in the procurement of goods and services to be financed by the proposed
Loan and counterpart funding; (iv) communicating with the Bank; (v) implementing the recommendations
emerging from the Directorio (explained in C4 below); (vi) contracting the carrying out of evaluation and
tailored-specific research studies; and (vii) coordinating project-related communication with other national
(Ministries of Economy, Education and Labor and Social Welfare) and regional authorities and agencies as
well as other private project stakeholders representing the productive, labor sectors, universities and
non-governmental agencies. The proposed Loan will finance the national PCU personnel, technical
- 14 -



assistance and the training required in the implementation of the above activities. Counterpart funding will
complement the Loan's financing and will absorb 100% of the acquisition of goods for the PCUs and
SENCE including computers, peripheral equipment and software and the incremental recurrent salaries and
operational costs associated with the implementation of the above-mentioned activities.
Indicative             Bank-      % of
Component                   Sector        Costs      % of    financing   Bank-
(US$M)     Total     (US$M)   financing
1. Providing new opportunities for  Other Education   59.16       39.2     41.14      54.3
lifelong learning and training;
2. Improving the quality and increasing Vocational/Technica  41.45  27.5    1.28        1.7
the coverage of technical-professional  1 Education &
education;                       Training
3. Establishing instruments to support Vocational/Technica  33.88  22.5    27.20      35.9
the provision of a lifelong learning and 1 Education &
training services.               Training
4. Institutional strengthening    Institutional        15.51      10.3      5.38       7.1
Development_
Total Project Costs                  150.00      99.5     75.00      99.0
Front-end fee                     0.75       0.5      0.75        1.0
Total Financing Required                   150.75     100.0      75.75     100.0
The cost of each project sub-component appears in Annex 2. The above costs include physical and price contingencies.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The following six key policy and institutional refomns in different stages of implementation underpin the
effective execution of the proposed project. First, the ongoing basic and secondary curricular reform in
implementation since late 1996 has introduced a new curriculum for secondary education, including grades
11 and 12 of technical secondary schools. This thorough curriculum revision was carried out with ample
participation of experts from the public and private sector (including employers), tertiary education
institutions, research centers and NGOs.  This new  curriculum  aims to better respond to the
knowledge-base economy facing the Chilean society, especially the productive sector, and to incorporate
modem pedagogical concepts of learning. The new curriculum reduced the 500 specialties of grades 11
and 12 of technical secondary schools to 46 specialties grouped in 14 occupational families. Along with
this curricular reform, the national learning assessment system (SIMCE) has been overhauled to be more in
tune with the new curriculum and learning objectives. The reform has also converted about one third of all
municipal and private-subsidized primary and secondary schools to the full-day schedule.
Second, the ME has been restructured to better implement and monitor the education reform including the
creation of a National Secondary Education Coordination Unit (NSECU) and a Curriculum and Evaluation
Unit (CEU). The NSECU, established in mid-2000, aims at: (i) ensuring universal access to secondary
education for all primary education graduates; (ii) continuing reducing the secondary education repetition
and drop out rates, especially among students coming from low-income families; (iii) continuing
strengthening the quality and pertinence of secondary education in the light of the revised curriculum; and
-15-



(iv) continuing piloting and evaluating innovations in the 51 experimental secondary schools (Liceos
Montegrande). The CEU, established in 1998, aims at: (i) ensuring that the curriculum reform is being
implemented accordingly in each classroom of the Chilean education system; (ii) continuing to strengthen
the alignment of other learning inputs with the ongoing curriculum; and (iii) fine-tuning in the medium-term
(in about five years) the new curriculum and learning assessment scheme based on the findings emerging
from the yearly applications of the revised learning assessment measuring system.
Third, in line with the curricular reform, the ME is establishing a certification and accreditation system for
all pre- and in-service teacher training institutions in the country, including those that prepare and train
teachers for the technical-professional schools.
Fourth, the ME plans to initiate another accreditation procedure for TPIs in conjunction with revamping
their supervision scheme. Moreover, the FYOI ME's budget allocated a targeted subsidy of about
Ch$3,500 million (US$6.1 million equivalent) for CFT students, to be doubled in CY02. This novelty is
relevant to the proposed project, as students of the CFTs schools were previously not entitled to any kind of
public subsidy.
Fifth, the training tax-rebate scheme under the framework of Law 19518 operated by SENCE has been
amended by the Chilean Congress to allow firms to deduct from their taxes the investments made in
providing further education to their workers. In addition, to address the issue of lack of seed capital for the
acquisition of training programs, in particular in the case of the SMES, the GC set in motion in the summer
of 2000 the Mandato Especial Irrevocable (MEI) by which interested enterprises contract with the Chilean
banks the pre-financing for the acquisition of training/education services of their interest. As explained
before, the implementation of the MEI has resulted in the number of SMES acquiring training/education
jumping from about 20,000 to 60,000 in the last 18 months.
Finally, the GC is going to establish a high-level Lifelong Learning and Training Steering Policy Board
(Directorio) chaired by the Minister of Economy and including the Ministers of Education and of Labor
and Public Welfare. This Directorio has been operating on an informal basis since July 2001. As a
condition for negotiations, the Borrower submitted to the Bank a draft Presidential Decree for the
establishment of the Directorio. During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Borrower that
as a condition for project effectiveness, the Borrower will issue a Presidential Decree establishing the
Project Steering Policy Board and publish such Decree in El Diario Oficial of the Borrower's official
gazette.
3. Benefits and target population:
Chile would benefit from the proposed project by gaining: (i) an upgraded and more skilled human resource
pool; (ii) a significant increase in social services available to the poor, especially those concerning adult
education and training; (iii) a more articulated technical-professional education system of better quality;
and (iv) a secondary and tertiary technical-professional education system better aligned with the labor
market at the regional level. The project expected benefits would in tum, raise the productivity and
competitiveness of Chile in the intemational arena, bring about broad economic and social mobilization
(especially from adults and workers of the three lowest income-deciles) and very likely, also reduce poverty
levels. It will also support the country's effort to enter into the global knowledge economy.
The project aims to have: (i) about 120,000 adults, especially in the 15-65 age bracket, and belonging to
the three lowest income deciles (including indigenous groups), complete and certify their basic (grades 1-8)
and/or secondary education (grades 9-12); (ii) 12,000 workers from approximately 6,000 SMES receive
- 16 -



relevant training of appropriate quality; (iii) 2,500 adults incorporated into innovative demonstrative
programs financed under the project articulating adult education with training; (iv) 18,500 adults being
provided adult education through new education technologies; and (v) 250,000 adults using some of the 75
adult distance training modules designed under the project.
It is expected that 65,000 technical-professional students will benefit from the project's financing of the 40
proposals to be implemented in the regional networks to be established by the project, aligning these types
of education with the regional productive sector needs. In addition, the graduation (exit) standards to be
established in selected sectors of the Chilean economy, will benefit the 142,000 students enrolled in 662
technical secondary schools in the country. Finally, the secondary and tertiary technical-professional
education system will have about 5,000 better prepared teachers.
About 13,000 workers of nine selected sectors of the Chilean economy will have certified their
competencies and given the opportunity to upgrade them. About 1.5 million adults are expected to consult
the four MISs financed by the project.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The Borrower has proposed the following three-level, national and regional implementation arrangements.
The first level, known as the national policy level, will be concerned with the setting of lifelong learning
and training long-term policies and strategies in the entire country, ensuring consistency and congruency of
project activities with stated objectives and providing the political oversight and coordination required
among participating public and private entities to achieve synergy. The second level, known as the
national project coordination unit (PCU), will be concerned with the day-to-day management and
coordination of the execution of this demand-driven project. The third level is constituted by the different
executing entities in charge of implementing the project's sub-components (explained below).
National policy level. This first level is to be assumed by a Lifelong Learning and Training Steering
Policy Board, known as the Directorio, chaired by the Minister of Economy and including the Ministers of
Education and of Labor and Public Welfare. This Directorio needs to be created by a Presidential Decree
(Decreto Supremo) indicating its attributions, responsibilities, and operational characteristics.  The
Directorio will: (i) set long-term lifelong learning and training policies and strategies applicable throughout
the entire country; (ii) ensure that qualified human, fmancial, and physical resources are allocated to the
project during its implementation, especially in the PCU; (iii) ensure consistency and congruency of project
activities with its stated objectives; (iv) broker and mediate among the diverse private and public actors
participating in the project and ensure their appropriate coordination; (v) approve the project's Operational
Manual; and (vi) monitor from time to time the impact of project activities and provide guidance and
project direction accordingly. The Directorio will meet every three months to review project progress and
address relevant issues concerning project. Since the Directorio is barred by Law of being an executing
agency to implement the proceeds from international Loans (to do so, it needs to be created by a Law of
Congress), the Minister of Economy, on behalf of the Ministers of Education and Labor and Social
Security, has sent a written communication to the Bank on December 6, 2001, announcing that a decision
has been made to make the ME the responsible implementing agency for purposes of the Loan Agreement.
During negotiations, agreement was reached that the Borrower shall, through ME, make available to
SENCE the proceeds of the Loan allocated for the activities to be carried out by SENCE, under a
subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower, through ME, and SENCE. The
terms and conditions of this subsidiary agreement shall have been approved by the Bank, and shall,
inter alia, include SENCE's obligation to carry out its project subcomponents.
- 17 -



The executive attributes of the Directorio will be assumed by an Executive Council (EC), which is already
working since October 2001 in an ad-hoc, non-formal, manner. The EC will be comprised by nominated
representatives of the three Ministers belonging to the Directorio and the head of the PCU. According to
the draft Presidential Decree establishing the Project's Steering Policy Board, this Board has the authority
of adding new members to the EC as needed during project implementation. The EC is accountable to the
Directorio and plays a more permanent managerial bridging role between the Directorio and the PCU.
The Directorio will have an Advisory Committee (AC) concerned with providing sound advice at the
Directorio's request during the implementation cycle. The AC will include representatives of: (i) employers
(Camaras Empresariales) and employees (unions) from the sectors of the economy included in the project;
and (ii) technical secondary schools, tertiary technical-professional institutions and training/adult education
providers participating in the regional networks.
The Directorio including its EC and AC are implementation arrangements with no cost to the project. A
draft copy of the Presidential Decree establishing the Directorio, including its attributions and
responsibilities as well as those for the EC and AC, has been submitted to the Bank for its review. During
negotiations, agreement was reached with the Borrower that as a condition for project effectiveness,
the Borrower will issue a Presidential Decree establishing the Project Steering Policy Board and
publsh such Decree in El Diario Oficial of the Borrower's official gazette.
National PCU. The day-to-day management and coordination of the project at the national level is to be
assumed by a PCU. The PCU will be accountable to the Directorio and headed by a qualified Project
Coordinator professional (labeled Project Coordinator). Accountable to the PCU Coordinator, there will
be a qualified PCU Deputy Coordinator. The PCU will adopt a matrix-type organizational structure. The
"columns" of the matrix will be associated with the "organizational ends of the project" (substantive units)
represented by each one of the three components. Accordingly, the PCU will have the following three
substantive Sub-directions: (a) one Sub-directorfor providing new opportunities for lifelong learning and
training; (b) one Sub-director for improving the quality and increasing the coverage of
technical-professional education; and (c) one Sub-director for establishing instruments to support the
provision of a lifelong learning and training services. The "rows" of the matrix will be associated with
the "organizational means of the project" indicating all the support activities (adjective units) crossing
across all the sub-components.  Accordingly, the PCU will include the following two adjective
Sub-Directions: (d) the Sub-director for Planning and Management (Gesti6n y Planeaci6n) in charge of
formulating the project's annual working plan and budget; supporting the yearly negotiation of the project's
budget with the Directorio and the Ministry of Finance, managing the human and financial resources,
coordinating the carrying out of the procurement activities required by the project as well as all the
project's-related legal aspects; and (e) the Sub-director for Development (Desarrollo) in charge of
contracting with qualified external institutions and/or individuals selected evaluation and other
research-related studies under TORs satisfactory to the Bank; and carrying out the project's external
communication and dissemination strategy. During negotiations, agreement was reached that: (i) the
PCU Coordinator, Deputy Coordinator and above-mentioned Sub-Directors will be selected under
terms of reference (TORs) satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) as a condition for project effectiveness
the establishment of the PCU and the employment of the Project's: (a) coordinator; (b) deputy
coordinator; (c) planning and management unit chief; and (d) at least two other technical unit chiefs
will be required.
A revised draft Operational Manual describing the PCU and including the observations made during the
appraisal mission was submitted to the Bank. review. During negotiations, agreement was reached that
as a condition of project effectiveness, ME will approve the Project's Operational Manual (by
- 18 -



Resolution of the Minister).
Regional arrangements. Regionally, the proposed project implementation arrangements reviewed by the
Bank at appraisal, mirror those explained above for the national level. Accordingly there are also: (i) a
political level; (ii) a coordinating level; and (iii) the executing entities according to the approved project
activity. The political level in the region will be provided by the Regional Intendente (the public
functionary appointed by the President of the Republic of Chile in every region in charge of coordinating all
the Secretarias Regionales Ministeriales (SEREMIS). The Intendente will broker and mediate among the
diverse private and public actors participating in the project in the region and ensure their appropriate
coordination. For project implementation purposes in the region, the Intendente will be supported by a
Regional Executive Council (REC) and a Regional Advisory Council (RAC). The REC will be comprised
of the Intendente, the heads of the Secretarias Regionales Ministeriales (SEREMIS) of Economy,
Education, Labor and Social Welfare, thus representing the three participating Ministries, as well as the
Regional Director of SENCE and a the head of the regional PCU. The REC plays at the regional level, the
same role that the EC plays at the national level. The RAC will include representatives of all the sectors
involved in the regional network financed by the project. The RAC will provide advice at the request of the
Intendente based on the available project implementation information and/or findings of specific studies and
tailored-made research in the region. The Ley Orgdnica Constitucional Sobre Gobierno y Administraci6n
Regional (Ley 19.175 of March 20, 1993) allows the Intendentes to establish the REC and RAC. Both, the
REC and RAC, are project implementation arrangements with no cost to the proposed project.
Regional coordinating level. A small Regional Project Coordination Unit (RPCU), accountable to the
Intendente and to the REC will be established in every region where the project is being implemented. The
RPCU will coordinate and monitor the day-to-day irnplementation of project activities in the region and
systematize the project-related documentation on financial, procurement or other matters. The RPCU will
be constituted by existing professional staff seconded from the SEREMIS of Education, Labor and Public
Welfare, Economy and a representative of SENCE in the region. One of these professionals appointed to
the RPCU will act as its head. The RPCU will be housed in existing facilities of one of the participating
SEREMIS and/or SENCE in the region. The RPCU has no cost to the project.
Regional executing agencies. Annex 6 provides the details of the expected executing agencies for each
one of the project sub-components, when explaining the disbursements of funds.
Disbursement of funds. The role to be played by the national and regional implementation entities
described above (Directorio, EC, PCU, REC, RAC and RPCU) is one of promotion of services through
appropriate incentives, transparent rules, agreements and procedures described in the project's Operational
Manual. These entities are not envisaged to provide any service to be financed by the project. Project
funds will be released by the PCU to the corresponding executing entities once appropriate agreements,
satisfactory to the Bank, have been entered between the Borrower (through ME) and the executing entity
(the Model agreements are included in the Operational Manual). In this vein, the yearly release of funding
of this demand-driven project would be based on an annual working plan and budget prepared on the basis
of the proposals presented by the different project actors and approved by the project.  During
negotiations, agreement was reached with the Borrower that the proposed annual working plan and
budget to be included in the next-year's budget will be discussed with the Bank every year during the
implementation cycle. The criteria and procedures to review (most likely by qualified extemal institutions
and/or individuals) and approve projects competing for funds at a regional level will be included in the
Operational Manual. The revised draft of the Operational Manual, including the observations made at
appraisal concerning competitive fund operations, was received by the Bank prior to negotiations.
- 19-



During negotiations, the Borrower confirmed the Ministry of Finance's interest manifested during appraisal,
that the Reimbursement to the Government (Reembolso al Gobierno) disbursement scheme will be utilized
for the proposed project. Under this scheme, the GC pre-fmances all project expenditures and submits to
the Bank the expenditure support documentation of those expenditures to be financed under the proposed
Loan for reimbursement purposes according to the agreed percentages described in Schedule 1 to the Loan
Agreement (table C in Annex 6).  Under this scheme there is no need for a Special Account.
Notwithstanding the above disbursement mechanism, the Borrower is bound to use the procurement
guidelines for those category of expenditures to be covered by the proposed Loan.
Should the need arise during project implementation to use and operate a "Special Account", the Legal
Agreement will need to be amended. The amended process can only be started by the Bank upon a written
request by the Borrower's Ministry of Finance. At such time, the Bank will determine the authorized
allocation for the advance based on an estimate of eligible expenditures for a reasonable period of time of
about 4 months.
Project Management Reports (PMRs). The Borrower will use the Project Management Reports (PMRs)
including financial and physical progress and procurement monitoring information. The PMRs will only be
used for monitoring purposes during project implementation as there is no intention to use the Report-based
disbursement mechanism but rather a transaction-based disbursement mechanism. These PMRs will report
the planning of project activities for the subsequent three-month period and the comparison of actual versus
planned inputs for the preceding quarter. In addition, the physical target (outputs) reports of the PMRs will
be updated once a year on the basis of data obtained and produced by other mechanisms established for the
project. The above-mentioned project physical targets include explicit quantitative information, and
implicit qualitative information. Impact evaluation studies to be carried out during the in-depth review
missions at years two, four and final of project implementation, will complement the qualitative information
as needed by the project. The financial reports of the PMRs, updated quarterly, will include statements
showing for the period and cumulatively the cash receipts by sources and expenditures by main categories,
beginning and ending cash balances of the project, and supporting schedules comparing actual and planned
expenditures. The PMRs to be utilized in the project are designed to link expenditures (costs) and physical
progress (outputs) as an important aspect of overall project monitoring. The draft Operational Manual
submitted to the Bank before negotiations, and the Agreed Minutes of Negotiation contains models of the
PMRs to be utilized by the project. The PMRs will be reviewed by the Bank during the bi-annual
supervision missions. The proposed flow of project proceeds (from both, the Loan and counterpart
funding), is described in Annex 6.
Project budget approved for CY02. The Bank appraisal mission was presented with evidence that
US$4.461 million equivalent have been approved by the Chilean Congress for the implementation of the
proposed project in the CY02 budget.
Loan instrument.  The Borrower requested, and the Bank agreed to, the following Loan instrument: (i)
fixed-spread loan; (ii) in US dollars; (iii) with 9.5 years to maturity including 7.5 years of grace period and;
and (iv) level principal repayments in four semiannual installments in the calendar years 2010 and 2011 to
be carried out January 15 and July 15 of each one of these years. Each repayment of the principal has been
estimated in US$18,939,425. The GC explained to the Bank during negotiations that the above Loan
instrument allows them more flexibility and ensures a more appropriate and efficient management of their
public debt. The GC did not request during negotiations rate fixing although the option remains open.
Financial management system. According to the Financial Management Capacity Assessment Report
- 20 -



(filed) carried out by the Bank's financial management specialist before negotiations, the project's Financial
Management arrangements are in full compliance with Bank requirements. These arrangements are
described in detail in a comprehensive Operational Manual presented to the Bank.  The financial
management aspects of the Operational Manual was prepared on the basis of PCU experience with two
previous Bank-financed projects in the sector and guidance received from the Bank's financial management
specialist. The Borrower has proposed to use for this project the same financial management arrangements
that were utilized by ME in the Bank-fnanced Primary and Secondary Education projects (both already
closed and rated in their respective ICRs as highly satisfactory). The financial management capacity
assessment covered: (i) the staffing, institutional and organizational arrangements proposed for the project's
financial management system; (ii) the system of financial controls and accounting policies; (iii) the
expected flow of loan and counterpart fund proceeds (fully described in Annex 6); (iv) financial planning,
management, monitoring, reporting and record keeping; (v) auditing arrangements; and (vi) reporting and
monitoring. All the information concerning these point are fully described in the project's Operational
Manual. The financial management capacity assessment certification has been issued and electronically
filed.
GC informed the Bank that there will be one Financial Management System for the project, located in
MINEDUC and operated by the Project Coordination Unit. This Financial Management System will
consolidate records and project accounts in a set of financial statements including those resulting from the
project execution by MINEDUC and SENCE as described in Article III, Section 3.01 of the Loan
Agreement. The project's annual auditing will correspond to the Project's Consolidated Financial
Statements mentioned above. Notwithstanding the above, the Bank requested to the GC during negotiations
that to ensure appropriate accountability in the source and use of project's funds, separate project Bank
accounts be opened for MINEDUC and SENCE, and gradually in each region as needed by the financial
control and accountability required by the Project. A uniform project chart of accounts will be used for
overall project recording purposes.
Retroactive financing. No retroactive Loan financing for the proposed project has been requested by the
Borrower.
First-year project annual plan and budget. A detailed draft of the first-year project annual plan and
budget for CY02 was thoroughly reviewed during appraisal. This plan provides a detailed first-year
implementation schedule including project inputs, processes and expected outputs as well as the ingredients
to develop a first-year procurement plan. The appraisal mission found this first-year annual plan and
budget to be realistic and doable.
Procurement. Fully explained in Annex 6.
Audits. During negotiations, the Bank confirmed that the Contraloria General de la Republica de Chile
will constitute an "independent auditor" acceptable to the Bank under Article IV, Section 4.01 (b)(i) of the
Loan Agreement. The TORs for the audit will have to follow Bank's guidelines and need to be cleared by
the Bank.
Project performance indicators. During negotiations, appraisal, the GC agreed in a letter dated January
31, 2002, that the project performance indicators referred to in the Loan Agreement are the five appearing
in the PAD, Section A2 and also shown in Attachment 2 to the Agreed Minutes of Negotiation. Annex I
of the PAD indicates the year and source of the baseline data and the periodicity to update this information.
At negotiations, agreement was reached with the Borrower that during the second, fourth and last
years of project implementation, in-depth supervision missions would be carried out to monitor,
- 21 -



inter-alia, the updated status of the project performance indicators.
Implementation cycle. The complex and multisectorial nature of the proposed project and the pilot phase
of the first two years call for a six year implementation cycle starting on or about April 2002, at which time
the proposed project might become effective.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Multisector approach rather than one sector investment: It was decided not to approach this operation
as a single-sector (education or training) investment but rather as a multisectorial intervention with a
regional focus. Upgrading Chile's human capital to achieve increased productivity and competitiveness in
an equitable and effective fashion, necessarily requires ensuring the enthusiastic, consistent and articulated
participation of the private and public sectors including secondary and tertiary education schools and
institutions, adult education/ training providers, employers and workers of selected sectors of the Chilean
economy and national and regional/municipal authorities. Agreement was reached at the highest spheres of
the GC to have the Ministry of Economy chair project preparation activities with the participation of the
Ministries of Education and Labor and Social Security. The GC has decided to institutionalize these
efforts in a Lifelong Learning and Training Steering Committee (Directorio) to be the responsible agency
for project implementation. The Minister of Economy has in turn communicated to the Bank
(December 6, 2001) the Directorio's decision to have the Minister of Education be the project
executing agency for the Loan Agreement purposes.
Promotion rather than provision. Although public (municipal) education institutions do play an
important role in providing lifelong learning and training services, it was decided not to rely heavily on their
further expansion of services. Rather, the demand-driven project design sets appropriate incentives and
procedures to promote, mainly through the existing capacity in the private sector, the execution of all the
project activities.
Basic and secondary education as unfinished agendas. Chile's basic and secondary education systems
still face the issue of how best to continue reducing their inequities and improving their efficiency,
pertinence and quality. It was decided, that with the exception of grades 1l and 12 in the technical
education schools, the proposed project would not address the above-mentioned basic and secondary
education issues. The reason for this decision is based on GC's massive investments of their own financial
resources and institutional efforts, without the Bank's financial and technical assistance, to: (i) increase
access into general secondary and non-technical tertiary education, especially for low-income students; (ii)
further empower schools to improve their quality and pertinence; and (iii) further strengthen the regional
and municipal capacity to manage the social services entrusted to them, especially education. In addition,
GC has indicated its preference to use Bank technical and financial assistance in more difficult and cutting
edge domains, like the one included in the proposed project.  The proposed project is seen as a
complementary and proactive effort that recognizes that the formal education system, especially at the basic
and secondary levels, and the provision of learning and training opportunities to working adults are but
means to meet the investment in human capital in a cost-efficient and cost-effective a manner as possible.
Quality improvement initiates in some selective CFT institutions rather than in the entire CFT
system. The lack of a tertiary technical-professional policy and strategy by the ME has caused, at a
national level, a progressive deterioration of a significant number of CFT schools which do not offer
services of appropriate quality and are not necessarily attuned to the needs of the productive sector. The
- 22 -



CFT system, alongside other tertiary technical-professional institutions, is expected to play a key role in the
implementation of sub-component 2.1 of the project. The project will support quality improvement
initiatives at a regional level in only those CFT schools that are likely to ensure pertinent services of
appropriate quality in the networks to be financed by the project.
A six-year Loan rather than an Adaptable Program Lending (APL). Given the long-term nature for a
lifelong learning and training scheme to mature, discussions were held with the Ministry of Finance during
the identification mission to consider a nine to twelve-year implementation cycle, broken in three to four
tranches of three years each using an APL. The APL characteristics made it an ideal lending instrument to
first pilot interventions, and if proven successful, taken them to scale afterwards. The Ministry of Finance,
however, decided to limit the duration of this proposed project to coincide with the tenure of the current
Government as much as possible. Thus, instead of 9 to 12 years, the project will cover six.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project                 (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                  Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Primary Education (1991)          Primary Education               HS            HS
Improvement Project
(Ln 3410-CH, ICR 19184-CL)
Secondary Education (1995)        Secondary Education Quality     HS            HS
Improvement Project
(Ln 3883-CH, ICR 22979)
Higher Education (1998)           Higher Education Improvement     S            HS
Project
(Ln 4404-CH)
Science and Development           Millenium Institutes            HS            HS
(Ln 4466-CH)
Vocational Training (1965)        Vocational Training Project
(Ln 431 -CH)
Vocational Training (1970)        Second Vocational Training
Project (Ln 666-CH)
Teacher Training and Agricultural  Third Education Project
Secondary Schools (1970)          (Ln 668-CH)
Other development agencies
Inter American Development Bank   Chile Joven (closed in 1995)
Inter American Development Bank   Proyecto de Certificaci6n de
Competencias Laborales (to
close in March 2002)
- 23 -



IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The Bank is supporting the preparation of some multi-sector investments in Eastern Europe sharing some
similarities with the proposed project, but none are as ambitious and holistic in scope. Therefore, the
lessons learned consigned in this section are derived from: (i) other youth employment, vocational training
and adult outreach projects financed by the Bank; (ii) a thorough review of Vocational Education and
Training Reforms recently undertaken by the Bank in 19 countries worldwide; (iii) the recently completed
ICR for the Bank-financed Chile: Secondary Education Project (Report No. 22979 October 19, 2001); and
(iv) OECD experience and 10-year evaluation of youth, employment and lifelong learning policies and
programs.
The general conclusion of the research undertaken in the field of educational reforms, including outreach
programs to provide lifelong learning opportunities for adult education as well as technical education at
secondary and tertiary level schools, indicate that an effective learning environment is: (i) student-centered,
meaning that the students construct their own knowledge from their own experiences and beliefs; (ii)
knowledge-centered, in that curricula connect knowledge and ideas; (iii) community-centered and
community-supported, recognizing that students do most of their learning outside the school facilities
including the working place; and (iv) assessment-centered, both fornative and summative in nature, to
provide students, service providers and policy makers feedback to learn, to be more effective and to make a
more appropriate and targeted allocation of public and private resources.
The following 13 lessons learned derived from the ICR of the Chile: Secondary Education have been
incorporated into the project's design. They can be summed up as the need to: (a) combine supply (State)
and demand-driven (market) interventions like the use of competitive funds included in the proposed
project; (b) gauge timely implementation of various project activities; (c) include appropriate targeting
criteria and performance indicators; (d) have a flexible design attuned to the particular characteristics of the
beneficiaries; (e) ensure enabling conditions such as political stability, continuity in education and training
policies, sound macro-economic and fiscal policies, good and consistent communication with the financial
authorities, and preservation of skilled and seasoned personnel at the national and regional project
coordination units; (f) pilot and evaluate project activities before taking them to scale; (g) have robust (not
implying, excessive) institutions; (h) ensure the existence of an appropriate legal and regulatory framework;
(i) build-in learning systems based on evaluation studies mid-way project implementation, then fine-tuning
the project accordingly; (j) ensure relevant stakeholders have a sense of ownership at the outset of project
implementation; (k) ensure appropriate dissemination and cross-fertilization during project implementation;
(1) plan a timely exit strategy at the early stages of project implementation; and (m) address continually and
consistently pending issues in the education and training sectors at project completion.
The changes in behavior necessary to sustain an effective learning environment, be it whether for adult
education/training or technical-professional education, require the active involvement of stakeholders.
There is also a need for: (a) leadership, most often by the school and training centers directors; (b) clear
goals that can be observed and measured; (c) construction of commnitment to reform goals through
participation in the diagnosis of the problem and the design of the reform/changes, by those responsible
from implementing them; (d) empowerment of schools and training centers to implement their own projects,
if they are aligned with the general criteria of the reform being considered and under implementation; (e)
positive incentives for behavioral changes supporting the reform and the changing efforts; (f) accountability
to clients for performance, including continuous information and feedback on performance and how to
improve; and (g) an appropriate enabling environment, including financing, organizational and legal
- 24 -



mechanisms to promote the participation of the productive sector.
With respect to occupational standards and certification bodies the lessons learned indicate the desirability
of: (i) establishing independent tripartite mechanisms (comprising representatives of government,
employers, workers and unions) rather than certification at institutional levels (government as well as
educational/training institutions); (ii) certifying skills with respect to broad occupational standards rather
than narrowly-defined sectoral occupational standards that tend to limit labor mobility between sectors and
result in overly specialized training programs; and (iii) carrying out an inductive (bottom-up) approach to
occupational analysis rather than the typical top-down sector approach which has proven to be less useful.
The ingredients of success in vocational education and training reforms, according to the Bank study, make
school-based vocational education more like general education and the vocational-technical track, less
dead-end. Successful reforms appear to be those which combine public financing of pre-employment
training with rigorous evaluation of program impact in design, and ensure competition between providers in
delivery. Successful initiatives encouraging in-service training recognize that since formal training is not
widespread even in formal sector enterprises, and mandatory training targets and levy-based rebate schemes
do not increase training significantly. Tax incentives work only where tax coverage is comprehensive, and
while subsidies may increase training, they will also increase expenditures. In a nutshell, the lessons
emerging from the study can be summed up as follows: (i) matching instruments (public or private,
subsidized or unsubsidized) to target groups is as important as choosing the best delivery mode, meaning
that it is essential to be very explicit about the purpose and the target population to be benefited; (ii) the
government's role in facilitating information on technical education and training has been relatively
neglected, meaning that better, more reliable and timely information on these type of programs helps policy
makers redesign their technical education and training policies so that private providers are not "crowded
out" of the market; (iii) a vigorous private response has refuted claims of the "reluctance" of private
providers to participate, meaning that a balance ought to be sought in the market share between public and
private providers for both long-term and short-term courses; and (iv) lack of political will, not institutional
capacity, is the main obstacle for comprehensive reform, implying that successful reformers are the most
determined ones, not the wealthiest or the most institutionally advanced.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The fruitful relationship that has been nurtured in the past eleven years between the Bank and the education
and financial authorities of the GC has enabled the preparation and implementation of four relevant and
successful Bank-financed operations to support the ongoing education reform. During this period, which
already covers three democratically elected Governments, there has been a remarkable continuity in the
education policy and strategy, a first indication of the importance that these governments have assigned to
education as an important vehicle for sustained social and economic development in Chile.
The Primary Education Improvement Project (Ln 3410-CH) and the Secondary Education Quality
Improvement Project (Ln 3883-CH), both closed, and the Higher Education (Ln 4404-CH) in execution,
are good examples of successful projects fully designed and implemented by the Borrower, a vivid
indication of full ownership. The recent directive by the Minister of Education that the financial
management and monitoring activities of all Bank-financed projects under implementation in the education
sector be done by the same experienced unit that was established back in 1991 during the implementation
of the Primary Education Project, is an indication of how the implementation capacity already in place has
been built in the past 10 years and is operating in an.efficient and effective manner.
- 25 -



As technical background for the identification mission, GC sponsored an international lifelong learning and
training workshop in Santiago in 1999 with the participation of renowned worldwide and local experts on
the topic. In addition, GC has gone to great lengths to ensure that both, the education and labor sectors
from the private and public domain, participate with equal weight and responsibility in the preparation of
this project. Finally, GC co-financed with the British Council a study tour for the project preparation team
to visit in September 2001 the Lifelong Learning Systems of the United Kingdom and the Learning Skills
Councils of Scotland.
The Ministry of Finance has approved a budgetary line in the CYOI budget of about Ch$1,522 million
(US$2.65 million equivalent) to support project preparation activities during 2001. In addition, another
Ch$3,500 million (US$6.1 million equivalent) has been authorized in the CYO 1 budget to provide subsidies
to CFT students. The CY02 budget already approved by the Chilean Congress includes US$4.46 million
equivalent for the proposed project (US$2.23 million are counterpart funds).
In section B2 of the PAD, we have provided a full account of the current Government's education, training,
employment and fiscal policies and strategies addressing both the basic and secondary adult education and
the SMES training unfinished agendas. These policies and strategies also address the prospective agenda
to position Chile to meet the challenges posed by globalization in the international arena and to significantly
reduce the deficit in the provision of social services to the poor.
Finally, an ad-hoc project preparation project Steering Policy Board (Directorio), chaired by the Minister
of Economy and including the Ministers of Education and Labor and Social Security to oversee, guide, and
coordinate from a political perspective, project preparation activities, has been unofficially established
since mid-year. The review of the Bank's appraisal mission Aide-Memorie findings, recommendations and
agreements was conducted in the presence of the full Directorio. Prior to negotiations, the Borrower
submitted to the Bank a draft Presidential Decree for the establishment of this Directorio. During
negotiations, agreement was reached with the Borrower that as a condition for project effectiveness,
the Borrower will issue a Presidential Decree establishing the Project Steering Policy Board and
publish such Decree in El Diario Oficial of the Borrower's official gazette.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The impetus for the Bank's involvement in supporting lifelong learning and training policies, strategies and
interventions is threefold. First, the Bank's objectivity in providing advisory services is being fully
appreciated and demanded by the Chilean authorities. Secondly, the Bank has the ability to bring to Chile
timely global expertise associated with successful interventions in the areas of adult outreach, technical
education and training, as well as in setting competency norms and certification systems, especially from
the OECD countries as well as from other middle-income countries. Likewise, through the Bank's
accumulated sector knowledge, prudent advice would be provided to the Chilean authorities in order to
avoid blind alleys that have proven elsewhere not to be reasonable and cost-effective avenues in discussions
on the thematic areas being covered by this operation. Finally, this proposed multisectorial Chilean project
becomes an important laboratory for the Bank to continue learning and updating its internal capacity to
better position itself in the near future for assisting other countries address their lifelong learning and
training needs.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
- 26 -



O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
The economic justification for the project is based on the following sequence of empirical evidence. Firstly,
documentation is provided in Annex 4 regarding the skill gap of the Chilean labor force in absolute terms
as well as relative to the status of other countries. Data regarding the magnitude of deficiencies in skill
levels of the adult workforce suggests that improvements in the quality of the labor force through the
accretion of entrants with higher levels of education would be insufficient for Chile to be a significant
player in the global economy, and that Chile needs to address the skill gap facing adult workers. Secondly,
a review is presented of the evidence regarding the potential benefits to Chile from reducing the skill gap of
its labor force. These benefits would include higher productivity and higher employability of workers with
upgraded skills as well as higher growth and lower inequality for Chilean society as a whole. The first and
second parts of the economic analysis serve to demonstrate the need for a project which seeks to upgrade
the skills and competencies of the labor force, as well as the need for such a project to address social
deficits arising from inequitable attainment in education and skills. Thirdly, evidence is provided regarding
the specific components of the project. The specific data pertains to unit costs that would be incurred on
behalf of the project beneficiaries and the proportion of project beneficiaries who would belong to lowest
income decile groups.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Annexes 3 and 5 present the total cost of the proposed project during the implementation cycle (2002-2008)
and during the first four years of the post-implementation cycle (2009-2012). Total project cost, including
physical, price contingencies and front-end fee is estimated at US$150.75 million equivalent. The project
base cost has been estimated at US$142.25 million equivalent, with physical and price contingencies
estimated at US$7.75 million. At appraisal, the Ministry of Finance communicated its decision to add to
the Loan the front-end fee estimated at US$757,500 (1% of the total proposed Loan of US$75.75 million).
The investment costs are estimated at US$97.2 million equivalent (64% of total project cost) while the
recurrent costs are estimated at US$52.8 million (36% of total project cost). The proposed Loan would
finance 50.2% of the total project cost, while the Borrower's share would be 49.8%. No other donor is
currently planning to co-finance the project. According to the expected pattem of project expenditures to
be covered under the proposed Loan, it appears that the intensity of project implementation activity would
peak during the second and third years of the project's life (corresponding to the Bank's FY04 and 05).
The project envisages some cost-recovery depending on the project sub-component, the type of user and the
progress shown in its implementation (transition from the pilot to the scaling-up phase). While the cost of
adult basic education is to be bome 100% by the project (by a Constitutional right), the cost for adult
secondary education/training will be shared by the user (the employer through the tax-rebate scheme, if it is
a worker or the user, otherwise). The cost for assessing completed adult basic education modules will be
bome 100% by the project due to a Constitutional right of the Chilean population, and by the State for
adult secondary education due to a Government policy. All the cost of piloting models articulating
education and training will be bome by the project during the pilot phase and by the employer in the
post-pilot (scaling) phase using existing financial mechanisms explained before (Law 19518 and the MEI).
Technical secondary education is shared by the Government based on the capitation scheme (subvention of
approximately US$500/student) and the student. The cost for tertiary technical education is to be paid by
the student (average of US$750/student/year).  The regional networks to be established under
sub-component 2.1 of the project will contribute with counterpart resources outside those coming from the
project's counterpart funds. The cost for improving the quality of the pre and in-service teacher training
- 27 -



institutions for secondary and tertiary technical education participating in the project will be shared by the
project and the users (teachers). With the exception of the cost to align the training providers to the
adopted system of competency framework in selected sectors of the economy (accreditation of training
providers), the cost of remaining activities included in the sub-component 3.1 will be bome by the project.
After the pilot phase, the cost of this sub-component (3.1) will be shared by the project, the employers and
the workers.
Fiscal Impact:
Excluding the Millenium Institutes Project, the proposed project would be the fourth sector operation
financed by the Bank. The first two, the Primary and Secondary Education Loans, already closed,
generated a recurrent annual liability to GC of US$32.6 million equivalent and US$15.4 million equivalent,
respectively. These recurrent liabilities have been consistently absorbed by ME's annual budget. The third
project (Higher Education), to close on June 30, 2004, would generate an expected average annual
recurrent liability of about US$60 million equivalent as of 2005. The proposed project, expected to close
on September 30, 2008, would generate an average annual recurrent liability of about US$12 million
equivalent as of 2009. A significant part of this recurrent liability will cover the non-personnel costs
associated with the financing of adult education/training and the development of learning and skill tests and
their assessment process. Assuming that the annual targets of the proposed project are maintained, the
total recurrent liabilities of both the Higher Education and the proposed project, amounting to US$72
million equivalent, represent 2.73% of the CYOI ME's budget estimated at about US$2,650 million
equivalent. Assuming a growth projection of the ME's budget of 4% in real terms, the total recurrent
liability of these two ongoing projects would only represent 2.2% of the forecasted ME's budget in CY09
amounting to a total of US$3,350 million equivalent. The conclusion is that the expected incremental
recurrent cost of the proposed project is within the capacity of the ME's budget and would not impose an
additional financial burden for GC.
The table below shows the expected post-implementation fiscal impact based on less conservative
scenarios, especially with respect to the adult population completing and certifying their basic and/or
secondary education.
Target      Annual recurrent  Annual recurrent  Percentage of the  Number of
(Number of adult  liability in CY09  liability in CY09  forecasted ME's  expected years to
basic and/or   (in US$ million)  including the one  budget in CY09  eradicate the
secondary                      of MECE-SUP of   amounting to a    universe of 6.5
certificates per                   about US$60   total of US$3,350  million adults
year)                          million/year  million equivalent  with incomplete
(in US$ million)     (%)           basic and/or
secondary
education*
20,000             12               72              2.2              325
200,000           65.4             125.4            3.8               32
375,000            95              155              4.7               17
650,000           198.8            258.8             7.8              10
* Assuming that: (i) the human pool does not increase due to dropouts from basic and secondary formal
education; (ii) 100% of the adults over age 15 in the pool demand adult education; and (iii) no pool attrition by
death has been considered.
The universe of 6.5 million adults in the pool would probably be reduced by half if the following more realistic
assumptions would be considered: (i) the project would target only the 15-40 age bracket; (ii) pool attrition by
mortality rates; (iv) increased efficiency in the educational sector reduces dropouts and increase the average school
- 28 -



level of the adult population; and (iv) not 100% of the modified pool (15-40 age bracket) really demands adult
education. Under this more realistic scenario, and setting an annual target of about 120,000 certificates per year,
universal basic and secondary education could be reached within the next 20 to 25 years.
3. Technical:
The project design appropriately addresses: (i) the social deficit issues faced by the adult population
wishing to complete their basic and secondary education; (ii) the real demands from SMES workers
desiring further training pertinent to the productive sector of their employment; (iii) provision of learning
opportunities for twelve-grade graduates and/or adults outside the formal education system wishing to
continue with tertiary technical-professional education; and (iv) the demands of employers and workers
wishing to establish a system of national competency framework and vocational-professional pathways in
their respective sector of the Chilean economy. The project design builds upon programs currently under
implementation to address 3(i) to (iv) above that have either proven to be successful and are in need of
being scaled-up.
There are however three technical challenges that will merit special attention during project
implementation.  First, the articulation of adult education with training through the use of new
methodologies, especially distance education, is a novelty in Chile, given that there is not sufficient local
experience. The project is looking closely at experiences in other OECD countries where this approach has
been tried successfully. The second issue concems the alignment of the tertiary technical-professional
curriculum in the participating regional networks with the curriculum of the technical secondary schools
and with the needs of the productive sector in the region. To address this issue, the project will establish
the technological curricular pathways (curricular progression maps) including the vocational-professional
pathways (skill/competencies progression maps) emerging from the national system of competency
framework in selected sectors of the Chilean economy. Finally, vocational-professional pathways are still
uncharted territory in Chile. The IDB-financed pilot project being conducted by SENCE through the
Fundacion Chile, is currently establishing the first two prototypes (in the Mining and
Tourism/Gastronomic Sectors).
4. Institutional:
Given the intersectorial nature of the proposed project, innovative institutional arrangements are being
proposed at the national and regional levels. Lessons learned from the OECD experiences (see OECD,
2001 in Annex 8) point to the inconvenience of placing the project in any of the participating sectors.
Assuming a single Ministry approach tends to discourage the participation of the other relevant sectors
during project implementation. Therefore, as fully explained in Part C4, the institutional arrangement
proposed for the project assumes the establishment of a political coordinating body at the highest level of
Government, chaired by the Ministry of Economy and including the Ministries of Education and of Labor
and Public Welfare.
In this context, two sets of institutional issues need to be addressed: (i) those that will arise in the short to
medium term during project implementation; and (ii) others related to the post-implementation period, in
particular the financial and technical sustainability of a more permanent and much larger system of lifelong
learning and training. With respect to the short-term period, the issue concems the official establishment
by a Presidential Decree of the Directorio with its Executive Council (EC) and Advisory Committee (AC).
Once the Directorio will be formally established by the Presidential Decree, it will have the vested power to
create the PCU and approve and adopt the Project Operational Manual. At appraisal, the proposed
national and regional arrangements, including project management and the financial management
information systems, were reviewed by the Bank and found to be satisfactory. During negotiations,
- 29 -



agreement was reached with the Borrower that as a condition for project effectiveness: (i) the Project
Steering Policy Board be established by a Presidential Decree; and (ii) the Project's Operational
Manual be approved by Resolution of the Minister of Education.
During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Borrower that during the in-depth review
supervision mission to be carried out during the fourth and last years of project implementation, the
long-term institutional arrangement of the project Steering Policy Board will be included in the
discussion agenda with the Bank.
4.1 Executing agencies:
As explained in Part C4, the Directorio will set long-term lifelong learning and training policies and
strategies, ensure consistency and congruency of project activities with the project's stated objectives,
broker and mediate among the project stakeholders ensuring appropriate coordination. The ME will be the
executing agency. SENCE will carry out its envisaged project activities under an agreement entered with
ME satisfactory to the Bank.
4.2 Project management:
Fully described in Part C4, which outlines the organizational structures proposed for both the PCU and the
RPCU.
4.3 Procurement issues:
During the appraisal mission the Bank Procurement Specialist: (i) thoroughly reviewed the draft
procurement Plan, included in Annex 6; and (ii) carried out a procurement capacity assessment of the
forthcoming PCU and of the ME (implementing agency). The mission found no procurement issues and
concluded that there is no significant risks in carrying out the envisaged procurement proposed for the
project. A procurement capacity assessment certification was prepared at appraisal and reviewed by
LCOPR prior to negotiations.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The disbursement mechanism proposed for the project is explained in Part C4 and Annex 6. No issues
have been identified so far. The project financial unit within the proposed PCU would be the same
seasoned team as the one used during the implementation of the Bank-financed Primary and Secondary
Education Projects. Before negotiations, the Bank Financial Management Specialist thoroughly reviewed
in the field the proposed financial management arrangements and their alignment with the PMR scheme and
found them in full compliance with Bank requirements. They are described in detail in a comprehensive
Operational Manual presented to the Bank. The strongest point from a financial management point of view
is the proven efficiency and effectiveness of the PCU. Seasoned staff fully familiar with Bank policies and
procedures will facilitate the execution of this project. A functional financial monitoring system, with
PMR capabilities adds to the indicated strengths. Weaknesses may be identified in the initial coordination
of ME, SENCE and other implementing entities covering a wide territorial area. The intense experience
with the ME is not yet proven at SENSE. Nevertheless, it is anticipated that the ME will continue to play a
pivotal role in the overall implementation of this new project. The required certificate has been issued.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the. significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
This proposed project does not envisage any significant environmental issues.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
- 30 -



Not required.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
Not applicable.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Not applicable.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Not applicable.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Four sets of social issues have been addressed during project preparation. The first set concerns the "real"
demand for adults to complete their basic and/or secondary education studies and the constraints hampering
the achievement of these goals. The second set looks at the possibility of excluding the most at-risk groups
of adults (indigenous groups and poor people living in remote areas) from completing their basic and/or
secondary education. The third set refers to the obstacles impeding more workers of SMES, especially
women, from participating in relevant training. The last set looks at the choices made by graduates of the
ten-grade basic education cycle on continuing or not their studies.
According to the findings of the National Consultation Process carried out during 2000 by the Adult
Education Unit of the ME with about 5,500 adults of 209 municipalities in 47 provinces of the thirteen
regions in the country, adults with incomplete basic and/or secondary education are aware of the positive
externalities resulting from having a certificate of completion of these levels. The following examples of
perceived externalities were put forward by some of the adults: (i) "to get my drivers licence I need a basic
education certificate"; (ii) "the more schooling we have the greater the possibilities of accessing better-paid
and more-stimulating jobs"; and (iii) "the quality of my life will improve if I continue going to school".
The principal obstacles identified by this consultation process, and validated with other related studies in
the region (see Annex 8), concern: (a) the rigidity of the current supply of adult education programs which,
in general, do not appropriately consider the heterogeneity of the potential demand in terms of age, location,
family and work responsibilities and constraints; (b) the outdated adult education curriculum which lacks
relevance to the experiences acquired by adults throughout their lives; (c) the cost of adult education; and
(d) inappropriate and insufficient information concerning available supply of adult education services. All
of these issues have been addressed in the project design.
A significant number of these adults have expressed their willingness to invest time and money to continue
with their education if the identifiable obstacles are satisfactorily addressed. This expression of willingness
is consistent with an annual increase of about 6.8% in the real demand for adult education in Chile from
85,500 in 1990 to almost 166,000 in 2000. The issuing of certificates of completion of adult basic and/or
- 31 -



secondary education has increased from 3,000 in 1997 to 15,000 in 2001. There is a registered backlog of
about 50,000 adults waiting to certify the completion of these two levels.
The strategy to counter the possible risk of excluding the most at-risk population from completing their
basic and/or secondary education is to utilize variable unit costs for adult education learning modules. The
assumption is that there is a positive correlation between belonging to the most at-risk population and
having less number of schooling years accredited. By making the unit cost of the learning modules of the
first levels of basic education significantly more attractive and expensive than the ones for the upper levels,
the project is setting appropriate incentives for providers to reach the most at-risk population and ensure
that they will satisfactorily complete the module. In addition, ME's criteria to authorize adult education
enrollment ceilings to all accredited private and public providers, thus preventing a possible skewness by
the providers to favor certain less at-risk groups, ensures that other population at-risk demanding these
services will not be excluded.
Findings from different studies contracted by SENCE with qualified external institutions in the last two
years have highlighted the following four main obstacles hindering SMES from making a more effective
and intensive use of the training tax-rebate system. First (as mentioned in Part B2), the lack of seed capital
for SMES to pre-finance the training for their workers. Second, a training market offering programs which
are not necessarily relevant to the SMES. Third, inappropriate and insufficient information concerning
available supply of training programs. Finally, insufficient dissemination and cross-fertilization strategies
and programs necessary to highlight the positive extemalities derived from pertinent training to foster
attitudinal changes among potential users and thus increasing demand. The first issue has been addressed
by the CG with the use of the MEI. The other three issues are being addressed in the project design.
Periodic and intensive awareness, dissemination and promotional campaigns financed by the project will
also be utilized to ensure that a larger number of women working in SMES benefit from training.
During project preparation, a social assessment multi-focus process group to address the third set of issues
was contracted by the Bank (see R. Perez, 2000 in Annex 8). The process involved: (i) 30 graduates from
tertiary technical-professional education with at least 5 years in the labor market and out-of-school (42%
women, 23 years-old average age, 87% single); (ii) 88 students from three technical secondary schools, one
of them municipal and the other two private-subsidized (39% women, 17.5 years-old average age); and (iii)
eight technical secondary owners (apoderados). This process was complemented with information from
the CASEN household surveys of 1994, 96 and 98. The following three main findings emerge from these
multi-focus groups and are consistent with the literature from other LAC and developing countries. First,
secondary graduates from the lower income deciles would like to continue with the scientific-humanistic
tertiary education but tend to choose instead the technical education track because they scored low on the
university entry selection exams. Second, the perceived dead-end-track of technical-professional education
and their unacceptable low quality and lack of alignment with the productive sector discouraged secondary
education graduates from enrolling in this type of education. Finally, continuing and completing secondary
and tertiary education is seen by students as an effective means for social and economic mobility.
The project design addresses the above-mentioned social issues by improving the quality and alignment of
technical-professional education with the productive and training sector of participating regions. This
approach is consistent with other successful interventions elsewhere, like the Bank-financed CONALEP
model in Mexico, and the dual model promoted in developing countries, including Chile, by the GTZ from
Germany. In addition, the introduction of the technological curricular progression maps will eliminate the
current dead-end-track characteristic of tertiary technical education provided by the CFTs.
- 32 -



6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Project preparation has included the participation of representatives of various sectors: education/academic
(Universidad de Santiago, Universidad Catolica de Chile and Universidad Academia de Humanismo
Cristiano), private productive (employers), labor (workers), government ministries and institutions
(Ministries of Economy, Education, Labor and Public Welfare, Finance, Agriculture and CORFO),
reputable research institutions (Programa Interdisciplinario de Investigacion Educativa - PIIE) and NGOs
(Fundacion Chile, Proyecto Forma of the GTZ). In three regions (Copiapo, Concepci6n and Temuco), this
participation is an ongoing event and has led to the establishment of the first three regional networks to be
financed by the project during the first year of its implementation (2002).
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
As explained in Part C I and Annex 2, civil society and NGOs will be involved in a variety of ways in the
project components: (i) in Component 1, private and public suppliers complying with project criteria may
have access to resources on a competitive basis, based on relevant good-quality proposals which align adult
education with training; (ii) in Component 2, stakeholders are involved with regional networks in
compliance with the project's criteria; and (iii) the national system of competencies and
vocational-professional pathways involves the Fundacion Chile and the participation of the employers
(through their Camaras Empresariales) and workers; while the MISs involve the OMILs and the technical
secondary schools.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
See Section C4.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
See Section A2.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                   Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)          0 Yes * No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                  0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                   0 Yes 0 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                     0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                 0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                  0 Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                         0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                             0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*       0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Not applicable.
- 33 -






F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Previous experiences with GC concerning the financial and technical sustainability of project activities
financed by the Bank at project completion, like the Primary and Secondary Education Projects, have been
very rewarding. As explained in the corresponding ICRs and in Section E2 of the PAD, GC has allocated
about US$48 million to the ME's annual budget to sustain these activities. In addition, institutional
arrangements, fully explained in the ICRs, have been made to ensure also the technical, organizational and
managerial sustainabillity of these activities. Nonetheless, though the Lifelong Learning and Training
project presents special technical sustainability issues as explained below, a similar positive response by
GC is expected at project completion.
Financially, the recurrent liability during the post-implementation period has been estimated at about
US$12 million per year. It is expected that approximately 80% of this recurrent liability will continue
financing non-personnel costs, such as: (i) the provision of basic and/or secondary adult education (by third
parties of qualified private and public providers); (ii) the development of learning and skill assessment tests
and assessment and certification processes; (iii) the scaling up of successfully proven models articulating
adult education with training; and (iv) the operation of the MISs. It is expected that no more than 50 staff
positions will have to be created at the national, regional and provincial levels of both the ME and SENCE,
to continue operating project-related activities.
The promotional nature of this demand-driven project places the institutional implementation responsibility
on existing public and private providers of services. Thus no technical sustainability issues are envisaged
with the implementation arrangements of project activities at project completion.
An issue to be addressed during project implementation concems the legal, organizational and institutional
implications associated with the evolution of the project's Steering Policy Board (Directorio) into a more
permanent National Commission for Lifelong Learning and Training. No blueprint of such evolution
makes sense at this stage. Instead, a realistic and feasible strategy and action-plan would be proposed
mid-way in project implementation based on impact evaluation studies carried out by qualified external
institutions. During negotiations, agreement was reached with GC that during the in-depth review
missions to be carried out during the fourth and last years of project implementation, the Borrower
will discuss with the Bank the appropriateness of consolidating the Steering Policy Board as a
permanent institution.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Regional and provincial decentralized      M         The regional approach of project design and the
public and private bodies involved in                careful selection of only those regional networks
project implementation are not fully                 showing clear commitmnent to project objectives
capable to assume their envisaged project            of its stakeholders.
roles and responsibilities.
The lifelong learning and training services  M       The alignment sought between education/
provided are not fully pertinent to the              training programs with the productive sector in
users' needs and flexible to meet their time         regional networks through a system of national
constraints.                                         competencies in selected sectors of the Chilean
- 34 -



economy.
Owners and workers of SMES do not          M         Effective dissemination and cross-fertilization
sufficiently value the externalities of              campaigns. Education and training programs
lifelong learning and training and are               are flexible to adequately respond to users'
willing to invest time and money.                    constraints, and pertinent to meet users'
expectations.
Seed capital is not available for SMES to  N         The Mandato Especial Irrevocable financial
finance pertinent training/education for             instrument in place since mid-2000.
their workers.
There is not an enthusiastic response from  M        The five additional sectors of the economy to be
the private sector to participate in the             selected for the establishment of a national
definition and implementation of the                 system of competencies and vocational-
vocational-professional pathways in                  professional pathways are those: (i) where there
selected sectors of the Chilean economy.             is an explicit demand by employers and workers
to be included in the project; and (ii) who are
employment intensive.
Insufficient and inappropriate incentives  M         The availability of a competitive fund. In
are used to align the private and public             addition, the alignment criteria and strategy
supply of adult education/training                   imbedded in the project design in the regional
opportunities with the labor market and              networks to be established under this proposed
the productive sector.                               investment.
Population at-risk (including indigenous    S        The use of variable adult education module unit
groups and poor people living in isolated            fees making the ones for the first levels of basic
rural areas) may be excluded from                    education significantly higher will set
completing their basic and/or secondary              appropriate incentives for providers to reach
education                                            at-risk groups. In addition, appropriate
targeting criteria by the ME in the process of
authorizing adult education enrollment ceilings
for public and private providers of these
services to avoid skewness on the part of the
providers to prefer serving only lower-risk
population.
Women workers in SMES may not fully        M         Periodic and intensive awareness and
benefit from the training schemes.                   dissemination campaigns targeted to the SMES.
From Components to Outputs
Weak decentralization of the system to      N        The project design assumes a highly
reach population and small firms located             decentralized implementation of all project
in remote areas to avoid their exclusion             activities.
from the economic and social benefits.
Monitoring and evaluation systems have      N        The project design includes a project physical
not yet been fully developed to adopt                and financial monitoring system. In addition,
timely corrective actions if any substantial         impact evaluation studies by qualified external
- 35 -



deviation from project objectives and                 institutions and/or individuals will be carried on
targets is detected                                   or about the second, fourth and last years of
project implementation.
Lack of appropriate mechanisms to            N        Experience acquired in the implementation of
disseminate the rules to access the                   other competitive funds (in the Primary,
project's funds, select and evaluate the               Secondary and Higher Education Bank-financed
proposals may not ensure the participation            projects) will be utilized. The rules to access
of a significant number of qualified                  project's funds, the setting of appropriate
proposals (competitors) seeking financing             selection and evaluation criteria as well as the
from the fund proceeds.                               management and monitoring characteristics of
the fund are included in the project's Operational
Manual.
Lack of an appropriate evaluation system    N         Impact evaluation studies by qualified external
may hinder the verification in-situ of the            institutions and/or individuals will be carried on
cost-effectiveness of the different                   or about the second, fourth and last years of
methodologies (pilots) financed by the                project implementation.
project.
Disconnecting policies and strategies for    S        The ME is in the process of defining a set of
tertiary technical-professional education             policy proposals for tertiary technical
may hinder the achievement of the                     professional institutions.
project's objectives.
Lack of timely, relevant and accurate       N         Included in the project design.
information may hinder the success of the
MISs to be financed by the project.
Overall Risk Rating                         M         There is an excellent window of opportunity
with the current administration to support and
launch such an important endeavor
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None to our awareness.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
(a)    the Project Steering Policy Board be established by a Presidential Decree;
(b)    the Project's Operational Manual be approved by Resolution of the Minister of Education;
(c)    the PCU be established and the following management staff hired: (i) PCU's coordinator; (ii)
- 36 -



PCU's deputy coordinator; (iii) PCU's planning and management unit chief; and (iv) at least
two other technical unit chiefs;
(d)    the SENCE Subsidiary Agreement signed between MINEDUC and SENCE and endorsed by
the Contraloria General de la Republica de Chile;
(e)    the first-year procurement plan (including bid packages and time table to carry out
procurement activities); and
(f)    the Legal Opinion by the authorized representative.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
At negotiations, agreement was reached with GC that:
(i) the proposed annual working plan and budget for the following twelve months wil be discussed
with the Bank every year during the implementation cycle;
(ii) in-depth supervision mission be conducted at the second, fourth and last years of project
implementation; and
(iii) during the in-depth review missions to be carried out during the fourth and last years of project
implementation, the Borrower wil discuss with the Bank the appropriateness of consolidating the
Steering Policy Board as a permanent institution.
H. Readiness for Implementation
GI 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
3 1. b) Not applicable.
Li 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
LI 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[ 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
First year annual plan and budget, including financial management system, performance indicators and
implementation arrangements were thoroughly reviewed at appraisal and found to be satisfactory. The
elements to formulate a first-year plan for the selection of consultants including the activities to be carried
out and the number and timing of the consultancy requirements by activity, the selection method including
the selection criteria and procedures to award contracts, the consultant contract model, the time-schedule
and flow chart to select the corresponding consultants, the cost per contract and accumulated per activity
and the financial requirements, were reviewed at appraisal and found them to be doable. All these elements
are included in the comprehensive project Operational Manual. During negotiations, agreement was
reached with the Borrower, that as a condition for project effectiveness, the first-year procurement
plan for the selection of consultants (including bid packages and time-table to carry out procurement
activities), satisfactory to the Bank, will be submitted to the Bank.
- 37 -



1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Ana-Maria Arria                   Myma L. Alexander
earn Leader                      Sector Director                    Country Director
- 38 -






Annex 1: Project Design Summary
CHILE: Lifelong Learning and Training Project
Key Performance        Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators                                     Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:  Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:  (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Ensure the country's      Increased reading, writing,  Household surveys.      Chile will improve its
continued economic and    analytical, problem-solving                          productivity and
social transformation.    and communication skills,  Independent Borrower      competitiveness in the
information technology and  research findings.       international arena by
other relevant skills of the                         drastically increasing the skill
Chilean labor force to meet  World Bank Report on Chile's levels of its labor force
the minimum standards     Poverty Income Distribution. according to the requirements
required in the modern                               of the modem economy.
employment sector.        Education statistics.
Continuity and coherence of
Establishment of real links  Labor statistics.      long-term education and
(bridges) to articulate                             training policies and
education, training, labor                           strategies are required to
market and the productivity                          ensure participation and
sectors facilitating mobility of                     concerted efforts of the public
individuals through a national                       and private sectors and social
system of competencies and                           partners.
vocational-professional
pathways in selected sectors of
the Chilean economy.
Continue reducing poverty  Increased educational                               Chile will improve its social
levels and achieving greater  attainment of the population                     integration if it significantly
social integration through  15 years or older, especially of                   reduces adult education
increased and better targeted  those in the three lowest                       attainment inequities.
social expenditures, in   income decile.
particular in the education
and training sectors.     Decreased education
attainment inequities of
adults, especially those
belonging to the three lowest
income decile, with respect to
those belonging to the highest
income levels.
- 39 -



|    Key Performance        Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators                                     Critical Assumptions
Project Development       Outcome / Impact          Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
1. Reduce the social deficit in Decrease in the trend of the  Household surveys.  The public and private
the provision of lifelong  percentage of adults (15-65                         education and labor sectors
education and training    year-olds) with incomplete  SENCE's statistics.      can work in a coordinated
opportunities for adults,  basic and/or secondary                              manner pursuing common
especially those unemployed  education. The baseline data  Education statistics.  project-related objectives
youth and workers living in  is the 1990-2000 trend. The
conditions of poverty who  source is the CASEN survey  SIMCE information.      The private sector
seek a second-chance to   which is updated every two                           enthusiastically embraces the
improve their employability  years.                 Independent Borrower       proposed operation viewing
and quality of life.                                research findings and surveys. lifelong leaming and training
Increase in the percentage of                       as key prerequisites for
SMES in selected sectors of  Progress reports.      adaption to new technologies
the economy making use of                           and economic change.
the tax-rebate            Mid-term reviews.
training/education scheme.
The selected sectors of the  Tracer studies.
economy are those where
SMES make a low use of the  ICR.
tax rebate scheme. The
baseline data is the 2001
information provided by
SENCE. The information
will be updated annually by
SENCE.
Percentage of adults that
benefited from this project in
both adult education and
training. The baseline data
will be provided by the PCU
during the first year of project
implementation and will be
updated annually. The
sources of information will be
the Personal Identity Card
(RUN) and the National
Registry of Adult Education
and Certification.
2. Upgrade the skill level of  Increase in the CFT's
the Chilean workforce to  enrollment. The baseline data
achieve Chile's social    will be the 2001 enrollment
expectation and to improve  and will be updated annually.
the country's productivity and The source of information is
competitiveness in the    the ME.
intemational arena.
Increase in the transition rates
from: (i) technical secondary
education into tertiary
-40 -



technical-professional
education and/or the labor
market within six months
after graduation in the
regional networks financed by
the project; and (ii) tertiary
technical education to the
labor market within six
months after graduation in the
regional networks financed by
the project. The baseline for
these performance indicators
will be the information for
2001 provided by the PCU
and will be updated during
the second, fourth and last
years of project
implementation. It will be
compared with similar
indicators from non-project
regions (control group).
-41 -



Key Performance      [Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives         Indicators        [                            Critical Assumptions]
Output from each          Output Indicators:        Project reports:         (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
From the first component
Providing new opportunities  Offering the opportunity for  Household surveys.  Regional and provincial
for lifelong learning and  about 71,500 adults to                             decentralized public and
training.                 complete their basic education SENCE's statistics.  private bodies involved in
and to another 48,500 adults,                       project implementation are
their secondary education.  Education statistics.   capable of assuming their
envisaged project roles and
Ensure that about 120,000  Independent Borrower     responsibilities.
adults complete and certify  research findings.
their basic and/or secondary                        The lifelong learning and
education.                Progress reports.        training services provided are
pertinent to the users' needs
About 12,000 workers of   Mid-term reviews.         and flexible to meet their time
approximately 6,000 SMES                            constraints.
are being trained by the  Tracer studies.
project.                                            Population at-risk (including
ICR.                      indigenous groups and poor
About 18,500 adults                                 people living in isolated rural
incorporated in pilot projects                      areas) need to fully benefit
that articulate adult education                    from the adult education
with training.                                      opportunities.
Develop about 75 distance                           Owners and workers of SMES
adult training modules                              value the externalities of
benefiting about 250,000                           lifelong learning and training
adults using these learning                         and are willing to invest time
materials and means.                                and money.
About 2,500 adults will                             Women workers in SMES
benefit from pilot programs                         need to fully benefit from the
articulating adult education                       training scheme.
with training.
Seed capital continues to be
Number of providers financed                        available for SMES to acquire
by the project piloting the                         pertinent training/education
offering of adult education                         for their workers.
articulated with training.
There is an enthusiastic
response from the private
sector to participate in the
definition and implementation
of the vocational-professional
pathways in selected sectors of
the Chilean economy.
The employment sector will
be receptive to the notion of
portability of the certified
-42 -



learning and training acquired
in life.
Setting appropriate incentives
required to align the private
and public supply of adult
basic and secondary education
and training opportunities
with the labor market.
From the second component
Improving the quality and  40 proposals aligning
increasing the coverage of  technical secondary schools
technical-professional     with technical-professional
education                  education (through
technological curricular
pathways) and with the
employment and labor sectors
being implemented in
regional networks constituted
under the project.
About 65,000 students
enrolled in pertinent
technical-professional
education programs of
appropriate quality in the 40
regional networks.
Reduction in the repetition
and dropout rates in grades 11
and 12 of technical secondary
schools and tertiary
technical-professional
education.
Increase in the transition rates
from grade 12 to tertiary
education, in particular in the
technical branch.
Approved graduation
standards in 662 technical
secondary schools in the
entire country benefiting
about 142,000 students.
Improved CFT system.
About 5,000 technical
education teachers benefiting
from improved pre and
in-service teacher training
- 43 -



programs.
From the third component
Establishing instruments to  Establishing in nine sectors of
support the provision of a  the Chilean economy: (i) a set
lifelong learning and training  of generic skills and
services.                  transferable competencies; (ii)
an assessment system of the
competencies acquired by
graduates of the training
modules provided by the
accredited providers; (iii) a
system to certify assessed
competencies; (iv)
vocational-professional
pathways; (v) an accreditation
system of private and public
providers of skill- training
and (vi) graduation standards
in the tertiary technical
education associated to these
economic sectors.
About 29,000 workers in the
nine economic sectors
included in the project will
certify their competences and
will be offered the opportunity
to upgrade their skills in the
selected economic sectors
included in the project.
A system to monitor the
quality and pertinence of the
services provided by technical
secondary schools.
A system to monitor the
quality and pertinence of the
services provided by training
institutions.
Four management
information system (MIS): (i)
labor intermediation; (ii)
vocational orientation; (iii)
project-related services
available to the general
public; and (iv) findings of
labor market studies and
related research.
_About 1.5 million adults will
- 44 -



consult the above-mentioned
three MISs.
From the fourth component
Institutional strengthening.  A highly effective PCU.
A strengthened national and
regional SENCE responding
timely and effectively to the
different project demands.
An effective project
communication and
dissemination strategy.
A set of project-related impact
evaluation studies.
- 45 -



|    Key Performance        Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives |        Indicators       |                         |   Critical Assumptions
Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                          Outputs)
From the first component
1. I Promoting and increasing New financing mechanism for Household surveys.  Appropriate incentives
the private and public supply  private and public providers                   (payment for completed and
of basic and secondary    of adult basic and secondary  SENCE's statistics.    assessed learning modules)
education opportunities for  education based on                                are required to foster adequate
adults.                   demonstrated completion of  Education statistics.   supply of private and public
learning modules.                                   providers of good quality.
SIMCE information.
A public registry of certified                      Adults value the benefits of
public and private providers  Independent Borrower  completing their basic and/or
of adult basic and secondary  research findings.    secondary education and are
education.                                          willing to invest time and
Progress reports.         money.
Production and distribution of
pertinent adult learning  Mid terms review.          Effective decentralization of
materials of appropriate                            the system is required to reach
quality.                  ICR.                      population and small firms
located in remote areas to
Disbursement reports.     avoid their exclusion from the
economic and social benefits
Funds administration
evaluation.               Effective monitoring and
evaluation system is key to
Education and training needs  adopt timely corrective
survey.                   actions if any substantial
deviation from project
Tracer studies.           objectives and targets is
detected
Ample dissemination of the
rules to access the project's
funds and the setting of
appropriate selection and
evaluation criteria are
required to ensure the
participation of a significant
number of qualified proposals
(competitors) seeking
financing from the fund
proceeds.
1.2 Establishing a learning  Development and validation
assessment and certification  of learning assessment
system for adults seeking to  instruments.
complete their basic and
secondary education.      Number of trained examiners.
Dissemination campaigns.
-46 -



Number of adult basic and
secondary education
certificates provided by the
project.
A public registry of certified
adults.
1.3 Piloting new modalities  Training institutions                              Appropriate evaluation system
that harmonize adult basic  providing adult education and                       must be in place to verify the
and secondary education with adult education institutions                       cost -effectiveness of the
training.                  providing training.                                  different methodologies
Allocation of funds proceeds                          (pilots) financed by the
aligned with the regional                            project.
priorities.
From the second component
2.1 Strengthening the      One competitive fund to                              Appropriate incentives are
articulation of technical  finance 40 proposals aligning,                       required to foster interest of
secondary education with  through a concerted effort in                         academic technical secondary
technical-professional     regional networks, technical                         and tertiary institutions,
education schools and the  secondary schools, tertiary                          employers and workers in a
labor market.             technical-professional                                region to align their expertise
institutions, training providers                     in a common and concerted
and the employment and labor                          vision/mission for enhancing
sectors in the region.                               the relevancy and quality of
technical-professional
Technological curricular                              education provided in the
pathways for selective sectors                        given region.
of the economy.
Appropriate policies and
Learning materials and                                strategies for tertiary
equipment for the education                           technical-professional
institutions belonging to the                         education should significantly
regional network.                                     contribute to the achievement
of the project's objectives.
A set of appropriate
graduation standards for                              Appropriate incentives are
students completing their 12th                        needed to attract qualified
grade in technical secondary                          student to the tertiary
schools or tertiary                                  technical-professional
technical-professional                               institutions.
education.
Technical assistance for the
development of regional
networking proposals.
Cross-fertilization activities
and dissemination campaigns.
Set of remedial courses for
- 47 -



incoming
technical-professional
students to ensure minimal
learning standards for all
incoming students seeking
technical-professional
education.
2.2 Improving the quality and One competitive fund to                                Appropriate incentives are
pertinence of the pre and    finance technical-professional                          needed to foster the interest of
in-service teacher training for pre and in-service teacher                           technical-professional pre and
technical-professional      training quality improvement                             in-service teacher training
education.                   projects.                                               institutions to align
themselves to the attainment
A set of agreed accreditation                            of the project's objectives.
criteria and procedures for pre
and in-service teacher
training institutions.
Development of a
modularized curricula for pre
and in-service teacher
training.
A set of appropriate
graduation standards for
students completing their pre
and in-service teacher
training in the area of
technical-professional
education.
Institutional plans prepared by
accredited pre and in-service
teacher training institutions to
improve their pre-service
teacher training services
including technical assistance,
learning inputs and
infrastructure through a
competitive fund set up for
that purpose.
Learning materials and
equipment.
Modules for the training of
teachers of accredited
institutions (master trainers).
From the third component
3.1 Establishing a national  Technical assistance to                                 Ownership by employers and
workers of a given sector is
- 48 -



system of competency      develop the national
framework and             framework and content of a                           key for the success of the
vocational-professional    competences, certification and                      project's third component.
pathways in selected sector of accreditation system.
the Chilean economy.                                                           Ensuring quality and
Dissemination campaigns for                          transparency in the
workers and enterprises,                             certification and accreditation
systems is a requirement for
A set of agreed accreditation                        the effective implementation
criteria and procedures for                          of this sub-component.
private and public providers                         Developing effective links
of skill-training.                                   Dvlpn      fetv   ik
among education, training
A public registry of accredited                      and production sectors are key
public and private training                         to assure responsiveness of
providers.                                           workers wishing to upgrade
their skills and to raise
Training workshops and                               awareness of the employers.
seminars for evaluators and
seminatore.                                          Full acceptance of the training
and education providers and
Development and validation                           enterprises of the adopted
of skill assessment                                  vocational-professional
instruments.                                         pathways, accreditation and
certification systems is
One highly decentralized                             fundamental for the success of
certification management                             this project.
information system.
Agreed
vocational-professional
pathways in nine sectors of
the Chilean economy.
Criteria and procedures to
monitor and ensure the
quality and pertinence of the
services provided by: (i)
technical secondary schools;
and (ii) training institutions.
3.2 Establishing lifelong  Four MISs.                                          Timely, relevant and accurate
learning and training                                                          information is key for the
information systems.      Dissemination campaigns                              effective utilization of the
MISs by the potential users.
Training for the MISs
personnel.
Computers and peripheral
equipment and software.
- 49 -






Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
CHILE: Lifelong Learning and Training Project
The developmental objective of the proposed project is to assist the GC in establishing the foundation of an
articulated lifelong learning and training system with the participation of the private sector (employers and
workers). This developmental objective which reinforces and supports the country's continued economic
and social transfonnation would be accomplished by: (i) reducing the social deficit in the provision of
lifelong education and training opportunities for adults, especially those unemployed youth and workers
living in conditions of poverty who seek a second-chance to improve their employability and quality of life;
and (ii) upgrading the skill-level of the Chilean workforce to improve the country's productivity and
competitiveness in the intemational arena. These two resulting outcomes become the projects specific
objectives and are to be achieved through the following four project components.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$59.16 million
1. Providing new opportunities for lifelong learning and training. This component aims to reduce the
social deficit which impacts 4.5 million adults who have completed less than the eight grades of basic
education as well as another 2 million adults who have completed basic education but have not completed
their secondary education. Whereas the new opportunities generated by the project will be in general
available to all the 6.5 million adults lacking basic and/or secondary education in Chile, the project will be
targeted to adults belonging to the three lowest income-deciles and to workers from small and medium
enterprises (SMES). The implementation of this component is based on a four-pronged approach to: (a)
set appropriate incentives to align and significantly increase the private and public supply of adult basic
and secondary leaming opportunities ensuring pertinence and appropriate quality; (b) strengthen a
transparent, yet rigorous and user-friendly highWy decentralized assessment and certification system for
adults seeking to complete their basic and/or secondary education; (c) ensure a better and more effective
use of the training/education tax-rebate and the Mandato Especial Irrevocable (MEI) schemes by the
SMES; and (d) based on several successful ongoing, low-scale, private and public models (INACAP,
DUOC, ARAUCANA, INFOCAP, FORJAR, the Educational Corporations and some municipalities), pilot
a menu of options linking adult basic and secondary education with training, mainly through the
development of new education technologies, including distance education modalities. Specific outcomes of
this component include: (i) providing basic education for 71,500 adults and secondary education for 48,500
adults; (ii) ensuring that about 120,000 adults complete and certify their basic and/or secondary education;
(iii) providing training to 12,000 workers from about 6,000 SMES; (iv) providing adult education through
new education technologies to about 18,000 adults; (v) developing about 75 distance adult training modules
offering opportunities to about 250,000 adults; and (vi) piloting other demonstrative programs articulating
education and training to about 2,500 adults.  This component includes the following three
sub-components:
1.1 Promoting and increasing the private and public supply of basic and secondary education
opportunities for adults. This sub-component will finance public providers (about 80 municipal Centros
de Educaci6n Integrada de Adultos [CEJAs] and about 600 municipal primary and secondary schools
offering adult education during their third shift), and private providers (schools and institutions) offering
leaming modules in adult basic and secondary education towards the completion of these two levels. The
payments to be provided by the project will be: (i) 25% as advanced payment based on the module's
enrollment; (ii) 75% based on the demonstrated completion of a learning module by students instead of
being based merely on attendance; and (iii) allocated only to those accredited private and public providers
- 50 -



that comply with the revised basic and secondary adult education curriculum (recently approved by the
ME, appropriate teaching staff and facilities, previous experience) and selection criteria as described in the
Operational manual. The unit cost of the learning modules (service fee) will vary according to the level of
the curriculum being completed by the adult student and assessed by the system (for example, the first
grades of primary education modules will be significantly more expensive than the ones for the upper
grades of primary education). By establishing appropriate incentives through the different learning module
costs, the project will ensure targeting and improved equity in the implementation of this sub-component.
The assumption is that the most difficult clientele to access the system are those adults, including
indigenous population, with fewer completed grades of schooling. The current approved learning module
fees by the ME range from US$41 equivalent/module/student for the first levels of basic education to
US$27.5 equivalent/module/student for secondary education. This sub-component will also finance: (a) the
design of learning modules; (b) the production and distribution of pertinent adult learning materials (for
students and teachers) of appropriate quality; (c) the promotional and dissemination campaigns; (d) the
institutional strengthening of the organization and highly decentralized administration of this
sub-component; and (e) the establishment of a monitoring system and the conduction of impact evaluation
studies. The estimated cost of this sub-component is US$34.2 million equivalent (US$24.9 million from
the proposed Loan).
1.2 Establishing a learning assessment and certification system for adults seeking to complete their
basic and secondary education. This project sub-component will finance the strengthening of an ongoing
learning assessment and certification system that: (a) allows for the measuring of knowledge acquired by
individuals throughout their lives regardless of the source of learning; and (b) provides the opportunity for
adults to complement their knowledge through a progressive completion of their basic and/or secondary
education. In particular, this sub-component will finance the following activities: (i) the development and
validation (ex-ante and ex-post) of instruments for learning assessment, most likely through the selection of
qualified consultants and/or research institutions or universities; (ii) the printing and distribution of testing
instruments and certificates; (iii) the training of examiners; (iv) local consultants to provide technical
assistance; (v) the application and processing of the learning assessment tests by learning module and
educational level; (vi) the statistical analysis of learning assessment results; (vii) the safe-keeping of the
bank of learning assessment tests; (viii) the supervision and monitoring of the assessment units; (ix)
dissemination campaigns; and (x) the issuing and public recording of certificates. The learning assessment
and certification systems will operate in a highly decentralized and transparent fashion through qualified
examiners applying validated measuring instruments in selected sites (including both public as well as
private providers) on prescribed dates during the year. The certificates are to be issued by the ME through
the ME's Regional offices (SEREMIS). The electronic processing of the assessment exams will be carried
out by the ME's SEREMIS using their current level of computer hardware. Therefore, the project does not
foresee the acquisition of additional computing hardware, but only the provision of management software,
training and technical assistance to the staff managing the processing of assessment data. The estimated
cost of this sub-component is US$3.88 million equivalent (US$1.92 million from the proposed Loan).
1.3 Developing new modalities that harmonize adult basic and secondary education with training.
This sub-component will finance: (i) the piloting of projects proposed by private and public providers
wishing to articulate adult education with training; (ii) the provision of technical assistance to interested
SMES wishing to acquire pertinent adult education and training modules of appropriate quality using the
tax-rebate and MEI schemes for the training/education of their workforce; (iii) the development of relevant
training modules of appropriate quality (to be offered by the Organismos Tecnicos de Capacitaci6n
[OTECs], Centros de Formaci6n Tecnica [CFTs], CEIAS or any other accredited provider) aligned to
SMES' demand; (iv) the development of adult education and training modules to be provided through new
education technologies, including distance education (TV, video, radio, internet, etc.); (v) dissemination
- 51 -



workshops; and (vi) diagnostic and impact evaluation studies. All these pilot projects are expected to show
a clear impact, and to be scaled up accordingly. The estimated cost of this sub-component is US$21.08
million equivalent (US$15.9 million from the proposed Loan).
This sub-component will utilize a competitive fund available to private and public providers who present
adequate pilot proposals integrating adult learning with training. The ample experience garnered in the
implementation of competitive funding for primary, secondary and tertiary education in Chile will be
utilized in the design, implementation, management, monitoring, and evaluation of approved proposals.
Accordingly, the fund would define in the project's Operational Manual: (i) its objectives and targets
(population, physical and financial); (ii) the eligibility criteria of the proposals; (iii) evaluation criteria and
procedures to assess the relevance and quality of the proposals, most likely, by external qualified reviewers;
(iv) its management aspects; (v) the acquisition procedures of goods and services (those financed by the
Loan, satisfactory to the Bank); (vi) the strategy to build capacity for the preparation of proposals by
private and public providers; (vii) the monitoring mechanisms to follow up on the implementation of
approved proposals; and (vii) the terms of reference for evaluating the impact of the pilot experience. The
appraisal mission reviewed a first draft of the proposed fund Operational Manual. During negotiations,
agreement was reached with the Borrower that as a condition for project effectiveness, the ME will
approve the project's Operational Manual (by Resolution of the Minister).
Project Component 2 - US$41.45 million
2. Improving the quality and increasing the coverage of technical-professional education.  This
component aims to achieve four objectives. First, a curricular (vertical) articulation between grades 11 and
12 of all the technical secondary schools (662 with approximatively 142,000 students) and the tertiary
technical-professional institutions (CTFs, IPs or equivalent institutions).  Second, to ensure that the
secondary and tertiary technical education provided in a given region of the country is relevant to the labor
market demands of the region and of appropriate quality (horizontal alignment). Thirdly, the validation by
the education system of the skills acquired on the job and/or in the training institutions. Lastly, to increase
the coverage and improve the quality of tertiary technical education.
The following four strategies underpin the achievement of these objectives. First, the establishment of
technological curricular pathways (curricular progression maps consisting of a string of required curricular
modules mapping the pedagogical progression from grade 11 of the technical secondary education to
tertiary technical-professional education) to achieve the vertical articulation between the secondary and
tertiary technical-professional education regardless of the source of incoming students. By articulating the
CTFs with the IPs and the universities through established technological pathways, this strategy also aims
to eliminate the current terminal (dead-end education) characteristic of the CFTs by allowing CFT
graduates to continue their professional education. The technological curricular pathways also permit
educational dropouts an appropriate reinsertion to the education system based on their demonstrated
accredited knowledge. Second, the constitution, through concerted efforts, of viable regional networks
including technical secondary schools, tertiary level technical-professional institutions (CFTs, Institutos
Projesionales and regional universities), training providers (OTECs), employers and unions willing to offer
their education and training services in the framework of the established technological pathways. Regional
authorities associated to the regional networks to be created under the project will play a coordinating and
convening role. Third, the provision of financial support, technical assistance and learning goods and
equipment to those tertiary technical institutions (CTFs or equivalent) in the established regional networks
to improve the quality of the education being provided. Fourth, ensuring a secondary and tertiary technical
education teaching force of appropriate quality aligned to the technological pathways being utilized in the
established regional networks.
- 52 -



Technological curricular pathways will be established by the project for selected sectors of the Chilean
economy (a subset -of 46 technical specialities grouped in 14 families) based on the required learning
(knowledge) skills and competencies needed along the curricular progression to complete technical
secondary education (grades 11 and 12) and tertiary technical-professional education. Technological
curricular pathways also provide the entry and graduating standards for the above-mentioned educational
levels. The learning skills for grades 11 and 12 for technical secondary education have already been
established and approved by the ME. The project is to provide the learning skills (curricular map) for the
first two grades of tertiary technical education for selected sectors of the economy. In addition, the project
will also provide the general (transversal) and sector-specific competencies in given sectors of the Chilean
economy. These competencies will emerge as outputs of sub-component 3.1 (explained below).
A competitive financial fund will be used as the instrument to implement the above-mentioned strategies.
Interested stakeholders, constituted in a regional network, will compete for the fund resources through
proposals aiming to achieve the components objectives. The appraisal mission reviewed the fund's
operational, management and monitoring characteristics included in the project's Operational Manual.
During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Borrower that as a condition for project
effectiveness, the ME will approve the project's Operational Manual (by Resolution of the Minister).
This component dovetails with the ongoing efforts financed by MECE-SUP and carried out by the Higher
Education Unit of ME to modify the supervision and accreditation criteria and procedures for CFTs as well
as the financial support scheme for CFT students and schools. This component includes the following two
sub-components.
2.1 Strengthening the articulation of technical secondary education with technical-professional
education and the labor market. This sub-component will finance, through a competitive fund, up to 40
proposals from established regional networks that aim to achieve the above-mentioned objectives (vertical
and horizontal integration, validation of skills, improved tertiary education quality and increased coverage).
Under this sub-component, those qualified public and private third parties belonging to the regional
network may receive funding for: (a) the acquisition of learning materials and equipment; and (b) technical
assistance for the development and implementation of proposals. In addition, this sub-component will also
finance: (c) apprenticeships and intemships for teachers participating in the established network; (d)
cross-fertilization activities and dissemination campaigns; (e) monitoring and impact evaluation studies;
and (f) the establishment of remedial courses to ensure an equal starting base of learning standards for all
incoming students seeking tertiary technical education in the participating regional networks. It is expected
that pertinent secondary and tertiary technical-professional education programs of appropriate quality will
be provided to about 65,000 students in the 40 proposals carried out by the regional networks established
during the life of the project. The estimated cost of this sub-component is US$39.16 million equivalent
(US$1.14 million from the proposed Loan).
The regional networks established under this sub-component to implement up to 40 proposals would serve
to increase the coverage of technical education and ensure its improved relevance and quality attuned to the
needs of the productive sector in the region. Each regional network financed by the project would have
clearly defined guidelines on: (i) learning and employment objectives and targets; (ii) steering, cooperation
and advisory roles to be played by the academic and training institutions, the employers and workers and
the regional educational authorities; (iii) regulation, coordination, monitoring and operational procedures;
(iv) expected exit standards (learning/knowledge and competencies skills) for graduates; (v) the
technological curricular pathways for the articulation and linkage of the last two grades of technical
secondary schools with tertiary technical-professional education; and (vi) the instruments (national
- 53 -



competency framework and vocational-professional pathways) to articulate technical-professional
education with training. In case that international exit standards exists in the economic sector related to the
regional network they will be used to make them compatible with the labor strategies being implemented by
the regional markets. The project will start piloting this sub-component in three regional and one national
networks where alignment efforts are underway in different sectors of the economy. The three regional
networks are: Copiap6 (Region III) in mining, Temuco (Region IX) in the tourism and gastronomic sectors
and Concepci6n (Region VIII) in the metal-mechanic sector. The national network is in the health sector.
These networks will be used as pilots during the first two years of the project, and, based on impact
evaluation findings, scaled up to finance up to 40 proposals over the life of the project. It is expected that
this sub-component will be fine-tuned during the project implementation cycle, based on the adopted
national system of competency framework and vocational-professional pathways defined in selected sectors
of the Chilean economy (emerging as outcomes of project sub-component 3.1 explained below). This
assumes that there will be a cross-fertilization across components as the competency framework and
pathways established as part of third component feed into the regional networks, thus creating bridges and
instruments which help align the technical-professional education with the productive sector. It is also
expected that the outcomes of the implementation of this sub-component will feed into the ME's efforts in
setting a national policy in technical-professional education.
2.2 Improving . the quality and pertinence of the pre and in-service teacher training for
technical-professional education. This sub-component aims to ensure that the pre and in-service teacher
training for technical-professional education is aligned with the efforts to improve the quality and relevance
of technical-professional education. This sub-component is targeted to: (i) technicians and professionals
with ample work experience wishing to become technical-professional education teachers; and (ii)
"improvised" teachers of technical secondary schools and tertiary technical-professional institutions needing
to upgrade their pedagogical and technical skills. In total, about 5,000 technicians, professionals and
"improvised" teachers will benefit from this sub-component. This sub-component will finance: (i) the
development of a modularized curricula for pre and in-service teacher training; (ii) the setting of
appropriate graduation standards for students completing their pre and in-service teacher training in the
area of technical-professional education; (iii) up to three institutional plans prepared by accredited pre and
in-service teacher training institutions to improve their pre and in-service teacher training services including
technical assistance and modular and distance learning inputs through a competitive fund set up for that
purpose; (iv) the training of teachers of accredited institutions (master trainers); (v) information campaigns;
and (vi) local workshops and one international seminar in teacher training for technical-professional
education. The estimated cost of this sub-component is US$2.29 million equivalent (US$0.14 million from
the proposed Loan). This sub-component will benefit from other complementary related-investments
outside the proposed project, such as the project FORMA (Formaci6n de Formadores) financed by GTZ,
and the Programa de Perfeccionamiento Fundamental of the ME (which has an approved CY02 budget
of one US million dollars).
Project Component 3 - USS 33.87 million
3. Establishing instruments to support the provision of a lifelong learning and training services. The
system of national competencies frameworks, vocational-professional pathways, labor market and
intermediation information systems and vocational counselling are the fundamental elements of the strategy
utilized by most of the OECD countries to bridge the education (technical-professional education) with the
productive sector (employment/training). The GC is currently financing a system of national competency
framework and vocational-professional pathways in four sectors of the Chilean economy (mining, tourism,
gas and electricity in the construction sector and information technology) through a Grant from the
Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) to the Fundaci6n Chile (a non-profit organization) with the
- 54 -



participation of SENCE and CORFO. These sectors have been chosen by the GC as a consequence of the
explicit demand made by their stakeholders (employers and employees) to be included in this experience.
The IDB Grant will close in the year 2002. Progress along the establishment of a system of national
competencies and vocational-professional pathways under this Grant varies among the five sectors. Some
sectors, like mining and gas/electricity are further advance in the implementation of 3.1(a) to (e) explained
below, and others, like information technology have only begun. Accordingly, this project component aims
at: (i) speeding up the implementation of the system of national competency norms and
vocational-professional pathways especially in the sectors which are lagging behind; (ii) strengthening and
fine tuning the current experience at the IDB Grant closing; and (iii) building on the proven successes of
this experience by extending it to an additional five sectors of the economy to be determined during project
implementation. These nine sectors would be the most important sectors of the economy in terms of
employment (in the Pareto-logic of representing 20% of the economic sectors and 80% of employment).
Like the OECD countries, Chile is looking for a system that enables individuals to: (a) acquire new
qualifications in a much friendly-user fashion; (b) adapt to changing technological, economic and
organizational conditions; and (c) achieve mobility on the labor market (portability of accredited and
certified skills), including fostering workers' career development. Specifically, this component aims at
developing a system of flexible vocational-professional pathways based on the general (broad occupational
standards) and sector-specific competencies required by the labor market in selected sectors of the
economy, providing at the same time opportunities for certification and complementation of the individual's
knowledge regardless of the means and sources of learning acquisition. This component will be
implemented through the following two project sub-components:
3.1 Establishing a national system of competency framework and vocational-professional pathways in
selected sectors of the economy. This sub-component will finance the: (i) refining the ongoing system of
national competency framework in the four sectors of the Chilean economy currently covered by the IDB
Grant; (ii) extension of this system to five new economic sectors; (iii) developing new capabilities among
local training providers to design and deliver competency-based training programs; (iv) establishment of
incentives to stimulate and maintain demand for certification of different users, in particular self-employed,
small-medium and micro enterprises; (v) implementation of the institutional arrangements required for
assessing and certifying labor and employability competencies under a fully recognized and legitimate
national competency framework; (vi) development, production and dissemination of training and
assessment materials; (vii) direct cost for assessing and certifying skills; (viii) the development of
vocational professional pathways (consisting of a string of broad occupational standards and
sector-specific skills and competencies mapping the career path from the level of unskilled worker to
qualified technician and professional); (ix) the development and implementation of a system to monitor the
quality and pertinence of the service provided by technical schools; (x) the development and implementation
of a system to monitor the quality and pertinence of the service provided by the training institutions; (xi)
technical assistance; (xii) training workshops and seminars for evaluators and examinators; (xiii)
dissemination campaigns for workers and enterprises; (xiv) study tours to other relevant related experiences
worldwide; and (xv) monitoring and evaluation of the sectoral activities and outcomes. The new four
sectors of the economy will be chosen based on the following criteria: (1) importance in terms of
employment; (2) relevance for the country's economic development strategy; and (3) the degree of internal
organization of the sector (better organized and less fragmented sectors are assumed to involve less risk).
The estimated cost of this sub-component is US$25.13 million equivalent (US$20.44 million from the
proposed Loan).
A system of national competency framework in a given sector of the economy includes: (a) qualified and
legitimized sector stakeholders establishing transferable generic skills (broad occupational standards) and
sector-specific competencies required in the given sector of the economy; (b) assessment of the
- 55 -



competences acquired by graduates of the training modules provided by these accredited providers; (c)
certification of competencies; (d) the setting up of vocational-professional pathways in those sectors of the
economy for which the core occupational competencies (norms) have been adopted; and (e) alignment of
the training provided by private and public providers with reference to competency framework that has
been adopted. The responsibility of implementing 3.1(a) to (e) above varies according to the sector of the
economy. Lessons learned from other worldwide experiences point to the recommendation to distribute the
above managing responsibilities among different entities to avoid concentration of decision-making power
in one institution (like the CONOCER case in Mexico). Some standard criteria adopted by other OECD
countries with fully functional systems of national competency norms include: (i) the presence of more than
one certifying unit in the given sector of the economy; (ii) an effort not to have a certifying unit involved in
more than one sector of the economy; (iii) the selection of only reputable institutions as certifying units in
the given sector of the economy; and (iv) mechanisms to ensure the absence of conflicts of interest in the
selected certifying units. One side-product of this sub-component will be the updating of the National
Employment Catalog.
The project will address those competencies relevant to the less qualified workers, meaning levels 1 to 3 in
the British Competency Framework. The national competency framework to be established under the
project will cover labor/sector-specific competencies as well as generic (transversal) competencies (also
known as employability skills or key competencies or broad occupational standards).
The vocational-professional pathways established through this sub-component will reinforce the alignment
between the education and productive sectors and will also strengthened the pertinence of the academic and
training institutions belonging to the regional networks to be established under the project. During the life
of the project, it is expected that about 29,000 workers from the economic sectors being considered by the
project will be certified, with a significant number of them belonging to the SMES. In addition, the same
29,000 workers will be provided with the opportunity to upgrade their current skills (including
employability skills) according to the adopted national system of competency norms in the selected
economic sectors. It is expected that the national system of competency frameworks defined and approved
in the given sectors will: (i) contribute to the curricular alignment of about 662 technical secondary schools
(with 142,000 students) and all the tertiary technical-professional institutions belonging to the project's
regional networks; and (ii) provide nationwide the graduation standards for grade 12 of technical secondary
schools and tertiary technical-professional institutions.
3.2 Establishing lifelong learning and training information systems. This sub-component will finance
the establishment and operation of the following four management information systems (MIS): (i) one MIS
for labor intermediation to indicate available job vacancies at a regional level especially to unemployed
people and provide information on available relevant training ; (ii) one MIS for vocational orientation to
guide students from secondary education pursue their further education and/or seek insertion in the labor
market; (iii) one MIS providing information of the services delivered by the proposed project; and (iv) one
MIS comprising findings of labor market studies and other related research. The labor intermediation part
of the first MIS will be operated by the Municipal Offices of Employment Information (Oficinas
Municipales de Informaci6n Laboral - OMILs) coordinated by the 13 regional offices of SENCE and other
private labor intermediate entities operating in the country. The vocational orientation part of the first MIS
will be operated in the 1,340 municipal and private subsidized secondary schools (both technical and
scientific-humanistic) in the entire country using the Red Enlaces computer network already established in
these schools by the former Bank-financed MECE Media project. The second and third MISs will create
their own Web-sites to provide information with respect to, inter-alia, findings on studies contracted by the
PCU, training and workshops to be financed by the project, technical assistance available through proceeds
of the project and various dissemination campaigns. The second and third MISs will be operated by the
- 56 -



PCU and its regional branches, dovetailing with the existing ME's regional (SEREMIS) and provincial
(DEPROV) management information systems. Given that there currently exists sufficient electronic
processing capacity for the effective implementation of the above-mentioned four MISs, this
sub-component does not envision the acquisition of additional computer hardware. This sub-component
will however finance: (i) the development of specific software; (ii) the training and technical assistance to
about 1,400 vocational orientation counsellors already functioning in the 1,340 secondary schools in the
country and personnel of the 118 private and municipal employment information offices; (iii) the
institutional strengthening of the labor intermediation and vocational counselors services; (iv) the design of
Web sites; (v) the design, administration and organization of the MISs; (vi) training workshops and
seminars; (vii) dissemination campaigns; and (viii) studies for evaluation of the systems activities and
outcomes. The estimated cost of this sub-component is US$8.75 million equivalent (US$6.76 million from
the proposed Loan).
This sub-component will ensure complementarity and interactivity of the above-mentioned three MIS
systems with other ongoing information systems, such as the employment observatory financed by
MECE-SUP, the employment observatory currently operated by the Ministry of Labor and Public welfare,
the ENLACES network, the web of the Ministry of Economy and other privately-financed labor market
information systems such as Laborum.com and empleo.com. During the life of the project, it is estimated
that about 875,000 adults will consult the labor intermediation MIS, 142,000 students will have access to
the vocational counsellors, and another 460,000 adults will consult the project-fnanced Web sites of the
PCU.
Project Component 4 - US$15.51 million
4. Institutional strengthening. This component will finance the operation of a Project Coordination Unit
(PCU) in charge of: (i) planning and programming; (ii) monitoring project implementation including
disbursements and collection of expenditure documentation of this demand-driven project; (iii) providing
technical assistance and guidance in the procurement of goods and services to be financed by the proposed
Loan; (iv) communicating with the Bank; (v) implementing the recommendations emerging from the
Directorio (explained in C4 of the main text); (vi) contracting the carrying out of evaluation and
tailored-specific research studies; and (vii) coordinating project-related communication with other
Government national (Ministries of Economy, Education and Labor and Social Security and Finance) and
regional authorities and agencies as well as other private project stakeholders representing the productive,
labor sectors, universities and non-governmental agencies. In addition, this component will finance the
strengthening of the national and regional representations of SENCE and of the ME participating in the
project. Accordingly, this sub-component will finance: (i) the acquisition of additional computers and
peripheral equipment and software for SENCE and its regional offices; (ii) training; (iii) technical
assistance; (iv) communication and dissemination activities; and (v) evaluation and impact studies and
other specific related research by qualified extemal institutions and/or individuals. The proposed Loan is
expected to cover US$5.38 million equivalent of the total cost of this component.
- 57 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
CHILE: Lifelong Learning and Training Project
Local        Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Component                 US $million  US $million   US $million
Providing new opportunities for lifelong learning and training  55.04     0.02        55.06
Improving the quality and increasing the coverage of       29.39         11.96        41.35
technical-professional education
Establishing instruments to support the provision of lifelong  30.46     0.75         31.21
learning and training services
Institutional strengthening                                14.02          0.61        14.63
Total Baseline Cost                                       128.91         13.34       142.25
Physical Contingencies                                     3.02         0.02          3.04
Price Contingencies                                        4.65         0.06          4.71
Total Project Costs              136.58         13.42       150.00
Front-end fee                     0.75          0.75
Total Financing Required              136.58         14.17       150.75
Local        Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Category                 US $million  US $million   US $million
Goods                                                       20.61           4.75         25.36
Works                                                        0.00           0.00          0.00
Services                                                    46.05           4.61         50.66
Training                                                    69.92           4.06         73.98
Total Project Costs     136.58          13.42        150.00
Front-end fee                     0.75          0.75
Total Financing Required     136.58          14.17        150.75
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 150.75 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 50.25% of
total project cost net of taxes.
- 58 -






Annex 4 Economic Analysis
CHILE: Lifelong Learning and Training Project
Introduction. The economic justification for the project is based on the following three sets of empirical
evidence. Firstly, documentation is provided regarding the skill gap of the Chilean labor force in absolute
terms as well as relative to the status of other countries. Data regarding the magnitude of deficiencies in
skill levels of the adult workforce suggest that improvements in the quality of the labor force through the
addition of entrants with higher levels of education would be insufficient for Chile to be a significant player
in the global economy, and that Chile needs to address the skill gap facing adult workers. Secondly, a
review is presented of the evidence regarding the potential benefits to Chile from reducing the skill gap of
its labor force. These benefits would include higher productivity and higher employability of workers with
upgraded skills as well as higher growth and lower inequality for Chilean society as a whole. The first and
second parts of the economic analysis serve to demonstrate the need for a project which seeks to upgrade
the skills and competencies of the labor force, as well as the need for such a project to address social
deficits arising from inequitable attainment in education and skills. Thirdly, evidence is provided regarding
the specific components of the project. The specific data pertain to unit costs that would be incurred on
behalf of the project beneficiaries and the proportion of project beneficiaries who would belong to lower
income groups.
Accordingly, the traditional tools of economic analysis of education projects, such as computation of
benefits from efficiency gains and increased labor market earnings due to additional years of schooling of
project beneficiaries cannot be applied to this project. It is not empirically managable to determine the
monetary value of benefits that would flow, for example, from the establishment of an information system
to help employees from small firms to fnd appropriate training. While an analysis of unit costs is
presented in order to detertnine the order of magnitude for the project to have a positive net present value,
the thrust of the economic analysis is necessarily of a more general nature.
Skill Gap of the Chilean Labor Force.    Whereas Chile has made great strides in increasing the
enrollment of children of the age group for Basic Education, there is a substantial gap in terms of
educational attainment of adults. The graph below (Chart 1) shows a comparison of Chile with some
selected OECD Countries. The graph shows that the position of Chile is roughly comparable as regards
enrollment of children, but that educational attainment of men aged 35-44, at the prime of their working
life, is about half of that of the comparator countries. The great disparity between the OECD countries and
Chile implies that even as Chile reaches nearly universal enrolment at the Upper Secondary level, it would
take many years before Chile can achieve parity with OECD countries in terms of having an adult
population with at least an Upper Secondary level of education.
Table I
Adults in Chile with at least Upper Secondary Education
Year 2000   Year2010   Year 2020
25 to 34         54%        74%          90%
35 to 44         38%        54%          74%
45 to 54         33%        38%          54%
55 to 64         24%        33%         38%
Average           37%1      50%         64%
Source: Casen 1998
Table 1 shows the progress of the more educated younger cohorts through the Chilean Adult population for
the next 20 years. Data from the Encuesta de Caracterizaci6n Socioeconomica Nacional- CASEN 1998
- 59 -



were used to estimate the growth of the educational attainment in Chile. The data show that it would take
another 20 years before the average attainment in Chile would reach the current average for OECD
countries. Given the fact that the OECD countries have been ahead on the curve of expanding Upper
Secondary enrollments, the OECD average would also have increased by about 20 percentage points in the
same period - this implies that it would take at least 50 years before Chile achieves similarity with the
OECD on the simple indicator of having an adult population with at least 12 years of education, an
indicator considered by the OECD to be "the minimum credential required for successful labor market
entry". The comparison described above indicates that a policy based on the gradual addition of educated
workers to the labor force would not be tenable for Chile in a global economy.
Chart 1: Chile: Comparison of Enrollment of Children and Educational Attainment of Adults
120.00%
100.00% 
80.00% 
O Enrollment Percentage of 5-14 Year Olds
0.00% ;a                         0                          o Men Aged 35-44 with at least Upper Secondary
Education
40.00%-
20.00%-
_.00% _ _ _ T _  T _ _    _ _ T __ T _ _T _ _ _          Source: Education at a Glance OECD
0.00%  - - -  '~ - -   - -    - - ~      - ' -            -  Indicators, OECD 2000, Tables A2.2c and
Norway  United  Canada  Hungary  Poland  Ireland  Chile  C1.2
States
The analysis of the years of education implicitly assumes that formal education is sufficient to provide the
skills and abilities required for the jobs in the modem economy. As the OECD Ottawa Report, 2000 says
"If completion of Upper Secondary school was a virtual guarantee of high literacy, the policy message
would be clear enough - skill gaps could be eliminated if there were virtually universal completion of Upper
Secondary schooling." However, trends related to globalization, technological change and changes in
employment patterns and work organization suggest that the training imparted by the education system is
not sufficient for the skills needed for a lifetime of productive work. Evidence from the International Adult
Literacy Survey (IALS, 1998) paints a grim picture regarding the skill gap of the Chilean labor force, even
for educated workers. The IALS provides a measurement of skill levels of adults aged 16-65 along three
domains of literacy - prose, document and quantitative literacy (see box). The LALS defines literacy as the
ability to "understand and utilize printed information in daily activities in the home, in the community and
at work". The IALS survey instrument was designed such that people can be placed in one of five literacy
- 60 -



levels, corresponding to different bands of scores ranging from 0 to 500. Level 1 of literacy is the lowest
level, which denotes barely functional literacy - the person may know the alphabet and know how to read
words, but cannot go beyond the processing of the most basic of written instructions.
Box A. Three Domains of Literacy Skills
*   Prose Literacy - the knowledge and skills needed to understand
and use information from texts including editorials, news stories,
brochures and instruction manuals
*   Document Literacy - the knowledge and skills required to locate
and use information contained in various formats, including job
applications, payroll forms, transportation schedules, maps, tables
and charts.
*   Quantitative Literacy - the knowledge and skills required to apply
arithmetic operations, either alone or sequentially, to numbers
embedded in printed materials, such as balancing a checkbook,
figuring out a tip, completing an order form or determining the
amount of interest on a loan from an advertisement.
Source: Literacy in the Information Age, OECD 2000
Level 3, which corresponds to a minimum score of 275 corresponds to the minimal acceptable level of
competency on the three domains of literacy. To answer the question of how well the formnal educational
system in Chile has been able to produce competent workers, it is useful to look at the distribution of Level
I literates across the educational levels shown in Table 2. It is interesting to note that about one-third (more
for the case of Quantitative literacy) of Chilean adults who had a 'Secondary Complete' level of education
were functioning merely at Level 1 .Table 1 had indicated that without interventions seeking to educate
adults currently in the workforce, it would take an inordinate amount of time to wait for the labor force to
achieve Upper Secondary education as a norm. Table 2 indicates that even the completion of Upper
Secondary education, if the quality of graduates remains the same, there would still be a significant skill
gap amongst adults, and suggests the need for a policy intervention to reduce the skill gap.
Table 2: Percentage of Chileans with Level I Literacy across
Educational Levels
Educational |    Prose   |Document |Quantitative
Level      I
Basic Incomplete   86.70%    83.80%      88.30%
Basic Complete     69.00%    68.30%      77.40%
Secondary Incomplete  47.70%  51.00%     58.00%
Seconaary Complete  30 20%'  35 10%      40 10%6
More than Secondary  13.10%   15.90%     17.10%
Total (across levels)  1 50 60%  52.20%J  57.10o
Source: Competencias y Destrezas Basicas de la Poblaci6n
Adulta en Chile, Univ De Chile, Santiago 2000
Benefits of Reducing the Skill Gap. The analysis presented in the above section shows clearly that Chile
faces a large skill gap in its adult population, both in terms of years of education, and in terms of basic
competencies. It would be useful at this stage to document the possible benefits that can be obtained,
particularly in the Chilean context, from improving the level of skills of the adult population. Skills and
competencies can be linked to a) higher productivity, b) higher employability, c) more rapid economic
- 61 -



growth and d) lower inequality.
Productivity. The most simple evidence regarding the link between skills and productivity can be obtained
by an empirical estimation of a Cobb-Douglas production function. Output per worker is regressed on a
measure of physical capital and human capital, and the residual is attributed to productivity that cannot be
measured directly. "Fundamental Determinants of Output per Worker across Countries" by Robert Hall
and Charles Jones, NBER Working Paper, 1997 provides an interesting insight in this regard. Using data
from 1991 from 155 countries, Hall and Jones analyzed the patterns of output per worker, using the United
States as a standard. They ask a very simple set questions :-a) What is the output per worker in each
country as compared to a worker in the U.S? b) What is the position of physical capital of that country as
compared to the U.S? c) What is the position of human capital of that country as compared to the U.S. ?
and d) What is the residual that can be attributed to productivity differences ? Table 3 below presents an
excerpt of the data for a subset of countries with a focus on the example of Chile. The table shows that the
output per worker in Norway was 74% of a worker in the U.S.A, while the worker in Canada had an
output that was 94% of the U.S. worker.
Tible 3: Fundamental Determinants of Output per Worker Across
._______  ___Countries  Due  to
Due to     Due to
differences in differences in
Output per  Physical  Human     Residual
Worker    Capital    Capital   Differences
Uniled Slales     1 00       1 00      1 00      1.00
Norway           0.76        1.20      0.91      0.70
Canada           0.94        1.00      0.91      1.03
Hungary          0.31        1.12      0 93      0 29
Poland           0.24        1.28      0.80      0.24
Ireland          0.58        1.05      0.77      0.71
Chile            0.26        0.99      0.66      0.40
Source:"Fundamental Determir ants of Output per Worker across
-Countries", by Robert Hall and Charles Jones, NBER, 1997
The output per worker in Chile was 26% of that in the U.S., about the number that could be expected for a
middle-income developing country. The table shows that differences in the amount of physical capital per
worker do not explain much of the differences between the outputs per worker - in fact the example of the
two former socialist countries (Hungary and Poland) shows that the amount of physical capital available to
workers was greater in those countries as compared to the U.S. case. Differences in Human Capital do not
account for much of the differences between the OECD countries, but the Chilean case does show workers
from Chile with 66% of the Human Capital of the numeraire U.S. worker (Hall and Jones used a
methodology which incorporates Human Capital as measured by years of educational attainment). This
implies that Chile does face a substantial gap in the simple measure of educational attainment of the labor
force, as alluded to before. Note also that the productivity residual for Chile is less than half that of the
U.S. worker. The differences in the productivity residual are due to a number of factors, such as the
institutional regime in the countries and the nature of government intervention. However, in the case of
Chile, which has been at the forefront of economic liberalization in Latin America, it is plausible to
conclude that the residual owes much to differences in skill levels that are not measured adequately by
years of educational attainment. More direct evidence of the link between productivity and skills as
measured by the LALS provides further corroborating evidence (see Chart 2 below).
- 62 -



Chart 2: Productivity and IALS Quantitative Score
120
United
100 
r20
Australia 000        Germany
so                                                      0
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
aF  0 - 
40 -
-                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Hungary
F  0                     o                                                  Czechoslovaki
CL 20 -Chile 
Source: Literacy in the Information Age,
OECD 2000 tar IALS Scores; Hall and
Jones, 1997 for Output per Worker
0 
208.0    218.0   228.0    238.0    248.0    258.0    268.0    278.0   288.0    298.0
IALS Mean Quantitative Score
Employability.   The relationship between skills and competencies and employment is relatively
straightforward. Workers with higher levels of skill are more likely to be in the labor force and are more
likely to be gainfully employed. Chart 3 below shows the relationship between the prose literacy score and
the probability of unemployment as computed from a logit regression, after controlling for variables such
as educational attainment and age. The graph shows a monotonic relationship between literacy scores and
employment probability - every 50 point increase in the prose literacy score in Chile lead to a 5 %
reduction in the probability of being unemployed. The comparison of Chile with other countries reveals an
interesting picture - few of the countries have many people with a prose literacy score lower than 200 (only
Chile and Poland have the 25th percentile point below 200) - the graph shows that as the average level of
proficiency rises, workers with low proficiency will find it increasingly difficult to obtain a job. The
graphs for the OECD countries are steeper than for Chile, reflected particularly well in the case of Norway.
- 63 -



Chart 3: Probability of being Unemployed according to IALS Prose Score
1.00
0.90, 
0.80 
0.70
0
E 0.60 -   ~            \                                                      . ~-Canada
c                         _                     Source: Literacy in the Information Age,  Ireland
ct 0.50 -  %   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ OECD 2000, Table 4.3, Pg. 167              Hu9V
U.S
~EChile
0 ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N-Hungary
0.40 -                                                                         --- Norway
IL  0-30 - c
0.20- ~~~~~~~Mean Prose Soreo    r       5
0.10
0.00
0      50     100    150    200    250    300     350    400    450    500
Prose Literacy Score
Chart 4 depicts only the relationship between employability and the prose literacy score - not shown on the
graph is the notable finding that educational attainment was statistically insignificant as one of the right
hand side variables in the employment logit for Chile as well as a number of other countries.
Economic Growth. A study of the causes of economic growth constitutes a huge theoretical and empirical
literature. Recent advances in the growth literature have been directed at understanding better the role of
human capital in economic growth. The theoretical literature shows a clear link between skill gaps in the
labor force and differences in growth rates - the empirical literature suffers from the lack of measurement
of skills. The growth literature uses measures based on the educational attainment of the labor force as a
measure of the stock of human capital and current enrollment rates as a prediction of the future stock of
human capital. This literature shows a clear link between initial level of educational attainment and a less
precise link between changes in educational attainment and changes in the growth rate. In terms of the
contribution of schooling to economic growth in Chile it is of interest to examine the results of a simulation
exercise carried out by Robert Barro ("Human Capital and Growth in Cross-Country Regressions"
Harvard University Working Paper, October 1998). The paper reported regressions relating historical
growth rates to factors such as the initial level of per capita GDP, measures of government consumption,
the rule of law, the fertility rate, and educational attainment. The paper used data from 1960 to 1995 to
make predictions regarding the growth rate and contributing factors to growth for the period 1996-2006.
Table 4 below shows an excerpt from the paper.
The interesting aspect of the paper is not so much the accuracy of the predictions, but a comparison of the
relative weights of the different contributing factors. Note that the contribution of government consumption
and the rule of law sum up to a 1% contribution to the growth rate for Chile, but the contribution of
- 64 -



education for Chile is nil. This is a reflection of the fact that even though Chile has relatively high current
enrollment rates for Secondary education, there would be a considerable lag before the education level of
the labor force as a whole goes up enough to make a sizeable contribution to growth. The table again
underscores the need for skill upgrading of the entire labor force for an impact on the economic growth
rate.
Table 4: Simulation of contributions to predicted growth rate
Contbributon
Predicted                     of        Contribution
growth rate Contribution Contribution Govemment of Rule of  Contribution
1996-2006  of log (GDP) of Schooling Consumption Law  of Fertility
United States  1 1 0o   -6.40%     3.40%     1.30%     0 60%     0.80%
Norway         3.00%    -6.00%     0.80%     0.50%     0.60%     1.10%
Canada         0.70%     -5.80%    1.90%     1.10%     0.60%     1.40%
Hungary        3.90%     0 10%Y    420%      0.20%     0 60%     1.80%
Poland         4.10%     0.70%     0.10%     0.20%     0.20%     1.50%
Ireland        0.70%    -4.00%     0.70%     0.90%     0.60%     1.10%
Chile          3.00      o 0 50o_  0.00%     0 80%     0 20%     0.60,
Source:(CHuman Capital and Growth in Cross-Country Regressions" Harvard University Working
Paper, October 1998)
Lower Income Inequality. The evidence regarding the link between the skill distribution and wage
inequality comes from data linking earnings to schooling attainment and data regarding earnings and IALS
literacy scores. The educational level of a person is a key determinant of wages, as shown in countless
studies of the rates of return to education, but the interesting finding from the IALS study is that the
literacy proficiency (measured as a latent construct of the three domains of prose, document and
quantitative literacy) has a positive effect on earnings even after controlling for other human capital related
variables. A study of changes in inequality through the decades of the 1970s to 1990s ("Patterns and
Sources of Changing Wage *nequality in Chile and Costa Rica During Structural Adjustment" by T. H.
Gindling and Donald Robbins, World Development 29 (4), 2001) shows that wage inequality in Chile
increased in spite of educational expansion due to the deepening in the demand for skilled labor. Data
directly comparing Gini Indices for income and literacy proficiency across countries also show a high
correlation between the two variables.
Project contribution to reduce the skill gap. The project has four components whose expected costs are
shown in section C and Annexes 2, 3 and 5 of the PAD. The benefits of the projects would be obtained in
terns of improving the stock of workers with improved skills and competencies, which would translate into
improved productivity, higher growth and reduced inequality. Empirical evidence is not available regarding
the magnitude of the possible gains due to the improved access to lifelong learning opportunities. These
gains would be obtained in terms of less frequent and smaller durations of unemployment and higher
earnings for workers. The gains would also accrue to small enterprises in terms of their increased
profitability (as some of the training would be specific to the firm, it would make some investments in the
training of the workers and seek returns from the increased productivity of workers). Empirical evidence
regarding the magnitudes of these benefits would not be possible without making unsubstantiated
conjectures. However, the planning process for the project incorporates an estimation of the potential
number of beneficiaries and the costs of the various components. This allows the computation of unit costs
per potential beneficiary - this gives a rough idea of the value of benefits per beneficiary that would be
required to make the project economically viable. As the project would benefit a substantial number of
workers, it is clear from Table 5 below that extremely modest gains per beneficiary would make the project
economically viable, and that these gains are well within any conservative estimate of potential benefit
- 65 -



streams. Another important estimation involves the proportion of beneficiaries coming from the lowest two
quintiles of the income distribution. The estimation, shown in Table 6 below, indicates the focus of the
project on groups in conditions of poverty, and hence that the project would contribute to the reduction of
inequality and poverty in Chile.
Table 5: Project Unit Cost and Gains per Beneficiar
PV (in US$)of
Estimated              Annual
Predicted    Cost of               Increment in
Number of    Component Unit Cost per Beneficiary
Project     (Millions of  Beneficiary  Income to
Component                                    Beneficiaries  US$)     (US$)       Break Even '
1.1 Promoting and increasing Ihe privale and public
supply of basic and secondary education opportunities
for adults                                         120,000      34.20      285.00        .8.14
1.2 Establishing a learning assessment and certification
system for adults seeking to complete their basic and
secondary education                                120,000       3.88       32.33        0.92
1.3 Developing new modalities that harmonize adult
basic and secondary education with training
283,000      21.08       74.49         2.13
2.1 Strengthening the articulation of technical
secondar-y education viaith technical-prolessional
education and the labor market                      65.000      39 16      602 46        17 21
2.2 Improving the quality and pertinence of the pre-
service teacher training for technical-professional
education                                          142,000       2.29       16.13         0.46
3.1 Establishing a national system of competency
norms and vocational-professional pathways in selected
sectors of the economy                             155,000      25.12      162.06         4.63
3.2 Establishing lifelong leaming and training
information systems                              1,500,000       8.75        5.83         0.17
Total                                            2,385,000     134.48       56.39         1.61
* Assuming 35 years of working life
(Source: Govemment of Chile)
-66 -



Table 6: Distribution of Project Beneficiaries Across Income Groups
Estimated     Percentage of
Predicted    Percentage of Beneficiaries
Number of    Beneficiaries  from 2 Lowest
Project      from Lowest   Income
Component                                     Beneficiaries  Income Quintile Quintiles
1.1 Promoting and increasing the private and public
supply of basic and secondary education opportunities
for adults                                          120,000         4504          75%
1.2 Establishing a leaming assessment and certification
system for adults seeking to complete their basic and
secondary education                                 120,000         45%           75%
1.3 Developing new modalities that harmonize adult
basic and secondary education with training         283,000         30%           60%
2.1 Strengthening the articulation of lechnical
secondary education with technical prolessional
education and the labor market                       65.000         23%           45%
2.2 Improving the quality and pertinence of the pre-
service teacher training for technical-professional
education                                           142,000
3.1 Establishing a national system of competency
norms and vocational-professional pathways in selected
sectors of the economy                              155,000         25%           48%
3.2 Establishing lifelong leaming and training
information systems                                1,500,000        20%/          25%
Total                                             2,385,000          24%          34%
(Source: Government of Chile)
- 67 -






Annex 5: Financial Summary
CHILE: Lifelong Learning and Training Project
Years Ending
(In US$'000)
IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD
Year 1 F   Year 2 3   Year 3 4   Year 4     1 Year  Year 6      0 Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs          3.8      24.3      26.1      23.5     13.4       6.1       0.0
Recurrent Costs           0.8      14.1      20.3       5.8       5.9       5.9      0.0
Total Project Costs        4.6       38.4     46.4      29.3      19.3      12.0      0.0
Front-end fee    0.8       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Financing            5.4       38.4     46.4      29.3      19.3      12.0      0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                 4.0      21.3      26.5      11.4       8.1      4.4       0.0
Government               1.3      17.2      19.9      17.9      11.1      7.6       0.0
Central               0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Provincial            0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Co-financiers            0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries  0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Others                   0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing    5.3      38.5      46.4      29.3      19.2     12.0       0.0
|                   :    OPERATIONAL PERIOD
Year I    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4  | Year 5  | Year 6  | Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs        5.2        5.4       5.6      5.8        0.0      0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs         6.2       6.6       6.9       7.2        0.0      0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs       11.4      12.0      12.5      13.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Front-end fee   0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Total Financing           11.4      12.0      12.5      13.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0
Government              11.4      12.0      12.5      13.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Central              0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0
Provincial            0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Co-financiers           0.0        0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries  0.0      0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Others                  0.0        0,0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing  11.4      12.0      12.5      13.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
- 68 -



The project expected recurrent liability during the post-implementation period of about US$12 million represent
0.45% of the ME's CYOI budget (US$2,650 million equivalent). Assuming a growth projection of the ME's
budget of about 4/o/year, the expected project liability at the closure of the Loan will represent about 0.36% of
the forecasted ME's budget for CY09 (US$3,350 million equivalent).
Main assumptions:
During the appraisal mission, the GC requested that the project front-end fee, estimated at US$757,500, be
considered as part of the proposed Loan.
- 69 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
CHILE: Lifelong Learning and Training Project
Procurement
6.1 Procurement arrangements. The PCU will have the responsibility of handling all the procurement
activities necessary for the implementation of the project. The procurement and contracting unit of the two
previous Bank-financed education projects (Primary and Secondary) has been institutionalized in ME and
become part of the administrative unit of the Ministry. In addition to the support provided by this unit, the
Project PCU will have six seasoned staff, familiar with Bank guidelines, assigned to handle the
procurement aspects of the Project. The Operations Manual describes their responsibilities and flow of
functions. Therefore, procurement capacity of the team has been assessed as satisfactory to the Bank.
6.2 Procurement of consultants services financed by the Loan proceeds. As shown in Table A, the
proposed Loan will finance: (i) US$34.46 million equivalent of consultant services associated with carrying
out of all the project sub-components explained in Annex 2 including evaluation studies, surveys and other
project-related research, communication and dissemination campaigns (categories 2(a) and 4 of Table A,
Annex 6); (ii) US$22.54 million equivalent of adult education and adult education assessment services
(category 3 of Table A, Annex 6); (iii) US$14.77 million equivalent of training "packages" including
expenditures incurred in connection with the provision of training, the consultants' services for the
development and delivery of the training modules, rental of equipment and facilities and reasonable travel
cost and per-diem of the trainees (category 5 of Table A, Annex 6); and (iv) US$3.23 million equivalent for
PCU personnel (category 2(b) of Table A, Annex 6). The amounts shown above include physical and price
contingencies. Below, the procurement method of each of these is explained.;
6.3 Procurement financed by counterpart funds. As shown in Table A, counterpart funding will finance:
(i) US$3.83 million equivalent of consultant services associated with carrying out of all the project
sub-components explained in Annex 2 including evaluation studies, surveys and other project-related
research, communication and dissemination campaigns (categories 2(a) and 4 of Table A, Annex 6); (ii)
US$2.51 million equivalent of adult education and adult education assessment services (category 3 of
Table A, Annex 6); (iii) US$1.64 million equivalent of training "packages" (category 5 of Table A, Annex
6); and (iv) US$0.36 million equivalent for PCU personnel (category 2(b) of Table A, Annex 6). In
addition, counterpart funds will finance 100% of: (v) goods estimated to cost US$9.82 million equivalent
(US$7.25 million equivalent of office equipment, fumiture and textbooks and US$2.57 million equivalent
of teaching aids and materials) as shown in category l(a) and (b) of Table A of Annex 6; (vi) the
competitive fund for sub-components 2.1 and 2.2 estimated to cost US$39.67 million equivalent (category
6 of Table A, Annex 6); and (vii) the incremental recurrent salaries and operating costs estimated to cost
US$17.17 million equivalent (category 7 of Table A, Annex 6). The amounts shown above include
physical and price contingencies.
The competitive fund referred to in 6.3 (vi) above, will finance: (i) technical education proposals presented
by established regional networks under the project including the acquisition of learning equipment, learning
aids and materials as explained in sub-component 2.1; and (ii) up to three pre and in-servcie teacher
training proposals to improve the quality of technical education teachers as explained in sub-component
2.2. Use of this competitive fund is to be regulated by the project's Operational Manual including model
contracts to be entered between the provider and the project's executing agency.
6.4 Works. The proposed project does not envisage works.
- 70 -



6.5 Employment of Consultants and Services: Consultants' services shall be procured in accordance
with the provisions of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997, revised in September 1997 and January 1999, and the
provisions stipulated in this Annex.
6.6 Methods of selection of consultants (Table Al), expected number and average amount of
contracts.
(a) Quality-Cost Based Selection (QCBS) up to an estimated aggregate of US$9.73 million equivalent.
Consultants' services with firms will be contracted through QCBS for semi-specialized consulting in the
areas of: (i) the design of learning and training modules for adults; (ii) the strengthening of a learning
assessment and certification system for adults seeking to complete their basic and secondary education; (iii)
construction and application of learning and skill assessment tests and analysis of results; (iv) technical
advise to SMES; (v) competency framework; (vi) the establishment of professional and technological
pathways; and (iv) the carrying out of impact evaluation studies and very specialized project-related
research. In these cases, a combination of qualification and least pricing is desirable for selecting
consulting firms. The model agreement, selection criteria and advertising procedures for these consulting
services are included in the Operational Manual. The short-list of consultant firms for these services to be
selected through QCBS, estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract and estimated not to
exceed in the aggregate US$5.82 million equivalent, may comprise entirely of national consultants. The
table below indicates the expected number of contracts by range-value of the cost of the contract and the
average cost of contracts for both, intellectual-type and ancillary services, to be selected through QCBS.
QCBS
Total in US$ thousands  Expected number      Average value of
Value of the contract                         of contracts           contract
in US$ thousands                                                in US$ thousands
For intellectual-type
services
0- 30                 915                   47                    19
31-100                 959                   15                   64
101-200                1,711                 11                   156
Above 200               3,905                 18                   217
For ancillary services
0 - 30                2,237                 425                   5
31-100                  0                    0                     0
101-200                 0                    0                     0
Above 200                0                     0                    0
Total                9,727                 516                    19
(b) Least-cost Selection (LCS) up to an estimated aggregate of US$34.31 million equivalent.
Consultant's services with firns will be contracted through LCS for non-specialized consulting in the areas
of seminars, surveys, workshops and training estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract
- 71 -



and expected not to exceed in the aggregate $34,310,000 equivalent. These consultant services may be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the
Consultant Guidelines. The model agreement, selection criteria and advertising procedures for these
consulting services are included in the Operational Manual. The table below indicates the expected number
of contracts by range-value of the cost of the contract and the average cost of contracts for both,
intellectual-type and ancillary services, to be selected through LCS.
LCS
Total in US$ thousands  Expected number       Average value of
Value of the contract                          of contracts           contract
in US$ thousands                                                in US$ thousands
For intellectual-type
services
0 - 30                6,283                 467                   13
31-100                4,073                  69                    59
101-200                 0                     0                    0
Above 200                0                     0                     0
For ancillary services
0 - 30               22,195                2,857                   8
31-100                 794                   14                    57
101-200                962                    6                    160
Above 200                0                     0                    0
Total                34,307                3,413                  10
(c) Selection Based on Consultant's Qualification (CQ) up to an estimated aggregate of US$31.54
million equivalent. Consultant's services with firms will be contracted through CQ for highly specialized
consulting in the areas of: (i) institutional strengthening and labor intermediation and vocational orientation
management information systems for an estimated aggregate of US$6,480,000 equivalent; and (ii) the
provision of fixed-price adult education and education assessment services to an estimated aggregate of
US$25,067,000 equivalent. The contracts for the services referred to in 6.6 c(i) above are estimated to cost
less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract. The contracts for the services referred to in 6.6 c(ii) above
are estimated to cost less than US$20,000 equivalent per contract, and not exceeding in the aggregate
$360,000 equivalent per provider (public or private). As per the Bank's Procurement Policy and Services
Group (OCSPR) instruction of 8/19/99 para. 5, the exception to the eligibility criteria (para. 1.10 of the
Bank Consultant Guidelines) is applicable to public service providers (municipalities through their
municipal schools and other municipal institutions) for the services referred to in 6.6 c(ii) above. The
model agreement and advertising procedures under services to be selected by CQ as well as the eligibility
criteria for the selection of providers of services described in 6.6 c(ii) above and procedures to award
contracts are included in the Operational Manual. The eligibility criteria for the selection of providers of
services described in 6.6 c(ii) include, inter-alia, conformity with the approved adult education curriculum,
qualified staff to deliver the service, appropriate physical facilities, previous experience and
registration/accreditation with ME. The table below indicates the expected number of contracts by
range-value of the cost of the contract and the average cost of contracts for both, intellectual-type and
ancillary services, to be selected through CQ.
- 72 -



CQ
Total in US$ thousands  Expected number     Average value of
Value of the contract                        of contracts           contract
in US$ thousands                                               in US$ thousands
For intellectual-type
services
0 - 30                306                  17                   18
31-100                687                   12                   57
101-200                 0                   0                    0
Above 200                0                    0                    0
For ancillary services
0 - 30               4,797                 885                   5
31-100                697                   7                   100
101-200                 0                   0                    0
Above 200                0                    0                   0
Adult education and
education assessment
services
Less than 20           25,060               2, 063                 12
Total               31,547                2,984                 11
(d) Other for individual consultants up to an aggregate of US$7.77 million equivalent will cover: (i) the
PCU personnel up to an aggregate of US$3.59 million equivalent; and (ii) technical assistance in different
parts of the project, with contracts estimated to cost less than US$20,000 per contract up to an aggregate
of US$4.18 million equivalent. The expected number of contracts for 6.6 d(ii) above is estimated in 300.
Individual consultants will be selected in accordance with the provisions of Section V of the Consultants'
Guidelines.
6.7 Prior Review Thresholds (Table B): Bank prior review will be required before all contract selection
procedures for: (a) all documentation including the technical evaluation report before opening financial
proposals for all consultant firms with a contract greater to US$200,000 equivalent each; (b) all
documentation for all consultant firms with a contract greater to US$100,000 equivalent each but less than
US$200,000 equivalent each; (c) all documentation for all individual consultant with a contract greater to
US$50,000 equivalent each; and (d) only terms of reference for consultant firms with a contract valued at
more than US$30,000 equivalent per contract but less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract and
individual consultants with contract valued at more than US$20,000 equivalent per contract but less than
US$50,000 equivalent per contract.
6.8 Thorough procurement post-review. Random post-review of procurement will be carried out during
the bi-annual supervision mission.  A thorough procurement post-review by a qualified consultant
satisfactory to LCOPR will be included in the Bank's in-depth review supervision missions to be carried out
- 73 -



during the second, fourth and last years of project implementation.
6.9 First-year procurement Plan. The elements to formulate a first-year plan for the selection of
consultants including the activities to be carried out and the number and timing of the consultancy
requirements by activity, the selection method including the selection criteria and procedures to award
contracts, the consultant contract model, the time-schedule and flow chart to select the corresponding
consultants, the cost per contract and accumulated per activity and the financial requirements, were
reviewed at appraisal and found them to be doable. All these elements are included in the comprehensive
project Operational Manual. During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Borrower, that as a
condition for project effectiveness, the first-year procurememt plan for the selection of consultants
(including bid packages and time-table to carry out the procurement activities), satisfactory to the
Bank, will be submitted to the Bank.
6.10 Procurement Capacity Assessment.   During the appraisal mission, a procurement capacity
assessment of the forthcoming PCU and of the ME (implementing agency) was carried out at appraisal and
reviewed by LCOPR prior to negotiations. This assessment covered: (i) the procurement legal framework
and environment; (ii) the procurement management and organizational aspects, fully described in the
Operational Manual; (iii) the procurement support and control systems, including record keeping; and (iv)
the staffing aspects. This assessment has rated this project at a low risk level.
-74 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Expenditure Category                              Procurement Method 1/               X
ICB       NCB      OTHER      N.B.F      TOTAL
1. Goods
a)  Office equipment, furniture and                                           7.25       7.25
textbooks                                                               (0.00)     (0.00)
b) Teaching aids and materials                                                2.57       2.57
(0.00)     (0.00)
2. Consultants and services
a) Consultants other than those required under the               19.00                 19.00
categories 2(b), 3, 4, and 5 below, and services for            (17.10)               (17.10)
dissemination campaigns and study tours
b)  PCU personnel                                                3.59                  3.59
(3.23)                (3.23)
3. Adult education and education assessment services                 25.05                 25.05
(22.54)               (22.54)
4. Consultants for technical assistance required in                   19.29                 19.29
sub-components 1.3 and 3.2 of the project                         (17.36)                (17.36)
5. Training required in sub-components 1.2 and 3.1                    16.41                 16.41
of the project                                                    (14.77)               (14.77)
6. Competitive fund required in sub-components 2.1                               39.67      39.67
and 2.2 of the project                                                        (0.00)     (0.00)
7. Incremental recurrent salaries and operation costs                           17.17       17.17
(0.00)     (0.00)
8. Front-end fee                                                      0.75                  0.75
(0.75)                (0.75)
TOTAL                                              0.00      0.00      84.09      66.66      150.75
(0.00)    (0.00)    (75.75)    (0.00)     (75.75)
- 75 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Selection Method
Consultant Services
Expenditure Category  QCBS  QBS     SFB     LCS      CQ     Other  N.B.F. Total Cost
A. Firms              9.73    0.00   0.00    34.31   31.54   0.00    0.00     75.58
(8.75)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (30.88)  (28.38)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (68.01)
B. Individuals        0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    7.77    0.00     7.77
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (6.99)  (0.00)  (6.99)
Total  9.73    0.00    0.00   34.31   31.54    7.77   0.00     83.35
(8.75)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (30.88)  (28.38)  (6.99)  (0.00)  (75.00)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.
- 76 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Contract Value                               Contracts Subject to
Threshold              Procurement             Prior Review
Expenditure Category      (US$ thousands)            Method               (US$ millions)
1. Works
2. Goods
3. Services                Firms greater to            QCBS               All documentation
US$200,000 equivalent                         (technical evaluation report
before opening financial
proposal)
Firms greater than       QCBS and LCS           A  documentation
US$ 100,000 equivalent but
less than US$200,000
equivalent
Section V of the Bank
Individuals greater than     Guidelines           All documentation
US$50,000 equivalent
Firms less than      QCBS, LCS and CQ            Only TORs
US$100,000 equivalent but
more than US$30,000
equivalent         Section V of the Bank       Only TORs
Individuals less than       Guidelines
US$50,000 equivalent but
more than US$20,000
equivalent
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  US$6,578,000
equivalent
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
A thorough ex-post random review will be carried out by a qualified consultant hired by the Bank an
acceptable to LCOPR during the Bank's in-depth supervision missions in the second, fourth and last year of
project implementation
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 77 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category         Amount in US$million         Financing Percentage
1. Consultants other than those required   16.00                         90
under categories 2, 3, 4 and 5 below and
services for dissemination campaigns
and study tours
2. PCU personnel                           3.00                          90
3. Adult education and education           20.00           90 of the cost of adult education and
assessment services                                         adult education assessment services
4. Consultants for technical assistance    16.00                         90
required in sub-components 1.3 and 3.2
of the project
5. Training required in sub-components     13.00                         90
1.2 and 3.1 of the project
6. Unallocated                             7.00
Total Project Costs                        75.00
Front-end fee         0.75
Total                                      75.75
Disbursement flow. During appraisal, the GC communicated its decision to adopt the Reimbursement to
the Government scheme for this project. Accordingly, based on the yearly budget authorized by the Chilean
Congress, and the payment calendar approved by the Ministry of Finance, funds are allocated to the
project's programmatic entry (glosa presupuestaria) and allocates the authorized resources in the ME. The
PCU will then release funds to the following executing entities according to their funding needs, operational
characteristics, signed agreements (if appropriate for executing agencies outside the ME) and payment
calendar stipulated in the annual working plan and budget approved by the Directorio for the project:
(i) Sub-component 1.1. The funds allocated in the ME for this sub-component are released to the
SEREMIS who will in turn released them to eligible (under the criteria set for in the Operational manual)
private and public providers of adult education services under a contract signed between them and the
SEREMI (model of the contract are included in the Operational Manual). According to the project's
design, 25% of the cost of the service is paid in advance to the provider based on their authorized
enrollment provided by the SEREMI. The remaining 75% is paid upon presentation of evidence of
satisfactory completion of the module (see sub-component 1.2). Services are fixed-price and based on an
approved adult learning module fee established by the ME. Goods and services required by this
sub-component will be acquired by the PCU following Bank procedures (if financed by the Loan) and
national procedures (if absorbed 100% by counterpart funding).
- 78 -



(ii) Sub-component 1.2. The funds allocated in the ME for this sub-component are released to the
SEREMIS who will in turn released them to eligible (under the criteria set for in the Operational manual)
private and public adult education assessment units under a contract signed between them and the SEREMI
(model of the contract are included in the Operational Manual). Assessment services are fixed-price and
based on an approved fee established by the ME. Goods and services required by this sub-component are
acquired by the PCU following Bank procedures (if financed by the Loan) and national procedures (if
absorbed 100% by counterpart funding).
(iii) Sub-component 1.3. The funds allocated in the ME for this sub-component are released by the PCU to
eligible (under the criteria set for in the Operational manual) private and public providers of services
integrating adult education and training and/or providing adult education or training through new
technologies including distance education and training under a contract signed between them and the ME
(model of the contract are included in the Operational Manual). The funds for SENCE's implementation of
parts of this sub-component are transferred from ME to SENCE under the SENCE subsidiary agreement
(satisfactory to the Bank) signed by SENCE and ME. Goods and services required by this sub-component
will be acquired by the PCU following Bank procedures (if financed by the Loan) and national procedures
(if absorbed 100% by counterpart funding).
(iv) Sub-component 2.1. The funds allocated in the ME for this sub-component are released to the
SEREMIS. The SEREMIS in turn release the funds to the Association created under Civil Law by the
entities conforming a regional network. The release of these funds to the Associations is carried against
approved proposals competing for a fund under a contract signed between them and the SEREMI (model of
the contract are included in the Operational Manual). Proposals competing for a fund will be reviewed by
third qualified institutions and/or individuals selected by the PCU according to Bank procedures. The
Operational Manual describes the operational characteristics of the competitive fund utilized in this
sub-component. Goods and services required by this sub-component will be acquired by the Association
following Bank procedures (if financed by the Loan) and national procedures (if absorbed 100% by
counterpart funding).
(v) Sub-component 2.2. The funds allocated in the ME for this sub-component are released by the PCU to
pre and in-service teacher training institutions for technical education against approved proposals
competing for a fund under a contract signed between them and the ME (model of the contract are included
in the Operational Manual). Proposals competing for a fund will be reviewed by third qualified institutions
and/or individuals selected by the PCU according to Bank procedures. The Operational Manual describes
the operational characteristics of the competitive fund utilized in this sub-component.
(vi) Sub-component 3.1. The funds allocated in SENCE for this sub-component are first transferred from
ME to SENCE under the SENCE's subsidiary agreement (satisfactory to the Bank) signed between
SENCE and ME. SENCE will then transfer the resources to the Fundaci6n Chile, or any other institution
acceptable to the Bank, under a contract signed between the Fundacion and SENCE under the framework
of the SENCE subsidiary agreement. The contract with the Fundaci6n Chile (or any other institution
acceptable to the Bank) will specify: (i) the timing, conditions and amounts of the payments to be released
to Fundacion Chile; and (i) the outputs and time of delivery against which the payments are made. Goods
and services required by this sub-component will be acquired by the Fundacion Chile following Bank
procedures (if financed by the Loan) and national procedures (if absorbed 100% by counterpart funding).
(vii) Sub-component 3.2. The funds allocated in the ME for this sub-component are released by the PCU
to eligible consultants in charge of designing new MISs or strengthening current ones. The funds allocated
in the ME are released to the SEREMIS who will in turn released them to eligible municipal and private
- 79 -



subsidized secondary schools to support the vocational orientation services. The funds transferred from
ME to SENCE under the SENCE agreement (satisfactory to the Bank) are utilized to strengthen their MISs
(model of the contracts are included in the Operational Manual). Goods and services required by this
sub-component will be acquired by the PCU and/or SENCE following Bank procedures (if financed by the
Loan) and national procedures (if absorbed 100% by counterpart funding).
(viii) Component 4. The funds allocated in the ME for this sub-component are released by the PCU to
operate this unit and to carry out project-related communication and dissemination activities. The funds
transferred from ME to SENCE under the SENCE agreement (satisfactory to the Bank) are utilized for
SENCE's institutional strengthening. Goods and services required by this sub-component will be acquired
by the PCU and/or SENCE following Bank procedures (if financed by the Loan) and national procedures
(if absorbed 100% by counterpart funding).
Supportive expenditure documentation for each of the above-mentioned sub-components and component 4,
will flow inversely. The PCU will aggregate the supportive documentation of the expenses incurred by
MINEDUC and SENCE under the sub-components under their respective responsibility, and submit this
information to the Ministry of Finance for their review and approval. The Ministry of Finance will then
submit to the Bank from time to time the Statement of Expenses for reimbursement purposes according to
the percentages shown in Table C of Annex 6 of the PAD.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure for expenditures, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower for: (a) consultant firms under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent; (b) individual
consultants under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent; (c) training; and (d)  Adult Education
Services and Education Assessment Services.
Special account:
Not needed in the Reimbursement to the Government scheme.
- 80 -






Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
CHILE: Lifelong Learning and Training Project
Project Schedule                                   Planned                      Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       14                           17
First Bank mission (identification)              06/01/2000                   05/30/2000
Appraisal mission departure                      11/11/2001                   11/11/2001
Negotiations                                     01/28/2002                   01/28/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    04/01/2002
Prepared by:
Project Preparation Unit, accountable to an ad-hoc (non-official) Lifelong Learning and Training Steering
Policy Board headed by the Minister of Economy and including the Ministers of Education and of Labor
and Public Welfare.
Preparation assistance:
A Japan PHRD grant for US$280,000 (TF026529) was approved for project preparation to contract
consulting services for the design and preparation of: (a) a system to define, assess and certify
competences; (b) an incentive system to improve the quality in technical education; (c) an incentive scheme
to promote good-quality and pertinent adult education and training programs; (d) a labor intermediation
management information system; and (e) a technical-professional orientation management information
system.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Juan Prawda                        Task Team Leader/Lead Education Specialist
William Experton                   Acting Sector Manager
Suhas Parandekar                   Economist
Jacques Mazeran                    Consultant Technical Education
Raul Talan                         Consultant Competency Assessment and Certification Systems
Raul Gomez                         Consultant Management Information Systems
Jean Pierre Jallade                Consultant Adult Education and Training
Anita Artaza                       Consultant Costing/Procurement
Livio Pino                         Senior Financial Management Specialist
Marta Ospina                       Procurement Specialist
Marta Elena Molares-Halberg        Senior Legal Counsel
Susana Cirigliano                  Financial Management Specialist
Xiomara Morel                      Senior Financial Management Specialist
Aracelly Woodall                   Program Assistant
Rosa Puech                         Consultant Operations
David Fretwell                     Peer Reviewer (ECSHD)
John Lauglo                        Peer Reviewer (AFTHD)
Tobias Linden                      Peer Reviewer (HDNED)
- 81 -






Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
CHILE: Lifelong Learning and Training Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Memorandum para la Accion #5. Chile Aprende Mas. Programa de Educacion y Capacitacion
Permanente. Documento de Trabajo para la Mision de Evaluacion del Banco Mundial. January 2002.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
La Educacion Tecnico-Profesional en Chile. Antecedentes Evaluativos Ex-Ante. Tiempo Dos Mil
(Robinson Perez). Santiago, Chile, Septiembre 2000.
Education Reforms in Chile, 1990-98. A Lesson in Pragmatism. Francoise Delannoy. Country Studies.
Education Reform and Management Publication Series. Vol 1, No 1. June 2000. The World Bank.
Cosntraints and Innovations in Reform  of Vocational Education and Training.  Country Study.
Summaries and Issues Briefs. Indermit Gilll and Amit Dar. The World Bank and International Labor
Organization, 2000.
Higher Education Improvement Project. Project Appraisal Document. Report No 17887. Human and
Social Development Group. Argentina, Chile and Uruguay Country Management Unit. Latin America and
the Caribbean Regional Office. The World Bank, October 19, 1998.
ICR for the Primary Eduaction Chile. Report 19184-CL, May 17, 1999. The World Bank.
ICR for the Secondary Education Projec in Chile. Report 22979, October 19, 2001. The World Bank.
Adult Continuing Education. An Integral Part of Lifelong Learning. Emerging Policies and Programs
for the 21 Century in Upper and Middle Income Countries. David H. Fretwell and Joe E. Colombano.
World bank Discussion Paper, The World Bank. March 20, 2000.
Secondary Education in Transition Economies: Rethinking the Framework. David H. Fretwell and
Anthony Wheeler. The World Bank., August 30, 2000.
Government Programs for the Insertion of Youths and Women in Chile's Labor Market. A Discussion
(Draft). Rodrigo Castro-Fernandez, Carmine Clert and Quentin Wodon. LAC. The World Bank,
November 6, 2000.
Poverty and Income Distribution in a High Growth Economy: The Case of Chile 1987-98 (draft). N.
Hicks. Poverty Reduction and Economic Management. LAC. The World Bank, July 12, 2000
C. Other
La Educacion Basica de Adultos. La Otra Educacion. G. Messina. OREALC-UNESCO, Santiago,
Chile, 1995.
Educacion de Adultos en America Latina. J. Rivero. OREALC-UNESCO, Santiago, Chile, 1996.
- 82 -



Educacao e Escolarizacao de Jovenes e Adultos. IBEAC, Sao Paulo, 1997
Un Estudio Exploratorio Realizado con Alumnos del Programa de Nivelacion Basica de Trabajadores
con la Finalidad de Elaborar Textos Educativos. Coordinacion Nacional de Educacion de Adultos del
MINEDUC, 1999.
Los Centros Integrados de Educacion de Adultos (CIEAS). Coordinacion Nacional de Educacion de
Adultos del MINEDUC, 1999.
Hacia una Nueva Educacion de Adultos. Coordinacion Nacional de Educacion de Adultos del Ministerio
de Educacion de Chile (MINEDUC) referido a la Consulta Nacional realizada en el 2000. Julio 2001.
Una Mirada a Cinco Centros de Educacion de Adultos. Coordinacion Nacional de Educacion de Adultos
del MINEDUC, 2001.
Engaging with Adults. The Case for Increased Support to Adult Basic Education in Sub-Saharn Africa.
Jon Lauglo, Africa reegion. The World Bank, November 2000.
Including the 900 Million +. John Oxenham and Aya Aoki, HDNED, The World Bank, April 2000.
Compendio de Informacion Estadistica, MINEDUC, 2000.
OECD. Vocational Education and Training for Youth. Towards Coherent Policy and Practice. Paris,
1994.
OECD. Pathways and Participation in Vocational and Technical Education and Training. Paris, 1998.
OECD. From Initial Education to Working Life. Making Transitions Work. Paris, 2000.
OECD. Education Policy Analysis. Education and Skills. Paris, 2001.
Teachers and Trainers in Vocational Training. Volumen 1: Germany, Spain, France and the United
Kingdom. CEDEFOP. European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training. European
Community. Brussels. 1995.
Texas Quality Work Force Planning. Preparing Texas for the 21st. Century Through a Skilled and
Educated Work Force. Texas Education Agency. Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board. Texas
Department of Commerce. September 1990.
Strategic Framework to 2004. Draft Corporate Plan for Consultation. Learning and Skills Council.
www.Isc.gov.uk. London, England, March 2001.
Using Occupational Standards to Define Education and Training Programs. David Fretwell. Georgia
HE/TVET Conference Discussion Paper. January 2000.
Analisis de Modelos Institucionales y Alternativas de Financiamiento de Sistemas de Certificacion de
Competencias Laborales. Modelos del Reino Unido, Canada, Australia, Mexico y Alternativas para
Chile. Fundacion Chile, Santiago, Chile, 2000.
- 83 -



Vocational Training: Analysis of Policy and Modes. Case of Sweden,Germany and Japan. Jon Lauglo.
International Institute for Educational Planning, UNESCO, Paris, 1993.
National Policy. Adult Community Education. Ministerial Council on Education, Employment, Training
and Youth Affairs. Australia, June 1997.
Secondary Schools and the Transition to Work in Latin America and the Caribbean. De Mora Castro, C.,
Carnoy, M., y Wolff, L. Sustainable Development Department, Technical Paper Series, Inter-American
Development Bank, Washington D.C. February, 2000.
Secondary Education in Latin America and the Caribbean. The Challenge of Growth and Reform. Wolff,
L., y De Mora Castro, C. Sustainable Development Department, Technical Paper Series, Inter-American
Development Bank, Washington D.C. January, 2000.
Informacion Sobre las Condiciones Educativas y Laborales de los Jovenes en Chile. MINEDUC.
Noviembre 1999.
Competencias Basicas de la Poblacion Adulta. David Bravo y Dante Contreras. Universidad de Chile.
Departamento de Economia, Santiago, Chile. Mayo 2001.
El Mercado de Trabajo de los Jovenes en Chile. Osvaldo Giordano. B. Aires, Argentina, Octubre 19,
2000.
Evaluacion Ex-Post Chile Joven Fase II. Informe Final Preliminar. Santiago Consultores Asociados,
2000.
Una Puerta Abierta a la Calidad en la Educacion Superior. Comision Nacional de Acreditacion de
Pregrado. MINEDUC. 2001
Educacion Tecnico Profesional y Capacitacion Permanente en Chile. Heidi Berner. Febrero 27, 2001.
Evaluacion del Marco Institutcional de la Educacion Media Tecnica-Profesional. Departamento de
Economia. Universidad de Chile y MINEDUC, 2000.
Analisis de Impacto de la Propuesta Dual en la Educacion Media Tecnico-Profesional. Departamento de
Economia. Universidad de Chile, 2000.
Los Centros de Formacion Tecnica. Dos Decadas de Gestion. Carlos Velzco Barraza. Division de
Educacion Superior. MINEDUC, Agosto, 2000.
Comentarios Sobre la Formacion de Tecnicos de Nivel Superior. Jacques Mazeran. Division de
Educacion Superior. MINEDUC, 1999.
Chile's Rapid Growth in the 1990s: Good Policies, Good Luck, or Political Change? Esteban Jadresic
and Roberto Zahler. IMF Working Paper 153, October 2000.
*Including electronic files
- 84 -






Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
CHILE: Lifelong Learning and Training Project
23-Oct-2001
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                 disbursements
Project ID  FY  Purpose                            IBRD       IDA                   Cancel.  Undisb.   Orig  Frm Rev'd
P055481     1999 CL-HIGHER EDUCATION                  145.45    0.00                     0.00   107.66   50.21    0.00
P055480    1999 CL MUNIC DEVT II                       10.10    0.00                     0.00    9.00     7.58    0.00
P063386    1999 CL-MILLENNIUM INSTITUTIONS (LIL)       5.00     0.00                     0.00    0.63     0.63    0.00
P006661    1995 THIRD RD SCTR                         120.00    0.00                     0.00    7.14     7.14    7.14
Total:   280.55    0.00                     0.00    124.44   65.56    7.14
CHILE
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
MAY-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                          Disbursed
IFC                               IFC
FY Approval          Company                         Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic
1991/93             Aconcagua                        0.00     0.45    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.45     0.00    0.00
1991/94             BOMASA                           0.00     2.80    0.00     0.00     0.00     2.80     0.00    0.00
CBT                              0.00   14.00     0.00     0.00     0.00   14.00     0.00     0.00
1999                 CBTI                            0.00     0.00     1.70    0.00     0.00     0.00     1.70    0.00
1999                 Escondida                       0.00     0.00    18.32    0.00     0.00     0.00    14.57    0.00
1989/91/99          FEPASA                          13.78     0.00     0.00    5.70    13.78     0.00     0.00     5.70
1996                ING-MLF-Nature F                 1.20     0.00     0.00     1.80    1.20     0.00     0.00     1.80
1990                MonedaMgt                        0.00     0.13     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.13     0.00    0.00
1994/96/97          Pangue                           0.00     2.82     0.00    0.00     0.00     2.82     0.00    0.00
1993                Pionero Fondo                    0.00     9.33     0.00    0.00     0.00     9.33     0.00     0.00
1994                Proa Fund                        0.00     7.34     0.00    0.00     0.00     7.34     0.00     0.00
1996                 San Antonio                    35.00     3.70     0.00   65.00    12.25     3.70     0.00   22.75
2000
Total Portfolio:          49.98   40.57    20.02     72.50    27.23   40.57     16.27   30.25
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval         Company                            Loan     Equity     Quasi      Partic
Total Pending Commitment:           0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
- 85 -






Annex 10: Country at a Glance
CHILE: Lifelong Learning and Training Project
Latin   Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         America   middle-
Chile  & Carib.  income      Development diamond'
2000
Population, mid-year (millions)                     15.2       516      647                 Ute expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlias method, US$)                4,610     3,680     4,620
GNI (Aias method, US$ billions)                     70.1      1,895    2,986
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Populaton (Y.)                                       1A         1.6      1.3     GNI
Labor torce (Y.)                                     2.0       2.3       2.0     GNI                           rGross
per                   ~~~~~primary
Most recent estimate (latest vear available. 1994-00)                            capita                     enrollment
Poverty (% of oopu/ation belownfatinal povvert/ine)   21         ..                                           n
Urban populaton (Y. of total population)              86        75       76
Life expectancy at birth (Years)                      76        70       69
Infant mortality (per 1,000live births)               10        30       28
Child malnutribon (% of children under 5)              1         9        ,.          Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)  94        85       87
Illiteracy (% ofloopulation age 15i)                   4        12       10
Gross prmary enrollment (% ofschool-ape population)  101       113      107        -Chde
Male                                               103         ..     106         -- Upper-middle-income group
Female                                             100                105
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990      1999     2000
Econamic ratoes
GOP (USS billions)                         27.6     30.3      66.3      70.5
Gross domestic investmenVGDP               21.0     25.1      21.1      21.7
Exports of goods and services/GOP          22.8     34.6      29.0      31.8                    Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                  16.9    28.4      23.2      22.8
Gross national savings/GDP                  13.5    23.2      21.1      20.1
Current account balance/GDP                   ..    -1.6      -0.1      -1.4     Domeslc                    Investme
Interest payments/GDP                       3.3      4.5       3.1       3.9    savings                            nt
Total debt/GDP                             43.8     63.4      57.0      60.2     saig
Total debt servicelexports                   ..     27.1      15.2      15.8
Present value of debtGDP                      ..      ..      54.2
Present value of debtlexports                ..       ..     179.1
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00    1999      2000   2000-04
(average annual prowth)
GDP                                4.2      6.8     -1.1       5.4       5.0            eChle
GDP per capita                      2.5     5.2     -2.4       4.0       3.8         ---- Upper-mlddle-income group
Exports of goods and services      6.9      9.4      6.9       7.5       7.2
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999     2000      Grow-th of Investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                      40
Agriculture                                 7.3      8.7      11.6      11.4
Industry                                   37.4     41.5      36.8      37.5     2
Manufacturing                             21.5     19.6      17.4      17.4 o
Services                                   55.3     49.8      51.7      51.0                       1 ,20  srse   seN   o
Private consumpblon                        70.7     61.9      65.0      65.1    40
General govemment consumption               12.5     9.8      11.8      12.2              -GDI         -0   GDP
Imports of goods and services              27.0     31.4      27.2      30.8
1980-90  1990-00     1999      2000     Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(avenage annual pro wth)
Agriculture                                 5.9      4.2      -0.7       7.6    30
Industry                                    3.5      6.0       2.7       4.5    2
Manufacturing                              3 4      4.6      -0.7      4.3    to
Services                                    2.9      5.2      -0.7       5.0     o
Private Consumption                         2.0      7.4      -3.1       4.1    ,      s,         97    so
General govemment consumpton                0.4      3.9       2.5       3.5   -20
Gross domestc investment                    6.4      8.9     -25.5      13.7             r   Eport       OImports
Imports of goods and services               1.8     11.0     -14.3      10.1
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
' The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-gnoup average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 86 -



Chile
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980     1990      1999     2000     Inflatlon (%)
Domestic iriceS                                                                  1
(% change)                                                                        .
Consumer prces                              35.1     26.0       3.3      4.0         t
Implicit GDP deflator                       28.8     21.2       3.5      4.1
Govemnment finance
(% of GDP, incfudes current arants)                                              o
Current revenue                               ..     20.6      22.5     23.7            Ss    95    97    us   9u     0
Current budget balance                        ..      2.5       2.5      3.7            -GDP defnatol     '  CPI
Overall surplus/defIcit                       ..      0.8      -1.5      0.1
TRADE
(US$ millions)                              1980    1990       1999     2000     Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                        4,706    8,373    15,616   18,158     25.,0.
Copper                                    2,125   3,810     5,889     7,347
Fruits                                     340      757      1,212    1,122     .000
Manufactures                              1,751   2,739     7,152     8,172                    r
Total imports (cdO                                  7,742    15,137   18,089         k      i,,.nNi
Fuel andenergy                               ..   1,208      1,799    2,890
Capital goods                                ..   2.137     3,270     3,702     .           u .  _        u    u    us
Y4   95   08   97  ff   99   00
Export Prce Index (1995=100)                         877         7        73
Import price index (1995=100)                         88        111      122                EFEports     almports
Terms of trade (1995=10O)                             68        60        60
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1980     1990      1999     2000     Current account balance to GDP (%)
(US$ millions).
Exports of goods and services                 ..   10,222    19,406   22,087
Imports of goods and services                 ..    9,173    18,056   21,209        1 t   6 *  -     7
Resource balance                              ..    1,049     1,350      878                       1f1 
Net income                                     ..  -1,731    -1,881   -2,404
Net curent transfers                          ..      197      453       538                        l   i
Current account balance                       ..    -485        -78     -989                   L    _
Financing items (net)                         ..    2,853     -605     1,188
Changes in net reserves                       ..   -2,368      883      -198    |J 
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USSmillions)         ..    5,358    15,013   15,211
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUSS)            39.0    305.1     508.8    535.5
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990      1999     2000
(US$ rWlions)                                                                    Conmpsoetion of 2000 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      12,081   19,226    37,762   42,489
IBRD                                       163    1,860      877       808                     A:as 0: 7
IDA                                        21       14         8        7            G: 9,921
Total debt service                         2,708    2,772     5,210    4,048                     *         \
IBRD                                       25      249       181       185              4                      12,390
IDA                                          0       1         1         1
Composibon of net resource flows
Official grants                              9      73         14        0
Official creditors                        -145     294       -83      -108                                 , E:494
Private creditors                        2,234    1,187    -3,686    2,261                               /
Foreign direct investment                 213      590      4,366   -1,103                  ,    -     ..
Portfolio equity                            0      320       130      -261                F: 1t.S49
Word Bank ptroram
Commitments                                 74     130       161         0     A - IBRO                   E - Bilateral
Disbursements                               14     251        43       48      B - IDA  D - Other mutialeral  F - Private
Prncipal reparments                         9      120       111       116     C-IMF                      G-short.-tem
Net flows                                   5      132       -68      -67
Interest payments                          16      130        71        70
Netbransfers                               -11       1       -139     -138
Development Economics                                                                                             9/26/01
- 87 -



MAP SECTION






F                                                          E   Z   IJ    j  A   1  7'   (  r _ C) ' j ! l ~~~~~~~~;'~ -I ' 1- ra B *^ f W: 5 C | _ IBRD 25555IBD 2555
*NzZ*C L *  C  ?    X       <               \  | | d s-             S                |                        (             z               ,E N0E  : ry. 
.-,       ,                             _F E0l 0d'i :_ l' 
-   X   H   -.   L- t:>tA'aCtfi   1-  -    -  )                                   _          '  I  I~~~~~~~~~~~OPIE   O --  -Ill
R:EGiIN                                                      LIE__,_- -_I.
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I                       I  1 ,L.C     _ 4                                                                         ...   .....Z :t<t thhlc hLh --5
, , -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ v                                      . _.,
IvE~~~~~~~~~~e                                     I x I-  Ir   ** oocpxnef,, ,.Jwe~i"
.r tUIte6: .  t__.  F bS   _                                    _  '   _<i  1
|  5 1 /t / -- l * j   D8'   j   _   ,,L,_-e_1 Q1 ,r-. . g         ..                        .J.         ...         v."~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J



