Report No. 23695
Report No: I068271 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 02/14/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: CHILE Project ID: P068271
Project: Lifelong Learning and Training Project           Task Team Leader: Juan
Prawda
Authorized to Appraise Date: November 9, 2001     IBRD Amount ($m): 75.75
Bank Approval: March 26, 2002    IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: LCSHE     Sector: EV - Vocational/Technical Education & Training
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)        Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The developmental objective of the proposed project is to assist the
Government of Chile (GC) in establishing the foundation of an articulated
lifelong learning and training system with the participation of the
private sector (employers and workers). This developmental objective
which supports and reinforces the country's continued economic and social
transformation would be accomplished by: (i) reducing the social deficit
in the provision of lifelong education and training opportunities for
adults, especially those unemployed youth and workers living in conditions
of poverty who seek a second-chance to improve their employability and
quality of life and move up the career ladder; and (ii) upgrading the
skill-level of the Chilean workforce to improve the country's productivity
and competitiveness in the international arena. These two resulting
outcomes become the project's specific objectives and are to be achieved
through the following three project components: (a) providing new
opportunities for lifelong learning and training; (b) improving the
quality and increasing the coverage of technical-professional education;
and (c) establishing instruments to support the provision of a lifelong
learning and training services. A fourth component - Institutional
strengthening - is included to ensure an effective and efficient
coordination of project implementation at the national and regional levels
and strengthening the participating institutions.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The Project includes the following four components: (a) providing new
opportunities for lifelong learning and training; (b) improving the
quality and increasing the coverage of technical-professional education;
(c) establishing instruments to support the provision of a lifelong
learning and training services; and (d) institutional strengthening.
Component 1 (Providing new opportunities for lifelong learning and
training). This component addresses the first and third sector issues
described in section B3 of the PAD. This component will finance: (a) the
promotion and the increasing of the private and public supply of basic and
secondary education opportunities for adults (sub-component 1.1); (b) the
establishment of a learning assessment and certification system for adults



seeking to complete their basic and secondary education (sub-component
1.2); and (c) the establishment of new modalities that harmonize adult
basic and secondary education with training (sub-component 1.3).
Accordingly, this component will finance: (i) accredited public and
private providers (schools and institutions) offering learning modules in
adult basic and secondary education (attuned to new adult education
curriculum approved by the ME) towards the completion of these two levels;
(ii) the design of learning modules; (iii) the production and distribution
of pertinent adult learning materials (for students and teachers) of
appropriate quality including those to be provided through distance
education delivery modalities; (iv) the development of relevant training
modules of appropriate quality (to be offered by the Organismos Tecnicos
de Capacitaci6n [OTECs], Centros de Formaci6n Tecnica [CFTs], CEIAS or any
other accredited provider) aligned to SMES' demand; (v) the analysis,
development and validation (ex-ante and ex-post) of instruments for
learning assessment, most likely through the selection of qualified
consultants and/or research institutions or universities; (vi) the
printing and distribution of testing instruments and certificates; (vii)
the training of examiners; (viii) local consultants to provide technical
assistance; (ix) the application and processing of the learning assessment
tests by learning module and educational level; (x) the statistical
analysis of learning assessment results; (xi) promotional and
dissemination campaigns and workshops; (xii) the conduction of diagnostic
and impact evaluation studies; (xiii) the safe-keeping of the bank of
learning assessment tests; (xiv) supervision and monitoring; and (xv) the
issuing and public recording of certificates. The proposed Loan will
finance the provision of adult education based on established
fees/module/level/, technical assistance (consultants) and the training
required in the implementation of the above activities. Counterpart
funding will complement the Loan's financing and will absorb 100l of the
acquisition of goods (teaching aids, materials, textbooks), the
competitive fund and the incremental recurrent salaries and operational
costs associated with the implementation of the above-mentioned
activities.
The implementation of this component is based on a five-pronged
approach. First, setting appropriate incentives to align and
significantly increase the private and public supply of adult basic and
secondary learning opportunities ensuring pertinence and appropriate
quality. These incentives, as explained in more detail in Annex 2, are
designed to ensure targeting to the poorest segments of the Chilean
society (belonging to the lowest three income-deciles, including
indigenous population) and equity in the provision of adult education
services. Second, the payments to the public and private providers of
adult education will be based on the demonstrated completion of a learning
module by students instead of being based merely on attendance. Third,
provide technical assistance to the SMESs' to guide their request for
relevant training (educating the demand) and align the training supply
accordingly. The actual acquisition of training modules by the SMES will
be done outside the project's resources using the tax-rebate and
pre-financing mechanisms set by the GC for such purposes. Fourth, by
allowing adult education institutions to provide also relevant training
and training institutions offering adult education. Fifth, by developing
adult distance education and training modules to be delivered through new
- 2 -



education technologies, including distance education modalities.
Specific outcomes of this component include: (a) providing basic education
for 71,5000 adults and secondary education for 48,500 adults; (b) ensuring
that about 120,000 adults complete and certify their basic and/or
secondary education; (c) ensuring relevant training to 12,000 workers from
about 6,000 SMES; (d) providing adult education through new education
technologies to about 18,500 adults; (e) piloting other demonstrative
programs articulating education and training to about 2,500 adults; and
(f) preparing about 75 distance adult training modules to benefit 250,000
adult users.
Component 2 (Improving the quality and increasing the coverage of
technical-professional education). This component addresses the second
and fourth sector issues described in section B3 of the PCD. This
component will finance: (a) the vertical articulation of technical
secondary with tertiary technical-professional education (sub-component
2.1) through the establishment of technological curricular pathways
(curricular progression maps) fully explained in Annex 2; (b) the
horizontal articulation of technical secondary and tertiary education with
the labor market in selected regions of the country through the
constitution of regional networks encompassing technical secondary
schools, tertiary technical education institutions (CFTs, Institutos
Profesionales and regional universities), training providers (OTECs),
employers and workers (sub-component 2.1); (c) the validation by the
education system of the skills acquired on the job and/or in the training
institutions; (d) the quality improvement of technical secondary and
tertiary education in the regional networks established under the project
(sub-component 2.1); (e) the increase in access to tertiary technical
education (sub-component 2.1); and (f) the quality and pertinence
improvement of the pre and in-service teacher training institutions for
technical-professional education (sub-component 2.2).
Accordingly, this component will finance, through a competitive fund, up
to 40 proposals from established regional networks that aim to achieve the
above-mentioned objectives (vertical and horizontal integration, improved
tertiary education quality and increased coverage). Under this fund,
those qualified public and private third parties belonging to the regional
network established under the project may receive funding for: (i) the
acquisition of learning materials and equipment; and (ii) technical
assistance for the development and implementation of proposals. In
addition, this component will also finance: (iii) cross-fertilization
activities, dissemination campaigns, local workshops and one international
seminar in teacher training for technical-professional education; (iv)
monitoring and impact evaluation studies; (v) the establishment of
remedial courses to ensure an equal starting base of learning standards
for all incoming students seeking tertiary technical education in the
participating regional networks; (vi) apprenticeships and internships;
(vii) the development of a modularized curricula for pre and in-service
teacher training; (viii) the setting of appropriate graduation standards
for students completing their tertiary technical education and those
graduating from pre and in-service teacher training in the area of
technical-professional education; (ix) up to three institutional plans
prepared by accredited pre and in-service teacher training institutions to
improve their pre and in-service teacher training services including
-3 -



technical assistance and modular and distance learning inputs through a
competitive fund set up for that purpose; and (x) the training of teachers
of accredited institutions (master trainers). The proposed Loan will
finance the technical assistance and the training required in the
implementation of the above activities. Counterpart funding will
complement the Loan's financing and will absorb 100t of the acquisition of
goods (learning equipment, teaching aids, materials, textbooks), the
competitive fund and the incremental recurrent salaries and operational
costs associated with the implementation of the above-mentioned
activities.
Each regional network financed under the project would have clearly
defined guidelines on: (i) learning and employment objectives and targets;
(ii) steering, cooperation and advisory roles to be played by the academic
and training institutions, the employers and workers; (iii) regulation,
coordination, monitoring and operational procedures; (iv) technological
curricular pathways for the articulation and linkage of the last two
grades of technical secondary schools with the first two years of tertiary
professional education including expected exit standards (competences,
knowledge and learning skills);and (v) the instruments (national
competency framework and vocational-professional pathways) to articulate
technical-professional education with training. In case that
international exit standards exists in the economic sector related to the
regional network they will be used to make them compatible with the labor
strategies being implemented by the regional markets. The project will
start piloting this component in four regional and one national networks
where alignment efforts are underway in different sectors of the economy.
The regional networks are: Copiap6 (Region III) in mining, Concepci6n
(Region VIII) in the metal-mechanic sector, Temuco (Region IX) in the
tourism and gastronomic sectors and Valparaiso (Region V) in new
technologies. The national network is in the health sector. The three
regional and one national networks will be used as pilots during the first
two years of the project, and, based on impact evaluation findings, scaled
up to a total of 40 regional proposals over the life of the project. It
is expected that there will be a cross-fertilization across components as
the competency framework and pathways established as part of the third
component feed into the regional networks, thus creating bridges and
instruments which help align the technical-professional education with the
productive sector. It is also expected that the outcomes of the
implementation of this component will feed into the ME's efforts in
setting a national policy in technical-professional education.
Specific outcomes of this component include: (i) 65,000 students enrolled
in pertinent tertiary technical-professional programs of appropriate
quality; (ii) graduate profiles and improved quality education for 142,000
students in 662 technical municipal and private subsidized technical
secondary schools; and (iii) about 5,000 better prepared technical
education teachers (either technicians and professionals with ample work
experience wishing to become technical-professional education teachers
and/or "improvised" teachers of technical secondary schools and tertiary
technical-professional institutions needing to upgrade their pedagogical
and technological skills).
Component 3 (Establishing instruments to support the provision of a
lifelong learning and training services). This component addresses the
- 4 -



fourth sector issue described in section B3 of the PCD. This component
will finance: (a) the establishment of a national system of competency
framework and vocational-professional pathways in nine selected sectors of
the Chilean economy; and (b) the establishment of four lifelong learning
and training proactive and guiding management information systems (MISs).
Accordingly, this component will finance: (i) the refining of the ongoing
system of national competency framework in the four sectors of the Chilean
economy currently covered by an IDB Grant that close in 2002; (ii) the
extension of this system to about five new economic sectors (to be defined
during project implementation based on criteria explained in Annex 2);
(iii) the developing of new capabilities among local training providers to
design and deliver competency-based training programs; (iv) the delivery
of relevant training to workers in the nine sectors of the economy
considered by the project; (v) the establishment of incentives to
stimulate and maintain demand for certification of different users, in
particular self-employed, small-medium and micro enterprises; (vi) the
implementation of the institutional arrangements required for assessing
and certifying labor and employability competencies under a fully
recognized and legitimate national competency framework; (vii) the
development, production and dissemination of training and assessment
materials; (viii) the direct cost for assessing and certifying skills in
the nine selected economic sectors; (ix) the development of
vocational-professional pathways; (x) the development of a system to
monitor the quality and pertinence of the services provided by the
technical secondary schools; (xi) the development of a system to monitor
the quality and pertinence of the services provided by the training
institutions; (xii) technical assistance; (xiii) training workshops,
seminars, dissemination campaigns and study tours to other relevant
related experiences worldwide; (xiv) monitoring and impact evaluation
studies; (xv) the development of specific software and project-related
Web-site; and (xvi) the training and technical assistance to about 1,400
vocational orientation counsellors already functioning in the 1,340
secondary schools in the country and personnel of the 118 private and
municipal employment information offices. The proposed Loan will finance
the technical assistance and the training required in the implementation
of the above activities. Counterpart funding will complement the Loan's
financing and will absorb 10O of the acquisition of goods (training aids
and materials, assessment instruments) and the incremental recurrent
salaries and operational costs associated with the implementation of the
above-mentioned activities.
Specific outcomes of this component include: (a) nine sector of the
Chilean economy with established system of national competency framework
and vocational-pathways; (b) about 29,000 workers of these nine economic
sectors that have certified their competencies and given the opportunity
to upgrade them; (c) three proactive guiding MISs; and (d) about 1.5
million adults consulting these MISs during the life of the project.
Component 4 (Institutional strengthening). This component will finance a
national Project Coordination Unit (PCU). In addition, this component
will support the strengthening of the national and regional
representations of SENCE by financing: (i) the acquisition of additional
computers and peripheral equipment and software for SENCE and its regional
offices; (ii) training; and (iii) technical assistance.     Finally, this
- 5-



component will finance a continuous communication and dissemination
strategy by the Directorio/PCU.
The national PCU will be in charge of: (i) planning and programming; (ii)
monitoring project implementation including disbursements and collection
of expenditure documentation; (iii) providing technical assistance and
guidance in the procurement of goods and services to be financed by the
proposed Loan and counterpart funding; (iv) communicating with the Bank;
(v) implementing the recommendations emerging from the Directorio
(explained in C4 below); (vi) contracting the carrying out of evaluation
and tailored-specific research studies; and (vii) coordinating
project-related communication with other national (Ministries of Economy,
Education and Labor and Social Welfare) and regional authorities and
agencies as well as other private project stakeholders representing the
productive, labor sectors, universities and non-governmental agencies.
The proposed Loan will finance the national PCU personnel, technical
assistance and the training required in the implementation of the above
activities. Counterpart funding will complement the Loan's financing and
will absorb 100l of the acquisition of goods for the PCUs and SENCE
including computers, peripheral equipment and software and the incremental
recurrent salaries and operational costs associated with the
implementation of the above-mentioned activities.
Components:
1. Providing new opportunities for lifelong learning and training;
2. Improving the quality and increasing the coverage of
technical-professional education;
3. Establishing instruments to support the provision of a lifelong
learning and training services.
4. Institutional strengthening
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
National for components 1 and 3 and regionally in the regional networks
financed by the project (to be defined throughout the implementation of
component 2).
B. Check Environmental Classification: C (Not Required)
Comments:
No construction. No negative environmental and social impacts expected.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)         No
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)    No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)      No
-6-



Pest Management (OP 4.09)        No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)    No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)      No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*         No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)       No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
N/A
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
N/A
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
N/A
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
N/A
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
N/A
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
I S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
[XI S3. - No safeguard issues
-7-



I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why. No documents need to be disclosed, since no policies
are triggered.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:        Juan Prawda     02/08/02
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         Juan D. Quintero         02/12/02
Sector Manager/Director:         Ana-Maria Arriagada      02/12/02
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
- 8-



