Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFMFCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4041-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$ 300.0 MILLION
TO INDIA
FOR THE
CHANDRAPUR THERMAL POWER PROJECT
April 24, 1985
This doaeot has a resmyicted distribution rd me bedusedby recipieots Ory in the perforone of |
|tbeir officid duis Its contents mny not othewie be d-Lwslosed witbowt World Bailc auhorization.|



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of April 19, 1985)
USS1.O0        -  Rs 12.268
Rs 1.00        =  US$0.0815
Rs 1 million   =  US$81,500
The US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change.
Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report were, except
as otherwise noted, made at the rate of USSl to Rs 11.0.
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
Abbreviations and Acronyms
CEA    -   Central Electricity Authority
GOI    -   Government of India
GOM    -   Governmeut of Maharashtra
ICB    -   International Competitive Bidding
LCB    -   Local Competitive Bidding
LRMC   -   Long Run Marginal Cost
MSEB   -   Maharashtra State Electricity Board
NHPC   -   National Hydroelectric Power Corporation
NTPC   -   National Thermal Power Corporation
RER    -   Regional Electricity Board
REC    -   Rural Electrification Corporation
SEB    -   State Electricity Board
TEC    -   Tata Electric Companies   -



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
CHANDRAPUR THERMAL POWER PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrover:               India, acting by its President.
Beneficiary:            Maharashtra State Electricity Board (MSEB).
Amount:                 USS30O  million.
Terms:                  Repayment over 20 years, including five years  grace,
at the applicable rate of interest.
Relendinx  Terms:       Government of India (GOI) to the Government of
Maharashtra (GOM): As part of Central assistance
to States for development projects on terms and
conditions applicable at the time.
GOM to MSEB: (a) Bank loan: Repayment over 20
years, including five years- grace, at the current
Bank interest rate of 9.29% per annum; (b) GOM
loan: Repayment over 30 years, including six
years grace, at GOM's current applicable rate of
interest.
GOI will bear the foreign exchange and interest
rate risks.
Proiect Description:    The project's main objective is to assist in
meeting the electricity demand in the Western
Region of India through the addition of 1,000 MW
of thermal capacity at the Chandrapur thermal
power plant in Naharashtra. The project comprises
the installation of two 500 MW generating
units--including boilers, turbogenerator sets,
electrical and mechanical auxiliary equipment,
associated civl, works, and common services and
facilities. The project also includes a thermal
plant rehabilitation program designed to provide
for more efficient use of MSEB's thermal stations.
There are no risks other than those normally
associated with this type of project. All the
main equipment items are manufactured in India,
and there is adequate understanding of and
experience with their installation.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
Estimated Cost: j]
(US$ millions)
Item                          Local         Foreign         Total
Preliminary Works                            9.9            -              9.9
Civil Works                                138.1            3.8          141.9
Steam Generators, Turbogenerators,
Control, and Auxiliaries                 187.6          200.5         388.1
Other Mechanical and Electrical
Equipment                                 93.1           81.1          174.2
Transportation, Erection,
Insurance, and Testing                    47.6            2.5          50.1
Consultancy and Training                     3.8            1.5            5.3
Engineering and Administration              50.0            -             50.0
Thermal Plant Rehabilitation                32.4            8.4           40.8
Base Cost                               562.5          297.8         860.3
Physical Contingencies                      25.4           14.5           39.9
Price Contingencies                        113.1          102.9          216.0
Total Project Cost                      701.0          415.2       1,116.2
Interest during Construction               100.0           80.5          180.5
Total Financing Requirements               601.0          495.7        1,296.7
Financing Plan:                                       (US$ millions)
Local        Foreign         Total
IBRD Loan                                 -           300.0          300.0
GOM Loan                                476.0          195.7         671.7
MSEB Internal Resources                 325.0            -           325.0
Total                              801.0          495.7        1,296.7
1/ Includes taxes and duties of US$117.6 million.



-iii-
Estimated Disbursements;
(US$ millions)
Bank FY           FY86      FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93
Annual             37.0     17.0   4U.0    75.0    75.0   32.0   21.0    3.0
Cumulative        37.0      54.0    94.0   169.0   244.0  276.0  297.0  300.0
Rate of Return:    About llX.
Appraisal Report:  No. 5319-IN, dated April 24, 1985.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO TRE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO INDIA FOR THE CHANDRAPUR THERMAL POWER PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan to
India for USS300.0 million on standard terms to help finance the construction of
the third stage of development of the Chandrapur thermal power station in the State
of Maharashtra, and a thermal plant rehabilitation program for selected power
plants within the State.  The project is designed to provide an additional 1,000
megawatts of electricity-generating capacity to supplement the 840 megawatts
provided under the first and second stages, and to improve the efficiency, through
repair and renovation, of six power plants located in various parts of the State.
The Government of India (GOI) will channel the proceeds of the loan to the
Government of Maharashtra (GOM) in accordance with GOI's standard terms and arran-
gements for financing State development projects. GOM will in turn onlend these
funds to the Maharashtra State Electricity Board (MSEB) for 20 years, including
five years' grace, at the current Bank interest rate of 9.29% per annum.
Additional financing of about US$250 million may possibly be provided from export
credits, suppliers' credits, or commercial bank loans to cover the foreign exchange
cost of the main equipment items (steam generators, turbogenerators, control and
auxiliary equipment). The foreign exchange and interest rate risks will be borne
by the Government of India.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      An economic report, "Situation and Prospects of the Indian Economy - A
Medium Term Perspective" (4962-IN, dated April 16, 1984), was distributed to the
Executive Directors on April 23, 1984. Country data sheets are attached as Annex
I.
Background
3.      India is a large and diverse country with a population of about 750 million
(in mid-1984) and an annual per capita income of USS260. The economy is dominated
by agriculture which employs more than two-thirds of the labor force. However, the
land base is not sufficient to provide an adequate livelihood to everyone engaged
in agticultural activities, especially those who own little or no land.  Growth of
value-added in agriculture -- 2.2% since 1950/51 -- has been slower than growth of
industrial value-added (5.3% per annum). As a result, there has been a gradual
decline in the share of agriculture in GDP (at factor cost) from 52% in 1950/51 to
about 33% in 1981/82, while the share of industry rose from 20% to around 26Z. But
industrialization has not been rapid enough to absorb the growing labor force, or
to bring about a rapid economic transformation, with significantly higher produc-
tivity and income levels. As a result economic growth has been slow over the past
three decades, averaging about 3.6% per annum since 1950/51.
/ Parts I and II of the report are similar to Parts I and II of the President:s
Report for the National Highways Project (No.P-4U29-IN), dated April 18, 1985.



-2-
4.      Nevertheless, there has been steady progress, with per capita income rising
by about 1.4% per year in the period 1950 to 1980. Despite the large population
base and its relativeLy rapid growth, India has been able to eliminate persistent
dependence on foodgrain imports through significant improvements in agricultural
production. Savings and investment have increased markedly since 1950/51: the
gross national sa-ings rate more than doubled from 10.8% of GDP (at factor cost) to
22.7% in 1983/84, while the gross domestic investment rate rose from 12.5% of GDP
to 24.8% in 1983/84. Foreign savings (balance of payments deficit on current
account) have never financed a major portion of domestic investment: a peak of
about 20% was reached during the early 1960s. Currzntly, foreign savings account
for about 8% of investment. External assistance has been Low both as a percentage
of GDP and in per capita terms, never rising above 3% of GDP and averaging below
1% for the past five years.  Net use of foreign savings has never risen above 3% of
GDP, and presently stands at 2.1Z.
5.      Before the 1970s, India placed relatively less emphasis on export promotion
and more on import substitution. The volume growth of exports between 1950/51 and
1969/70 averaged only 2.2% per annum, while the volume growth of imports over the
same period was 4.3%. In the early to mid-1970s, however, India's terms of trade,
which had remained roughly constant during the 1960s, deteriorated sharply. In
response, the Government introduced various policy measures designed to stimulate
exports. As a result, the volume of India's exports grew on average about 7.3% per
annum for the 1970s as a whole, a performance which demonstrates that sustained
rapid growth is possible. While expanding world markets, particularly in the
nearby Middle East, contributed to this growth, liberalized access to imported
inputs and more effective export incentives played a major role.
6.      Moving into the second half of the 1970s, the Indian economy was buoyed by
higher levels of investment and an expanding level of foodgrain output. As a
result, growth in real GDP and in agricultural and industrial value-added substan-
tially exceeded the historical 30-year trends (paragraph 3) averaging 5.3Z, 3.3%
and 8.1%, respectively, during the 1975/76 to 1978/79 period. In 1979/80, however,
this momentum was broken when the worst drought in recent years, combined with a
doubling of international oil prices and domestic supply shortages, led to a sharp
faLl in foodgrain production, a decline in GDP, and the opening up of a relatively
large trade deficit. Severe inflationary pressures also emerged after several
years of virtual price stability. These setbacks coincided with the preparation of
the Sixth Five-Year Plan which laid down a program of adjustment that aimed at
improving the trade deficit, removing infrastructural bottlenecks and ensuring
price stability with an overall growth of the economy of 5.2% per annum.
Recent Trends
7.      Despite the effects of two severe droughts in 1979/80 and 1982/83, India's
economy in the early 1980s continued to grow at the faster pace of the second half
of the 1970s. Between the two droughts (from 1979/80 to 1982/83), GDP growth
averaged almost 52 per annum, while between the two recovery years (from 1980/81 to
1983/84), it was 4.5% per annum -- substantially higher than India's long-term
growth rate of 3.6%. Continued rapid economic growth has resulted from a develop-
ment strategy which includes higher investment levels and liberalized policies on
imports, industrial licensing, prices, and commercial borrowing. These policies,
by easing constraints on the supply of infrastructure and basic commodities, were a
determining factor in the improved performance of the economy and the industrial



-3-
sector. This overall improvement in performance, combined with a more restrictive
monetary policy in 1981/B2 and 1982/83, resulted in a sharp decline in the rate of
inflation. The growth rate of wholesale prices declined from over 18% in 1980/81
to only 2.6X in 1982/83, but rose to over 9Z in 1983/84, mainly due to the effect
of the 1982/83 drought on food prices. Further improvements in the policy environ-
ment will be required to maintain these higher levels of economic growth and
investment without putting undue pressure on the balance of payments or reviving
inflationary expectations.
8.      Economic growth in the early l980s has not been steady, mainly because of
the effect of uneven rainfall on agricultural production during the period. In
1980/81 and 1981/82, the economy substantially recovered from the 1979 drought,
with real GDP growing by 7.6% and 5.3%, respectively. While industrial output
expanded by 4% in 1980/81 and 8.6% in 1981/82, recovery was particularly robust in
agriculture where normal weather helped output to rise by more than 15X and 5.5Z,
respectively. The supply of power, coal, and rail transport, already improved in
1980/81, was further expanded in 1981/82, recording growth rates of about 10, 9.6%
and 12.5%, respectively. This overall improvement in the Indian economy was halted
in 1982/83 by a severe drought in mid-1982 which reduced agricultural production
by 4%, brought down the GDP growth rate to 1.8Z, and put further strains on the
already difficult balance of payments and domestic resource situation. The timely
implementation of various economic policies relating to foodgrain imports, procure-
ment and distribution, and the allocation of power to irrigation pumps mitigated
the otherwise very distressing effects of the poor monsoon. The economy recovered
in 1983/84, led by a robust agricultural sector - GDP grew by about 6.5% to 7% with
agricultural production growth in the 9%-10Z range and industrial growth of 4.5%.
The major factors contributing to the good economic performance during 1983/84 were
the excellent monsoon, combined with adequate agricultural policies and programs,
and satisfactory performance of the coal and transport sectors. The power sector,
however, emerged again as a constraint on higher growth, especially in industry.
9.      Agricultural production rebounded strongly in 1983/84 in response to the
monsoon, improved use of inputs and continued expansion of irrigation. Overall
foodgrain production rose by l0Z-12Z over the previous year, reaching a new record
of 142-144 million tons, a substantial increase over the previous peak of 133
million tons in 1981/82. Corrected for weather variations, foodgrain production
continues to grow at a trend of 2.6% per annum--sufficient to maintain a broad
balance between supply and steadily increasing domestic demand. Nonetheless, the
balance remains delicate, and the need for foodgrain imports to maintain consumer
supplies or adequate buffer stocks could arise from time to time. Thus, adequate
management of foodgrain stocks and programs to expand irrigation, strengthen exten-
sion and encourage the efficient use of other agricultural inputs continue to
receive high priority.
10.     Basic infrastructure services had a mixed performance in 1983/84, partially
because of sluggish demand from industry during the first half of the year but aLso
due to a faiLure to maintain the productivity gains of 1980-82. Electricity gener-
ation grew only by about 3.7% due to low reservoir water levels during the first
half of the year, delays in the commissioning of new capacity, and a deterioration
of capacity utilization in thermal plants. As a result, power generation was about
11.5Z below requirements and constituted a major bottleneck in the economy. Key
industries which were adversely affected by power constraints included steel,
fertilizers, cement, and coal. To improve performance in the power sector, the



-4-
Government recently increased incentives for higher labor and management produc-
tivity in thermal plants. Railway freight traffic, measured in ton-kms, grew by
only 0.5% in 1983/84, reflecting sluggish demand. Coal production increased by
about 6.5% in 1983/84 reaching 139 million tons.  When combined with stocks already
available this level of production was sufficient to meet the relatively slow
demand growth.  Infrastructural constraints would have emerged much more sharply
had the pace of industrial growth and demand been more rapid. It is therefore
critically important that India maintain the pace of investment in these key
sectors, mobilize sufficient resources to do so, and implement programs to enhance
productivity.
11.     The Indian economy has reverted from a situation of resource surplus in the
late 1970s to an aggregate resource deficit. The gap between gross investment and
national savings increased from negligible levels during the late 1970s to an
average equivaLent to 2.1% of GDP in 1980-84. India's gross national savings rate,
which averaged 22.6Z of GDP in the last four years, is high by any standard, par-
ticularly considering India's low income and the large proportion of its population
below the poverty line. The scope for a substantial increase in the savings rate
is therefore quite limited. If India is to maintain investment at about 25Z of
CDP, a major effort will be required to raise additional domestic resources par-
ticularly in the public sector. Future increases in savings will depend heavily
upon the enhanced profitability of public sector enterprises which would require
better utilization of capacity, more efficient operations and adequate pricing
policies. This would also allow a marginal decline in the use of foreign savings
from the recent 2.1Z-2.3Z of GDP to 1.5Z-1.8Z, to ensure a sustainable external
debt service burden.
12.     India's external resource position has changed notably since the late
1970s. The current account balance, which recorded surpluses from 1976/77 to
1978/79, reverted to deficits averaging US$3.5 billion and 2.12 of GDP during
1980/81 to 1983/84. Several developments contributed to these relatively larger
current account deficits. First, the terms of trade deteriorated sharply in
1979/80 due to the second round of oil price increases and continued to move
against India during the first three years of the 1980s. Second, a more liberal
import policy towards industrial inputs was pursued. Third, net invisibles
declined as travel receipts fell off, workers' remittances stagnated (reflecting
slower development activity in the Middle East), and payment of interest on higher
levels of foreign debt increased. Faced with severe infrastructural constraints
and a deterioration in its balance of payments, India initiated an adjustment
program in 1980/81 designed to raise the growth rate from its historical level of
3.6% to 5.2% while adjuscing the country's external balance to the adverse price
developments in the world markets. The main elements of this strategy, which is
being successfully implemented, are export promotion, import substitution where
economically justifiable, implementation of a coherent energy policy designed to
meet the energy needs of the economy while curbing the growth of oil imports, and
continued movement toward a more liberal import policy aimed at providing producers
with access to inputs for higher capacity utilization, greater efficiency, improved
technology and capacity expansion.
13.     A positive development in India's balance of payments is the reduction in
the trade deficit from US$7.7 billion in 1980/81 to US$5.9 billion in 1983/84
despite unfavorable world market conditions and import liberalization. Export
volume growth and import substitution of oil and petroleum products, metals and



-5-
fertilizers more than offset the substantial increase in "other" imports. These
"other" imports consist mainly of industrial imports and capital goods which his-
torically have been in chronic short supply and which are of critical importance to
capacity utilization, product quality, and plant modernization and expansion. A
major factor in the decline of the trade deficit was the lower net import bill for
petroleum, which dropped from US$6.7 billion in 1980/81 to US$3.4 billion in
1983/84 in response to a successful oil development program that reduced import
needs and allowed crude oil exports, which totalled about US$1.5 billion in
1983/84. These structural changes in the balance of payments are to a significant
degree the result of India's development and adjustment efforts over the past three
years. It is expected that the balance of payments will continue to be under
strain for the next several years, since the adjustment strategy will continue to
require high levels of imports.
14.     Even assuming a favorable export performance, India will need external
capital flows to augment its own resources for the foreseeable future, given the
low per capita income level in the country, the already high savings rate, and the
structuraL adjustment process. Faced with a growing need for external capital
inflows and stagnation in the availability of concessional assistance, India
decided at the start of the Sixth Plan to increase borrowings from the
International Monetary Fund (IMF) and comercial banks to substantial leveLs. In
the period covering the fiscal years 1981/82 to 1983/84, India drew SDR 3.9 billion
from the Extended Fund Facility of the IMF. In addition, India borrowed sig-
nificant amounts on commercial terms from the Euro-dollar market and increased the
use of suppliers' and export credits. In the period 1980-84, India contracted
commercial loans totalling over US$6,000 million and suppliers' credits of over
US$1,000 million. The bulk of this borrowing has been used for specific develop-
ment projects in the public and private sector (mostly for petroleum exploration
and development, steel, power, aluminum and shipping). India's favorable debt
service position and the nature of its borrowings, for project-related purposes
instead of direct balance of payments support, enabled it to tap commercial capital
markets at favorable spreads. This larger commercial borrowing and transfer of
funds under the arrangement with the IMF has stemmed the use of foreign exchange
reserves which had fallen to less than four months of import coverage in 1981/82.
Development Prospects
15.     The experience of recent years illustrates that India has the capacity to
grow and develop at a more rapid pace. Although the industrial sector is small
compared to the size of the economy, it nevertheless is large in absolute terms and
has a highly diversified structure, capable of manufacturing a wide variety of
consumer and capital goods. Basic infrastructure -- irrigation, railways,
telecommunications, power, roads and ports -- is extensive compared to many
countries, although there is considerable need for additional capacity as well as
improvement in the utilization of existing capacity. India also has a wide range
of institutions capable of fostering development and is well-endowed with human
resources. Finally, India has an extensive natural resource base in terms of land,
water, and minerals (primarily coal and ferrous ores, but also gas and oil). With
good economic policies and reasonabLe access to foreign savings, India has the
capability for managing these considerabLe resources to accelerate its long-term
growth.



-6-
16.     The Government is currently preparing the Seventh Plan which will lay down
the development strategy for 1985/86-1989/90. This strategy is expected to con-
tinue the emphasis of the Sixth Plan on agriculture, energy development, export
promotion, domestic import substitution where economically justifiable and the
removal of infrastructural bottLenecks. Overall Sixth Plan performance has been
encouraging, wit'. aggregate real investment projected to be about 30% higher than
in the period 1975-80--a creditable performance indeed. The Sixth Plan expenditure
targets, however, will not be fulfilled as resource mobilization by the public
sector will fall short of the financing requirements of planned public investment.
Actual aggregate real investment is projected to be about 7Z below the original
target for the period 1980-85, private investment being 5X to 10% higher and public
investment about 20% lower in real terms than actually projected. In terms of
meeting Plan expenditure targets, the performance of the Central Government is
considerably better than that of the State Governments. The Central Government's
Plan outlays are likely to reach about 80% to 90% of the original Plan allocation
in real terms, while the States' will probably achieve only about 50% of their
targets, due principally to shortfalls in resource generation. Bottlenecks in key
sectors such as power, transport and irrigation are likely to persist as a conse-
quence of real investment shortfalls relative to original Plan allocations.
17.     Although Sixth Plan expenditure targets will not be met, India's capital
formation rates have increased from 22.6% in 1975-80 to 24.7% of GDP in 1980-84.
Recent higher capital formation rates are encouraging for future income growth, but
returns to investment have so far been relatively low. Much of this phenomenon
relates to India's stage of development, in which a large and growing proportion of
investment has been needed to build up basic infrastructure services which have
inherently high capital-output ratios. However, there is scope to reduce capital-
output ratios through improvements in efficiency. As discussed in greater detail
in our recent economic reports, performance in the basic service sectors can be
improved through better pLanning and management, thus leading to higher produc-
tivity and capacity utilization throughout the economy. At the same time, programs
to expand domestic capacity are vital. In the case of tradeable commodities like
coal, steel and cement, this is justified on the grounds of comparative advantage.
For sectors such as irrigation, power and transportation, expansion of planned
capacity in accordance with the requirements of the rest of the economy will be
vital for sustained growth.
18.     Under the Sixth Plan, India has an ambitious oil development program backed
by substantial financial commitment. Performance under the program has been excel-
lent with real investment and oil production levels running well ahead of Plan
Targets. In 1981, and again in early 1983, resources for exploration and develop-
ment were raised by successive price increases for domestic crude and products.
While the gap between domestic consumption of petroleum and production remains
large, India's dependence on oil imports dropped from 63% of consumption in 1979180
to about 41% in 1983/84 and is expected to decrease to about 33% of consumption by
1984/85. The rapidly expanding level of exploration activity, combined with the
possibilities for accelerated offtake from known fields, offers much encouragement
for India's longer-term energy prospects. At the same time, the increases in
domestic petroleum prices have helped encourage conservation and slow demand
growth.
19.     India's development prospects over the next few years will hinge on the
extent to which the economy can be brought into both internal and external balance,



-7-
while at the same time achieving more rapid growth than in the past. This will
require the continuation of the current development strategy which assigns high
priority to export promotion, public finance discipline, improvement of economic
efficiency, and investment in infrastructure, supported by adequate flows of exter-
nal borrowing and aid. In the short term, a relatively large level of external
borrowing, including an increased emphasis on commercial borrowing, will be neces-
sary to cope with the balance of payments consequences of such a growth strategy.
However, an important element in providing India with the capacity to adjust
flexibly will be adequate flows of concessional assistance since India is still a
very poor country with a large rural sector and enormous investment requirements
for human development and basic infrastructure. Although India is currently in a
position to increase borrowing on commercial terms from the very low levels of the
past, there are, of course, limits beyond which India will choose to sacrifice
growth objectives rather than accept debt on unfavorable or unmanageable terms.
Nevertheless, with a more open trade policy and expanded efforts to remove con-
straints on the growth of productive capacity, supported by adequate mobilization
of both foreign and domestic savings, India is demonstrating that it can sustain a
rate of growth closer to 5.0% per annum than to the long-run trend of 3.6Z per
annum. if the rate of population growth can be brought to below 2.0% per annum, a
5.0% growth rate would mean a doubling of the trend rate of growth of per capita
income of 1.4Z per annum. Success in these efforts would make a significant dif-
ference to the prospects of easing poverty in India.
20.     A large and growing population and severe poverty underline the need to
accelerate India's development efforts. The 1981 Census indicated there was no
decline in the rate of population growth, which remained about 2.2% per annum in
the 1970s despite a measurable decline in fertility rates. The population growth
rate failed to decline in the past decade due to a reduction in the infant mor-
tality rate and an increase in life expectancy, reflecting larger availability of
food and health services. While this is a welcome development, it implies a
greater strain on the economy and re-emphasizes the need for continuing efforts to
strengthen the health and family planning programs in a broad range of activities
and services. These efforts are given high priority in the Sixth Plan, which aims
at a rise in the proportion of protected couples in the reproductive age group from
its estimated 1979/80 level of about 23% to over 35% by 1984/85. The Government
is reviewing its population policy for the Seventh Plan, with indications of a
determination to retain the emphasis on the implementation of family planning,
health, education and literacy programs aimed at reducing fertility rates.
21.     Reduction of poverty remains the central goal of Indian economic and social
policy. More than one-third of the world's poor live in India, and more than 80%
of the Indian poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers and small
farmers. About 51% of the rural population and 40% of the urban population subsist
below the poverty line. Significant reductions in poverty will depend primarily on
an acceLeration of economic growth, particularly in agriculture, combined with
effective implementation of poverty alleviation programs. India's poverty alLevia-
tion strategy appropriately recognizes that production-oriented programs, which aim
at accelerating the overall pace of economic growth, and poverty alleviation
programs, targetted at those least able to participate in the general growth of the
economy, can be mutually reinforcing rather than substituting for each other.
Major poverty programs operating on a nationwide basis at present include: the
Minimum Needs Program (MNP), the Integrated Rural Development Program (IRDP), and
the National Rural Employment Program (NREP). The IRDP and WREP are targeted



-8-
programs aimed at increasing the incomes of the poor rapidly, either through the
transfer of productive assets or direct employment.  The MNP, aims at broadening
the p.ovision of social infrastructure and basic services which enhance the human
capital of the poor and improve living standards. These programs represent a
vitaLly important commitment nf the Government to address the needs of the poorest.
The scale of the poverty problem in India, combined with the inher_t difficulties
in implementing poverty programs in any country, imply the need for continued
efforts to enhance the effectiveness of these programs.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
22.     Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 82 loans and 165 development credits to
India totalling US$6,526 million and US$12,268 million (both net of cancellation),
respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,524 million has been repaid, and
US$6,207 million was still undisbursed as of September, 30, 1984. Bank Group
disbursements to India in the current fiscal year through September 30, 1984
totalled US$171 million, representing a decrease of about 40 percent over the same
period last year. Annex II contains a summary statement of disbursements as of
September 30, 1984.
23.     Since 1959, IFC has made 29 commitments in India totalling US$223 million,
of which US$34 million has been repaid, US$56 million sold and US$34 million
cancelled. Of the balance of US$98 million, US$91 million represents loans and
US$7 million equity. A summary statement of IFC disbursements as of September 30,
1984, is also included in Annex II (page 4).
24.       The thrust of Bank Group assistance to India has been consistent with the
country's development objectives in its support of agriculture, energy and
infrastructure. Of particular importance have been investments in irrigation,
extension and on-farm development designed to increase agricultural productivity,
and efforts to improve the availability of basic agricultural inputs to farmers
through credit, fertilizer, marketing, storage, and seed projects. Major elements
of the lending program have also been directed at helping to meet the energy needs
of the economy while curbing the growth of oil imports, and to ease the infrastruc-
ture bottlenecks which have hampered economic growth in India, particularly through
power generation and distribution, and railways and telecommunications projects.
The Bank Group has also provided financing for a broad range of medium- and small-
scale industrial enterprises, primarily in the private sector, through its support
of development finance institutions. Recognizing the importance of improving the
ability to satisfy the essential needs of urban and rural populations, the Bank
Group has supported nutrition and family planning programs, a rural roads project,
as well as water supply and sewerage and other urban infrastructure projects.
25.     This pattern of assistance remains highly relevant, and consonant with
Government priorities, as reflected in the Sixth Plan and in the approach being
taken by GOI in the preparation of the Seventh Plan. First, high priority will
continue to be given to GOI's agricultural program. While India has made sig-
nificant progress in agriculture, productivity growth will have to be sustained to
improve the balance between food demand and supply and to contribute to poverty
alleviation and employment. Thus, the Bank Group will continue to support
irrigation, fertilizer production and distribution, and agricultural extension and
credit. Second, alongside GOI's efforts in promoting greater efficiency and faster
development of the industrial sector, increased assistance will be provided for



-9-
industrial development. Third, the review of performance under the Sixth Plan
confirms the high priority that should continue to be given to the expansion and
more efficient use of basic infrastructure capacity and to the development of
India's indigenous hydrocarbon resources. Accordingly the Bank Group will continue
to support the development of the energy, transport and telecommunications sectors
to alleviate critical shortages which constrain output in both agricultural and
industrial sectors. Fourth, support of urban development and other GOI basic
social services programs for the poor will also continue in light of the growth in
population which, despite successes in lowering birth and death rates, still
increases by about 16 million each year.
26.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in support
of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of Bank economic
reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium. Thanks in part to the
response of the aid community, India successfully adjusted to the changed world
price situation of the mid-1970s. However, India continues to require a substan-
tial level of foreign assistance both to offset the overall deterioration in the
world trade environmenL, and to sustain the relatively higher investment and growth
rates achieved during the first four years of the Sixth Plan. As in the past, Bank
Group assistance for projects in India should aim to include the financing of local
expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods because of the capacity
and competitiveness of the domestic capital goods industry. Consequently, the
forcign exchange component tends to be small in most projects. This is par-
ticularly the case in such high-priority sectors as agriculture and irrigation.
27.       India's poverty and needs are such that whenever possible, external
capital requirements should be provided on concessional terms. Accordingly, the
bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India in the past was provided from IDA.
However, IDA lending to India is declining from a peak of US$1.6 billion in FY82,
mostly due to funding constraints related to IDA. The amount of IDA funds avail-
able to India is likely to remain small in relation to India's needs for external
support. Thus, this requirement for additional assistance will have to be met, in
part, through larger Bank lending. Given its development prospects and policies,
India is judged creditworthy for Bank lending to supplement IDA assistance. A
continuation of efforts already underway to achieve growth in productive capacity,
trade expansion, higher levels of savings, foodgrains self-sufficiency and a reduc-
tion in the rate of population growth should result in continued economic growth
and improvement in the balance of payments. India's debt service ratio is
estimated at about 15.2% in 1984/85. This ratio is projected to rise to around 20%
by 1989/90, mainly due to the hardening structure of India's debt; and to increase
slightly over this level through the mid-1990's. Although the projected debt
service ratios are considecably above historical levels, they are still manageable
and will not adversely affect India's creditworthiness.
28.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion contributed
by the Bank Croup has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank Group accounted
for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements, and 12% of net disburse-
ments as compared with 62%, 33% and 37%, respectively, in 1983/84. In 1983/84,
about 19.0% of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank Gcoup. On
Karch 31, 1984, India's outstanding and disbursed external public debt was
estimated to be about US$26.9 billion, of which the Bank Group's share was US$9.6
billion or 36% (IDA's US$7.8 billion and IBRD's US$1.8 billion). As of
September 30, 1984, outstanding loans and credits to India held by the Bank
totalled US$17,271 million, of which US$6,207 million remain to be disbursed,
leaving a net amount outstanding of US$11,064 million.



-10-
PART III - THE POWER SECTOR
Background
29.     India,s commercially exploitable energy resources consist of coal,
oil, gas, hydro, uranium, and thorium. Of the nonrenewable resources, coal
is the most abundant.  Reserves of thermal coal have been estimated at
slightly higher than 100 billion tons, of which 25 billion tons are proven.
Although reserves are ample, the quality of coal produced is generally low
and is deteriorating. Proven and probable petroleum reserves comprise
approximately 530 million tons of oil and 390 million toe of natural gas.
Despite recent increases in domestic production, India still imports 35% of
its oil requirements, which in 1983/84 cost the equivalent of 40% of its
merchandise exports. Consequently, the Government of India has encouraged
exploration while attempting to contain the demand for petroleum and natural
gas, in particular through limiting the use of natural gas to high-value uses
such as petrochemicals and fertilizer. Because it is taking time to develop
premium uses of natural gas, substantial volumes of associated gas are being
flared.  India's hydroelectric potential is about 100,000 MW.  At present,
only 13,0UO MW have been developed, 4,700 MW are under construction, and a
further 23,000 MW are being studied for future development. The prominent
role of hydro in regional least-cost development plans prepared in 1982 has
led GOI to emphasize the need to accelerate its development; however,
progress has been slow because limited resources are available for the
simultaneous preparation of a large number of schemes ana because it also
takes time to resolve water rights and environmental issues. The countryf,s
uranium reserves could support a modest nuclear program (8,000-10,000 MW),
and its thorium reserves are enough for a large breeder program.
30.     Planning the best use of India's indigenous energy resources for
power generation raises a number of issues and highlights several needs.
First, the high ash content of coal, which can reach 59%, tends to increase
transport costs, as well as power station capital and operating costs. The
development of minemouth stations, which is constrained by pollution
limitations and the availability of cooling water, helps to solve only the
transport problem, and thus priority should still be given to more selective
mining and improved coal preparation. Even though a lower ash content might
help to alleviate transport problems, they would still persist. Two studies
included in the Dudhichua Coal Project (Loan 2393-IN) are designed to help
formulate a strategy to deal with these problems: one study will examine
ways of improving the linkages between the sources of supply and the demand,
and the other will concentrate on methods of improving handling and
transportation facilities. Second, with the recent increases in the supplies
of both associated and free gas, there is a greater need for a coherent
policy on the exploitation of gas. A Bank study planned for 1985 will focus,
among other things, on the potential for the economic use of gas in power
generation. Third, it hydro development is to accelerate, further resources,
including consultants if necessary, need to be deployed to prepare hydro
schemes. Furthermore, if water rights and environmental issues cannot be



-11-
resolved quickly, GOI should initiate appropriate proceaures to ensure that
an adequate number of hydro schemes are available for development.
Supply and Demand of Electricity - India
31.     Approximately 50Z of India's electricity is generated from coal, 401
from hydro, and the rest from oil, nuclear power, and natural gas. Although
a number of large thermal projects are planned for the short term, the share
of hydro is expected to increase in the long run. Electricity losses have
risen slowly but steadily over the last few years and now exceed 26% of gross
generation. The lack of high-quality coal has been at least partly
responsible for this trend, and coal stations themselves now consume close to
10% of gross generation against a desirable 5% or 6%. Distribution networks
have been overloaded because inadequate attention has been given to
systematic analysis and planning of this part of the system. As a result,
distribution losses are high by generally accepted standards and, although
they are lower than in several countries in the region, they need to be
reduced. Under its lending program, the Bank has supported pilot studies to
reduce system losses, and it will continue to follow this approach in its
future lenoing. Such losses can only be reduced on a State-by-State basis,
however, with loss reduction targets reflecting the particular circumstances
of each State.
32.     Over the past two decades, the consumption of electricity has grown
approximately twice as fast as total comme:cial energy consumption and now
accounts for more than 30% of the latter. As a result, shortages have
prevailed throughout the country and, during the last five years, averaged an
estimated 13Z of electricity requirements. The principal sectoral shares of
total electricity consumption are: industrial, 56%; agricultural, 19%; and
domestic, 12%. Agriculture's share has grown steadily owing to increased
electrical irrigation pumping made possible by rural electrification and
encouraged by heavy subsidies. Total consumption has grown at an average
rate of 102 per annum during the past two decades, and the Central
Electricity Authority (CEA) has forecast growth of 9% per annum between
1984/85 and 1989/90. Whether such growth can take place will depend on the
utilities  success in installing new capacity.
SuPPly and Demand of Electricity - Western Regtion
33.     The Western Region, in which the proposed project is located, is
*         principally made up of the States of Maharashtra, Gujarat, and Madhya
Pradesh. The principal supply authorities of the Western Region are the
State Electricity Boards (SEBs) of these States, the Tata Electric Companies
(TEC), Ahmedabad Electric Company, and Surat Electric Company. In addition,
a number of small municipalities are engaged in supplying power. At Bombay,
the Western Region Electricity Boara has constructed a Regional Load Dispatch
Center that will eventually integrate the operation of the generating
facilities throughout the Region. The total installed capacity in the Region
as of March 19b4 was almost 12,000 MW (excluding an estimated 660 MW of
captive plant), of which about 85X is thermal. Projects already committed
vould increase installed capacity by 1,571 MW in 1992/93, of which about
6,650 MW (88%) would be thermal. Further new projects identified for study



-12-
total 9,411 MW, of which 4,630 MW (49%) is thermal. More than 80% of
existing capacity is owned ana operated by the three SEBs, and the remainder
is primarily the responsibility of NTPC, TEC, and the Department of Atomic
Energy. Although installed capacity has grown by almost 13% per year between
1974/75 and 1983/84, available capacity has grown by less than 9% per year, a
rate that indicates substantial deterioration in plant availab:lity.  The
causes of this decline include the poor quality of coal and the deferral of
maintenance due to capacity shortages. Although the Region',s SEBs are
interconnected, their operations have not yet been fully integrated.
However, the pooling and dispatching arrangements coordinated through the REB
are expected to improve substantially with the cOmmissioning of the ne'j load
dispatch facility.
34.     Maharasbtra accounts for the largest share of the Region',s
consumption (54%), followed by Gujarat (282) and Madhya Pradesh (18%). The
importance of industry in the Region is reflected in this sector.s share of
electricity consumption (62%), compared with national consumption (56%). In
contrast, the share of agricultural consumption (14X) is below the national
average (19%). However, industrial consumption is becoming less dominant
since agricultural consumption is growing more than twice as rapidly as
industrial consumption. Between 1974/75 and 1982/83, overall consumption
grew by 8% per annum, while sectoral consumption rose 6% per annum for
industry, 14% for agriculture, and 12% for domestic use. Because of the
critical power shortages in the Region, supply has been severly restricted in
all three States, especially in Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh. Consumption
and load shedding are therefore closely regulated throughout the year for all
classes of consumers. As a result of the existing shortage of capacity,
constrained peak demand has grown at an average annual rate of 7.8% since
1980. Demand for peak capacity is expected to grow at an average annual rate
of 8.5% up to 1992/93. The capacity shortage, at present estimated at about
1,280 MW or 16Z ot potential demand, is expected to be eliminated around
1992, according to current plans.
Organization ot the Power Subsector
35.     Responsibility for the supply of electricity is shared between the
Central and State Governments. The State Electricity Boards (SEBs) and the
Regional Electricity Boards (REBs) are controlled by States; the Central
Electricity Authority, the National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC), the
National iydro-Electric Power Corporation (NHPC), and the Rural
Electrification Corporation (REC) are controlled by the Central Government.
SEBs were instituted under the Electricity (Supply) Act of 1948 (the Act) to
promote the development of the power subsector and to regulate private
licensees. Although, in principle, SEBs are supposed to be autonomous in
managing their day-to-day operations, in practice they are under the control
of State Governments in such matters as capital investment, tarifts,
borrowings, pay, and personnel policies. As a first step towara national
integration, the SEBs have been grouped into five regional systems, each
coordinated by an REB. Coordination responsibilities include overhaul and
maintenance programs and determination of generation schedules, inter-State
power transfers, and concomitant tariffs. CEA was created in 1950 to develop
national power policy and to coordinate Lhe various agencies involvea in



-13-
supplying electricity. It is responsible for the formulation of countrywide
investment plans for approval by the Central Government, the development of
an integrated system operation, the training of personnel, and research and
development. It maintains operational, economic, and financial data at both
the Central and State levels, and provides consulting support to SEBs. NTPC
and NHPC were incorporated in 1975 by GOI to construct and operate large
power stations and associated transmission facilities. They sell bulk power
to the SEBs for distribution. NTPC has had marked success and has grown
rapidly. In contrast, NEYC is still struggling to establish a role for
itself.  The States own most hydro sites ana are reluctant to relinquish
these sources of comparatively inexpensive energy to the Central Government.
REC was established in 1969 to coordinate rural electrification and proviae
financial and technical expertise for SEB schemes. At present, REC finances
more than half of total rural electrification investment.
Pricinu and Resource Mobilization
36.     Through the 1983 amendments to the Act GOt has set a financial
objective for the SEBs to produce an annual return of at least 3% on tneir
historically valued net fixed assets, after meeting operating expenses,
taxes, depreciation and interest. The 3X return would represent, in terms of
the Bank's conventional method of calculation, a rate of return on
historically valued assets in the range of 10 to 13%. The Bank considers
this objective to be a reasonable minimum but believes that because of their
investment requirements, a number of SEBs need to achieve returns higher than
this minimum. Higher returns are possible in some cases through tariff
restructuring, including the use of a block tariff that would allow a
lifeline rate affordable to low income consumers. Additional returns are
achievable through tariff increases. Present tariffs are in most cases
inadequate, not only in economic terms but also in financial terms, and most
SEBs are unable to finance a reasonable share of their investment programs.
On average, SEB tariffs are equivalent to only about 50X of the long run
marginal cost (LRNMC) of producing power. In contrast, NTPC',s tariff
approximates LRIC. Industrial tarifts are almost 90% of LKMC, whereas
agricultural and domestic tariffs, which are considered politically sensitive
and have been consistently subsidized, are only 27Z and 36Z of LRMC,
respectively. State-specific programs that would provide both an increased
return on investment and a simpler, efficient and affordable tariff
structure, are needed.  Such programs will be addressed through the Bank's
lending to individual SEBs.
Power Subsector Planning
37.     Because the demand for electricity has increased rapidly, GOI at
present allocates about 20% of public investment to power development. To
ensure that the subsector would be developed in the most economic manner, the
Bank encouraged GOI to prepare a comprehensive least-cost National Power Plan
(NPP), which was completed in September 1982. Although this plan represents
substantial progress, further refinement is needed. To support GOI in this
task, the Bank has planned a study for FY86 that will review the assumptions
and methodology employed in formulating the least-cost plan. There appears
to be a need for further national integration and greater coordination



-14-
between power and other sectors, especially coal and gas. Since it will not
be possible to achieve full national integration immediately, the Bank will
continue to ensure that each Bank-tinanced project forms a part of an
up-to-date regional least-cost development plan. In due course, the sources
of supply considered in the formulation of each regional least-cost plan
should be widernd to include the option of importing from neighboring
regions. This approach would eventually lead to integrated planning at a
national level. A further problem has arisen in the coordination of the
long-term NIP with the national five-year plan and shorter-term budgets.
Because of inadequate resources, fewer projects have been included in the
five-year plan than in the NPP and, as a result of underestimation of project
costs and delays in project implementation, still tewer have been executed.
Consequently, the shortage of power has become more and more acute, and over
the next decade, India expects its power deficit to increase severalfold.
This deticit will tend to undermine rational planning because emphasis is
likely to be placed on rapid expansion of. supply rather than on least-cost
development. Furthermore, it may prompt overinvestment in captive plant and
excessive use of high-value energy products in the generation of power. In
addition to supporting GOI's efforts to increase the supply, the Bank will
continue to stress to GOI the role of pricing in eliminating the deficit and
the importance of integrating planning and pricing.
Management and Operations
38.     SEBs, organization and management practices have become outmoded as
supply has expanded. The quality of service, reliability, and financial
performance are the principal areas of concern. In general, SEBs have
high-quality engineering staff, but lack experienced personnel in the areas
of financial planning and control. The relatively poor status and pay of
these personnel compared with those in the private sector makes it difficult
to recruit competent staff. At present, accounts are maintained principally
to track cash receipts and expenditures, and accounting inrormation is seldom
used for managerial purposes. GOI has decided that a new and uniform
accounting system should be installed in all SEBs. After initial delays,
preparations are now proceeding ana implementation is scheduled to begin in
April 1985.
39.     In the area of operations, one of the main concerns has been the poor
performance of thermal plant. Factors that have contributed to this
situation are inadequate maintenance (due to capacity shortages),
deficiencies in plant manufacture, lack of spareb, and the poor quality of
coal; in general, these problems have been recognized by the relevant
authorities and corrective steps are being taken. GOI is currently preparing
a rehabilitation program for thermal plant that may be financed by the Bank.
Until this program is compiled, the Bank will, whenever appropriate, include
a thermal rehabilitation component under each of the loans made to the SEBs.
Bank Group Participation in the Past
40.     The Bank has made 18 loans for Indian power projects amounting to
US$1,983 million, and 17 IDA credits totaling USW2,409 million. Seventeen
projects financed unaer the following loans ana credits have been completed:



-15-
ten generating projects, the Beas Project (Credit 98-IN), the first four
transmission projects (Loan 416-IN, Credits 242-IN, 377-IN and 604-IN), and
the First and Second Rural Electritication Projects (Credits 572-IN and
911-IN). The Fourth Transmission Project (Credit 604-EN) was completed in
1983, and the Second Rural Electrification Project in 1984. The Singrauli
(Credit 685-IN), Korba (Credit 793-IN), and Ramagundam (Credit 874-IN and
Loan 1648-IN) Thermal Power Projects are in advanced stages of
implementation. The credit for the Second Singrauli Thermal Power Project
(Credit 1027-IN) and the credit/loan for the first stage of the Farakka
Thermal Power Project (Credit 1053-IN ana Loan 1887-IN) were approved in May
and June 1980. Korba II (Credit 1172-IN) was approved in July 1981,
Ramagundam II (Loan 2076-IN) in Deceaber 1981, and the Third Rural
Electriuication Project (Loan 2165-IN) in June 1982. The Upper Indravati
Hydro Project (Credit 1356-IN and Loan 2278-IN) and the Central Power
Transmission Project (Loan 2283-IN) were approved in May 1983, and the Indira
Sarovar Hydroelectric Power Project in May 1984. The Second Farakka Thermal
Power Project (Loan 2442-IN) was approved in June 1984, and the Trombay IV
Thermal Power Project (Loan 2452-IN) in June of the same year. The Third
Rural Electrification Project is about a year behind schedule. The first
five units of the Singrauli Project and the first two units of the Korba
project were commissionea on schedule. The Farakia and Ramagundam projects
are proceeding satisfactorily, the first unit at Ramagundam having been
commissioned four months ahead of schedule. The Third Trombay Project
(Unit 5) (Loan 1549-IN) was first synchronized in January 1984, about a year
behind schedule; time was lost mainly because parts for the boiler were not
delivered on time, and because of delays in its construction.
41.     A performance audit conducted in 1980 for the Second Power
Transmission Project (Credit 242-IN) concluded that the project has succeeded
in helping the nine beneficiary SEBs extend their transmisfion systems and
meet their growing power requirements. Utilization of generating capacity in
these SEBs has exceeded the appraisal forecast.  The upgrading of the SEBs?
financial management practices that began under this project vill continue
under subsequent projects. The audit highlighted the difficulties of
adequately supervising this project (because it consisted of many widely
scattered subprojects), and of effecting institutional improvements in the
absence of a close working relationship between the Bank Group and the
beneficiary SEBs. The Bank has therefore sought more direct involvement with
the SEBs through State-specitic projects.
Bank Group Strategy in the Power Subsector
42.     Over the last ten years the Bank Group has assisted GOI in
substantially expanding its centrally owned generation capacity, which is
currently being run relatively efficiently. In the past two years, however,
the emphasis of Bank Group lending has begun to shift from supporting
projects owned and operated by the Central Government to projects owned ana
operated by the SEBs. This gradual shift has come about in support oI GOI-.s
desire to accelerate the development of India's hydroelectric power resources
(most of which are owned by the State Governments), and because of the
considerable need to improve the operational and project implementation
efficiency and the tinancial viability of the State-owaed power sector



-16-
institutions. In parallel with this shift in Bank Group lenaing, sectorwide
objectives for power system operation at both Center and State levels--such
as improving efficiency in the use of existing power generation,
transmission, and distribution systems; strengthening Central and State level
sector institutions; improving countrywide power system planning; and
increasing resource mobilization within the sector--will continue to be
pursued by the Bank Group. More specifically, the principal objectives of
the Bank Group's assistance in the subsector are:
(a) the better use ot existing facilities--through transmission
projects improving regional interconnections ana through
rehabilitation of plant, particularly of thermal power stations
and distribution networks: these measures will improve the
etticiency of energy use and reduce system losses, and thereby
help to minimize system capital and operating costs;
(b) institution building--although the Bank will continue to
maintain an interest in Central institutions, its efforts will
be broadened to encompass individual SEBs, where substantial
efforts are needed to strengthen management, operations, and
finances;
Cc)  improved planning-particularly by extending the scope of
planning from the State through the regional to the national
level ana through greater integration of planning with other
sectors in the economy, both those that consume electricity and
those that supply other forms of energy; and
(d) improvea resource mobilization from electricity consumers-- the
principal vehicle for this has been and will continue to be
tinaucial covenants in relation to beneficiaries; however, tiLe
Bank will also continue to stress the importance of relating
tariffs to the economic costs of supply.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
43.     The project was prepared by MSEB and appraised by a mission that
visited India in May-June 1984. A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 5319-IN dated
April 24, 1985) is being distriDuted separately to the Executive Directors.
Negotiations were concluded in Washington in April 1985. GOI, GOM, and MSEB
were represented by a delegation coordinated by Mr. A. Thapan of the
Department of Economic Affairs. A Supplementary Project Data Sheet appears
in Annex III.
Proiect Description
44.     The primary objective of the project is to help the Government of
India meet the electricity demand in its Western Region through the provision
of an additional 1,000 MW of tnermal generating capacity at the Chandrapur
thermal power plant, located about 6 km trom Chandrapur (a district
headquarters in the State of Maharashtra). A turther objective is to
increase the etticiency of MSEB's existing thermal plant by tinaucing the



-17-
equipment and material required for the rehabilitation of six thermal power
stations located in various parts of the State. In addition, the project is
designed to contribute to the transfer of new technology to the MSEB system
through the training of kSEB personnel in the construction and operation of
the 500 MW units (the first units of this size for MSEB), which will enhance
the capability and efficiency of the MSEB.  The project will also help MSEB
improve its financial viability and operation relative to internationally
accepted utility practices.
45.     The project consists of the following components:
(a) a thermal power generation component, involving the construction
and installation at the Chanarapur plant of two 500 MW thermal
power generating units consisting of two turbogenerator sets,
with auxiliary equipment; two steam generators, with
electrostatic precipitators and auxiliaries; a circulating water
system with cooling towers; coal- and ash-handling plants; a
fuel-oil plant; 200-kV and 4UU-kV switchyard ana transmission
equipment; a water conductor system; ancillary electrical and
mechanical equipment; buildings for the turbogenerators and
plant; and other associated civil works;
(b) a thermal plant rehabilitation component, involving the
procurement and installation of parts, equipment, and materials
for the repair, renovation, and improvement of selected existing
thermal generating units in the State of Maharashtra.
46.     The thermal generation component of the project represents the third
stage of development of the Chandrapur plant and will supplement the 840 NW
(four units each of 210 MW) of generating capacity provided under the rirst
two stages.  This third stage of two 500 MW units will bring the plant's
total generating capacity to 1,84U MW (final planned capacity is 2,340 MW).
The planned fourth stage will comprise a single 500 MW unit. All four units
of the first and second stages will be commissioned by the end of 1985; the
two 5U0 MW units of the proposed project are to be commissioned in August
1991 and January 1992. This component of the project, which represents the
least-cost alternative for the expansion of the Western Regional system,
would help to alleviate power shortages in India in general and in the
Western Region in particular, where severe shortages of capacity have led to
widespread rationing and overloading of existing thermal units. As a result,
operation and maintenance costs have increased and forced-outage rates for
the existing units in the Region have risen sharply.
47.     The thermal plant rehabilitation component will focus on tte repair
and renovation of six plants in various parts of the State that contain units
of less than 200 MW each. These plants--Koradi, Khaperkheda, Bhusawal,
Parli, Paras and Nasik-have a total installed capacity of 1,065 MW.  Repair
and renovation are expected to bring about a considerable improvement in the
utilization and etticiency of these plants; indeea, the benetits from this
component (and from a similar program initiated under the Indira Sarovar
Hydroelectric project approved in FY84) should further support the case for a



-18-
national thermal plant rehabilitation program, which the Bank has been
encouraging the Government to undertake.
48.     The output from the additional units will enter the Western Regional
grid via a double-circuit, 400 kV transmission line linking Chandrapur to
Parli and Lonikand, and a single-circuit 400 kV line linking Lonikand to
Bombay. These lines, which are not part of the proposed project, are to be
commissioned before 1989, in advance of the commissioning of the project
units. Contracts for these lines have already been awarded by MSEB.
Project Implementation
49.     The Maharashtra State Electricity Board will implement the thermal
generation component of the project over a period of seven and one-half
years, beginning in 1985. MSEB has adequate expertise in the engineering and
construction of thermal power plants comprising units of 200 MW. However,
since the project would introduce units of 500 KW into the MSEB system for
the first time, a consultant has been recruited to assist with the
engineering aspects of the plant, under a joint venture contract between
Development Consultants Pvt. Limited (India) and United Engineers and
Constructors, Inc. (United States). About 500 man-days of foreign consultant
support and 1,500 man-days of local consultant support are provided under the
contract for project engineering. The consulting services would include a
review of the basic engineering and design, preparation of technical
specifications, bid evaluation, studies of optimization, inspection of
equipment, planning of plant erection, and a review of plant operation and
maintenance practices. Specifications for the main contract proposed for
Bank financing (which includes the turbogenerator sets, steam generators, and
control and auxiliary equipment), have been prepared and reviewed by the Bank
and found satisfactory. Bids for major civil works are expected to be
invited in August 1985. Upon completion of the project (the first unit is to
be commissioned in August 1991 and the second in January 1992), MSEB will be
responsible for the operation and maintenance of the plant. The thermal
plant rehabilitation component of the project will be implemented over a
period of approximately three to four years and will also be carried out by
MSEB. A detailed program, including cost estimates, for the thermal plant
rehabilitation component has been prepared by MSEB and has been reviewed by
the Bank and found satisfactory.
50.     Coal for the Chandrapur plant will be supplied by Western Coalfields
Limited from the coalfields of the Chanda-Wardha valley, some 15 km from the
plant, and will be transported from the mines by a unit train system and
aerial ropeway. Most of the coal transportation system is already in place,
having been set up during the earlier stages of the Chandrapur development.
Coal reserves, recoverable by both open-cast and underground mining, are
estimated to be about 847 million tons. Two of the five mines that will
supply the plant are already delivering coal, and the remaining three are
expected to start production in 1987/88. The coal production from these
mines is estimated to be sufficient to supply the 2,340 MW plant for more
than 100 years; it is expected to increase from about 1.1 million tons per
year in 1984 to 6.4 million tons per year in 1990, and therefore should fully
meet the needs of the Chandrapur plant. GOI will ensure that adequate coal



-19-
supplies will be made available for the efficient operation of the Chandrapur
plant (Section 3.04 of Loan Agreement). The principal features of the
contract that will govern the sales of coal by Western Coalfields Limited to
MSEB were reviewed ana discussed during negotiations.
51.     Cooling water for the four 210 SW units and the first 500 NW unit
of the proposed project will be provided from the Erai reservoir. For the
second 500 MW unit (and the future additional 500 MW unit), an additional
120 million cubic meters of water per year would be needed. GOX has
undertaken to provide this water to MSEB from the Human reservoir, which is
currently being constructed by the GOM',s Irrigation Department. GOM has
confirmed that an adequate cooling water supply would be made available for
the proper operation of the Chandrapur plant, in accordance with the
implementation program for the construction of the Human reservoir.  GOM will
provide the Bank with a copy of the implementation program by June 30, 1985.
52.     About 973 hectares of land for the main power station complex (which
should be sufficient to meet the requirements of the ultimate 2,340 MW
capacity of the plant), and about 336 hectares for the residential colony for
construction, operation, and maintenance staff have already been acquired by
MSEB. In addition, 1,800 hectares are being acquired for the ash-disposal
area, the water-conductor system, and the unit-train system. No problems are
anticipated in the acquisition of this land, and GOM will ensure tbat it is
acquired in a timely manner. In addition, any population displaced by this
process will be resettled in accordance with principles, objectives, and
institutional arrangements satisfactory to the Bank (Section 2.05 of Project
Agreement).
53.     GOI's Department of the Environment and GOM ,s Pollution Board have
approved the construction of the Chandrapur plant to its eventual capacity
of 2,340 MW. MSEB is complying with all environmental quality standards
prescribed by the Indian authorities for the design, construction, and
operation of the power plant. Bank standards for sulfur dioxide, nitrogen
oxides, and dust will also be observed. The Chandrapur plant is a pit-head
station far from any urban area. Therefore no problems are envisaged other
than the need to ensure the health and environment of nearby villages and of
the operating statf who will be housed in a residential area 4-5 km from the
plant. Appropriate measures will be taken during the design of the third
stage of the plant to minimize potential adverse ecological effects. These
measures include stack emission control through the use of electrostatic
precipitators, heat dissipation in the cooling water, and appropriate
ash-disposal facilities. Occupational safety standara3 will be strictly
enforced.
Proiect Costs and Financing
54.     The total cost of the project, including contingencies but excluding
about US$118 million in taxes and duties, is estimated at about US$998
million equivalent, of which about US$415 million (42X) represents the
estimated foreign exchange costs. Interest during construction adds about
US$180 million to the financing required. The principal cost components,
net of physical and price contingencies, taxes, and duties, are; steam



-20-
generators, turbogenerators, and auxiliary equipment, US$286 million; poaer
station civil works, US$142 million; ancillary mechanical and electrical
equipment, US$91 million; engineering and administration, US$50 million; coal
handling and transportation equipment, US$44 million; thermal plant
rehabilitation, US$41 million; transmission equipment, US$24 million; land
and preliminary works, US$10 million; consultancy services and training, US$5
million. These estimates of project costs are based on June 1984 actual
prices for similar equipment, material, and works. Price contingencies,
amounting to about 25% of base cost, are based on expected inflation rates of
7Z for 1984/85, 8X for 1985/86 and 1986/87, and 6% yearly thereafter for
local costs; and 8% for 1985, 9% for 1986 through 1988, 7.5% for 1989, and 6%
thereafter for foreign costs.  Physical contingencies of about 10% on civil
works and 5% on electrical and mechanical equipment have been allowed; these
amount to about 5% of base cost.
55.     The proposed Bank loan of US$300 million will finance 60% of the
total foreign exchange financing requirement of about US$496 million, and
will cover about 30% of the total project cost net of taxes and duties. The
balance of the funds required, aggregating about US$997 million equivalent
(including about US$196 million in foreign exchange, of which about
US$81 million represents interest during construction), is to be provided
from COM loans (US$672 million) and MSEB's internally generated funds (US$325
million). The project provides opportunities for cofinancing and GOI has
indicated that it may consider these. There is a possibility that external
cofinancing may be obtained for the main contract (comprising steam
generators, turbo generators, control, and auxiliaries) in an amount of up to
US$250 million, particularly if the successful bidder provides an acceptable
financing proposal. In the event that arrangements for such cofinancing are
successfully concluded, GOM's contribution to project financing will be
reduced accordingly, and the Bank will seek to reallocate its contribution
toward the financing of this contract to other items in the project, as
appropriate.
56.     The proceeds of the proposed loan will be channeled by GOI to GOM as
part of its normal assistance to States for development projects on terms and
conditions applicable at the time. In turn, GOM will relend the Bank funds,
together with its own contribution, to MSEB. Repayment of the Bank loan by
MSEB will be over 20 years, including five years' grace, at the current Bank
interest rate of 9.29% per annum. Repayment of COM's contribution will be
over 30 years, including six years' grace, at GOM's current applicable rate
of :nterest for its lending to MSEB (Section 2.01(b) of Project Agreement).
The average inflation rate is not expected to exceed 8% per annum over the
next five years. COM's onlending rate to MSEB for Bank funds is therefore
expected to remain positive in real terms. The foreign exchange and interest
rate risks will be borne by the Government of India.
Procurement and Disbursement
57.     Procurement arrangements are summarized in Annex IV.  Contracts for
civil works under the project, except for some preliminary works carried out
by GOM and MSEB, will be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding
(LCB) under procedures acceptable to the Bank. Procurement of the major



-21-
items of equipment-turbogenerator sets; steam generators; power cycle
equipment; instrumentation and control equipment; and the data acquisition
system, which, together with coordination and supervision services, are
combined under a single contract (US$403.6 million); and certain equipment
items under the thermal plant rehabilitation component (US$1.5 million)--will
be subject to international competitive bidding (ICB), in accordance with
Bank guidelines. Prequalification of potential bidders for the main contract
is underway; bidding documents have already been reviewed by the Bank and
found satisfactory. Other items of equipment-such as coal- and ash-handling
equipment, water-treatment plant, fuel-oil plant, switchyard and transmission
equipment, and miscellaneous electrical and mechanical equipment (US$223.3
million) together with transportation, erection, insurance, and testing
(US$70.5 million), and most of the equipment and materials under the thermal
rehabilitation component (US428.8 million)--will be procured through LCB
under procedures acceptable to the Bank. The thermal plant rehabilitation
component also includes certain items of a proprietary nature. A sole source
of supply for these items will be acceptable to the Bank, provided it is
satisfied that prices are reasonable. Foreign suppliers would not be
precluded from participating in LCB. Local manufacturers are expected to be
competitive for all equipment contracts. Local manufacturers competing under
ICB will be allowed a margin of preference of 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
imported goods, or the actual customs duties and import taxes, whichever is
less. MSEB has already entered into a contract for consultancy services with
a consulting group formed by Development Consultants Pvt. Limited (India)
and United Engineers and Constructors, Inc. (United States). All contracts
costing US$200,000 or more will be subject to the Bank's prior review.
58.     The proceeds of the loan will be disbursed over a seven-year period
(FY86-93) and, except for goods required for the thermal plant rehabilitation
component, will cover 100% of the c.i.f. cost of imported goods or of the
ex-factory cost of goods manufactured in India. For the rehabilitation
component, disbursements will be made against 100% of the c.i.f. cost of
imported goods and 50% of the cost of items procured locally. By the end of
the sixth year, about 92% of the proceeds of the loan will have been
disbursed.
The Maharashtra Electricity Board
59.     MSEB, which was established in 1954 under the Electricity (Supply)
Act of 1948, is responsible for the generation, transmission, and
distribution of electricity throughout the State. It constructs and operates
generating stations and transmission and distribution networks to supply
ultimate consumers and licensees with electric power. However, MSEB is not
fully autonomous in executing these responsibilities since it is controlled,
according to statutory power, by the State Government in matters of staffing,
borrowing, and tariff setting. MSEB's capital investment program is
determined within the overall State and nationaL planning framework.
60.     MSEB is a corporate body consisting of a full-time Chairman and three
full-time members for accounts, administration, and generation. Two
technical directors-one oversees transmission and distribution operations,
the other generation projects--are directly accountable to the Chairman.



-22-
Transmission and distribution responsibilities, including commercial
activities, are carried out by six regional chief engineers who supervise 24
districts, each headed by a superintenditig engineer.  MSEB LJecutes a
considerable part of its development program, particularly transmission lines
and sub-stations, from within its own organization.
61.     At the end of 1983/84, MSEB had about 91,800 regular employees and
about 18,000 skilled workers employed on a daily basis. About 6,100 of the
regular labor force and all the daily wage workers are engaged in
construction activities. Operations and maintenance staff total about 85,000
employees. All the sanctioned positions at the top and middle management
levels are filled, and vacancies at lower levels are around 3% of the
sanctioned posts. MSEB has an active Training Department (headed by a chief
engineer), at Nasik, the site of a thermal plant of 870 MW. Eight training
centers have been established to provide training in power generation,
transmission, and distribution. Training programs are also conducted in
finance and administration. Training for MSEB operators for the 500 MW units
to be installed under the project will be provided on 500 MW simulators owned
by Tata Electric Companies. Details of the training arrangements provided by
MSEB to the Bank are satisfactory.
62.     By introducing a number of system improvements MSEB has been able to
reduce transmission and distribution losses in the State from about 17% of
the available energy in 1978/79 to about 15% in 1982/83. Although further
reductions are desirable, the scope for achieving significant improvements is
limited. At the Bank's request, MSEB prepared a system improvement plan
designed to reduce system losses to about 14% by 1992/93. Although an
earlier achievement of this target would be preferable, the Bank recognizes
the limited scope for a rapid reduction in system losses in Maharashtra and
consequently considers this objective reasonable. Accordingly, MSEB will
take measures as appropriate to reduce its transmission and distribution
losses to a level of 14% of its available energy by 1992/93 (Section 3.05
of Project Agreement).
63.     Under the Indira Sarovar Hydroelectric project, approved in FY84, GOI
agreed to carry out a study of metering practices in a number of selected
States. In view of the relatively high number of unmetered electricity
connections in Maharashtra (458,000 connections, which represent 11% of the
total consumers) and COM's practice of providing the option of metered or
unmetered electricity every three years to agricultural consumers, further
study of metering practices in Maharashtra is appropriate. Accordingly, GOI
will include MSEB in the group of SEBs participating in the metering study,
which is scheduled for completion by May 1986.
MSEB Finances
64.     The financial operations of the SEBs are regulated by the Electricity
(Supply) Act. In August 1983, the Act was amended to enable GOI to prescribe
financial objectives and a uniform accounting system for the SEBs. These
amendments came into effect from April 1, 1985, the start of GOI's 1985/86
financial year. In parallel with these developments, GOI has prepared a
uniform commercial system of accounting that is to be introduced into the



-23-
SEBs from April 1, 1985, in accordance with agreements reached under previous
Bank-Supported projects.  In conjunction with GOM, MSEB will recruit
consultants to introduce the new accounting system and to assist and train
MSEB's financial and accounting staff in itq implementation (Section 3.03 of
Project Agreement).
65.     Dur!ng negotiations for this project GOI and the Bank agreed that in
future the measure of an SEB's financial performance would be based upon the
recently incorporated earnings provisions in the Act. These provisions
require than an SEB's total revenues produce a surplus of not less than 3% of
the SEB's net fixed assets in service at the beginning of the year, after
meeting all expenses properly chargeable to revenues, including operating,
maintenance, and management expenses; taxes on income and profits;
depreciation; and interest payable on all debentures, bonds, and loans. On
the basis of agreed definitions of the terms involved in the calculation of
the surplus, the minimum target of 3% would yield acceptable levels of
financial performance. Accordingly, MSEB will ensure that, beginning with
financial year 1985186, it will achieve the required 3% annual return
(Section 3.04 of Project Agreement). This level of return would imply
average annual tariff increases to 1992/93 of about 9Z, an average annual
conventional rate of return on historically valued assets of about 12.4%, and
an average annual self-financing ratio of about 36Z.
66.     MSEB has about 4.2 million consumers, of which about 657,000 (16%)
are industrial and commercial consumers, 2.7 million (65%) domestic, 770,000
(19%) irrigation pumps, and 36,000 miscellaneous consumers. In 1982/83 about
95% of MSEB consumers were billed regularly, and about 86% of the revenues
came from bulk and industrial consumers. Accounts receivable during the last
three years have been less than the equivalent of 2.5 months' sales, an
acceptable level of arrears in India. MSEB's accounts receivable will be
maintained at this level (Section 3.06 of Project Agreement).
67.     In the past, MSEB tariff increases have favored agricultural and
household consumers, with the result that between 1978/79 and 1982/83,
industrial tariffs increased at an average annual rate of 11% in real terms,
whereas low-voltage tariffs decreased in real terms. In 1982/83, the average
tariff for bulk and industrial consumers, which represented about 67% of
total consumption, ranged between 55% and 75% of the long-run marginal cost
of electricity, while the tariff for low-voltage consumers, who account for
about 33% of total consumption, was about 25% of the long-run marginal cost.
Although projected tariff increases between 1984/85 and 1989/90 would offer
the opportunities to correct some of the distortion in low-voltage pricing,
further steps need to be taken toward restructuring the low-voltage tariff.
Consideration has been given to the establishment of a basic minimum
("life-line") level of consumption at prevailing tariff levels, and
consumption in excess of this life-line level is to be charged at higher
tariffs. Such an arrangement might enable GOI and GOM to overcome some of
the existing difficulties with respect to low-voltage tariffs. Beginning in
January 1986, MSEB will carry out a study on the restructuring of low-voltage
tariffs, and will provide the Bank with the results of the study following
its completion in June 1986. COM's views and decisions on the
recommendations of the study will be provided by September 1986. In this



-24-
connection, GOI will also provide to the Bank by June 30, 1985 its views on
the Bank's proposed methodology for calculating long-run marginal costs of
electricity for the SEBs, as a necessary input to defining the scope of the
study.
68.     MSEB's financial requirements for the period 1984/85 through 1991/92
(the project construction period) are estimated at Rs 83,755 million
(US$7,614 million). MSEB will have to borrow about 71% (Rs 59,406 million)
of this amount from COM or other institutional sources. Such funds will be
made available to MSEB in respect of capital expenditures sanctioned by GOI
under the Seventh Five-Year Plan.
Project Justification and Risks
69.     The proposed project is justified as part of the least-cost expansion
program for the Western Region. The economic rate of return for the program
is about 11%, using benefits based on incremental revenues at average retail
tariffs and quantifiable industrial consumers' surplus. The actual rate of
return is likely to be considerably higher if full consumers' and producers'
surplus or industrial output made possible by the alleviation of power
shortages is taken into account. Moreover, the project would not only
alleviate power shortages in the Western Region by adding to installed
capacity but would also, through the rehabilitation component, substantially
increase production from existing facilities.
70.     Project risks are no greater than can normally be expected in
operations of this type. The main equipment items needed are manufactured in
India, and there is adequate understanding of, and experience with, their
installation and ultimate operation. The assistance of consultants
experienced in working with similar power plant facilities and units of
500 MW capacity will minimize problems in the engineering and design stage.
The fact that a number of 500 kW units will have been in operation in India
for some years before the project is commissioned will reduce the possibility
of operational difficulties during start-up and the early stages of
operation. The training of MSEB operators on 500 MW plant simulators well
before plant commissioning will facilitate MSEB's transition from 210 MW to
500 MW units.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
71.     The draft Loan Agreement between India and the Bank, the draft
Project Agreement between the Bank and GOM, and the Report of the Committee
provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of
the Bank are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
72.     Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
73.     I am satisfipd that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



-25-
PART VI - RECOEDATION
74.     I recomnend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
Preuident9
April 24, 1985



ANEIX I
Page 1 of 5
T A B L E 3A
INDIA                  -SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHIET
INDIA                                RERUBC GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVRAGES 
MOST                     (HOST RECENWr ESTIMATR) /b
DECINT            Law IE               HIDDES INC
I96otk    iotk    E'ST,INAELb          ASIA & PACIFIC        ASIA A PAcIric
AA (TNOUSAD    INa)
TOTAL                                3237.6    3287.6      3287.1
AGRICIILV'RAL                        1763.5    3780.5      1112.3
CNP PM CArPTA (US)                        60.0     100.0       260.0            278.6         W09I.2
wRino        l cNSaumnu MR CAPITA
(KILOAMS oU OIL EQUIVALENT)            79.0     113.0       IS.0            272.0                    561.3
POPUILATION aO VITAL STATISTIC
POPULATIUN.HIID-YKAR (THOUSANDS)    434R49.e  547569.0   716985.0
URBAN POPULATLUN (2 OF TorAL)          38.0      19.8        24.1             23.7                     34.7
POPULATION PROJECTtoNS
POPULATION IN YUAR 2000 (MILL)                            "4.4
STATIOXART POPULATION (HILL)                             1707.2
POPULATtON MOMENTuM                                         1.7
POPULATION DENStIT
PER S. IDI.                        132.1     166.b       213.4            36b.6                    261.9
PER SQ. lIa. ARiO. LAND            246.6      307.5       387.3            345.5                   1735.1
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (xl
0-14 YftS                           40.9       42.7       39.3             35.6                     39.0
31-A4 YRs                           54.5       5h.2        37.6            59.8                      57.6
65 AND AMOVE                          4.6         1         3.1              *.3                      3.3
POPULATION CROWTH RATE (2)
TOTAL                                 3.6       2.3         2.2              1.9                      Z.1
URBAN                                 2.5       1.3         3.9              4.1                      6.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER rHWtS)           47.7      41.4        34.2             27.7                     30.1
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER TNwU5)           23.8      37.8        32.7             10.1                      9.5
CROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 2.9        2.8        2.2              1.6                      2.0
FAMILY PANISINC
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (7HOUS)            64.0    3782.0      6826.0
USERS (Z OF HARRIED MaeN)              ..      3L.7        28.0               ..                     52.7
FOOD AND RGTU
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                         98.0      102.0       101.0            112.8                    123.0
PEr CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (Z OF REQUIREMENTS)         96.0       91.0       86.0             97.7                    114.4
PROTEINS (cRAMS PER D3AY)            54.0      50.0        66.0             56.B                     57.0
or WelcH ANImAL AND pusSE          17.0       15.0       13.0 /c          14.9                     14_1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE            26.2      20.7        11.0             9.8                       7.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT DIRTr (YEARS)         42.5       47.5        54.6            60.0                      60.4
INFANT OlRT. RATE (PER TSOUS)         165.0     139.0        94.0            83.8                      66.3
ACCESS TO SAFE wATER (2Po1)
TorAL                                  -        37.0       33.0 Id          32.9                     37.0
mw.                                    .,      60.0        83.0 Id          70.9                     54.8
RURAL                                  ..       6.0        20.0 Id          22.1                     26.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(2 OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..      I.0        20.0 /l          18.1                     41.3
URBAN                                  ..      85.0        87.0 7          72.8                      47.4
RURAL                                  .        3.0         2.0 7I           4.6                     33.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICLAN             4850.0    4890.0      3690.0 If        3484.2                   7749.4
POP. PER NURSING PERSON             10980.0 /a  7420.0     s46 0 Tf         4793.1                   2660.4
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              2180.0    1650.0      1290.0 ff        1066.5                   1044.2
URBAN                                  .         ..       370.0 Id         298.0                    651.2
RURAL                                 ..         ..    10410.0T7          5993.4                   2594.6
ADMISSIONS PER HoSPITAL BED              ..        ..          ..               .                      27.0
AVERACE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOlrAL                                5.2       5.6         5.2 te
URBAN                                 5.2       5.6         4.8 77
RURAL                                 5.2       5.6         5.3 T.c
AVERAG  NO. OF PERSONStROCU
TorAL                                 2.6       2.8
URBAN                                2.6        2.8
RURAL                                2.6        2.8
ACCESS TO ELECT. (I OF UWELLIXGS)
TOTAL                                   ,        ..
M                                      ..        ..
RURAL                                 ,.         ..          .                ..



ANNEX I
Pge 2rof 5
TAILS 3A
SINIDA                -SOCIAL INDICATO  DATA NM
INDiA                               REPEREICK 080131 CUKIONED AVIRA W p=4
1,6~~    197OLk  HOST                    (MOST 32033? ESTIMATE)1
=ECET              LOW DICOME           N5DDU L
1960&!    197        YTSTINATLk.     AUSA A PACSPSC         AIA   PASC
ADJUSTED ENRLIJET  RATIOS
PRINARYa  TOTAL                     61.0       73.0       79.0            97.4                    102.0
ALZ                       60.0      90.0        93.0           110.5                    105.9
FPUW.                    40.0       56.0       64.0             83.7                     98.2
JECONDIARl TOtAL                    20.0      26.0        30.0            35.9                     46.0
HALE                      30.0      36.0       39.0             44.6                     48.7
NLZ                       10.0      15.0       20.0             26.3                     43.1
VOCATONAL (2 or secONDAy)              2.8       1.0         0.7 /a          2.2                     17.3
PUPtL-TEACE  RTIO
P8IK*RY                             46.0      41.0        54.0            38.5                     31.8
SECONDARY                           16.0      21.0          ..            18.7                     23.5
ADULT LItEACY RATE (2)                27.6      34.1        36.2            53.4                     72.9
PASSENGQR CARS/THOUSIAND POP           U.6       1.1         1.4 fh          0.9                     10.1
RADtO RECEZIVRS/TROUSAID POP           4.9      21.5        43.6           112.1                    113.6
TV 3ZCEIVERS/TNOUSAND POP              0.0       0.0         1.7            15.7                     50.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST) CDCULATION
PEIL THOUSAND POPULATION            10.6       16.2       19.4 A          16.2                     53.9
CUXRIA ANIL ATTENIANCE/CAPITA          3.2       6.2         3.7 A           3.6                      3.4
TOTAL LAlO  FORCE (THOUS)         185951.0  219194.0   282169.0
TrAL  (PERCENT)                     30.7      32.5        31.8            33.3                     33.5
AaICULTURE (PERCEN)                 74.0       74.0       71.0            69.6                     52.2
IXUSTRY (PERCENT)                   11.0      11.0        13.2            15.8                     17.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               42.6      40.0        39.4            42.6                     38.7
HAZ                                 57.0       52.4       52.0            54.7                     50.9
FWALE                               27.3      26.9        25.9            29.8                     26.6
ECON0HIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.1       1.1         1.1             1.0                      1.1
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED IT
RICHEST 52 OF HOUSEHOLDS            26.7      26.3 jj    22.2 Ie          22.2                     22.2
HICHEST 202 OF HOUSEHOLDS           51.7      48.9 /I    &9.4 7;          48.0                     48.0
LOWEST 202 OF HOUSEHOLDS             4.1       6.7 71      7.0 7           6.6                      6.4
LOWEST 40S OF HOUSEHOLDS            13.6      17.2 7i    16.2 11          %S5                      15.5
m    mA7r  -RM
ESTRIATED ABSOLUIE POVERTY INCaNE
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..        ..       132.0 /h        133.9                    168.6
RURAL                                 ..        ..       114.0 7         111.6                    152.0
ESTDIATED REILATIVE POVERTY INCOSE-
LEVEL (USS PiR CAPITA)
Una5*                                 ..        ..          ..              ..                    177.9
RURAL                                 ..        ..          ..              ..                    164.6
ESTIKATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUrE
POVERTY IUCOE LEVL (Z)
URBAN                                 ..        ..        40.3 th         43.6                     23.4
RURAL                                 .. ..               50.7 7-W        51.7                     37.7
NOT AVAILABLE
SOT APPLICABLE
NOT E S
Ia  The group averages for each lndicator are populatian-weghted aritheetLc means. Coverage of contries mng the
indicators depends an availability of data and Is not uniform.
lb   Unless otherwise noted. "Data for 1960" refer to any yer between 1959 end 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for Maet Recent Entimate" between 1980 and 1982.
/c  1977; /a 1976; Le 1975; /f 1978; /R 1962; /h 1979; /i 1964-65.
JMME, 1984



AMNE I
______________                                   Page   3   of   5
bLuE   0ill Sb  IL  LI deaft ILL .me. ~esSy jL   Lbv  t           l ameamablattL, .e nLtat.. It ebLId .IA  Ilb LULd LILA LIy gau men ILAIaiAI
I.AIabnS. Lb k L    ru LI .SueS eftLItInad leamp,.  ae lw dlL....l agadigg A. gelalILe aft dhu-  Wbm.L. LLLL...do                 .flA S.
ILmyLI  "anLE  of  uIL    me.. "lea,. all okmC1mLAL  ......   dIu..in.. betng matulA.
lb te.CLLm event Lag IS 15s. -u .oM.I  plap .1 afLb ALILA  wave  me (1) * gameg Gan, LLab !!"     Moml  --Wm  Inot tme too  -a" j.0 ae a,
*LLEA  anew  (mlt S.. 'Mo* ta=, eat mm... .mp     me.. -not. lnag 10-11 LILILA me 11101b M"I IA AmeS  A.... ed, .&--u  ~LLAS.Ai.
OLIMSALSAA). I c. Lb raIlm  101-  on. lhe -a   ~1 Pmkss..L.    doak. wltdIkm   ine  (Im -L  Idisa.. me *- LAS Au, ulIL,tr AC    e- nt.. A
AAL bL do"L UL anL SLIIAAL.I..O lega.. lmu  LI gleamILa.amp  Ila aI1gmelA    dh-f  W. aft "ALLIMUA.Y IN dm5 me W. "I              OWNS. LALLL  u.S
....Im   I OLALIS  .LA LILb LEILLL -LLLbe  Ib 1i -W-       -LlF LILILI IA LIWeaLI  Lb ..I-A  -  9"t-L....   A ISA      . mA   b.ey ILd
I.A (.5me  Aq.);.l                                                               muLI?IAmuI   -P IALL  dh4hd bv -km. LI p-A.IS.Ltt
W"LL  ACLL%   WWWO,esu e OWL  mea t. .Smd i..owf SMLekaj1~u~.. meSItt ALAS LI LALmualL  (ALA.
1913 m  SEA me         aIsev ..-W"  i CU   IM.                                    .Iq.yy   LI IItg.e..-AASLLALIib                 L  I1LL
MIIV   W10411 ILLLb. L   WS.A          LL  EeALy          mbuiLlm   AA    .ILLL,OLAL    AL  IASA    o 
I.IAeA  ILALL LILImAALIL  jldinLIASA ILl.S(IL.mub.A.LIALA
amSIOt.N AL                          .1a L10  ne S"b. .LL                                .tl iLL..a-&w   pt.1a
Winter  -11F      .I..   .   -WbLi  mu   a"Ill.    4 ~. MlILA-S- me... LL Ittlege AL               fte. kMRL.) -4.  W.' ...P..4..t........   LId
.A IMILgags 4IArg"Ip) 1 Stiw   " M   aa-1al M   WgtqIWA.Mu" L. 19""Amimed. badt1 b..p t.A.tAuL.  LAL.m Am
-w       g.u.. ~me.in      W. LSe.S iL  m    olplam. LAA            AmILe EA_L. LimiA  1.LLLLIL mL-ILISAL .m.IL.I.m
meWiff   AAI.LIAI, a.fa EUS    LASAI   LI.SALLLAL. .W- fmeA-L.d. SIO                A."I  1m.0. -.   LIbft -.A.  ImS.Im.-                         R
190   e  ISA a.     2%-    ouAe,                                            f1in"Li E1Si,l"Im    P"-. mCL             LLAAL     4LL
-"&-                                    S~~~~~~~~~~II    L   I L                   L L-SolO              .    l' LLS    m
'n..   . lraglet- 90.1... ,eVmS ft" "n,    L tha   me.'.  SEA                410tt.  ,- ge. -ULIA   me, wo.L  me.du.L
uA   L      .l me, lu-MM 1Sf.LALLLuL LaAAASIAAA  11.1ggt                      ILLLIAiJ ..LU.LALAALL.mL4AL  -L--I1mL                 A uL-.
-S mate. gA. dcL    ""A  ch.   SL wtmu   A. A- t-nLI,-tL  .1..wb -,l 6 a  -ta     W.W
,LLALumALA-LIALSI. S. me a    LLLS..3Lb ALAL  1.. me LI j..me . dIe.... S..bL u3                                      .    l.    .
me q..     Lbdm     " tw. L  6. LAISA AllatL.  me Lu                       mulum  LAm u.SAAImLLIS    m.mIlLlA
...S. LI Lb   - LALLILPA.ILLIL   bLI1L.  .LbpAALLIqLILS     IALS  L  LS  - 7AI.1 t. LILLALI MLul
LI.  m LI.u AL.    - LALAILL  LOAA   AId.LL.  bL.LST*A
mu... L A PmeILSAA L Lb pAL ~ AL ALLALAALI I LALA LI  b  LALLIALAS U---      IImuMm.j.U-            0LI. L..mL I -LLISAL
LIl1L. LinLmLy  Ae.tlAm  . LbALIA.LSA SALb pLL    LIl.     I ...A 1b5m5  SlLIIA.IalA. mId  n -9. O.LAL
*AiAAi~~LI SLAS. ll'~~. me LILA ILLA.                     ALAS~~I SAAL  .A.ILoy  IALLAL   -all =LAP. LA LL  mA ALA..
LA..LAl~meli..'ILlp.  me A-".-b.2             1  I Ld-Lb                                  Lk..L       (*. I-  -rLe  IA  LA    AA
umeAISS  mu.590.  e 13036 A= dte    M ..d.  A"                                                                      -   m-in. IL..-.m
,wR"   Ig.Is           - 19     i. eLLLUm. I LII                                                                                    TV LLAAL ELlm
y   PLIIIAA  AL SLL-LI.S  * ad  910.K"                               1.41. inmIm,.d C.. *Amem   A.la.L  - lIPAL  ILL1L . natan.
--up mg    S-na   -v    __G_,aLAL  OALu    Ibnu1L    eL~Il  .  ILL LIPA1 AIt.= e
(Ln.     LuA...1. Z        *  eSTUI                                              Um.. ILSLAL patenlyLI-  meadIs m-ALA Lb IAAteSL  LI -MAb
0m  nAIA    IO Idea. me....LALIA.-&                                                    .m LI.I.4..  IlMuSe
_______ _______ _______ _______ -  m A S   m   m u  ~ L   LI  A L d 1..e   -L S   -   C      -  1.  L m S d..  CA   a h -I m .  L
YII. LOL.M...  Pe                            .......                                         A .    ~muam, lLmmIme   eLA.L
IL LuALAI.A  Le.LL   me- AL-IS-Ll-e                                              m       -Lt-L  p-. t-WAL en-
..P         SWULLLLLL.LL-"-   -a.  LL  .LdmL
etpavam              -me         nS_ in.   .a  eLI                    A LdLuL IL uA. LI WAL r LI1  .- m. %c4
L.o    ,_  u- LAL -Lu-  LI-meS-  -ml ul2-`7 A-"U..                    ftI   n   LLLLL  meg-AL   IL f-  ;%D.   .IL mIe9 L
.4-    wmeal 't LO,)~   ..  ftbl.  M -M.L  ~rlftg, WAL.                 mA . aft. ".m t.&n   -     -.   .% Im-IA LfLA    L
eme(A        ul.~-     - State..o  4I11.u1,00 LILA.- u.e..l,g. L    uIL           LASUplp. LASta.."9%. IF
AW. d-MI.L. m -ru u-w.il        md-m   W,0L  1-6 AI      u (L                   I3pL. i1WG, -d =   auALatt -l handL  mu L.&... LILS. I
owe%   8 4un    L. "ll. a    .W&.-".   "Re" LI... mAlA              .m.  (AILLACI W- hn.  (b  (AL C"  AwLtLLL    LI %.La ALl. C-.&.a
4ApILSmI.-a           mek SLL.endImmagae  IL .4t1asIL .me" me                        aama   - -   WLAb   fLe  AILSL.Cm,.ml.m
,,e A   IA  ma. I.e  ino bm..d  06IAIULLAL me. PImI --Il (L.                                          LI bLI (Ab Ot.uE- ALA- isA  me 6S  WLL
ma m m tbu  nime "I uLk eeIIAmeaflbA AlAS-mal. 1110. deme.(I                  me (US din..-"
LI      I               P..   ttona       LA.                    m...LLmmin I                   A..L.L1            IAL   .
,A je,    Ikm byIL0                 ,LILS.  -LCum                                                    A - bAAgo-LI (AulALILA LAILL.   -,.meA me.-U. -d
-         ...~~L,.'I..8    IL1, (aemumedmu) - PLALLI..A m  .pLI .u C."L.              ILilliLILIif.Lfl                       m_ILL) b- LImeby !GMLI 
ILkL LSA. LI*1* SOam ~AdIL mem  ILLALA. lb.     ~          1LIELb        L.I.: -Nw               trU1    .  b     ne
I-M         ft "D - A-            IA AI0  C e,LIIe                               A-A   k        .1
dali.                                                                     LIbLILALA.um lft-dIIIH dgw
glatl, W -A                                                   -.W-  LLLA9A  -L ." -a M.-  I&-
meam     iA,...L .a4i1.. I LIlA.  nt- VuL n4ee-L mu
ft- ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     "u      - b.---*F  LL- d-Ab- b.e.1) a--AAL-A
Welle,  . eaL   LLZ empallbu       lIn -91 ame 1:1i am Oa..    f
_1-. hInb1.11 4.0 - - ow.-0  . cnadIm               _ -
e"ui mgpl       "A.t   ammuv. u-CAmm mes..umeuIm                                                                    .  L,bme..eS-U .
LUI    m   A        em  .uLLdILmA..  A1e!m                                                                     m   .A
P-P" Llb L    -I  0 ,L~    ILf  SLL      uLALLI  LA I.".
lAn  k m I 6Fn -ta, Wme ar . an  " ww"a AtLb



mosnc uiwsonwr DM
oI u CAW 11 1111 038290 j2
camO IUTm Ic PUO8CT IN 19821/181                                              ARS RAT! QP CR39 C. Cante  Price.  /
1955/56-1959/60  1960I61-1i64/63  1963566-1959/70  1970171-1974/75  1975176-1P79?90
US Din.   S
CDP at  ecrkat Price               170.74   100.0                    3.7               3.6              3.7             2.9              4.1
Crag Domeatic lnveotamt             41.99    24.6
Cra. Nationa Eavin                  39.12   22.3
Carrent Account Deao_               3.37   - 2.3
OUTPUT. LABOR PORM AND  RO6PDCUCTIT  3S 1981
Va    adted   (at fator   Lobor Porc. Pa              V.A. Per hork
U55 U7               XZ5 2                                     at National Averuae
Agriculture                         51.7                35.1         172.7    70.6      299        50
Induatry                           35.2                 23.9         31.6    12.9    1114         115
Service                            60.6                 41.0         40.3    16.5    1504         Z49
Total/Averap                       17 U.5             iWI.          !Ur  irr   - r                i
CDVEmInr InMIaE
Cenral Coverament */                              Cetral Cowarnt
Ra. Din.           Z of CDP                    M. Un.             Z of GDP
1982/83    1982T83    S97B/79-1982/S3         1982/83    ISIR183    1979/79-19927W
Current Receipte                    333.34      20.3           19.5                175.61       10.7          10.5
Curret Ibpndituree                  340.09      20.7           19.0                188.59       11.3          10.8
Curret Surplua/Deficit             -  6.75     - 0.4            0.5               - 12.98      - 0.3         - 0.4
Capital Dependitur e.f/              131.28      8.0            8.1                 95.13        5.3           5.7
bctenal Asmiatance (net) d1           19.30      1.2            1.0
MONEY. C TT AMD PRICKS             1970/71  1975/76  197717   19711/79  1979/80  198/81  1981/52  19F2e3 rbrar  1933 Fbruay 19B4
BRe Billion outstding at end of perid)
Honey  d quas Haney                  109.8   224.8   329.1   401.1   472.3   555.5   624.9   723.8             711.7          845.7
Dnk Credit to Covar_nat (not)        54.6   106.3   137.3    159.3   200.1   257.2   309.1   352.4             353.5          406.6
Dsak Credit to Coaercial Sector      64.6   156.2   212.2   255.3   310.1   363.5   430.5   504.5              487.7          576.4
(Percentage or Index Number.)                           Apr-Feb 1982/83  Apr-Fob 1983/94
Haney and quasi aney -s a Z
of CUP                             27.3    30.3    36.7    41.1    44.1    43.6    42.0    44.0
Wholeale Price Index
(1970171 - 100)                   100.0   173.0   185.8    185.3   217.6   257.3   281.4   288.6             298.1              314.8
Annal percentage change. ln:
Uholesale Price Index                 7.7    -1.1       5.2      -        17.1    15.2      9.4      2.6         2.3                9.3
Dank Credt to Covert (net)           15.0    22.7    16.3       16.0    25.6    28.5    20.2    14.0            21.0               18.9 h/
Denk Credit to Comarcil sector        19.4    22.7    12.6      20.2    21.5    17.2    18.4    17.2            15.5 j/            17.9 h/
aI The per capita c r e stite  ie at marka price. aseig world Dank   se hodology. baa. period 1979-1981.
All other converaions to doller. in this table are at the average anebane rate prevailing durin  the period covared.
bi Quick Eretiate. Central Statistical Organization.
4I  Conuted fron trend 1lAn of CGP at factor cost eries. including one obeervation before firat yer and one obervation after bat year of
listed period.
d./ World Bank estimates of net disbur _mnt of conc-nion-l oad and ISRD.
e/ Trmafers betnm   Centre ad Stte  have bee ntted out.
f/ All loane and advene  to third partiem bave been netted out.
j/  Penage  barn  fr  and-Kareh 1982 to and-February 1983.
h/ Percentage eange from end-Harch 1983 to end-February 1984.
i/Total Labor Force And parcentae  breakdown frcn 1981 Cansu.  xccludes data for Ass.



i 31*t 5
DALSCI or PAKMm                         1gmo/Is  198SI2   19aguuus1 IgoiSW             ewtCss   WMUTS (AVOWS 1973180-12/13) 9/
(gUS Kin-.)1y                                                                                                        UNV NI..   2A
Reports of Coa  ,/                      8.5       ,5319    68001       .46                   LS    Goods r             9S0       12
Imports :I Googd -/                   -16.204   -15,500  -14.149  -14.412              Te                              45 5       6
Trae   aance                          - 7.700   - 6.9BI  - 6.248   - 5.946             Gam                             779        9
Nps (net)                                1.363       974      940       856            Clothing                        573        7
Leather end Leather product.   480         6
Resource "lance                       - 6.335   - 6.007   - 5.308     5.090             Juts Manufactures              333        6
fran Or.                       360        5
ILterest Inco_ (nt) A/                    600       2U6  -   415  -   648              Cotton  extile                  328        6
Net Tramfere  l                   *      2.771    2.318      1,I49     1.790            lgs r6                                    1
Other.                        3.849       4
Dllance on Current Account            - 2.964   - 3.403   - 3.874   - 3.948
Offcil Loans & Grants                                                                  Totel                        B3243        100
Groas Disoursemnts                       2.651    2.570      3.064    3.441            SIllS. CDT. OM,      51. 1963
Amortization                          -   700   -  674  -   701  -   783
IlS$ billion
Transcation with DIF (not)               1.035       690     1.980     1.295           Outstanding en Disbursed                   19.6
All Other Items o/                    -   367  - 1.581          12      531            UnDihbureed                               11.1
Outstandin  includins Undshbured          30.7
Increae in Reserves C-)                   345    2.398   -   503  -   536
Cross Reseervee (end ycar) ~I            6.859    4.461     4.964     s.soo            ncr gsani: RATIO M0R 1982/83 j1 !Y        10.1I per cent
Net Reserves (end year) */F             6.532     3.497      2.06S     1.49
nd/IID& LEMNG. MARr1 31. 1984j1
Fuel sod Related Materials
aports (PetroLm) S/                     6.672     5.590     4.613    3.393                                                 1USD o li
Outstanding  nd Dieburerd           1.826     7.924
Undibur ed                         2.061     4,331
Outstanding includinS Undisbursd   3.907    12.255
RATE OF exoAJrE
June 1966 to sid-becember 1971        US$1.00 - Re 7.50
Re 1.00 - DSSO.13333
Mid-Decmber 1971 to end-Jnon  1972    USSI.00 - Re 7.27927
Rs 1.00 - UI50.137376
After end-Junm 1972                    Floating Rate
Spot Rate end-March 1983              US$1.00 - Rs 10.0301
Rs 1.00 - USSO.0997
Spot Rate end-March 198               USS1.00 - Rs 10.7181
Re 1.00 - USS0.0933
.t  Eatla ted
Figure given cover alt invstet inoe (oat). Major payments are interest e  foreign loans and charge  paid te DIV. and ajor recsipts Is
interest earnd on foreign assets.
jI  Figures gven include  workers' remittances but exclude official grent iassitance which is inluded within offfirel lons  nd grant. and
non-rtsident deposits which are inclded within all other item.
m/ Exclude nt un of IM credit.
n  Aortization  nd interest pyeants  n foregn loan  as a percentage of total  urrent rtceipts.
o     l/ Icudes exchange rate adjustmnts to the valuatioo of reserve  and fiosocng of imbalances in rupee trade.
tI  Ecludng gold.
3/ Net of crnde petrolem exports.
rl Including iron end steel.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
TIE STITUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, l984)
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit  Year of
No.      Anoroval        Purpose                         Bank         IDA jJ     Undisbursed 3J
50 Loans/                                              2,164.0          -              -
93 Credits fully disbursed                                 -        5,535.2            -
482-IN    1974      Karnataka Dairy                                   30.0           8.15
610-IN    1976      Integrated Cotton Development         -           18.0           0.03
1251-IN    1976      Andhra Pradesh Irrigation           145.0          -           24.94
1273-IN    1976      National Seeds I                     25.0          -           11.19
1335-IN    1977      Bombay Urban Transport               25.0          -            1.17
680-IN    1977      Kerala Agzic. Development             -           30.0          8.45
682-IN    1977      Orissa Agric. Development             -           20.0           1.65
690-IN    1977      West Bengal Agricultural
Extension & Research                -          12.0           7.32
1394-IN    1977      Gujarat Fisheries                    14.0          -            2.62
720-IN    1977      Periyar Vaigai Irrigation             -           23.0          1.52
728-IN    1977      Assam Agricultural Development        -            8.0           1.34
747-IN    1978      Second Foodgrain Storage              -          107.0         52.65
761-IN    1978      Bihar Agricultural
Extension & Research               -           8.0           4-93
1511-IN    1978      IDBI Joint/Public Sector             25.0          -            1.72
1549-IN    1978      Third Trombay Thermal Power         105.0          -            3.60
788-IN    1978      Karnataka Irrigation                  -          117.6         37.38
793-IN    1978      Korba Thermal Power                   -          200.0         30.11
806-IN    1978      Ja3 u-Kashmir Horticulture            -           14.0          9.91
815-IN    1978      Andhra Pradesh Fisheries              -           17.5          8.40
816-IN    1978      National Seeds II                     -           16.0          4.86
1592-IN    1978      Telecommunications VII              120.0         -            15.10
824-IN    1978      National Dairy                        -          150.0         43.85
842-IN    1979      Bombay Water Supply II                -          196.0        141.11
844-IN    1979      Railway Modernization
& Maintenance                       -         190.0          25.05
848-IN    1979      Punjab Water Supply & Sewerage        -          38.0           5.28
855-IN    1979      National Agricultural Research        -           27.0         14.06
862-IN    1979      Composite Agricultural Extension    -             25.0          2.94
871-IN    1979      National Cooperative Development
Corporation                         -          30.0           0.83
1648-IN    1979      Ramagundam Thermal Power             50.0          -           50.00
874-IN    1979      Ramagundam Thermal Power              -          200.0         10.71
889-IN    1979      Punjab Irrigation                     -          129.0         38.32
899-IN    1979      Maharashtra Water Supply              -          48.0           6.72
911-IN    1979      Rural Electrification Corp. II        -          175.0          4.45
925-IN    1979      Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry         -          23.0           2.24
954-IN    1980      Maharasbtra Irrigation II             -          210.0         42.74
961-IN    1980      Gujarat Community Forestry            -          37.0           6.51
963-IN    1980      Inland Fisheries                      -          20.0          16.07
981-IN    1980      Population II                         -          46.0          27.63



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                 (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Apnroval        Purpose                         Bank         IDA jj     Undisbursed Z/
1003-IN    1980      Tamil Nadu Nutrition                  -           32.0          19.48
1011-IN    1980      Gujarat Irrigation II                 -          175.0         94.88
1012-IN    1980      Cashewnut                             -           22.0          16.11
1027-IN    1980      Singrauli Thermal II                  -          300.0        159.67
1028-IN    1980      Kerala Agricultural Extension         -           10.0           7.56
1033-IN    1980      Calcutta Urban Transport              -           56.0          17.76
1034-IN    1980      Karnataka Sericulture                 -           54.0         30.32
1046-IN    1980      Rajasthan Water Supply & Sewerage   -             80.0         49.09
1843-IN    1980      Industry DFC XIII                   100.0          -             5.37
1887-IN    1980      Farakka Thermal Power                25.0          -           25.00
1053-IN    1980      Farakka Thermal Power                 -          225.0        113.52
1897-IN    1981      Kandi Watershed and
Area Development                   30.0         -            20.31
1072-IN    1981      Bihar Rural Roads                     -           35.0         14.38
1078-IN    1981      Mahanadi Barrages                     -           83.0         42.64
1082-IN    1981      Madras Urban Development II           -           42.0         19.49
1108-IN    1981      M.P. Medium Irrigation                -          140.0         85.73
1112-IN    1981      Telecommunications VIII               -          314.0         89.58
1116-IN    1981      Karnataka Tank Irrigation             -           54.0         37.68
1125-IN    1981      Razira Fertilizer Project             -          400.0        117.86
1135-IN    1981      Maharashtra Agricultural Ext.         -           23.0         13.92
1137-IN    1981      Tamil Nadu Agricultural Ext.          -           28.0          17.08
1138-IN    1981      M.P. Agricultural Ext. II             -           37.0         28.05
1146-IN    1981      National Cooperative
Development Corp. II                -         125.0          70.25
1172-IN    1982      Korba Thermal Pover Project II        -          400.0        273.61
1177-IN    1982      Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation       -          220.0        154.99
2050-IN    1982      Tamil Nadu Newsprint                100.0          -           18.15
1178-IN    1982      West Bengal Social Forestry           -           29.0          19.92
1185-IN    1982      Kanpur Urban Development              -           25.0         15.13
2051-IN    1982      ICICI XIV                           150.0          -           57.70
2076-IN    1982      R-magundam Thermal Power II         300.0          -          269.54
2095-IN    1982      ARDC IV                             190.0          -            0.43
1219-IN    1982      Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Ext.    -              6.0          4.69
2123-IN    1982      Refineries Rationalization          200.0          -           96.43
2165-IN    1982      Rural Electrification III           304.5          -          274.48
2186-IN    1982      Kallada Irrigation                   20.3          -           20.00
1269-IN    1982      Kallada Irrigation                    -           60.0         30.57
1280-IN    1983      Gujarat Water Supply                  -           72.0         60.11
1286-IN    1983      Jammu/Kasbmir and
Haryana Social Forestry             -          33.0          24.97
1288-IN    1983      Chambal Madhya Pradesh                -           -
Irrigation II                      -           31.0          19.65
1289-IN    1983      Subernarekha Irrigation               -          127.0        105.96
2205-IN    1983      Krishna-Godavari Exploration        165.5          -          140.52
2210-IN    1983      Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                   200.0          -           197.04



ANE  ItI
Page 3 of 4
U8S million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                 (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      ADproval        Purpose                         Bank         IDA 1J     Undisbursed g/
1299-IN    1983      Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                      -         200.0         177.00
2241-IN    1983      South BasBein Gas Development       139.3          -          133.71
1319-IN    1983      Haryana Irrigation II                 -         150.0         114.38
1332-IN    1983      U.P. Public Tubewells II              -          101.0         89.79
1356-IN    1983      Upper Indravati Rydro Pover           -          170.0        148.38
2278-IN    1983      Upper Indravati Hydra Pover         156.4          -          156.01
1369-IN    1983      Calcutta Urban Development III        -          147.0        132.10
1383-IN    1983      Maharashtra Water Utilization         -          32.0          26.95
2308-IN    1983      Maharashtra Water Utilization        22.7          -           22.64
2283-IN    1983      Central Power Transmission          250.7         -           250.07
2295-IN    1983      Himalayan Watershed Management       46.2          -           45.89
2329-IN    1983      Madhya Pradesh Urban                 24.1          -           24.04
1397-IN    1984      Orissa Irrigation II                  -         105.0          83.20
1424-IN    1984      Rainfed Areas Watershed Dev.          -          31.0          29.37
1426-IN    1984      Population III                        -          70.0          66.23
1432-IN    1984     Karnataka Social Forestry              -          27.0          25.57
2387-IN    1984      Nhava Sheva Port                    250.0                     249.38
2393-IN    1984      Dudhichua Coal                      151.0                     150.62
2403-IN    1984      Cambay Basin Petroleum              242.5                     241.90
2415-IN    1984      Madysa Pradesh Fertilizer           203.6                     203.09
1483-IN    1984     Upper Ganga Irrigation                           125.0         117.38
1496-IN    1984     Gujarat Medium Irrigation                        172.0         164.14
2417-IN    1984      Railways Electrification*           280.7                     280.70
2442-IN    1984      Farakka II Thermal Power*           300.8                     300.80
Total                                    6,526.3    12,268.3
of vhich has been repaid              1.350.8         173.0
Total now outstanding                    5,175.5    12,095.3
Amount Sold                     133.8
of vhich has been repaid    133.8          -
Total now held by Bank and IDA j/        5,175.5    12,095.3
Total undisbursed (excluding t)          2,712.69    3,494.35
j]  IDA Credit amounts for SDR-denominated Credits are expressed in terms of their
US dollar equivalents, as established at the time of Credit negotiations and as
subsequently presented to the Board.
Undisbursed amounts for SDR-denominated IDA Credits are derived from cumulative
disbursements converted to their US dollar equivalents at the SDRI/US dollar
exchange rate in effect on September 30, 1984.
i/  Prior to exchange adjustment.
* Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1984)
Amount (yC@$ million)
Fiscal
Year                     Company                       Loan     Equity    Total
1959            Republic Forge Company Ltd.             1.5        -        1.5
1959            Kirloakar Oil Engines Ltd.              0.8        -        0.8
1960            Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                  1.4        -        1.4
1961            K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                       0.2        -        0.2
1963-66         Precision Bearings India Ltd.           0.6       0.4       1.0
1964            Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.            0.8       0.4       1.2
1964-75-79      Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.          11.8       1.3      13.1
1964            Laksbmi Machine Works Ltd.              1.0       0.3       1.3
1967            Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                 1.1       0.1       1.2
1967             Indian Explosives Ltd.                 8.6       2.9      11.5
1969-70         Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.              15.1       3.8      18.9
1976             Escorts Limited                        6.6        -        6.6
1978            Housing Development Finance
Corporation                            4.0       1.2       5.2
1980            Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.        7.5       1.2       8.7
1981            Coromandel Fertilizers Limited         15.9                15.9
1981            Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd.    38.0           -       38.0
1981            Mahindra, Mahindra Limited             15.0        -       15.0
1981            Nagarjuna Coated Tubes Ltd.             2.9       0.3       3.2
1981            Nagarjuna Signode Limited               2.3        -        2.3
1981            Nagarjuna Steels Limited                1.5       0.2       1.7
1982            Ashok Leyland Limited                  28.0        -       28.0
1982            The Bombay Dyeing and
Manufacturing Co. Ltd.             18.8        -       18.8
1982            Bharat Forge Company Ltd.              15.5        -       15.5
1982            The Indian Rayon Corp. Ltd.             8.1        -        8.1
1984            The Gbalior Rayon Silk Manu-
facturing (Weaving) Co. Ltd.        3.7        -        3.7
TOTAL GROSS COMMITMENTS        210.7       12.1    222.8
Less:   Sold                          53.0       3.4      56.4
Repaid                       34.0         -      34.0
Cancelled                    33.0        1.4     34.4
Now Held                     90.7        7.3     98.0
U=isus==4.=          44=1
Undisbursed                  44.1         -      44.1
3S=      -=    ==-



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
CHANDRAPUR THERMAL POWER PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SKEET
Section I:         Timetable of KeY Events
(a) Time taken by the Borrower to prepare the proiect
About two years.
(b) The agencv that has prepared the Project
Maharashtra State Electricity Board.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and date of
the first mission to consider the proiect
The project was first presented to the Bank in
December 1983; a preparation mission visited India
in March 1984.
Cd) Date of departure of appraisal mission
May 5, 1984.
Ce) Date of completion of negotiations
April 23, 1985.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
September 30, 1985.
Section II:    Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III:   Special Conditions
(a) Assurance of provision of adequate coal supplies by GOI
and cooling water supplies by GOM (paras. 50, 51);
(b) Provision by GOM of compensation f-- g&-.4.rty acquired
and alternative means of sub_istence for population
displaced by the project (para. 52);



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(c) Reduction of MSEB's transmission and distribution
losses (para. 62);
(d) Participation of NSEB in ongoing metering study
(para. 63);
(e) Introduction by MSEB of the commercial accounting
system prepareQ by GOI (para. 64);
(f) Achievement of 3% revenue surplus by MSEB from 1985/86
(para. 65); and
(g) Carrying out of a study by MSEB, by January 1986, on
the restructuring of low-voltage tariffs, (para. 67).



ANNEX IV
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(USS Millions)
Procurement Method               Total
Proiect Element                     ICA       LCB       Other    N.A. al  Cost
A. Civil Works:                      -       196.2        -       8.9    205.1
B. EquiDment:
1. Steam Generators,
Turbogenerators,
Control and Auxiliaries      403.6       -         -        -       403.6
(284.0)      -         -       -       (284.0)
2. Other Mechanical and
Electrical Works               -       223.3       -        -       223.3
3. Transportation, Erection
Insurance and Testing         -         70.5       -       -         70.5
C. Consultancv Services              -         -         5.3      -         5.3
D. Enaineerina and Administration   -          -          -      50.0      50.0
E. Thermal Plant Rehabilitation      1.5      28.8      10.5 &/   -        40.8
(l ,5)    (14.5)     _       _        (16.0)
405.1     518.8     15.8     58.9      998.6
(285.5)    (14.5)      -        -      (300.0)
3=__  =___  ==c      -_ _m                  m-
Note: (1) Figures in parentheses indicate amounts financed by the Bank.
(2) Amounts are net of duties and taxes.
aj Not subject to commercial procurement.
b Items of a proprietary nature.



I-~~~~~~L
-j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
ILCU



IBRD 18387R
MADHYA PRADESH
I, r
W-0.                  0~~*u.Tuma 
ilh~~~~~~~~~~~~~ N.tZ       ri:
PSg&od                                      "-.t  \  M.h.                                       D A aw.-
V... sin~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G.pW
AD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-- --  6huS.,nl                                                            NAGPU R uNG dhchn u
0Pd.rn  t.I..ng..Iu.   Ap ot.
-*    on           Elar * /       X      $ Pos.dhili    tw
/. K|*l    > op                                            g      b               g. l
Go-..~ ~ ~~~G.-
3on // <\ tANDHRA PRADESH 5 
K..d.    Y    b.                                           I r TD S ID pchB_
.    FUNG    MAIN trW r dNAGPUR   RING   MAIN
S-I                      Nor.yOng.on AN..O. -2lbo
I..                           d                                                   Arabian
*=o                     K.o.                             PUNE RING MAIN  ~ 'K-> G MAIN
_                                                            ~~~~~~~~     ~      ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ArabiJmn.  -  S      c' ;E
7~~~~~~~~t Lm.n X- Yn                                                           .J 
haDAp  f f            ~~ ~~KALW A  RING   MA IN                         1rx                !}"r S A*
70.             ''- _ -gOV
NOV EM BER 1984



