I~~~~~~~~
Report No. 8511
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS IV PROJECT
(LOAN 1835-IND)
April 10. 1990
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department V
Atia Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Name of currencys Rupiah
Rate of exchange
Appraisal - August 1979                         US$1 = Rp 625
September 1979 - March 30, 1983                US$l    Rp 625 - 909
March 31, 1983 - September 11. 1986            US$1 - Rp 909 - 1,100
September 12, 1986 - present                   US$1 - Rp 1,640 - 1,750
FISCAL YEAR OF THE BORROWER
GOIs          April 1 - March 31
PTP:          January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
Agraria      Government Land Survey and Mapping Agency
BI           Bank Indonesia
BPKP         Government Audit Agency
BRI          Bank Rakyat Indonesia
DGE          Director General of Estates
FFB          Oil Palm Fresh Fruit Bunches
GOI          Government of Indonesia
MOA          Ministry of Agriculture
NES          Foreign-assisted Nucleus Estates and Smallholders Project
PCC          Provincial Coordinating Committee
PIR          Wholly GOI-financed Nucleus Estate and Smallholders Project
PNP          An estate enterprise of the Department of Agriculture
(without the autonomy of a PTP)
PTP          State-owned Limited Liability Estate Company
TXPIR        Special Team Assisting the DGE with NES and PIR Projects



,~~~~~~~~~~~~0 wofCA omUSE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Waston. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
OfficQ  a 
Opmat4inns IvAkaat.
April 10, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on 1-idonesia
Nucleus Estate and Smaliholders IV Proiect (Loan 1835-IND)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Indonesias Nucleus Estate and Smallholders IV Project (Loan
1835-tN))" prepared by the Asia Regional Office with Part II of the report
contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has been made by the
Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
of their ofcial dutes Its contents may not otherwise be disclsed without Wot Bak authoriation.



INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS IV PROJECT (NES IV)
(LOAN 1835-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface  .                      .  .  . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  i
Evaluation Sumary  . . .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  ii
I. Project Review from Bank's Perspective  . . . . . . . . .    1
Project Identity  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   1
Background    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .1
Project Objectives and Description  . . . . . . . . . . .   1
Project Design and Organization . . . . . . . . . . . . .   2
Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   3
Project  Results  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  6
Project Sustainability  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   8
Bank Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   9
Borrower Performance  ....  .  .   ...... .  .  .  .  .   .  12
Project Relationship  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  12
Consulting Services . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
Project Documentation and Df.   . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
II.  Project Review from Borrower's Perspective  . . . . . . .  14
I1I. Statistical Information .18
Table 1. Related Bank Loans  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   18
Table 2. Project Timetable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   19
Table 3. Loan Disbursements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   20
Table 4. Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . .   21
Table 5. Project Costs and Financing . . . . . . . . . .   22
A. Project Costs
B. Project Financing
C. Loan Disbursements by Category
Table 6. Project Results   ..23
A. Direct Benefits
B. Economic Impact
C. Financial Impact
D. Studies and Institutional Support
Table 7. Record of Compliance with Major Covenants . . .   24
Table 8. Use of Staff Resources  . . . . . . . . . . . .   25
A. Staff Inputs
B. Bank Missions
C. Costs
Table 9. Oil Palm Extraction Rates and Yield Assumptions   26
Table 10. Economic Rate of Return Calculations
(a) Smallholder Component . . . . . . . . . . .  27
(b) PTP X Palm Oil Mills  . . . . . . . . . . .  28
(c) PTP X Rubber Factory  . . . . . . . . . . .  29
(d) Whole Project . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  30
MAPS
IBRD Nos. 14503R. 14504R, 14505R.



NamLF  ESTLTKAN  sZ4aLOLDER IV PROJC  IngS IV)
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Nucleus
Estates and Sallholders IV Project, for which a loan (1835-IND) of US$42.0
million was signed on May 16, 1980. The loan was closed on December 31, 1988,
two years behind schedule. US$12.0 million was canceled in August L985
folloring devaluation of the Indonesian Rupiah and revision of project costs;
a further US$4.3 million was canceled at the close of disbursemants on July
13, 1989. Total loan disbursements amounted to US$25.7 million.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Agriculture Operations
Division of the Asia Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and
---) and the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR Was started during the Bank's final
supervision mission of the project in September 1988 and is based, inter alia
an the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan, Guarantee and Project Agreoments;
supervision reportst correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, and
Internal Bank memoranda.
Th U*CR POvh was originally princed oan AprIl 10, 1990 contained a number of printing
otter. Ths is the reprInted version.



j   -'-                              Z~~~~~~~~~ {it -
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS IV PROJECT (NES IV)
(LOAN 1835-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Evaluation Su=ary
Obiectives
1.        The Nucleus Estates and Smallholders IV (NES IV) Project was the
fourth of a series of seven Bank-financed projects supporting the Government
of Indonesia's Nucleus Estates and Smallholders tree crop development progrem.
The Project's principal objectives were to:  (a) settle landless families on
unutilized land in South Sumatra; (b) create productive employment and raise
the incomes of participating smallholders; and (c) increase the production of
palm oil, to supply a rapidly expanding domestic demand for edible oils, thus
playing a part in import substitution (para. 1.2).
Implementation Experience
2.        Project implementation was slower than anticipated at appraisal due
to:  (a) difficulties in acquisition of land for project activities; (b) weak
management of the project by PTP X which had no experience in smallholder tree
and food development (para. 1.13); (c) inadequate coordination among the
project agencies at the provincial and district government levels; (d) weak
supervision and performance control by the Directorate General of Estates
(DGE) (para. 1.13); and (e) delays in the approval and release of funds for
smallholder development, a problem which was compounded by PTP X's inability
to pre-finance GOI expenditures given the PTP's own poor financial condition.
As a result of these problems, the Project's targets were completed three
years later than envisaged. Out of the original loan amount of US$42.0
million, US$12.0 million was canceled in August 1985 following devaluation of
the Indonesian Rupiah and revision of project costs. Actual disbursements
amounted to US$25.7 million. The unutilized balance of US$4.3 million was
canceled at the close of disbursements on July 13, 1989.
Results
3.        The Project was successful in developing unused land into
potentially very profitable oil palm plantations. The physical objectives o!
the Project, other than food crop development, were achieved though after
considerable delay. The quality of the oil palm plantings is good, with
93 percent classified as suitable for immediate transfer to smallholders.  The
Project has settled 4,000 landless families, as envisaged at appraisal and
provides these families with incomes above the Government of Indonesia (GOI)
rural income target. The economic rate of return is re-estimated at
22 percent for the Project as a whole, 19 percent for the smallholder
component. 38 percent for the estate oil palm processing mill and 34 percent
for the rubber factory. These rates of return are higher than those estimated
at appraisal except for the smallholder component (19 percent) which is lower
than the appraisal estimate (22 percent) due to delayed implementation and
failure of the food crop component.



0 iV -
4.        The Project also had a positive impact on the physical environment.
Prior to the Project, the vegetation in the project areas was either degraded
-secondary bush or coarse alang alang grass. Planting these areas with
productive trees has replaced large areas of alang alang which is particularly
destructive to soil nutrients, thus reducing soil erosion in those areas that
previously had inadequate ground cover.
5.        The main failure under the Project related to cost recov.ory.  The
mechanism instituted for the recovery of smallholder tree crop development
costs has not functioned as envisioned (para. 1.11). In particular , the
institutional framework for administering smallholder loans needs to be
improved if smallholder tree crop development costs are to be recovered. The
Bank is currently discussing with GOI measures for streamlining smallholder
credit administration and improving cost recovery.
Sustainability
6.        The Project's main target -- development of 8,000 ha of oil palm for
smallholders -- has been achieved and the oil palm planted is generally of a
very good standard. The Project is sustainable if smallholders are provided
with effective extension services, particularly in the initial years of the
oil palm mature phase during which proper maintenance and harvesting standards
must be observed. These requirements are receiving appropriate attention.
Farmers' groups are being formed to facilitate joint FFB transportation to the
mill and bulk procurement of fertilizer. Smallholder development specialists
whose primary role is to provide extension services to smallholders and
premote their welfare are currently being trained and due to be posted at all
project sites.
Lessons Learned
7.        Several lessons have been learned from the implementation of the NES
IV and other Bsank-assisted NES projects: (a) while the PTPs have the capacity
to implement project physical components, such as tree crop establishment and
civil works, they have insufficient expertise in the promotion of smallholder
development which can only be achieved if there is full coordination among GOI
agencies with expertise in this field; (b) implemertation of smalIholder
project components would be considerably improved if acquisition of suitable
land and selection of settlers were completed before commencement of physical
development; (c) all aspects of the credit recovery system, particularly the
conversion of smallholder development expenditures into individual loans and
the institutional framework for administering these loans, need to be
overhauled and improved if a significant portion of smallholder development
costs is to be recovered; and (d) of the three major tree crops (rubber,
coconuts and oil palm) which constitute the core of Indonesia's tree crops
subsector, oil palm has proven to be relatively more successful as
demonstrated by higher rates of return for the oil palm components under NES
IV and other Bank-assisted NES projects.



INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SM&LLHOLDERS IV PROJECT (NEW IV)
(LOAN 1835-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity
Project Name:                Nucleus Estate and Smallholders IV Project
Loan Number:                 1835-IND
RVP Unit:                    Asia
Countrys                     Indonesia
Sector:                      Agriculture
Subsector:                   Tree Crops
Background
1.1       The Project was in dipct support of GOI's strategy to reduce
poverty in the rural areas through the creation of assets able to provide
farmers with improved incomes on a sustainable basis, also to increase non-
petroleum exports and ensure the productive use of land in the outer islands.
In 1979, nearly 260.000 ha of oil palm was planted on estates but no more than
3,000 ha on smallholdings. although smallholdings accounted for about
80 percent of rubber areas and 90 percent of coconut and coffee plantings.
The Project was the first major GOI initiative to increase smallholder
participation in the palm oil industry and pioneered a program which has led
to about 130,000 ha of smallholders' oil palm being established by 1986 under
similar (NES/PIR) projects. These projects aim to utilize the technical and
management expertise of public sector plantation companies (PTPs) to develop
blocks of tree crops for subdivision into smallholdings associated with a
nucleus estate belonging to the PTP which provides processing and marketing
services for smallholders' produce.
Project Objectives and Description
1.2       The objectives of the Project were to settle landless families on
unutilized land in South Sumatra; to raise the incomes of these families in
the poverty target group; to increase the production of palm oil, to supply a
rapidly expanding domestic demand for edible oils, and so to play a part in
import substitution.
1.3       Components of the Project comprised:
(a) construction of about 21 new villages containing 4,000 houses, each
with water supply, sanitation, and access to education, social and
health facilitiec, and the settlement of 4,000 landless families in
these villages;



-2-
(b) the block planting of 8,000 ha of oil palm for subdivision at
maturity in 2.0 ha holdings for allocation to the settlers together
with 1.0 ha of other land, comprising a 0.1 ha house lot and 0.9 ha
for the separate cultivation of foodcrops;
(c) the construction of primary and secondary roads and farm tracks to
serve the settlements, and the establishment of credit, extension,
and cooperative services for the new communitys
(d) the further development of a PTP X nucleus estate established under
th.a NES I Project, through construction of estate housing, a 30 ton
per hour palm oil mill and a 40 ton per day rubber factory, also
extension of palm oil bulking facilities; and
(e) program support through provision of technical assistance to PTP X
and the DGE, and making start-up of funds available to PTP XI and
PTP XIII to initiate a further NES project in West Java.
The Project was to be completed over six years (1980-85) at a total c7st of
US$64.5 milliou, of which US$42 million would be financed by the Bank Lean,
ProJect Design and Organization
1.4       Prolect design followed the concept of the preceding NES I, 1I and
III Projects, except that NES IV developed oil palm for smallholders, whereas
previous projects had developed only rubber for smallholders, although
including oil palm and coconuts on nucleus estates. An-essential of the
concept was that smallholders should grow foodcrops; ideally to establish
self-sufficient communities in the outer islands but also to reduce the risk
of dependence on a single tree crop. In the case of rubber, a food crop would
have been critical to supply subsistence during the two or three years between
the intended cessation of wage employment and the coming of rubber into
production, but wage employment was in fact continued throughout the immature
period of the rubber. For the NES IV oil palm, coming into production some
three years after field planting, the nucleus estate was to employ at least
one member of each settler family throughout the immature period. Food crops
were, therefore, of lesser importance as essentially a secondary income source
but house and food crop lots were, at appraisal, expected to provide
48 percent of farm income in the first year of oil palm harvest and still
21 percent in the )ear of peak oil palm production. This expectation was
over-optimistic and failed to give sufficient weight to the initial experience
in the earlier projects and in transmigration projects, that soils in the
project area could sustain food cropping only with basal dressing of lime and
continued dressings of fertilizer heavier than had been assumed.
1.5       Whereas RES I and II project managers were appointed by and
responsible to the DGE, for NES III the President Director of the nucleus
estate appointed the Project Manager, in order to concentrate full authority
for estate and smallholder development and give greater autonomy to PTP X, so
as to speed project implementation. PTP X had full control of all project
activities, including responsibility for working with the Provincial
Coordinating Committee (PCC) to coordinate inputs by local government
agencies. It was recognized at appraisal that PTP X was weak in its
engineering and financial management, despite strengthening under the



.3
Agric4ltural Zatates IV Project, and technical assistance was, therefore.
provided in these areas.  No assistance was provided for the management of
settlement and social development nor for food crop agriculture, all of which
were responsibilities foreign to a plantation company.  It was envisaged that
local government agencies would supply these needs, but in any event their
support was minimal. It would have been preferable if, with the change in
management responsibilities, specific provisions had been made to enable PTP X
to grow as an agent of development and that particular requirements of
!'j         smallholder settlement problems had been clearly recognized.
1.6       The DGE had overall responsibility for execution of the project and
was assisted particularly by a Special Team for Nucleus Estate and Smallholder
Projects (TKPIR) established under NES 11I, which was to monitor
implementation but also sssist the project manager in administrative aspects
of the Project at central government level, and with procurement and financial
administration, technical and engineering requirements. This team dealt
initially with all externally-financed projects and later with all NES-type
projects, and its effectiveness was recognized as critical to their success.
Consultants were to be appointed to assist, particularly in providing
inspection services and regular reports on the implementation of all project
components. This strengthening, however, proved inadequate and as the
responsibilities of the team increased, the unit in the Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA) coordinating the activities of PTPs was dissolved, and the
autonomy of PTPs became greater. These changes could not be foreseen at
appraisal and the careful provisions for monitoring should have been adequate.
With hindsight, it would probably have been desirable to include in the Loan
Agreement a specific covenant requiring satisfactory staffing and financing of
the team, in keeping with its responsibilities.
1.7       The degree of self-help was to be increased in comparison with the
earlier NES projects, through participants (other than the first intake)
constructing their own houses under PTP supervision and with material supplied
by PfP X. This did not occur however, due to the greater convenience to
project management of working with contractors and the overloading of PTP
staff in a greatly increased PTP development program, together with
participation in locally funded wholly GOI-financed NES Projects (PIR) as well
as NES IV.
Proiect Implementation
1.8       Apart from the development of food crops, the Project completed its
targets but implementation was slow with final completion over three years
later than the envisaged completion date of June 30. 1986. Initially,
development was hindered by land problems. At negotiation6 it was confirmed
that the Governor of South Sumatra would assign 16,000 ha to provide the
12,000 ha net area needed for smallholder development of 8,000 ha oil palm and
4,000 ha house and food crop lots. Survey and mapping of the project area was
delayed and by March 1982 only 8,000 ha of unencumbered land could be
identified. Road and village layouts were therefore held up, and this in turn
house construction and hence recruitment of settlers. The location of areas
to be developed was changed, but the problems of claimants to these new areas
were not finally resolved until August 1985, after a Bank mission set this as
the deadline to determine what total area would be developed by the Project.
Apart from delays, the 1984-85 plantings were not in a single block but



-4-
divided by scattered enclaves of land which those with customary rights
refused to release in exchange for project participation. This increased the
spread of the project area by about 20 km and will add to fruit collection
costs in the mature phase. Although local government officials had been
consulted in project planning, the Project had not been adequately explained
to the local people and their leaders which led to their reluctance to join
their project or release land for it.
1.9       The first oil palm plantings in 1981-82 were excellent but those in
later years were not as good due to deteriorating field supervision and less
fertilizer than scheduled, following on irregular funding and delayed
procurement. The project target of 8,000 ha was planted on schedule by 1985-
86, but a total of 2,376 ha was lost to pests and neglect and was replanted
only after a delay caused by a lack of funds. Replanting was completed in
1989-90, with a portion being replanted for a second time. Construction of
settler houses also was completed after a hiatus of two years, and with houses
matching the planting areas the allocation of lots to settlers could proceed.
Settlers however, had not been finally selected because of continuing
disagreements over land. Those who had given land for the Project were
accepted as participants and expected to receive lots in the same area as the
land surrendered. However, some had released land for villages, oil palm and
food crop areas in different localities and some of these lands had been
allocated to other settlers. The result was that by April 1989 only 1.863
settlers had been formally recruited, although 3,420 families were occupying
project houses. The problem was being addressed by the District Coordinating
Co0mittee together with PTP X staff, and consensus was supposed to be reached
among all concerned by about July 1989.
1.10      Food crop areas, apart from house lots, were only partly developed.
Settlers allocated 1981-82 oil palm were also allocated land cleared for food
crops and they cultivated the full 513 ha. Crop yields were not good and
cultivation was not sustained. It was determined in 1983 that a basal
dressing of 2.0 tons lime and 200 kg superphosphate per hectare was needed,
together with normal application of fertilizer to each crop if the crops were
to succeed, but no arrangements were made to provide this soil amelioration to
participants, on credit or otherwise. Food crop cultivation remained
unorganized, without PTP intervention, and by April 1989, only 1,600 settlers
were allocated food lots. Land for a further 2,000 had been identified and
was being surveyed, but areas suitable for the last 400 participants had yet
to be found within the project area. Food crop production from the Project is
thus expected to be negligible.
1.11      Settler credit was financed from the Government budget through the
disbursement period and was to be converted to,loans to be collected by Bank
Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) on behalf of GOI. These individual smallholder credit
accounts were intended to be established three years after settlement.
However, conversion became a complex and delayed process, starting with a
survey of separate oil palm, food crop and house lots by the Government Land
Survey and Mapping Agency (Agraria), which issued land certificates in the
names of settlers approved by the local government and allocated lots by the
Project Manager. The quality of planting in each individual lot was then
assessed by TKPIR in four classes: A, B, C, and D, and only class A and B
lots were considered for conversion. The others would be rehabilitated before
settlers took over. Expenditures for a particular lot and their allocation to



individual participants were then audited by the Government Audit Agency
(BKKP) and finally the quality of oil palm plantings and tne creditworthiness
of individual settlers was confirmed by BRI before credit agreements were
completed. Initially there were long delays in survey, and in each subsequent
step and problems with settlers having sold their lots or refusing to accept
lots in certain localities. By April 1989, only 821 credit agreements in
respect of 1981-82 and 1982-83 oil palm plantings had been completeds about
30 percent of those due. To date, the lack of formal credit agreements has
caused problems in credit recovery as some 2,400 lots are in production while
BRI is accepting credit repayment from only 821 settlers. PTP X is deducting
25 percent of payments for fruit received from all settlers in anticipation of
credit repayment, holding the money in bank accounts in the names of settler
groups for subsequent credit to individuals, except that deductions are
c2redited immediately to BRI to individual accounts for those participants with
credit agreements. The accounting is complex and the potential for errors and
argument is etormous.
1.12      Like other components, construction of processing facilities was
long delayed. One oil palm mill was scheduled for commissioning in 1984, with
the expectation that additional capacity required in 1989 would be financed in
a future project; A contract for the mill was awarded only in November 1987,
by which time the Betung mill established during NES I was inadequate for the
crop being received. It was, therefore, agreed that this mill would be
upgraded and extended under the Project. Also, another PTP mill built during
NES I would be upgraded. These works were not completed until late 1989 but,
meanwhile, the 1988 appointment of a consultant mill engineer, working with a
consultant mill supervisor, has greatly improved the previously unsatisfactory
operations of the original Betung mill. A 40 ton per day rubber factory to
process NES I smallholder's crop was to be built in two stages, the first
operating in 1981 and the second in 1985. The first was commissioned in May
1984 and the second in November 1988, after an interim addition of equipment
to increase capacity to 30 tons per day in June 1987. Delays in all the
processing facilities was due to inadequate forward planning and inept
procurement administration by PTP X, exacerbated by severe financial
constraints of two of the contractors and PTP X itself.
1.13      It was envisaged that giving PTP X undivided authority to implement
the Project in accordance with a Smallholder Development Agreement entered
into with the DGE would speed implementation, especially procurement and
construction. To aid this (and as a condition for reimbursement), PTP X was
created as a state-owned limited liability company in June 1980 from what was
previously an estate enterprise of the Department of Agriculture (PNP X), a
less independent form of state-owned enterprise, in order to give the
President Director greater autonomy in estate management, development planning
and financial administration. As early as the pre-appraisal stage, doubts had
been expressed as to the capacity of PTP X, especially in engineering and
processing works. These risks were considered overcome by the reorganization
of the PTP technical department, and the appointment of financial and
processing consultants at commencement of the Project. More important,
quality and cost control were to be monitored by TKPIR strengthened by
consultants, and the DGE was to appoint an independent firm to provide an
inspection service and certify each year's progress as being satisfactory
before the management fee was paid to PTP X. In any event the DGE did not
employ independent inspectors, preferring to rely upon TKPIR, but the team was



-6-
unable to maintain quality monitoring at the intensity necessary, because of
its workload and inadequate staffing. It was also very difficult for TKPIR to
monitor the estate components of the Project. including the construction of
processing facilities. because the DGE had no direct authority to control PTP
activities, despite its overall responsibility for project implementation.
This was an issue pursued by the Bank with GOI, and DGE responsibilities vis-
a-vis PSTP generally were clarified in decrees issued by the MOA in May 1988:
too late to have any major effect on NES IV operations. PTP X management was
fully comnitted to success in the first years of the Project but was never
able to meet the demands of timely implementation, despite the appointment of
a Development Dire:tor in 1983 who made initial improvements in operations but
was unable to sustain them. The administration of procurement was
unsatisfactory throughout, as was management of processing facilities.
Management failed to respond to the destruction of large areas of planting by
pests and, latterly, was unable to maintain schedules for procurement and the
".instruction of palm oil mills. Contributory factors were the development
oad placed on the PTP by the Ministry of Agriculture, which included
participation in a transmigration project and four NESIPIR projects
simultaneously. Other factors contributing to unsatisfactory projec.
management were the precarious financial position of PTP X, which arose mainly
because of under-financed investments related to the PIR program. The NES IV
Loan Agreement, unlike the Agreement for NES I (Loan 1490-IND) had no explicit
covenant restricting new investments by PTP X, although if such a covenant
were included, enforcement of it would undoubtedly have been difficult. PTP X
proceeded with investments, despite Bank recommendations that they should be
slowed in line with forecast cash flows. There were also unexpected frequent
changes of President Director which occurred in January 1982. April 1983, June
1985, and January 1989. Normally a President Director would expect to serve a
term of five years in any one PTP.
1.14      The Project suffered from continually delayed release of approved
budget funds, particularly as PTP X was unable to provide pre-financing of GOI
expenditures in view of its own unsatisfactory cash flow position. Delays
resulted also from the limits imposed by GOI on unit costs for settler houses
and some roads being unrealistically low. These constraints on unit costs
were removed only in the 1988-89 budget, after continued representations by
DGE to the Finance Department, but delays in the release of funds persisted.
However, in Hay 1989, the source of financing for tree crop projects was
changed so that non-credit items were provided for in the normal GOI budget
while the credit expenditures, to be recovered from participants, were
financed through Bank Indonesia (BI) and the state commercial bank acting as
intermediary.  The chain of approvals was also reduced to give a much
simplified system which, it is hoped, will reduce delays in the flow of funds
to projects and so ease the problems of project management.
Prolect Results
1.15      The Project was successful in developing unused land. from secondary
forest and small areas of primary forest, but much of it in the degraded
climax of complete coverage by Imperata cylindrica (a noxious grass weed),
into potentially very profitable oil palm plantations. The physical
objectives of the Project, other than food crop development, will all be
achieved but only after considerable delays in all components, particularly in
the construction of processing facilities which were significantly increased



-7-
beyond what was intended at appraisal. The quality of oil palm plantings
after replanting of the 30 percent lost to pests is generally good. with
93 percent classified as suitable for immediate transfer to smallholders.
Replanting or rehabilitation of the remaining 7 percent continues, and the
yields of palm oil from the Project as a whole are projected to be only
marginally (4.5 percent) less than estimated at appraisal. The Project will
settle 4,000 landless families, as envisaged at appraisal, and prov.   them
with incomes significantly above the GOI rural income target. It will produce
a total of 560,000 tons of palm oil (95 percent of appraisal estimate) over
the 33-year productive phase, and this oil may itself increase non-petroleum
exports or replace cocohtut oil for domestic consumption and so free the more
valuable product for export. Over the same period it will also produce some
127,000 tons of palm kernels equivalent to perhaps 60,000 tons of palm kernel
oil. Kernel production is estimated at about 139 percent of appraisal
estimates because of the introduction in 1982 of the weevil (Elaeidobius
kamerunicus) which pollinates oil palm. This pollinator was not generally
known at the time of appraisal, when manually assisted pollination was routine
during the early years of maturity. The weevil not only increases yield but
reduces costs.
1.16      On the institutional side, the Project was less successful.  PTP X
management in its financial planning and current status are little improved
and its Technical Department must still rely on consultants to improve
efficiency. Similarly, clarification of the responsibilities of DGE in
respect of PTPs was achieved only in 1988 and the establishment of an adequate
monitoring or inspection service had yet to be realized, although action is
now being taken to this end and a service should be in place by 1990. Support
for future NES projects was effective and provided assistance for PTP XI and
PTP XIII, as originally intended, in the appointment of consultants and the
establishment of oil palm, coconut and rubber nurseries and field plantings, a
coconut seed garden, also estate buildings, settler houses and roads, so that
early NES V programs were achieved on schedule. In July 1981, the Project
Description was amended to provide support also for other estates and project
initiating activities, which included feasibility studies for NES VII.
1.17      The economic rate of return (ERR) is reestimated at 22 percent for
the Project as a whole, 19 percent for the primary smallholder component,
38 percent for the estate palm oil processing facilities, and 34 percent for
the estate rubber factory. These rates compare with appraisal estimates of
19 percent for the Project, 22 percent for smallholder development and
17 percent for the nucleus estate. The decrease for the smallholder component
results from delayed implementation and the lack of food crops, partly offset
by the relatively small increase in development costs per hectare of oil palm
and the significant price increase for FFB, which amounted to 72 percent in
1988 constant rupiah terms when weighted by the Project's annual production.
The increase arose from devaluation of the rupiah in March 1983 and again in
September 1986 and a steady decline since then in its US dollar value. Also,
while product$on of palm oil over a harvesting life of 25 years is now
estimated at 4 percent less than the appraisal estimate, production of palm
kernels is expected to be 40 percent higher, following introduction of the
pollinating weevil. For the PTP, project investments were overwhelmingly in
processing facilities and the facilities developed were significantly more
than provisions at appraisal, comprising an increase of 60 tons per hour in
oil palm FFB processing capacity, rather than 30 tons per hour, and the



rehabilitation of two palm oil mills, not envisaged at appraisal, as well as
the rubber factory.
1.18      Smallholder oil palm plantings in the NES projects are generally of
much better quality than rubber plantings. NES IV areas, originally planted
from 1981-82 through 1984-85, have been classified by TSPIR and 4,497 ha
(93 percent) are reported as Class A and B, suitable for immediate transfer to
smallholders. Of the balance, 101 ha (2 percent) are Class C and 236 ha
(5 percent), Class D. Rehabilitation or replanting of the C and D Areas is in
progress and the yield profile used for projer..t analyses assumes that the work
will be completed during 1989. If tle rehabilitation is not undertaken, a
conservative assumption would be that the Class C and D holdings together
would yield only 50 percent of the yield achieved by fully satisfactory
holdings. In this case, project production of palm oil would be reduced to
549,809 tons, or 98 percent of the 560,209 tons assumed for analyses. This
reduction of 2 percent is less than the error in the estimates and within the
10 percent reduction in yield which the sensitivity analysis indicates would
result in a reduction in the smallholder component ERR to 17 percent;
significantly above the opportunity cost of capital in Indonesia, now taken at
12 percent per annum.
Project Sustainability
1.19      The project has a history of belated consideration of the details of
implementation. Land occupancy was not determined until the second year of
operations; the technology for food crops remains to be fully worked out;
credit recovery mechanisms are only now being decided, four years after
harvesting and the sale of smallholders crops. Achievement of the moderate
yields now estimated will require only maintenance at a standard readily
achievable by smallholders, but harvesting discipline will be important, also
manuring and efficient transport of FFB from smallholdings to the mill. If
smallholder benefits are to be sustained, further GOI arrangements for
technical extension and the development of farmer organizations through the
nature phase of the project will be required. Harvest discipline can be
achieved through the application of penalties for poor quality FFB now
provided in a pricing formula decreed by the Minister of Agriculture and
administered by DGE, but good quality fruit can be delivered at the mill only
if roads are maintained, effective transport systems are in place, and the
mill is able to accept the fruit with very few interruptions. Road
maintenance arrangements have yet to be decided, while transport will require
effective farmer organizations which are yet to be fully operational, and mill
efficiency will depend upon PTP X management in its technical engineering.
All these matters are receiving the attention of GOI and it is expected that
nec,essary policies and activities will be put in place, probably before the
current five year plan ends in 1994. The Bank is playing its part through
seeking GOI ection on mature phase extension and farmer organization in the
proposed Tree Crop Smallholder Development II project, while the recently
effective Tree Crops Processing Project (TCPP) (Loan 3000-IND) seeks to
improve palm oil processing management and technology at seven PTPs, including
PTP X. Only food crop development, beyond the cultivation of house gardens,
is unlikely to be sustained in view of the nature of soils in the project area
and it is probable that farmers will eventually plant tree crops in the areas
allocated to food crops.



-9-
1.20      Provided that world prices for palm oil and kernels do not fall
seriously below those currently projected by the Bank, smallholder incomes
will be sustainable at the estimated levels, which will permit saving for
replanting at the end of the economic life of the farms established under the
project. Also, the smallholders will be easily able to repay their loans
through BRI on the present terms.
Bank Performance
1.21      The Bank collaborated with GOI in the preparation of the Project on
the basis of feasibility studies by two consulting firms and, subsequently,
appraised the Project. NES IV was modelled on the earlier NES I, II and III
Projects, using a farm model similar to NES III and providing a 3.0 ha holding
including 0.9 ha for food crops, rather than the 5.0 ha holding with 2.8 ha
for rotational food cropping which was originally planned for NES I and II.
The reduced emphasis on food craps has been well justified by the experience,
in NES IV and other projects, that soils in the project area are unsuitable
for sustained short-term cropping without special attention to amelioration.
The major change from earlier projects was the abandoning of a project manager
appointed by the DGE and giving full implementation authority to the President
Director of PTP X, as project manager. This change, applied also to the
previous and later NES projects, did not prove effective in removing delays
but did reduce the DGE supervisory role, which was important in view of the
conflict of smallholder and PTP interests. particularly in the mature phase
when the PTP purchases smallholder fruit for processing and marketing on its
own account but also in the immature phase when the smallholder development
agreement between DGE and PTP X provided for overheads and management fees as
ak percentage of direct costs. The costs were determined by agreed budgets,
but these were expressed on a per hectare basis for a series of operations
rather than specified inputs, and in the event the intended inspections by DGE
were not carried out prior to payment of fees. With hindsight it would have
been preferable for the smallholder development agreement to be more in the
form of a commercial contract, with agreed inputs, and stages of work which
could be measured or assessed before payments were made. It would also have
been desirable to include in the Loan Agreement a requirement for inspection
services and written reports prior to payments to PTP X.
1.22      Bank supervision of the Project was thorough, except through an
interim phase during which staff resources were directed to consideration of
systemic issues in the tree crop sector at the expense of detailed supervision
of individual projects and components. Supervision included significant
technical advice on agricultural, extension and financial matters from Bank
staff and on palm oil mill operations by a Bank consultant who visited from
Malaysia on four occasions. Bank supervision inp1uts were high because of the
informal and continuing contacts through RSI in Jakarta, especially with PTP
X, DGE and TKPIR, as well as the formal supervision missions. This was
considered necessary to supplement the monitoring by GOI, and the continuous
p'.essure by RSI did achieve improvements both in project implementation and in
the systemic issues affecting the tree crop sector in which the Project was a
part.
1.23      To assist implementation as far as possible, the Bank was flexible
in interpretation and amendments to the Loan Agreement. In 1981, the
Agreement was amended to allow financing of start-up activities as agreed



- 10 -
between the Bank and GOI. rather than only by PTPs XI and XIII, and.
recognizing budget constraints, the Project was included in the Special
Assistance Program in 1983. which resulted in incremental loan disbursement of
$1.4 million. The Loan Agreement was further amended in June 1986 to permit
financing of access roads and settler houses, not previously eligible for loan
financing. The Agreement was also amended to include the upgrading of the
original Betung mill, the expansion of this mill, antd the upgrading of a
second PTP X mill at Bekri. These changes were agreed as part of a
comprehensive action p):n to address the financial problems of FTP X. While
additional state bank luans agreed under this plan were made, delays in
completing the processing facilities and continued inefficiency in the
operation of existing facilities resulted in PTP X being still in a critical
financial condition at the end of the Project.  A further financial study is
now being discussed between GOI and the Bank in the context of the TCPP as
preparation for again addressing the financial problems of the PTP. To
facilitate the urgent construction and upgrading of palm oil mills, also the
extension of the Tebenan rubber factory, the Bank agreed to prudent shopping
as an interim arrangement while ICB proceeded for the major equipment and
construction. The Bank also agreed to extend the Closing Date of the Loan,
eventually for two years, to allow completion of these facilities, and finally
it u-s agreed that the loan account would remain open until June 30, 1989, to
maximize loan financing for the installations. This extension of the loan
period also permitted the necessary replanting and upgrading of oil palm to be
undertaken within the project period.
1.24      With hindsight, the Bank did not give sufficient weight to the
deficiencies in technologies for food crop cultivation in South Sumatra, nor
to the fact that PTP X had no experience in food crops. The mechanisms for
pricing of smallholders FFB, for extension inputs during the mature phase, for
the conversion of Government credits to BRI loans and for credit recovery were
insufficiently considered. Advance thinking on these matters or specific
provision in the Loan Agreement for their consideration would, in retrospect,
have facilitated project operations. As it is, a formula for FFB pricing was
determined by DGE only in 1987, no more than interim arrangements for
extension by PTP X are in place and the details of long term credit recovery
remain under discussion.
1.25      Despite implementation delays, the Project will achieve its physical
objectives and is confidently expected to provide sustainable increased
incomes for the smallholder participants. Implementation could have been much
smoother had GOI met its funding commitments and introduced an effective
monitoring and inspection service, as well as limited the development load
placed upon PTP X.
1.26      Lessons arising from the project experience are as follows:
(a) it is essential that all land for development be exactly identified
before major development is started. Survey and the determination
of occupied or claimed land should be completed as the project is
finally formulated, and this opportunity shonld be taken to explain
and discuss the project intentions with the local people, the
customary leaders, and the local government;



- ,.l -
(b) the management capacity of an implementing agency should not be
overstretched, and if it is a semi-autonomous agency such as a PTP,
it should be a willing participant, undertaking a program perceived
to be in its wider interest;
(c) the financial intermediary should be involved from the beginning, to
agree to the selection of participants, the cost levels, and
implementation program. Credit amounts should be debited to
individual accounts annually as they are audited. There should be
no conversion of loans from government to the intermediary account,
but loans should be guaranteed by the government until land titles
are available as collateral and amounts are finally adjusted at
completion of the development;
(d) detailed implementation planning should be completed well before
action is ta be taken. In NES IV, for example, pricing formulae,
loan conversion procedures and credit recovery mechanisms should all
have been determined in mid-1984 so that they could be explained to
participants before harvesting started in January 1985;
(e) for an agricultural project, it is necessary to have contingency
funds immediately available to correct defects (or pest or disease
attack) before the cost of correction escalates. The NES IV
replanting was delayed two years while financing was agreed, in
which time undergrowth had regenerated;
(f) government financing commitments for a tree crop project should be
longer than one year's activities because land clearing and nursery
establishment in one year presuppose planting in the next, and then
maintenance to maturity. A minimum two-year budget should be
considered, refined annually and with the program reduced (in the
third year) if resources are limited;
(g) greater accountability of an executing agency would be desirable.
In NES IV, a commercial style contract between DGE and the PTP with
-payments according to verified progress, rather than payments
calculated as a percentage of agreed expenditures, would have been
preferable. The contract should include incentives for low cost,
high quality development, and penalties for delay;
(h) quality defects could be minimized through frequent third party
monitoring of project activities, whether under contract or
otherwise; and
(i) the PTPs (or other project agency) require improved data on physical
as opposed to financial progress on a routine basis for the
information of management. The data should include measures of
quality.
These lessons are consistent with those noted in the PCRs on NES I, II and
III, but highlight different aspects, supplementing suggestions in the earlier
reports for resolution of problems which, in the main, were common to all four
projects.



- 12 -
Borrower Performance
1.27      GOI played an active part in preparation of the Project and through
negotiations, but failed during implementation in two particular matters
critical to success. First, funds for smallholder development were never
released in accordance with the Loan Agreement provision that funds for six
months operation should be provided at commencement of each fiscal year. In
practice. releases were irregular and always delayed. Also budgets limited
certain cost items to impractical amounts and so caused long delays while
higher amounts were to supervise implementation primarily through TKPIR, but
also through a separate inspection service was not achieved. TKPIR staff
numbers remained inadequate throughout because of its added responsibility to
supervise all GOI-financed PIR projects, as well as the smaller total of
externally-financed NES/PIR projects. These two deficiencies accounted for
most delays in implementation, also for the delay in replanting failed areas
which might have been very much less extensive had they been known sooner,
other than to PTP X. In addition, GOI required PTPs to undertake large
nucleus estate developments under the PIR program and this contributed to PTP
X becoming insolvent as well as to its management problems.
1.28      Towards the end of the Project, GOI became more concerned about
defects in project operations and carefully monitored execution of an action
plan designed to deal with the most pressing problems. The action plan was
sufficiently successful to permit extension of Bank participation and, in
January 1989. immediately following the project Closing Date. GOI made changes
in the senior management of PTP X. The effect of these changes remains to be
seen, but the new management has decided to postpone fresh investments, where
possible, and is improving the efficiency of processing operations.
Project RelationshiP
1.29      The relationship between the Bank and GOI was close throughout the
Project, with continuous.contacts between RSI staff, PTP X, TXPIR, DGE and
other agencies concerned. Supervision reports raised not only project-
specific issues, but drew attention to some of the generic issues affecting
development in the tree crop sector as a whole, and discussion on a continuing
basis covered such matters as irregular and delayed release of approved budget
funds, the inadequacy of some budget amounts, the inadequacies of TKPIR, the
lack of inspection services, the need for rapid conversion of smallholder
credits, the introduction of agreed credit recovery procedures and attention
to PTP financial problems. Dialogue on all these matters continues, with good
relationships maintained between the Bank and GOI.
1.30      Good working relationship between PTP X. the local people and
authorities, and the PCC were essential. At the beginning of the Project,
relationships with the local people and leaders were not good. most likely
because they had little involvement in Project formulation and had not had
project objectives sufficiently explained to them. The appointment of a PTP X
Development Director in 1983, together with staff specifically responsible for
public relations and dealing with farmers, was a turning point and led to
releases of land for the Project, also to much closer and more frequent
contacts with the PCC and other local authorities. It also resulted in more
frequent discussion with DGE. RSI and others in Jakarta and markedly improved
project implementation. The improvement was, unfortunately, not maintained



- 13 -
and, although major impediments had been removed, field development and
construction of processing facilities remained sluw.
Consulting Services
1.31      At commencement of the Project, PTP X employed consultant financial
and processing specialistj who were satisfactory but engaged for only one
year: too short a period to be effective. It was not until 1988 that another
financial specialist %.ss recruited, also a palm oil mill engineer and palm oil
mill supervisor. These three have performed well. Consultants for design and
supervision of construction of the palm oil processing facilities now in
progress have also performed satisfactorily, with one group also undertaking a
transport study to determine the optimum siting for the second mill. PTP X
independently commissioned two financial studies, in 1983 and 1986, and
recommendations from these studies resulted in government restructuring of
PTP X finances.
1.32      In the program support component, a consultant firm was employed by
DGE to prepare guidelines for pricing of smallholders rubber and FFB. The
report was insufficiently practical in its recommendations, but served as the
basis for further work by GOI staff to develop a formula which was put into
effect in 1987. This component also provided for successful transportation
studies in Kalimantan, in preparation for the NES VII project; a feasibility
study for oil palm development in Bengkulu, subsequently financed by the Saudi
Fund; for palm oil mill consultants for PTP XI, and for individual consultants
to work with TKPIR.
1.33      No contractors were employed by the Project as such, but PTP X
employed local small contractors for land clearing and the construction of
houses and roads. No difficulties were reported and the quality of work was
satisfactory. The construction of processing facilities. however, suffered
from ineffective contractors. The Tebenan rubber factory was long delayed
because the overseas main contractor and equipment supplier refused, until
pressed by GOI, to accept responsibility for its civil works subcontractor
which experienced financial difficulties. Work on expansion of the Betung
mill was delayed one year, also because of serious cash flow problems of the
local contractor, now bankrupt. The second mill progressed better but was,
nevertheless, consistently behind the contract schedule.
Proiect Documentation and Data
1.34      The Loan Agreement provided adequate safeguards for satisfactory
implementation, but they key covenant on,project financing was not fully
compkied with by GOI. This had a definite negative effect on implementation
and was the subject of continued representations by the Bank. Other covenants
which were not enforced, primarily because progress was always being made
towards compliance, were those requiring land to be made available, land
titles to be issued to smallholders, accounts to be submitted within four
months of the end of each fiscal year, and PTP X to operate according to sound
financial, agricultural, and engineering practices. The only sanction
available to the Bank is the suspension of loan disbursements and any such
suspension would have halted project activities to the detriment of all
participants.  This negative step was, therefore, avoided by the Bank. and



- 14 _
reliance placed on a successful outcome of the dialogue which continued
throughout.
1.35      The Appraisal Report provided adequate guidelines for implementation
through the immature phase, but would have been much improved by more details
on what was envisaged for the mature phase. Alternatively, if staff resources
through preparation and appraisal were inadequate, specific provision for
consideration of the major items could have been included in the project.
1.36      Data reported throughout the Project were incomplete and
inconsistent from one period to another and one context to another. The
remedy would have been the closer monitoring by TKPIR, which was envisaged at
appraisal. This team is competent to process data in meaningful analyses but
was unable to obtain accurate reports on a timely basis from the project
entities. Data for the PCR were obtained and verified as far as possible by
Bank staff.
1I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
2.1       Introduction.  Most of the information in Part III of this report
was provided by PTP X, the nucleus implementing agency assigned for this
project. Data on village and social infrastructure development at the Betung
smallholder development site was provided by the South Sumatra provincial
government authorities. The data, initially collected by the Special Team for
Tree Crop Projects (Tim Khusus), were verified for accuracy by Tim Khusus and
Bank staff during visits to the project site and to the headquarters of PTP X
and with existing records in Tim Khusus prior to the preparation of the
report.
2.2       The analysis contained in Part I of the Project Completion Report
provides an accurate assessment of prdgress of over eight years of project
implementation, the performance of PTP X (the implementing agency), GOI and
the world Bank, and of the project results accomplished to date.
2.3       Bank Performance.  As the main foreign lending agency providing
assistance for the development of tree crops in Indonesia. the World Bank
played a key role in the formulation, appraisal and the supervision of
implementation of the NES IV Project. In addition to helping GOI in the
design of the project, the World Bank provided valuable assistance during its
implementation period. Bank staff from the Resident Mission in Indonesia and
later on directly from Headquarters regularly visited the project site to
review progress. During the course of these visits, Bank and Tim Khusus staff
identified the main problems affecting implementation and proposed practical
solutions, after detailed discussions with the implementing agency and other
government agencies concerned. The aide-memoires prepared by Bank staff
following field visits were a vital source of information for GOI on the
status of implementation and provided the basis for most of the action plans
to address issues and problems. The Bank also actively followed up on the
implementation of agreed actions for resolving the main project issues and
problems. Follow-up meetings with agencies concerned were conducted to
accelerate implementation of agreed solutions.



- 15 -
2.4       Throughout the project implementation period, Bank supervision
missions were staffed with agronomists. agricultural economists, financial
analysts and processing and civil engineers.  With this skills mix, the
missions were suitably equipped to provide valuable guidance to the project
implementing agency and in certain cases to other agencies concerned. The
assistance provided by the Bank in the implementation of the project's food
crop and smallholder development component was relatively less. As GOI could
not provide fully all the requirements for ensuring the success of these
components, due to manpower and financial resource constraints, the
implementation of these components proceeded at a much slower pace and was not
as successful as that of the main physical components.
2.5       In retrospect, the effectiveness of the Bank's assistance would have
been greatly enhanced if the supervision missions had included specialists in
food crop production, smallholder training, extension, smallholder
organizations and other socio-economic aspects of smallholders development to
ensure the success o0 these vital components.
2.6       Borrower's Performance.  Preparation of the NES IV Project, carried
out under the supervision of the Directorate General of Estates, was completed
as planned. Implementation of certain aspects by some of the GOI agencies
responsible for the project did not go as well as had been anticipated, due to
lack of familiarity and detailed understanding of the implementation
requirements for a variety of the major activities scheduled under NES IV.
Inadequate coordination between the various government agencies, and manpower
and financial resource constraints also played a part.
2.7       It had been recognized that in order to facilitate implementation of
the Project, PTP X required strengthening. Accordingly, it was provided with
technical assistance during and after the Closing Date of this project. While
the assistance was valuable. PTP X continued to face difficulties during
implementation. Partly due to lack of experienced staff, the performance of
the PTP X in implementation of some aspects was not fully satisfactory;
especially crude palm oil processing. Also, the quality of some of the oil
palm planted for smallholders was lower than expected, partly due to poor
field establishment and maintenance standards. Also, largely due to
insufficient experience in smallholter development, the PTP's role in training
smallholder participants to manage their holdings, especially in the mature
phase, was not as effective as had been expected. Furthermore, some of the
smallholders have sold their lands to third parties. We believe this is an
indication that the communication between the PTP X and the smallholders and
their regulation of smallholders development leave much to be desired.
Government is taking the necessary actions to solve this situation and to
prevent its occurrence in other tree crop projects. The Bank, among others,
emphasized the strengthening of even the top management of the PTP X. This
advice was taken into account by Government even after Closing Date when, in
early 1989, it changed most of the members of the Board of Management. The
Bank also advised the strengthening of the field staff. Tim Khusus fielded
some of its staff and even some personnel from the Smallholder Rubber
Development project were fielded for a period of time, in order to transfer
their skills to PTP X staff. PTP X formulated and is still implementing a
training program and is monitoring staff competences in order to assign t;;em
to suitable jobs. Consultants on finance and crude palm oil engineering were
hired and are still in place.



- 16 _
2.8       Coordination of project activities at the provincial government
level did not evolve as planned. As a result, activities such as recruitment
and selection of smallholders, especially during the first few years of
implementation; allocation of land for smallholder development and provision
of village infrastructure, for which local government agencies had overall
responsibility, were delayed.
2.9       Implementation of some of the planned project activities were not
accomplished on schedule, due to delays in the approval of tree crop budgets
and the timely and adequate provision of funds to PTP X for smallholder
development activities. The financing delays were due to constraints imposed
on the Government development budget by competing funding needs, which delayed
some physical activities, especially during the period of low petroleum and
primary commodities prices.
2.10      In line with agreement reached with the Bank, the project staffing
in DGE responsible for project implementation was strengthened under the Loan
Agreement for NES III through the establishment of Tim Khusus, which assisted
all succeeding NES projects, including NES IV. Although GOI was not, due to
budgetary considerations, able to provide Tim Khusus with all the financial
and staff resources that it needed to be able to carry out its
responsibilities fully, Tim Rhusus played a vital role in the implementation
of the NES IV and other tree crop projects. Since its establishment in 1979,
Tim Khusus has played an important role as the main link between the World
Bank and the government agencies involved in the implementation of World Bank
supported tree crop projects, and between involved government agencies with
offices in Jakarta.
2.11      Bank and GOI Relations.  The Bank and GOT maintained a close
relationship throughout the preparation, appraisal and implementation of the
NES IV Project. Staff in the Bank Resident Mission in Indonesia and later on
from Headquarters maintained close contact with government agencies concerned
and with the staff and management of the PTP involved in the implementation of
the project. The Bank's prompt response to requests for assistance in
resolving problems, and its flexibility, as demonstrated by its willingness to
extend the NES IV Closing Date and to amend the Loan Agreement whenever the
need arose, contributed significantly to the success of the project.
Furthermore, the Bank staff, when requested, were available for consultations
and discussions to resolve issues and problems.
2.12      Lessons Learned.  The following lessons have been learned from GOI's
experience with implementation of NES IV and subsequent NES projects:
(a)  while the PTPs have better capability to implement physical
components of NES projects, such as tree crop establishment and
project civil works, they have insufficient expertise in the
promotion of smallholder development. Smallholder development can
only be achieved if there is full coordination among GOT agencies
with expertise in this field;
(b)  to ensure timely implementation of smallholder project components,
basic project requirements, such as acquisition of suitable land and
identification and at least preliminary selection of settlers should
be completed before commencement of physical development;



. 17 -
(c) to improve the credit delivery mechanism in tree crop projects and
facilitate credit recovery, participating state commercial banks
should be involved in the project design and selection of
smallholder participants at the beginning of project implementations
(d)  the activities of the PTPs, DGE, Agraria and BPKP in relation to the
conversion of smallholder expenditures into smallholder credits need
to be better coordinated, in order to accelerate the conversion
process. Starting in GOI FY89-90, the Government has simplified the
conversion mechanism and the new procedure is being monitored to
determine its effectiveness;
(e) the smallholder tree crop financing mechanism has not functioned as
well as expected and has resulted in delayed fund releases.
particularly in periods when the GOI development budget was
strained. In view of this, Goi has improved the financing and
budgeting mechanisms from GOI FY89-90 to facilitate implementation
of ongoing and future tree crop projects. The implementation of
these new mechanisms is being monitored to identify any remaining
problem areas;
(f) managerial, technical and staff competences are important to the
successful management and operations, not only of projects but of
the PTP as an entity. This requires a manpower development program
including training on a continuing basis; and
(g) not only is there a need to assess the managerial and technical
capability of an entity but an assessment of its financial capacity
to undertake several long-gestation projects, such as in tree crops,
requires careful planning.



- 18 -
III.  ST 'XCAL IORMATION
Table 1I Related Bank Loans
Loan                            Year of
Title        ?uroose al         AliDroval bi    status          Coments
'1499-IID   All NES projects alm
ES I      to support the I01       1978          Closed      PCI issued June
program for devlop-                                1988.
aet of tree crops                                  ERR 14.02
604-M    on nucleus estates
RES II    and mmallboldiugs        1978         Closed       PCR issued June
and thereby to                                     1988.
Improve  ral incmes                                an 13.0S
1751-DID   and Increase export
NES III   of non-oil comodities.  1980          Closed       PCR issued March
1989.
ERR 15.02
2007-131)
RES V                              1981         Under SPR   Overall Status 3
In March 1989.
Second extension
to June 1990
expected.
2126-IND
DES VI                             1982         Under SPY   Overall Status 3 in
September 1988.
Expected complete
June 1989 after one
year extension.
2232-M
RES VII                            1983         Under SPN  Overall status 3 in
March 1989. One
year extension to
June 1990 expected.
al The Nucleus Estates and Smallholders (MES) projects are a series using
public sector plantation companies to develop rubber, coconuts and oil
palms (together with food crops) for large scale smaliholder settlements,
particularly In the less-developed islands.
b/  XRD Fiscal Year



- 19 -
Table 2s Project Timetable
Date                   Date
Item                       Planned                Actual
Identification                            -                   Nov 1978
Preparation                                                   Feb 1979
Appraisal Mission                  Jul 1979               Jul-Aug 1979
Loan Negotiations              Feb 25. 1980      Feb 25 to War 1, 1980
Board Approval                     Apr 1980               Apr 17, 1980
Loan Signature                            -               may 16, 1980
Loan Effectiveness                 Jul 1980               Aug 11. 1980
Project Completion             Jun 30, 1986               Dec 31, 1988
Loan Closing                   Dec 31, 1986               Dec 31, 1988



- 20 -
Table 3. Loan Disbursements
Cummlatlve Estimates and Actual Disbursements
(13$ filUaon)
Y81   mY82    Y83   FY84    Y85   M6    Y87   FY88   FY89
Appraisal gstimate     1.0    8.0   16.5   26.5    37.5  42.0    -        -
Actual                 1.2    5.3    6.9   11.0  13.1   15.4   16.0  18.2    25.7
Actual vs. Percentage
of zstimate        120     66      42     41     35     37     38      43      60
Cacellation:                 US$16.3 million (US$12 million on 8/8185 and US$4.3 millioi
an 711389).
Date of Final Dusbursement:  July 13. 1989.



- 21 -
table 4:  Pro1ect Iunlementation
Appraisal      PCR
Indicator                           unit       Estimate     Estimate
A. Imaliholder Development
Planting of oil palm                    Ea         8,000          8,000
Construction of houses                  Unit        4,000          4.000
Village centers                         Unit           21             11
Road construction: primary              Ea             46             21
s secondary           Rm             48            65
a farm tracks         Rm            105            107
Establis_ment of food crops             Ha          4.000         4,000
B. Estate Development
Construction of palm oil mill
(30 tonslhour)                       Unit             1
Construction of rubber factory
(40 tonslday)                        Unit             1              1
Expansion of a palm oil mill
(30-60 tonsihour)                    Unit             -              1 aI
Expansion of bulking installation
(to 5,000 tons)                      unit             1              1
Construction of staff and labour
houses                                Unit          180            197
Rehabilitation of palm oil mills       Unit             -              2 al
aT These items were added to the Project Description in March 1988



- 22 -
Table 5. Proiect Costs and Financing
(US$ Million)
A. Proiect Costs
Aporaisal Estimate                    Actual
Local  Foreign  Total          Local  Foreign   Total
Item              Costs Costs    Costs            Costs   Costs      Costs
Smallholder Development      9.5    9.5      19.0           17.6      2.2      19.8
Estate Development           1.3   10.8      12.1            5.6      7.3      13.2
Program Support              1.8    3.2       5.0            5.8      0.7       6.5
Contingencies                 9.9   18.5     28.4             -        -         -
Total Prolect Cost          22.5   42.0      64.5           29.3    10.2       39.5
S. Project Financing
Source                 Appraisal Plan       Revised           Actual
IJUD                                  42.0             30.0             25.4
Domestic total                        22.5             16.1             14.1
of which
Ministry of Finance                 17.0             12.2             10.2
Estate's own funds                   4.0              2.9              3.2
Directorate General of Estates       0.5              0.3               -
Provincial Government                1.0              0.7              0.7
Total                      64.5              46.1            39.5
C. Loan Disbursement by Category
Loan Agreement
Category              Provision            Revised          Actual
1.  Estate Civil Works                  2.60           1.40            1.89
2. Oil Palm and Food Crop
Development                      9.80            8.25           8.40
3. Agrochemicals                        4.50           1.15            0.52
4.  Equipment and Machinery            14.30           9.65           8.24
5.  Program Support                     8.50           6.60            6.66
6.  Unallocated                         2.30           2.95               -
Loan Total                  42.00           30.00 a/       25.70
8/ US$12.0 million cancelled 08108185



- 23 -
TabEe 6:   Ot Resulti
Smaliholde Familis Benefitdng    No.     4,000              4,000           100
Peak Annual Producdon
PalmOil                       Mt       29J52 (1994)      27,924 (1997)      95
PalmKemels                     At       4,653 (1994)      6,283 (1997)     135
Av. Annual Family Production
PalmOil                       Mt            5.84              5.60          96
Palm Kenels                   mt            0.90              1.26         140
B.               B
StnahlolderwCompoent            %           22                19             86
EstateCoponent                  %           17                36            211
PzojecasaWhole                  %            19               22            115
Developmnt Period                       1980W1986 (7 yrs)  1980-1989 (10 yrs) 143
ProducdvePeiod                          1985-2013 (29 yrs)  1985-2017 (33 yrs) 114
Poducwon
PaImOil                      Mt       587,217           560,209            95
Pam Kernels                   Mk       91,306           127,174           139
Exchange Rae                 US$1=Rp       625           Averged
actual rt:es
1980-89 and
1,750
theeafter.
OutputPdces                          Domesc Pzics       Export parity
less 5% export    prices for
tax.              rubber, palm
oil and kernels.
Studard Conversion Facor             1.0                0.8
Fertizerbnus                         Based an border    Based on border
price             prices.
C.                Not esdmated for tis pwject at appasal or PC
D. SZxnfs and InsatiLtmq  S    T Ihere were no snudes in tis project



- 24 -
T 7; Record of C"DIIanc  with valor Coveonan
S etion             Dscription of Covenat                 DaId law                 Statue
3.01          sorrer to provide f uds promptly as                          Relese of fundn was
_Iad, with funds for seat Iboldee                           consietently delayed, with
development ever the firt six se1the                        budget lisits for see  it..
of e"h ftlsl yer to be provied                               nadequate.
withut prerequite at the beinning
of the yer.
3."2          P  X to mpley conltant oi IPalo               -              Ceneltante and Ineection
eninee  aecancal/civiI engineer,               _       c       vlcs were employed as
ftQnancal *adior Vn  special ist field                      rqutred.
nd factory Inspection *ervices.
3.0S          PIP X and 0 to enter Into a                 *              Agreement Signed on Juno 28,
Sal lbhldar Deelop men Agrement,                           19S0.
specifying the servicee to be provided
by PIP X.
3.08          Dorrower to enter Into * Subtidlary           -              Agreement *igned In Dec"ber
Loa Agreement with PIP X.* etting out                       1980.
terms of onlendieg Bank funds for
eaetso developmnnt.
8.07 (c)      Borrowr to prpare a project                   00/30/19       Report provided 03/20/89.
competion report no later then eIx
months after Cloeing Date.
8.06          Borrower to acqire 11 land nedied             -              Land problems delayed early
for the project.                                            project operations and were
co pletely re olved only tn
A"ugst 1685.
8.09          PTP X to purchase al *11   polm fruit         -              Fruit to purchased at prices
(FF) offerd for eatl by settlers xt                         fixed by a forwls decreed by
a price tn keeping with prevaillng                          the Minister of Agriculture and
prices for pelm oil nd procse"ing                           detailed by M.
costs.
3.10           (1) Project m3"anar to complee               -              (I) A reement were delayed.
*g eownt" wIth settbore upon their                          (Ii)  =ssue of titlsn hao been
arrivl  giving rights to the ue of                          delayed but It proceeding.
lond and requiring settlere to work as
laboere fer about thre yeare.
Cii) Borroenr to ensure that settlers
rectve freehold land titles within
three yers after nettle  nt.
4.08          PTP X audited aceounts to b submitted         -             Audited accounts were rgularly
to th  anok within four montho of the                       submitted later than four
and of each fiscal yer, together with                       mneths after the end of fiscal
an auditor's opinion ae to whether                          yers.
loan .ithdrsamle on the basli of
etatem ont of expenditure had bee
properly use.
4.06          FTP X to maintain Its installations           -             Pale oil eit  and rubber
end plantings i accordance with sound                       factory were not maintained at
agricultureT, bustnes  and ngineering                       epected stndards.
practcee.
4.07          Blorw  to cauws projet road to be             -             Project rod  are adequately
maintained In accordance with  ound                         maintaine  but long term
practices.                                                  arrangements are required.



- 25 -
Table as Uso ot Staf Rfw
prijeft     Ue*h           Umbe of        A-- la 0mtetaet.s   Psr#o.                       of
So's    .      I=A                          el-d    RsseswdAl -ttlm bi AE          PIMIA
AE        f/Asg-?              T                     PA, A, , ,       MA               NA
uNo       Feb.66               U                     P A# toAs LoC      NA              NA
S I       D40                               2      CIE                                T.F.
Au4                 2              4      cia                21               V
A1#-U               2             4        A                 12               3
i.e-MW              -              I      - A2
Ap4-_               2             3       A, FA              22               F
Oct-U               3                     A                  22               F
ju-M                               -      A, FA              2 4 t
ar-                                -      A, FA  CE,         2 3 a a a
L4SW                -              -    -                    2333
11W                                I 2    A, PE              I * 2 I
X t ~~~~~~~~~A, AE                                -
Jma4S     2             2      L,DS~~~~~ S      
tspU         *                     1      A                  332
Al Speealtmbls. are$ A a Agae*sltureltat; Al a Aglcmltwrel S_essIdt; C a Cetvol lr's
Reprsmotattvel CI * Clivi bIlg4es; FA * Flouasel Aalyet; Pit a Preseotag EGlaser.
yi PFesetoe rtaop am  I a Pweblsw-fres ocr slew probleis 2 a Medacat Prebtm  3 = MaJoc
prb_ lesnovwlug adewqste attentlee; sad 4 a Mljor problm soast ret wing attest,. *Ae
_equec of feur ftusse to ews (from Js 216 *    rMtleg  gefw to  al l.blilty of fura,
projeat mmmagmmsolh d.w.lqiat lopes" sad ovwe' II statul,soepsectvety.
S  Vype of prtbl a_ e ee     * aTechnica; F * Fl_alelal; and  *   _agUm *.
Tbk  mides stf Is Indonesa we1 ti  eatlawlag eoetast with the prejec. Only ftrel
pevests  1 to tleded Is th_ table.
S -~ S.



- 26 -
Table 9: OHl Pa  Extacion RatE and Yield Assumpons
(per hectae per year)
g FFB         Oil      Palm Oil    Kemels     Kernels
Year      Tons        %          Tons        %          Tons
4            6       14         0.84        3.0        0.18
5          11        18         1.98        3.5        0.38
6          15        20         3.00        4.5        0.67
7          16        20         3.20        4.5        0.72
8          16        20         3.20       4.5         0.72
9          17        20         3.40        4.5        0.76
10         18        20         3.60        4.5        0.81
11         18        20          3.60       4.5        0.81
12         18        20          3.60       4.5        0.81
13         18        20          3.60       4.5        0.81
14         18        20          3.60       4.5        0.81
15         17        20          3.40       4.5        0.76
16         17        20          3.40       4.5        0.76
17         16        20          3.20       4.5        0.72
18         16        20          3.20       4.5        0.72
19         15        20          3.00       4.5        0.67
20          15       20          3.00       4.5        0.67
21          14       20          2.80       4.5        0.63
22          14       20          2.80       4.5        0.63
23          11       20          2.20       4.5        0.49
24         11        20          2.20       4.5        0.49
25          9        20          1.80       4.5        0.40
26          9        20          1.80       4.5        0.40
27          9        20          1.80       4.5        0.40
28          9        20          1.80       4.5        0.40
Avaage          14.12      19.68      2.80       4.40        0.63
SARAvemge       13.80      21.16      2.92       3.28        0.45
PCR/SAR %      102.2       93.0      95.9      134.1       140.0



h~ ~o up
so'e   up's  tows  offs  ses.10 's.F  41's  sag's   iss  was   two    U'S   Pta   ss    "Ws   "est  sip,    *'sg  ss"Ore  se'     't, seve  st's  "I'                                 am      -smo PM
t"       t g sn gi'   st's   t                       e'        ig   ens    m        "      gi         t   in    s"        lte   4st'$     '   so    s'   et    st   Pt                              a
ot      tg     et       i     us    P5       set      no    it;    sen      i       itt    55      me  nto        Ut       s t       t  55   i       i       m tW S t    W   PS   _O
tog    ii      ai      st    sat       W      Us    it7    si        sit    gig      W     m'W     Si    st       si      it     sat's  tst to    si    is   Ztis   si                 U     s
a"0   KS's   55',  an g         rW   S "sS   age    ml   555    on55   m55as uriS               W t 1555    Wit   *'S   WI    Stt'O   _' Otis  owl  Ws    l                              4,1 SO
eerie   all 't   "       " two            $ Pt.     tw$ s' 'o  t'      sett  ;to,    st aSsto   love   esi   twS            ' Ot' "t   oW                                                       t"-_
Sol      it    9e      Wo     lit    WI    too    no    sue          M       14      Sit   fi.    WI    go        OSI    ts      s;    a;.
*.StOS tWInS  ASPItS 55'55  4tl4tit                9 5555 4 55 St Use  W'N   out.4  nQ'Si                                                                                                     M.05  Ut   *SW  ottmi i@  an t'SP
smaS   SW$$  Ow        two'   two'S   51 "' tII  M 5555   51505  155   SoI   gotg';    .                                                                                                      eapo  me
at"1   rtois  saltts,     i am  5MO   Set50   55 so   wtt  mett  oMCI  set's  &W#ti                                                                                                      kwf nte
"It   t        s"I  nor's  tu'$  $M''  m'g`  SWo's  s$ti'"  80'.  nVot eigs.  os    sso'                                                                                                      u   it,
VW"   nrm   a'e   MC"tt  SW"  st ts             n    sgig  pop nrit           st   us's.  ntat'.    ig   n as g't- sit                                                                   i*pet "t
sW    "W   Oa's *aa   40wot  osg   sm's  sor#$  set's   at    set'.;  trO"  satW   t'w# ;    M    ots'sn _ss'sw                                                                          SOwme  So
Stia    Ssis   st      St     5S0t   St       Is      istS et        et *Slot   St   etl   st              Ois    St      S      toi s    set;                                           tus a
me's.  s et's.   ate  sss'as  sores  Pt's,  sit's.  015',. Csag'.  sag'.  oasis  sere  sag',  isa's;    t        f t'r    s  iti's$ its't                                          m         55 a
NH      t              nu    gm        Mt   lost   Mt    M         t                         Mt   4"        mg   no    gg Mt *lo    get    too    too    Mt"t Z
CC  St  is  it  55  iC  tS  15    55      55     05      is      ii     as      *      05      II      55    5                                              V5Nssd~~~~1s  in  z  | wt    n    *'s *"'e W|   Z_   _~ 
es            es     Ss      of              Pt     we      Is      is     to             u       S      ts      s     Us   a        tl'sn   se  is's u                    w
wg ~    ~ ~ wm o  MP40m  Jo GOM *$ln   15 qpw 1    ,    ,   ,   ,   ,    ,                           -
IOs-. - mg*d s
w83uo  apwwUag se uoqnu  uas  jo uw  guutn ;}w O9 
9                                                                                            



Table 10 (b):   Economic Rate ot Retum Calculation a                                        lr PTP X Palm Oil Mills
(a *  no" U    "aO0O
.     I     9     5     4     5     0        t       0       0       to      II      is       II      t4     *o       14       *3     *I S              0        *       It
*0*t 1t0  t42  1004  103*   1t0    10        *000    *000    100      1001t     t0 100         104    1900    0t"         t    10#0    1010                               8 00 t     *"
Va     W  e*v                                              . .000  MA1.SS 1069.    100.412 22s.061  s0,t149 2S0.002 2S1.07? 252.00  2.000 210.491 2stn.o  24S.00  241.070 235.00   I0."?
ahemud MiOPogo         00    70   130   223     ss   SS   Ito      140     *2?      *37     14*     *44      147     tso     *54        0     *40     *43       40o    130     130      130     130
Pam   U.                                                          5.320  I$.40n  23.2,t 20.481   S,003  2a.17  166.537  30,66  27.01s  36.0*5 es0,0   35O .5533.410  32.66*  32,033  25,003
Cools
On Iwmpoumoa   mc                                              2,521  13.872  0,617  10,420   2.02*   0.S755  23.760 4 2 .06   24.048  24.0.45  20.50  24,6*   *.026  23.tsn    2.3S   055
FPdy EsIaIMm                                                  0.314   .50?7
am" uioga.g.        77         535   t*2                630 e  .850     750
Go 9gm so emaIl       *77        .S3  -52                 -530 -10.273  -2.672   0.740   0.059   0.70*   0.43*  12.100  14.060  13.100  12.270   0.5)?  *0.5*0   04SG   0.202   9.048   7.200
No Ighmm.Id Sei   .11            -535  .102               *620 -10.272  .2.07's   0,7,40   C050    .7.*   0.432  *2.700  14.063   MASS  12,270   0.517  102.   0.4e5    .0*   0.00   7.200
coaoom             .37         260   -03               u20t  *5.040  *l.301   3,20    3,02)   4.76t   4.5*    6.2t   eu 0.040    .40    5,072   4.o3o 5*s25   4.603   4.*8t  4,404   2.,14
booed. am eS Odum
3% (as")
35% g~   eow  l0%
14%      om e   10%)
37% (A Cof top 10S



4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I
Table 10 Ic): Economic Eate ot Rurn Calculation for PTP X Rubber factory
(Al Up   Io.. WN Coegta)
0     C      I     2    4       *                                       Ol0      II *           I I a   $a      I s     S0      * I      * l
*"0  *In$   mIeS  6*04  $t*$    $0"  too?    tote    ttof    #ete        ie      seet   coop   .m       s$Od    #"m      t *o    t*o     e09    to"        oI *- j.. -16*
*Ab  0 f toin
a m  to" 4W                   ,4.                           4,4S   4.54*   1.2m    P.646   7,0S0   1.027   7.7 P04   ?30    0.S0   1.004    140   s.         *l % ps    s010   aM    s* s1    oat
0w... 0*66 4pa         $63   720  1.204 I.302 I III   *.JSs   1.s02        1..O t 00   $.1*    1040   5.n0s   1.042    A*00   t200 7 2.210 771 I         7 2t     34   7.00?   2 00?   0."      20S0
_*bM     w                                            1.240   1.2)0   0.0s   62.224  61.443  120.24  14.1?)  #S. 1 4  11.10  $6.036  13.204  62.000  6I.341  6la 242  6t00   6* III  10.010  60 0
on  .9.c6K.t _                                      3.172   3.814   3.050   0.251   0.40S   0,.SO   0.557   0,31   S.092    531 4   *.17t    4.4    4.711   4 006   4,7)0   4,520   4 Sa    4 300
Factw  Etta0WA66A0         :2a  1.0*0  001 *   20                   6.1set    64       4S
0m6,m Iioe n          to          361   48                           S4 ")0
WOW 04 0t m.            *0  .242  6.470   Is0  120   1.418   3.421   3.0)0   S.4    4.400   0.344   7.00,  8,730   0.0Sl    o.7"    0.s00   7.90    SO4 00       S46   711   0*0s   041n   0lt 1
_t soo$& we R**ms                                       A4   2.010   3.s72   3.1       7.773   2.910   5.220   0.402   7.460   1.62   0.734   4.214   S40    00 0 S S l  5      S00  tS   40O0   4041
no 0*     _ _A 04.606  .     a0 o202    ao 420   ?J0  120   .304   1.304  se   1.700   2.260  2.351   2.s  s    2 3*5   2.260   *.010   6.111   6.72a    67to   I 72s    70 4   1.*0  1* 40   112t7
4- #we am of
M% 0mW
3S3  (9  ow  10%)
34% 0P    0 4- St.
24^  8 COn up 6OS



%os doe~~a
Es w-o te
WV p 
see-es M4pit SW$$. "Vate owes; si     asse  ile's  sown es;'s  ewes wags aSIc. aeso ass's  "t-  11155  ditc4' e55oe- ssti*  OWVi   Ml.5 &"'C. ss.-                    6080
see's  see'. set's ge'.eat    ,s gaiv  lose  wel'   mle  SWt   ttao  ar'e  iniS  s's to . et' s. let.                          0 0  55     @55'  5   U            lo 50d
laws  $s ee      i"'s i'se'sWA's  fit's  sat's  Bu's  946's  Owsa~ ears  eats8  M's   MIs   M'gs  of        u' slirMS  es.  gsa,  ssc- ea".  oil                    Aa.MJ AWN
ise'0  swat; egg's  eese was; ass's  asia;t au'gs  OM's  well. iWs'$ ewe'l  ii  i.'.  seI's  se2'  sees  is01- Sate-, fee5                V.e tes se e'. oosol- 555' g ee   50   
hw-toewegTV
55     5s  0-  5              M U     glow    jo u.    a1               u s    sUi  is .e    ep     p      sg      e    e      s e           .     *      s'd
I ts nz ~~u  *iwe|  gasM   ao  u ' IwI gwg   wna u+ F '* WIW    WI@Ua                                           1P3 e01   P1'1* 



tORD 14503R
MALAYSIA 
,M.ww ownwpmwm*s         A
*  I~~~~~AUMANYAN ~       ~         MN AY
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~
*~~~~                                                                         _
Io.@iw              INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS IV PROJEC
_ETUNG SMALLHOLDERS
PREUMINARY MASTER PLAN
3015.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ui
-#ttt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ILG ADVLGE NUSISR
tm  141
%t% _ _ 3
tZ t410AMt22  
_S \ ~~~~~~~~~~IV
OlLAUtTIN
~mPRD c"DARMo Vffl
_ l    *-.----.+-PR I*t ARYVI UAGE R
/ s SINTUIIIFFOUN~~~~"    0SECDARVltMES
_ a                        [            i        Vl ~~~~~~~~~~~~tAND   
{~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RMR V| * OUIL0tiARIES
- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ILLA  AM V''AI WPRQ 9S



ISR  14SOA
_ ___ __. ir} gi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lauNeil
INDONeSIA                                         MALAYSIA               M        J . 
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLIDERS IV PROJECT                                  q         IWORU *4Yi
SETUNG SMALLHOLDERS
Phasing of Road  Construction                                          a
At"
234 /82  
.#~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~./3                                1.61/821                        X        8
W12831 
- -    4.1/84      -       EIstmn Roads CAwhl,s Surf=*)
*                    -  {   l   I"'mo"   Roads (Unsrf*ced)
-  21l   New Pema,y Villge Roads
',    uaaj.s Prmay Village Road upgrdin
- - -  NOWSeowidr Village Road
1.3/01  LeAl fkm) / Yearf Cnsitructoe
Rive"s
otka  KItjiiig                                Interntional Baqmdvai
0  1  2  3  4 5 6
APRL U99I



________________________________________________________________IBROa 14S05F
NUONISIA                 J                                        MU,1 -~~~~~~~~~~~~~SA    IASS
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS IV PROJECT
BETUNG SMALlHOLDERS                                             N
|    _       *m tun e     e.                         _    .m              _ ___ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _
g  1 ppX"st~~~Infrnwml ow . 
t u Ri_s J .... P zB~~~~~~Ol th- VIAMxt
u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A~   19 \''0/
p                                                                                         r
U                                           "a                                 'I
~~~~~~~~~T   Kr A  . 
2  /           .   .', ::J         2           R A    3   6
AMt 1990



