Document of                     r             '" -I>t
The World Bank  FILE Cue 
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.2780-IND
INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF THE
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS IV PROJECT
March 31, 1980
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    -  Rupiah (Rp)
US$1              =  Rp 625
Rp 100            =  US$0.16
Rp 1,000,000      =  US$1,600
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg)  =   1,000 grams (g)  =  2.205 pounds
1 metric ton      =   1,000 kg =  2,205 pounds = 0.98 long ton
1 hectare (ha)   =  10,000 square meters (sq m)  =  2.47 acres
ABBREVIATIONS
APBD            -   Anggaran Pendapatan dan Belanja Daerah - Regional Budget
for Revenues and Expenditures
APBN            -   Anggaran Pendapatan dan Belanja Negara - State Budget for
Revenue and Exenditures
BAL             -  Basic Agrarian Law
BAPPEDA         -   Provincial Development Planning Agency
BAPPENAS        -   Badan Perancana Pembungunan National - National Development
Planning Agency
BIMAS           -   Bimingan Massal Swa Sembada Bahen Mekarar, "Mass Guidance
Program for Self-Sufficiency in Foodstuffs"' - A farm
input credit package program
BRI             -   Bank Rakyat Indonesia - People's Bank of Indonesia
BULOG           -   Badan mousan Logistik (rice procurement agency)
CP              -   Cooperative Program
CRIA            -   Central Research Institute for Agriculture
DGA             -  Directorate General of Agrarian Affairs
DGE             -   Directorate General of Estates
DGFC            -   Directorate General for Food Crops
DIP             -   Daftar Isian Projek - Project Budget Document
DPD             -   Dinas Perkebunan Daerah - Provincial Estate Crops Services
DPUP            -   Provincial Public Works Services
FAO             -   Food and Agriculture Organization
FFB             -   Fresh Fruit Bunch
GOI             -   Government of Indonesia
INPRES          -   Instruksi Presiden - "Presidential Instruction" a special
program
IPEDA           -   Iuran Pembanguanan Daerah - Land Tax
JMO             -   Joint Marketing Office
md              -   man-days
MOA             -  Ministry of Agriculture
MOASS           -   Ministry of Agriculture Support Services
MOTC            -  Ministry of Trade and Cooperatives
Mil.            -   Million



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPELITA I      -   First Five-Year Development Plan (1969/70-1973/74)
REPELITA II    -   Second Five-Year Development Plan (1974/75-1979/80)
REPELITA III   -   Third Five-year Development Plan (1979/80-1984/85)
PMU             -   Project Management Unit
PNP             -   Perusahaan Negara Perkebunan, State-owned Estate Enterprise
PPL             -   Field extension worker
PT              -   Perseroan Terbatas - State-owned Corporation Operating
under the Commercial Code with Limited Liability
PTP             -   Perseroan Terbatas Perkebunan, State-owned Enterprise with
Limited Liability
GLOSSARY OF INDONESIAN TERMS
Adat                   - Body of traditional law
Bupati                 -  Kabupaten Chief
Department Kesehatan  -  Department of Health
Desa                   -  Village
Dukuh                  -  Hamlet of 25-30 houses
Gotong-royong          -  Community self-help project
Hak Pakai              -  Individual's right of use or exploitation of assigned
land
Hak Milik              - Right to full ownership of land
Kabupaten              -  District
Kecamatan              -  Subdistrict
Lalang                 -  A coarse grass, establihsing itself after the slash
and burn cycle
Marga                  -  Community grouping under Adat Law
Mushalla               -  Small prayer house
Puskesmas              -  Community Health Center, subdistrict level
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA
FISCAL YEAR
April 1-March 31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their ofcal duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS IV PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page NB9.
1.  BACKGeROUND . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . .         I
General  .................                 . .1.....            
The Agricultural and Rural Sector  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         1
The Palm Oil Subsector ...  .      .  .  .  .  .    . . . . . .  .  .  .  .   .  5
2.  PROJECT AREA ....  .  .     .  .  .  .    .....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  9
Project Area Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . .           9
Existing Works and Infrastructure .    .    .    . . . . . . . . . . .    10
3. THE PROJECT ..                                     ......... .  11
Project Formulation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    11
Project Summary.. ...                                                 12
Detailed Features                  ...                                12
Project Costs and Financing Arrangements . . . . . . . . . . .    16
Budgeting  .                   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      19
Procurement..                                              . .  20
Disbursements  . . . . .             * .  . . . . . . . . . . . .     21
Quality and Cost Controls             .. .22
Accounts and Audit....    .   22
4.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    22
5. DEMAND AND MARKETS.. . . . . . . . .                                     25
Palm Oil ... . . . 25
Food Crops .                           . . . . . . . . . . . . .    28
6.  AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION, FARM INCOMIES AND COST RECOVERY. . . . .    28
Crop Recommendations  . . . .  o            . .      .      . .       28
Yields, Production and Farm Incomes  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    28
Cost Recovery               ..30
7.  BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    31
Benefits..                                   . .   . . .  *  31
Costs   ...   . . . .    31
Financial Results.. . ...   .  .                                      31
Economic Results.. . . . . . . . . . . . .                            32
Project Risks.. .  33
Environmental Effects  ....... . . .  . . . ...... .    34



- ii -
Page No.
8.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS   . . . . . . . . . . . .    34
LIST OF TABLES IN MAIN REPORT
1.1   Indonesian Oil Palm Production Data
3.1   Annual Inflation Indices
3.2   Project Cost Summary
3.3   Sources of Project Finance
5.1   Projection of Coconut Oil Deficit and Utilization of Palm Oil
6.1   Farm Family Income
7.1   Sensitivity Analysis
ANNEXES
ANNEX 1 - OIL PALM - TECHNICAL ASPECTS OF ESTABLISHMENT AND PRODUCTION
Table 1: Mean Rainfall Data for Project Area
Table 2:  Phasing of Planting Program
Table 3:  Summary of Oil Palm Establishment Cost/ha
Table 4:  Yield Assumptions and Extraction Rates
Table 5:  Summary of Palm Oil and Kernel Production
ANNEX 2 - VILLAGE DEVELOPMENT
Table 1:  Cost Structure of Smallholder Housing
Table 2:  Summary of Village Infrastructure - Unit Cost Data
Table 3:  Village Infrastructure - Physical Planning
ANNEX 3 - PROJECT PHASING. PROJECT COSTS AND EXPENDITURES. DISBURSEMENTS,
AND RENT AND COST RECOVERY
Table 1 : Project Phasing
Table 2 : Total Project Costs
Table 3 : Betung Smallholders - Project Costs
Table 4   PNP X - Project Costs
Table 5 : Program Support - DGE
Table 6 : Estimated Schedule of Project Expenditures
Table 7   Sources of Finance - Project Costs
Table 8 : List of Agricultural Machinery, Vehicles and Equipment
Table 9 : Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Table 10: Proposed Allocation of Loan Proceeds
ANNEX 4 - CROP AND FARM BUDGETS, DEVELOPMENT COSTS PER FAMILY, INCOME AND
CASH FLOW, PNP X
Table 1 : Production from Garden Lot
Table 2 : Production from Field Crop Area
Table 3 : Farm Family Labor Availability and Labor Requirements



- iii -
Table 4: Estate Labor and Smallholder Labor Requirement
Table 5 : New Settler Farm Income Statement (Constant 1979)
Table 6: Rent and Cost Recovery
Table 7: Development Costs per Family
Table 8: Projected Profit and Loss Statement, PNP X
Table 9: Projected Cash Flow Statement, PNP X
ANNEX 5 - COST BENEFIT ANALYSES
Table 1:  Calculation of Economic and Financial Price for Oil Palm (FFB)
Table 2:  Calculation of Economic Farm-Gate Price of Paddy
Table 3:  Calculation of Economic Price for Urea and TSP
Table 4:  Economic Costs and Benefits, Betung Smallholder Oil Palm Farm Model
Table 5:  Economic Costs and Benefits - PNP X
Table 6:  Economic Costs and Benefits - Total Project
ANNEX 6 - PROGRAM SUPPORT TO THE DGE FOR NES V
Table 1:  Investment Costs for NES V Project Startup
ANNEX 7 - STATEMENTS OF EXPENDITURE
ANNEX 8 - GUIDELINES FOR INDEPENDENT AUDITORS
ANNEX 9 - DATA AVAILABLE IN THE STAFF WORKING PAPERS
CHARTS
1. Organization Chart of Directorate General of Estates
2. Organization Chart of Government-Owned Estate Group
3. Project Implementation Schedule
4. Organization Chart of the Flow of Funds for Smallholder Development
5. Project Organization Chart
FIGURES
1. Proposed Schematic Layout of Settlement Unit
2. Proposed Village Layout for Betung Area
3. Basic House Design for New Settlers
4. Indicative Road Cross Sections for Project Area
MAPS
Numbers 14505, 14503 and 14504
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission composed of
Messrs. P.R. Melkye, C. Carlier, G. Fox (Bank), G. Percival, T. Daley, R. Ury,
and V. Raswant (Consultants) which visited Indonesia in July/August 1979.
Mrs. P. Urbano and Mr. D. Elz also contributed to the preparation of the
report.






INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF THE
NUCLEUS ESTATE AlD SMALLHOLDERS IV PROJECT
I. Background
A. General
1.01      The Government of Indonesia (GOI) has requested Bank assistance to
develop 12,000 ha of oil palm and food crop land to settle 4,000 landless
families in South Sumatra Province, using the public sector estate of PNP X as
the development agent under the nucleus estate development scheme. Assistance
is also sought to develop palm oil and rubber factories in PNP X to provide
processing services for oil palm smallholders in the proposed project and for
rubber smallholders included under the Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I
Project (NES I) (Loan 1499-IND).
1.02      The project was identified by the GOI with Bank assistance, and it
reflects the national needs and priorities outlined in GOI's Third Five-Year
Plan (Repelita III), April 1979-March 1984. The project was prepared by the
GOI and the Bank using reports by the consultant firms Commonwealth
Development Corporation and Hunting Technical Services.
B. The Agricultural and Rural Sector
Objectives
1.03      The Government's major objectives for the agricultural and rural
sector are to: (a) create productive employment to raise the incomes of the
rural poor; (b) increase domestic food supply to keep pace with rising demand;
(c) expand agricultural exports, particularly of smallholder tree crops; and
(d) ensure productive, sustainable use of Indonesia's land, water and other
natural resources.
Role and Performance
1.04      Despite a 4% average annual growth of production, agriculture's
share of GDP has declined from 40% to 31% since 1968, while its share of
exports dropped from 45% to 37% due mainly to the markedly increased value of
oil exports. Nevertheless, the agricultural and rural sector remains of over-
whelming importance to the great majority of Indonesians; nearly 80% of the
population lives in rural areas, and agriculture is the major source of income
for about two-thirds of rural households and one-tenth of urban households.
Some 15.6 million smallholder families produce subsistence and cash crops on
15.8 million ha, while 1,800 estates occupying 2.2 million ha produce mainly
rubber, sugar, tea, palm oil, and tobacco.



- 2 -
1.05      Employment.  Agriculture's share of total employment decreased
from 69% in 1961 to 64% in September 1971, while in 1976 it ranged between
66% in March and 60% in October./l Nevertheless, agriculture remained by
far the largest single source (with 46%) of new employment during 1971-76.
Outside Java, employment prospects in agriculture appear quite promising,
given the sustained increases in the smallholder area, due to land and
irrigation development, including that under publicly sponsored and
spontaneous transmigration. In Java, rehabilitation of irrigation systems,
which generated significant employment in the last decade, should continue
to provide additional construction and farm work.
Food Crops
1.06      Production Growth.  Given its limited manpower and financial
resources, GOI has concentrated on increasing the production of rice, the
preferred staple food of the great majority of Indonesians. Rice production
increased rapidly (4.5% p.a.) between 1968 and 1974, chiefly due to irri-
gation rehabilitation and the provision to irrigated rice growers of fer-
tilizer and high-yielding variety seed, financed largely through the BIMAS
credit program. The growth rate slowed markedly to 1.7% p.a. over 1974-77,
in the wake of severe declines in fertilizer usage (due to restrictions on
private sector fertilizer trade), successive seasons of untimely rainfall,
and unprecedented attacks by pests and diseases, principally the brown plant
hopper and associated viruses. In 1978, a record rice harvest was achieved,
with better weather, improved and liberalized fertilizer distribution, and
nationwide Government distribution of recently-introduced pest resistant
varieties. Over the past decade, output of secondary food crops (maize,
cassava, soybeans, peanuts, and sweet potatoes) grew more slowly, at an
average of only 1.6% p.a., composed of a 1.1% p.a. average decline in area
(much of this land shifting to irrigated rice) and a 2.7% p.a. increase in
yield.
1.07      Demand-Supply Balance.  These gains in food output did not keep
pace with the 3.5-4.0% p.a. increase in demand due to rising population and
incomes.  Indonesia became the world's largest rice importer, with a record
import of 2.3 million tons in 1977, and about 1.3 million tons in 1978.
Simultaneously, wheat imports rose to 1.4 million tons in 1978, cassava
exports nearly disappeared, and soybean, maize, and coconut oil imports
began to grow. The "Indonesia Supply Prospects for Major Food Crops"
(Report No. 2374-IND of March 3, 1979) concluded that even with expanded
irrigation, and improved technology, extension, credit and marketing, food
production growth would not exceed 3.5% p.a., leaving a basic food deficit
up to at least 1990, with a rice deficit alone of 2-3 million tons.
/1 In 1976, shares were 63% in M4arch and 57% in October in Java, and 72%
and 66%, respectively, elsewhere. The total drop in agricultural
employment from March to October was 6.7 million. Precise estimation is
difficult due to the surveys' shifting definitions and seasonal timing.



- 3 -
1.08       Future Strategy.  To keep rice imports at some reasonable fraction
of the world rice trade, and to prevent a widening food production-consumption
gap, productivity and area of both rice and secondary food crops must be
increased. In Java, rice-cropping intensity could be raised through water
storage projects and by exploiting groundwater. Rice yields and cropping
intensity can also be increased by constructing tertiary irrigation and
drainage systems, and improving support services. In the Other Islands
there is potential for new irrigation systems, including tidal and swamp
land development. Despite the scarcity of high-yielding tropical varieties
of secondary food crops, yields of existing varieties could be increased
substantially by improved husbandry, including use of fertilizer and
insecticides. GOI is just beginning to give serious attention to marketing,
credit, seeds and research aimed at varietal improvement for secondary
crops. Bank assistance in these efforts is planned.
Tree Crops
1.09      Tree crops occupy about a third of total cropped land (coconuts
and rubber account for 80% of this), and generate almost half of total
non-oil export revenue. Smallholders cultivate 80% of the rubber area and
virtually all coconuts, coffee, cloves and pepper, whereas tea and oil palm
are grown primarily on estates. Despite recent higher world prices for
Indonesia's major tree crop products, only oil palm has shown sustained
large increases in production, due to investment programs by Government and
private estates. With the long immaturity of tree crops, static production
levels are a symptom of past low prices and neglect, especially inadequate
research and extension, and failure to replant with higher-yielding
varieties.
1.10      Smallholder Development.  Efforts to revitalize the smallholder tree
crop sector are commencing on several fronts. One new approach, which is
being supported by three Bank-financed Nucleus Estates and Smallholders (NES)
projects, is for Government estates to plant and maintain rubber and oil palm
on previously undeveloped land for three years, using farmers selected to be
settlers (including local landless families and transmigrants) as employees,
and thereafter to supply the settlers with inputs, extension, and processing
facilities. Other new plantings of tree crops are being included in
transmigration projects. While the NES approach has been mainly for new
settlers, GOI has also initiated national programs to assist geographically
concentrated groups of existing smallholders to plant rubber or coconuts
themselves, with fairly intensive support from Project Management Units
(PMUs). This is the approach of the proposed project. Efforts to design a
lower cost strategy for tree crop planting with minimal demands on management
are also starting. Given the vast area of overaged and low yielding
smallholder rubber and coconuts (smallholder rubber yields are half those in
Malaysia), the good market prospects for these crops, and the Other Islands'
land availability and natural comparative advantage in them, rapid expansion
of smallholder tree crops, using all suitable approaches, is a high priority.
As these programs will place a heavy demand on technical and managerial
personnel, major staff recruitment and training efforts will be required.



-4-
Area Development and Transmigration
1.11      Java.  In 1978, about 85 million people lived in Java, at a density
approaching 650/sq km. The island, with 7% of Indonesia's land area, has
45% of the cropped area and 63% of the population. Java generally has
higher fertility and better infrastructure than the Other Islands; however,
its cultivable land is almost fully utilized, and in some higher watersheds
cultivation already exceeds ecologically safe limits, contributing to
increasing erosion, downstream flooding, and siltation of ports, dams, and
irrigation canals. GOI is preparing watershed development and integrated
development projects to address this problem.
1.12      Other Islands.  The primary program for new area development in the
Other Islands, as well as for creating employment and settlement nuclei for
Javanese migrants, is transmigration. An organized transmigration program
is important for regional and natural resource development in the Other
Islands, production of food and export crops, and creation of employment and
decent living conditions for landless Javanese. Unfortunately, this program
has long been hampered by unrealistic expectations of its potential for
resolving Java's population problems and for stimulating large-scale regional
development, by overly ambitious targets, and by weak, uncoordinated
implementation. Confronted by management problems, GOI reorganized the
program in preparation for Repelita III, by transferring implementation
responsibility from the Directorate General of Transmigration to the line
agencies normally responsible for each sector. This measure needs to be
complemented by continued attention to technical and policy issues including
(a) the suitability of the land for food crops, (b) the role of tree crops and
livestock, (c) appropriate target incomes and farm sizes, (d) the extent of
Government financial, marketing and other services to settlers, and (e) the
role of spontaneous migration. The Second Transmigration Project (Loan
1707-IND and Credit 919-IND) addresses these issues.
Role of Government
1.13      While the private sector should be encouraged to expand its role
in agricultural input supply, marketing, and processing, Government
bears the major responsibility for infrastructure, resource conservation,
and other services. Despite marked improvements over the past decade, overly
centralized procedures, weak regional planning, and technical and managerial
manpower constraints have impeded agricultural and rural development
planning and implementation. GOI's concern for area development has also
increased the need to strengthen provincial and local planning capabilities.
Future programs responsive to GOI's stated objectives will necessarily be
complex, requiring closely coordinated programs of agricultural research,
extension, input supply, credit, land development, transport, pricing
policies and marketing. GOI must therefore continue to strengthen its key
rural development institutions, particularly through the education,
recruitment, training and retention of technical manpower.



-5-
Bank Lending Strategy
1.14      GOI and the Bank generally agree on overall objectives and strate-
gies for the rural sector. While views sometimes differ on the relative
emphasis to be given to different investments, and on the technical design of
some projects, such differences are not impeding Bank Group operations
generally and are usually resolved by further analysis and dialogue.
1.15      Projects.  Since the first of 13 irrigation projects was approved
in 1968, the Bank Group's agricultural lending has rapidly expanded to include
estate and smallholder tree crops, fertilizer production and distribution,
sugar, livestock, fisheries, research, extension, training, seeds, transmi-
gration, and resource survey and mapping. The Operations Evaluation
Department's Sector Operations Review of Bank Group agricultural lending in
Indonesia (Report No. 2166, dated August 9, 1978) concluded that despite
deficiencies in some projects, the Bank's portfolio in Indonesian agriculture
was "of overall good quality and likely to contribute substantially to
increased production." Within the context of GOI's agricultural strategy,
future Bank lending is expected to focus on:
(a) production of secondary crops (corn, peanuts, soybeans, etc.)
especially through second phase projects for agricultural
research, extension and seeds;
(b) a diversified irrigation program to intensify rice cropping on
Java and to extend water management to the Other Islands;
(c) smallholder tree crop planting programs; and
(d) area development projects aimed at (i) watershed management to
conserve soil and ensure long-term productivity in the densely
populated areas of Java, (ii) integrated rural development of poor
areas on Java, and (iii) transmigration.
1.16      Sector Work.  These projects have been and will continue to be
complemented by extensive sector work. Analyses of employment and income
distribution, irrigation, agricultural support services, and food crop
production have improved the Bank's understanding of the sector's needs and
of GOI's policies. Review of the rubber subsector, the transmigration
program, secondary food crops, the land tenure system, and the supply and
managerial manpower for agriculture are now under way.
C. The Palm Oil Subsector
Crop Production
1.17      Indonesia is the world's second largest palm oil producer, produc-
ing 568,000 tons of palm oil and 115,600 tons of palm kernels in 1979.
Indonesian palm oil represents 16% of the world's total production of



- 6 -
3.5 million tons. Palm oil is the fourth largest agricultural export com-
modity of Indonesia after timber, rubber and coffee, and comprises 2% of total
agricultural GDP and 7% of Indonesia's nonoil export earnings.
1.18      Commercial production of oil palm in Indonesia commenced in 1926 but
did not accelerate sharply until 1969. Favorable price increases in the world
market coincided with a significant shift in world consumption of fats and
oils away from animal fats to vegetable oils. The total area of oil palm in
Indonesia increased over the period 1969-79 from 119,000 ha to 232,000 ha, or
an average annual rate of increase of 7%. With the exception of coffee
production, growth in palm oil production at 12% p.a. since 1969 has exceeded
growth in all other Indonesian agricultural commodities.
Table 1.1: INDONESIA OIL PALM PRODUCTION DATA
1969    1973    1975    1977    1979
Mature Area in Production ('000) ha
Public sector estates                      60       76      88      109      139
Private estates                            26       39      52       56       57
Total                               86     115      140     165      196
Average yield (tons ffb/ha)                12.0    13.6    14.2    15.5    15.5
Production ('000 tons)
Palm Oil
Public sector estates                   128     207      263      332     398
Private estates                          60       82     132      148      170
Total                              188     289      395     480      568
Palm Kernel
Public sector estates                    29      46       56       63      83
Private estates                          13       18      24       26      33
Total                              42       64       80      89      116
1.19      Estates and Smallholders.  Produced largely as an estate crop, about
95% of the total area of oil palm is located in North Sumatra. Public sector
estates dominate about 68% of the total area and production while private
estates account for remainder (Table 1.1). About 1,000 ha or less than 1% of
mature oil palm is owned by smallholders. The dominance of the estates in
palm oil production has arisen since smallholders are not able to process



palm oil themselves and have had no access to planting material or the
technical expertise required for fruit collection or processing.
1.20       Future Prospects.  Faced with growing domestic demand for fats and
oils and a decline in domestic coconut oil production, GOI is committed to a
policy of rapid expansion in palm oil production to reverse the increasing
heavy burden of imported coconut oil on the economy, and to maintain growth in
the export of palm oil. In 1978, about 100,000 tons of palm oil, 20% of
national production, was diverted from the export market for fractionation
into edible oil for domestic consumption. All the palm kernel oil production
was marketed locally. In 1979 GOI directed that 300,000 tons of palm oil be
diverted from export for domestic consumption. Consequently, the proportion
of total palm oil production exported fell from 85% in 1977 to 40% in 1979.
With the new plantings of oil palm planned for South Sumatra, Kalimantan and
West Java it is expected that palm oil and palm kernel oil production will
reach 1.8 million tons by 1990. This is equivalent to an annual growth rate
of 9% from 1979 to 1990. During the same period, on average, about 50% of
this production will be consumed domestically.
Institutions Involved in the Subsector
1.21      The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) is made up of five Directorates
General (DG) - Estates, Fisheries, Food Crops, Forestry and Livestock - and
the MOA Support Staff. The DG of Estates (DGE) regulates all private estates
and smallholdings involving tree crops and industrial crops such as rubber,
coconuts, oil palm, tea, coffee, sugar, tobacco, and spices. Within the DGE
are five directorates: Planning, Production and Means of Production,
Rehabilitation, and Development and Plant Protection (Chart 1). The increas-
ing number of externally-financed DGE projects has placed considerable strain
on these directorates, with resultant long delays in budgeting, procurement
and staff recruitment. To streamline its procedures, DGE recently established
a Special Team for Externally Assisted Projects (the Team), which has
assumed the responsibilities of these directorates for implementation of
smallholder development projects. These responsibilities include project
financial administration, procurement and contract approval, and project
monitoring and evaluation. The Team has 15 staff and utilizes the services
of three consultants for finance, production management, and rubber and
coconut agronomy who are presently employed by the DGE.
1.22      The Indonesian Estates Industry includes 28 public sector
estates (PNP/PTPs) of which five are palm oil producers. All of the
PNP/PTPs are responsible to MOA Support Staff which reports to the Minister
of Agriculture for policy formulation, coordination of estate crop
activities, estate financial administration and control and monitoring of
the operations of the estates. The DGE has no direct authority for these
public estates, but is responsible for their supervision when the estates
are used as nucleus estate agents for smallholder development.
1.23      Development activities at provincial and district levels are handled
by the Provincial Estate Crop Services (Dinas Perkebunan Daerahs = DPDs). The



- 8 -
DPDs are responsible to the DGE through the administration of the provincial
governments. Extension services to tree crop smallholders are limited by the
inadequate quantity and sometimes quality of DPD personnel. The DPDs have
virtually no experience with oil palm development or cultivation.
1.24      Three other ministries involved in the oil palm industry are:
(a) Trade and Cooperatives, which determines policy on product specification
and quality control; (b) Industry, which licenses processors; and (c) Finance,
which, with the approval of the National Development Planning Agency
(BAPPENAS), provides funds for development.
1.25      Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI), the Government commercial bank for the
agricultural and rural sector, operates with 330 branches and 3,270 village
units throughout Indonesia. BRI's main function is to assist the GOI with
policies and programs to provide short-term credit to agricultural coopera-
tives, farmers, fishermen and agricultural enterprises. Short-term credits
account for about 95% of BRI's total disbursements. BRI has gained consider-
able experience in long-term credit operations under the Smallholder and
Private Estates Tea Project (Credit 400-IND) and the Fisheries Credit Project
(Credit 480-IND) and serves as channelling agency for smallholder rubber and
oil palm finance under the North Sumatra Smallholder Development Project
(Credit 358-IND) and the NES I, II and III Projects (Loans 1499, 1604 and
1751-IND respectively). BRI has been hard-pressed, however, by the rapid
expansion of its branch and village unit network from the early 1970s when
the BIMAS program expanded nationwide. Given its limited experience in
long-term credit operations, and the pressure to rapidly expand its credit
operations to new development areas in the Other Islands, the GOI has assisted
BRI by bearing the credit risk on about 60% of its total loan portfolio. The
BRI is now being assisted in term lending and credit management procedures by
a team of five consultants financed under the Rural Credit Project (Credit
827-IND).
Bank Lending for Oil Palm
1.26      Government and Bank assistance for smallholder oil palm development
is limited to one project, the North Sumatra Smallholder Development Project)
for US$5 million. Although primarily for new rubber establishment, 1,000 ha
of oil palm was developed for about 500 families. Now nearing completion,
implementation of the oil palm component has been impressive. There have been
several Bank loans and credits in support of planting and rehabilitation of
oil palm on estates. These include the First, Second, and Fourth Agricultural
Estates Projects, (Credits 155, 194, 319-IND respectively) and the NES I and
III loans. The recent project performance audits for Credits 155 and 194-IND
rated both projects physically and financially successful.
The NES Projects
1.27      In recognition of the scarce technical and managerial expertise
available within GOI to implement rural development projects, GOI increasingly
seeks to utilize the untapped manpower and financial resources of the public



- 9 -
sector estates to promote and guide smallholder development. To this end, GOI
initiated, in 1976, a large tree crop development program which, with the
assistance of the public sector estates, will develop unutilized land for new
settlement and substantially increase rubber, coconut and palm oil production
for export and import substitution. In support of this Government initiative,
the Bank has financed three nucleus estates and smallholder tree crop projects
since November 1977.
1.28      The first two NES projects, the first of which became effective in
January 1978 and the second in September 1978, are sufficiently advanced to
assess their effectiveness in smallholder tree crop development. Initial
delays in implementation of these projects were the result of delays in budget
preparation and receipt of funds by the nucleus estates. These problems have
been resolved by the Government in more simplified financial procedures with
automatic quarterly releases of funds to the nucleus estates. Smallholder and
estate plantings are now on schedule. A total of 15,000 ha have been planted
to rubber, coconuts and oil palm. The standard of field development is
excellent. Less satisfactory, however, has been the rate of progress of
infrastructure development: road building, water supply and the construction
of village facilities and settler housing. These works involve careful plan-
ning and coordination of inputs from the central and provincial governments
and the nucleus estates. In the third NES project which became effective in
November 1979, project organization was modified to help overcome these
constraints through delegation of greater autonomy in project implementation
to the nucleus estates, and the establishment in MOA of the Team to implement
NES and similar projects (para. 1.21).
2. THE PROJECT AREA
A. Project Area Description
Location and Land Use
2.01      Betung, South Sumatra (Map 14505).  The project area, about
16,000 ha, is located 75 km west of Palembang in Kabupaten Musi Banyuasin.
The site is to the west of the PNP X estates of Tebenen and Betung and the NES
I project area. The villages of Supat to the north and Teluk Kijing to the
south border the project area. The vegetation in the project area is about
65% coarse lalang grass, 30% bush and secondary jungle and about 5% old rubber
trees. The project area is virtually uninhabited, as it was reduced to
exclude land holdings south of Supat as well as land holdings on either side
of the Betung-Sekayu road, and thereby avoid possible land disputes with
existing margas (community held land).
Climate
2.02      Climate.  The climate is wet tropical with a mean annual rainfall of
between 2,500 to 3,000 mm. The normal dry period is from June to September
but monthly averages are generally not below 60 mm during the driest month.
Droughts have occurred about once every five years, but the mean annual



- 10 -
maximum drought is 26 days. The amount and annual distribution of rainfall
is therefore suitable for oil palm. Rainfall data are provided in Annex 1.
The mean temperature in the project area varies from 26 to 31 degrees
Centigrade and wind velocities are low, presenting no risk to tree crops.
Soils and Topography
2.03      Soils in the project area are red-yellow podzolics.  It is well
drained and friable. It is a brown silty clay loam of good physical structure
from 10 through 60 cm, below which the subsoil becomes mottled. It is acidic
with a pH of 4.7 to 5.2 and has a low availability of nutrients. It is
particularly deficient in nitrogen and phosphorus. Although heavy
applications of fertilizer will be necessary to maintain crop yields, the
soils are physically suited to oil palm development. The project area is
gently undulating and dissected by many small streams running north to
Banyuasin and south to the Musi River. Slopes on the valley sides are 4 to 5
degrees but the broad area of the project has slopes of less than 3 degrees.
As much of the flat land area as practicable will be utilized for food crops,
the remainder for tree crops.
Population and Incomes
2.04      About 12,000 families or 60,000 people live within 10 to 15 km of
the project boundary. Most farm marga land, some in units as small as
40 families near Supat, to the largest with 300 families near Teluk Kijing.
The amount of land available for closer settlement and intensification of
production is considerable. Scattered smallholders live along the road from
Lais to Betung, and have an average farm size of 3 ha. These farmers grow on
average about 50% of their family's rice requirements in addition to cassava,
vegetables and fruit, but are largely dependent on tapping wild, worn-out
rubber for cash income. Off-farm jobs in the area have recently been
available from land clearing associated with a nearby Government sponsored
transmigration project and the NES I Project. Average annual incomes in the
area from on-farm and off-farm sources is about Rp 220,000 (US$350) per family
or Rp 44,000 per capita. At this level of income (below the absolute poverty
target level estimated at Rp 81,000 per capita) there has been little
opportunity for smallholders in the area to invest and bear the risk of
intensified food crop production or enable them to plant tree crops.
B. Existing Works and Infrastructure
Roads
2.05      A provincial highway serves the 75 km link between Palembang and the
project area. Only about 35 km of this road has an asphalt macadem surface.
Road conditions for present traffic requirements are poor since drainage is
inadequate and the road is badly potholed. Expected production from PNP X's
rubber and palm oil factories under construction in the NES I Project and from
the palm oil factory proposed for this project will double traffic volumes by
1983. Funds have been budgeted by the provincial government to upgrade this



- 11 -
road to main access road standards by 1981.  The existing internal road
network in the project area is poor with large sections impassible in the
rainy season. With the exception of 10 km of road from Lais to Teluk Kijing,
upgraded in 1978 under the provincial government's INPRES program, the roads
are inadequate for the planned new settlement and transport of oil palm. An
inventory and description of existing roads in the project area is available
in Staff Working Paper No. 1.
Water Transport and Port Facilities
2.06      The Musi River borders the southern end of the project area and
PNP X's Tebenen rubber estate. River transport with barges to the Port of
Palembang for transporting palm oil and rubber is possible year round, but
PNP X is likely to continue to use road transport to Palembang harbor for some
years to come. The palm oil bulking facility for PNP X is currently under
construction at the Palembang Port. These facilities will require expansion
by 1984 with additional palm oil production from smallholders in the proposed
project.
3. THE PROJECT
A. Project Formulation
3.01      The use of public sector estates is an effective means for Govern-
ment to facilitate the transfer of resources and technology to smallholders
for oil palm development. The techniques for oil palm establishment, upkeep
and harvest are at present unknown to smallholders in Indonesia. In its for-
mulation of the project, GOI has selected PNP X to be the nucleus estate
development agent. This is appropriate since PNP X is successfully imple-
menting part of the NES I Project and has an existing oil palm estate located
near the project area. Since PNP X is the only oil palm estate group operat-
ing outside the traditional oil palm producing area of North Sumatra, it also
affords Government the opportunity to diversify, geographically, oil palm
production and stimulate regional develpment, in particular those agro-
industries reliant upon palm oil.
3.02      To alleviate problems of project implementation arising from
unsatisfactory coordination between the central and provincial governments
and the nucleus estates as experienced in NES I and II, the proposed project
is formulated to provide greater autonomy of the nucleus estate in project
implementation. Unlike the first three NES projects, responsibility for
construction of village infrastructure, village roads, and water supply will
be assigned to the nucleus estate. The provincial government would continue
to be responsible for the construction of specific infrastructure such as
schools and health facilities as provided under provincial INPRES programs.
Consistent with the need to concentrate responsibilities for project imple-
mentation, the Project Manager will be the First Director of the PNP X estate.
3.03      The increasing need for settlement of formidably large numbers of
landless rural poor necessitates that the project be designed to minimize the



- 12 -
cost of settlement per family and yet provide sufficient on-farm investment
to assure their successful livelihood. Farm plans for new settlement of
smallholders provide for the establishment of 2 ha of oil palm, 0.1 ha of an
intensively cultivated house garden lot, and 0.9 ha for field food crop
development. To guarantee farm families an adequate income during oil palm
immaturity and provide practical training of smallholders in oil palm hus-
bandry, the project is formulated to provide full-time employment of new
settlers as estate laborers for about three years after settlement.  Settlers
will be paid the estate labor wage (presently Rp 725/day) during this period.
After three years settlers will be given land title to operate their own
individual oil palm and food crop land holdings.
B. Project Summary
Objective
3.04      The project's main objectives will be to:  (a) provide new settle-
ment for 4,000 poor, landless families on unutilized land in South Sumatra
Province; (b) raise rural incomes of these families in the poverty target
group; (c) increase the production of oil palm to supply the rapidly expanding
domestic demand for edible oils; and (d) to reverse the declining exports and
foreign exchange earnings from this shift to domestic consumption.
General Description
3.05      The main project components include block planting of 8,000 ha of
oil palm and 4,000 ha of food crop establishment for 4,000 families. The
project includes development of 21 villages, erection of 4,000 houses, con-
struction and upgrading of 92 km of village roads and the establishment of one
30 ton FFB/hr palm oil mill for processing smallholder production. A block
crumb rubber factory with a capacity of 40 tons per day will also be con-
structed for 2,250 families settled under the NES I Project. The project will
provide basic health services for about 20,000 people through the Government's
provincial health program. Primary and secondary education facilities will be
provided for about 8,000 children. Technical assistance has been included in
the project to strengthen PNP X's capacity in estate engineering and financial
management, and to assist the DGE with program support (short-term consultant
specialists) and start-up funds for a future NES project.
C. Detailed Features /1
Field Development
3.06      Oil Palm Establishment.  Each smallholder family will receive 2 ha
of block planted oil palm. Land clearing of bush and secondary jungle will
be based on a combination of mechanical (crawler tractor) and manual land
/1 Cost estimates listed in the section are quoted in constant early 1980
prices.



- 13 -
clearing. All lalang areas will be cleared mechanically by two rounds of
plowing and harrowing at three week intervals. Together, these areas of
secondary jungle and lalang constitute almost all the existing vegetation
(para. 3.01). Land clearing costs (US$165/ha) are based on actual expendi-
tures on PNP X e-c-ates and adjusted to project area conditions. PNP X will
supply high yielding germinated Dura x Pisifera oil palm planting material and
will employ smallholders as trainees to plant and maintain oil palms through
the immature period. In Year 4 when oil palm comes into production, settlers
will be responsible for the operation of their individual holdings but will
receive guidance and training in harvesting, collection and maintenance by the
nucleus estate. PNP X will also provide on-farm inputs, process smallholder
oil palm and provide marketing services for smallholders.
3.07      Food Cropping and Subsistence Package.  Each family will receive
3 ha, a third of which will be used for subsistence food crop production.
As part of a subsistence package to be supplied to new settlers, PNP X will
clear 0.9 ha for field crop establishment in addition to a 0.1 ha house and
garden lot. Each family will receive an initial cash payment estimated at
Rp 40,000 (US$64) for food and transportation needs prior to arrival on the
project site. PNP X will procure and provide inputs for food crops including
seed and fertilizers at US$87 equivalent per family for the first year's food
crop establishment.
3.08      Housing and Village Infrastructure.  The basic design for smallhol-
der housing is the Indonesian standard for transmigration houses with a total
floor area of 36 sq m, constructed of timber with galvanized iron roofing
(Figure 1). The first 570 houses will be constructed by contract and will
cost about Rp 525,000 each (US$840). Thereafter, settlers will build the
houses themselves in work units under the supervision of the nucleus estate.
Construction costs for the remaining 3,430 houses will be about Rp 422,000
(US$675). Separate latrines will be constructed with each of these houses.
In addition to the new settler housing, the project includes construction of
181 houses (19 staff houses and 162 single units) for nucleus estate
employees, a new workshop, a central warehouse and five divisional offices.
Civil works for processing facilities and estate housing will be built by
local contractors employed by PNP X, while some of the minor civil works such
as garages and offices will be built by PNP X itself.
3.09      Village design and settlement planning have been based on social
factors related to traditional community living patterns and those physical
factors involving topography, water supply and access requirements. The
project includes the construction of 21 villages to accommodate 190 families
each. Settlement units will be radial in design with a central village
surrounded by a food crop area, which in turn will be surrounded by the block
planted oil palm area (Figure 2). House and garden lots will occupy the
circumference of the village while community facilities including health
center, office, market, hall, mosque and a school will be located at the
center of the village (Figure 3). Dimensions of each of the village units and
allowances for village infrastructure are explained in Annex 2 and Staff
Working Paper No. 2. The nucleus estate will have full responsibility to



- 14 -
construct, or contract for construction, village offices, market buildings,
mosques and recreation halls. Schools and health facilities will be built
under the INPRES program. A preliminary master plan for settlement of the
project area is provided in Map 14503.
3.10       Roads.  To ensure an adequate road network, transport requirements
have been examined in terms of initial requirements for moving heavy equip-
ment, projected traffic volumes and the special road requirements for trans-
porting palm oil to the proposed mill and processed palm oil from the mill to
the port. Upgrading of existing roads will provide an adequate foundation
for the network of village roads in the project. The proposed road network
to serve new villages and oil palm holdings will comprise:
(a) construction of 46 km of primary village roads of which 31 km will
be upgraded existing roads. These roads will each serve from two
to eight villages and provide direct all-weather access to the oil
mill and to secondary village roads. Design standards provide for
a maximum gradient of 6%, a pavement width of 6 m, with a 15 cm
laterite gravel surface, and a right-of-way of 15 m. New primary
village roads have been costed at US$8,500/km while upgrading
to primary village standard of existing roads is estimated at
US$7,800/km;
(b) construction of 48 km of secondary village roads, each of which
will serve from one to two villages and would be constructed
to provide the shortest distance to primary village roads. The
maximum gradient will be 7%, with a pavement width of 4 m with a
10 cm thick gravel surface and a 12 m right-of-way. These roads
have been costed at US$4,500/km; and
(c)  construction of 105 km of farm access tracks to provide access from
food crop areas to the village center. The dirt tracks will be
3 m wide with an embankment height of 20 cm. The same standard
will be used for oil palm collection tracks included in the costs
of oil palm development. The cost of these tracks has been esti-
mated at US$700/km.
All road construction and upgrading will be carried out by PNP X. The roads
component of the project includes funds for routine annual maintenance by
PNP X. Proposed alignments for the road network are indicated on Map 14504.
Road cross-sections are shown in Figure 4 and the complete details of design
standards are available in Staff Working Paper No. 1.
3.11       Water Supply.  Water in the project area is available from shallow
wells from 2 m to 10 m deep which should be sufficient to provide a satisfac-
tory water supply through most of the year. As a safeguard, a water supply
system will be constructed with small earth dams surrounded by a number of
shallow wells. Such a system is being used satisfactorily in Baturaja, in
the Transmigration I Project (Loan 1318-IND) in South Sumatra. Water supply
for each village in the project has been designed and costed with four earth



- 15 -
dams (US$1,300 per dam) and ten shallow wells (US$160 per well) for each dam.
These civil works will be constructed by local firms contracting to the
nucleus estate.
3.12      Health.  Five clinics and 16 first-aid posts will be constructed in
the project area as part of provincial government's low-cost health program
and will be operated under INPRES Puskesmas on standards for Repelita III.
This program will provide for basic health services, malaria control and
family planning.
3.13      Processing Facilities, Machinery and Equipment.  Expected production
of oil palm will require the eventual completion of a 60 ton FFB/hr palm oil
mill for the project's smallholders. The first 30-ton line for this mill
which will be required by 1984 is provided for under the project. The second
stage mill will not be required until 1989 and would be eligible for financing
under a subsequent loan. A water pipeline extension of 4.7 km from PNP X's
Betung mill (NES I) will be required to provide water to the proposed mill.
The new mill will also require PNP X to expand the bulking facility at the
Port of Palembang from 3,000 tons to 5,000 tons under the proposed project.
Details of mill construction, phasing, engineering requirements, and all costs
are contained in Staff Working Paper No. 3. The project includes the
construction of a 40 ton/day block crumb rubber factory for PNP X to process
smallholder rubber from NES I. The first 20 ton/day stage will be operational
in 1981. A water extension pipeline of 4.5 km will be required for this
proposed factory.
Technical Assistance and Program Support
3.14      PNP X.  Provision is made to assist PNP X with technical assistance
for palm oil engineering and financial management (108 man-months). Given
that engineering assistance is required for the design work for factories in
the proposed project, employment of processing engineers wasa condition of
negotiations.  Short-term consultant specialists and inspection services for
60 man-months will also be available to PNP X.
3.15      The DGE.  About 200 man-months of consultant time will be provided
to the DGE and will include assistance for field inspection services, village
planning, land surveying, special project studies and project identification
and preparation of future NES projects. Program support for the DGE will
provide start-up capital for a future NES project in West Java (Annex 6) for
funds required by PTP XI and PTP XIII until October 1981 for nursery develop-
ment for oil palm and coconuts, initial staff housing and project buildings
and for road development to improve access to the project area. This assis-
tance to the DGE for a future NES scheme would speed later field developments
and settlement of smallholders.
Prolect Phasing
3.16      A summary schedule of project implementation is shown in Chart 3.
The physical components of project phasing are shown in Annex 3, Table 1,



- 16 -
while details of phasing for mill construction, road works and village
development are available in Staff Working Papers 1-3. Project phasing has
allowed for oil palm nursery start-up and the construction of smallholder
housing, buildings and the block crumb rubber factory in late 1980 to early
1981, one year prior to the first planting of smallholder oil palm. To facil-
itate project start-up with early construction of initial housing and other
civil works, PNP X will utilize the NES IV preproject assistance fund (US$1.0
million) allocated for the DGE in the NES III Project. In order to complete
the 8,000 ha planting program with the final year's plantings of 1,540 ha in
1985/86, a six-year disbursement period is proposed for the project.
D. Project Costs and Financing Arrangements
Project Costs
3.17      The project will be fully implemented over a ten-year period.  The
Bank loan will assist with the financing over a six-year period. Table 3.2
summarizes the costs of the project over the first six years of implementation
(US$64.5 million). The foreign exchange component is estimated at US$42 mil-
lion (65% of total cost). Total cost at full implementation of the project
over the ten-year period is estimated to be US$84.5 million. Government will
make available the funds required from Year 7 to project completion (US$20
million). Details of the project costs are presented in Annex 3, Tables 2-5
and in the staff working papers.
3.18      Base cost estimates in early 1980 prices were derived from detailed
cost analyses of several public sector estates including the proposed nucleus
estate PNP X. A physical contingency of 10% is allowed on all investment
items and on the number of man-days of management consultants and is
considered sufficient given the detail of design standards and input
requirements as measured in other tree crop projects. The provisions for
expected price increases have been computed and are given in Table 3.1.
Table 3.1: ANNUAL INFLATION INDICES
Annual inflation rate (%)
Calendar years                           1980    1981    1982    1983-86
Domestic costs                             15      15       10      10
Foreign exchange component                  9       8        7       7
An estimated schedule of project expenditures is shown in Annex 3, Table 6.
Because of the tax exempt status of the implementing agencies, the project
costs do not include provision for local, provincial or national taxes.



Table 3.2: PROJECT COST SUMMARY
% foreign   % total
exchange   project
Category                                     Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total            cost        cost
---- (Rp million) ---    --- (US$ million ---)
I. Smallholder Development
On-farm development                 4,273   3,276   7,549         6.8    5.3       12.1        44           34
Infrastructure, health, roads
others                            1,116   2,327   3,443         1.8    3.7        5.5        67          15
Overheads and management              576      288      864       0.9    0.5        1.4        36            4
Subtotal                    5,965   5,891  11,856         9.5    9.5       19.0        50           53
II.  Nucleus Estate Processing
Facilities
Oil palm and rubber processing        430   5,518   5,948         0.7    8.8        9.5        93           26
Estate civil works/others             394   1,253   1,647         0.6    2.0        2.6        77            7
Subtotal                       824   6,771   7,595        1.3   10.8       12.1         89          33
III.  Program Support - DGE                  1,089   2,050   3,139         1.8    3.2        5.0        65          14
Total base costs             7,878  14,712  22,590       12.6   23.5       36.1         65         100
IV. Contingencies
Physical                              788   1,471   2,259         1.3    2.4        3.7        65            -
Expected price increases            5,396  10,068  15,464         8.6   16.1       24.7        65            -
Subtotal                    6,184  11,539  17,723         9.9   18.5       28.4        65            -
Total expected project
costs                   14,062  26,251  40,313        22.5   42.0       64.5        65           -



- 18 -
Project Financing Arrangements /1
3.19      The proposed Bank loan of US$42 million will finance the project
estimated foreign exchange component (65%) for the first six years of project
implementation. GOI will finance US$22.5 million of the proposed project (35%
of total costs), and will bear the foreign exchange risk in the proposed
project. GOI will also provide the US$20 million required to carry out the
project in Years 7-10. Sources for all project finance are detailed in Annex
3, Table 7 and are summarized in Table 3.3 below:
Table 3.3: SOURCES OF PROJECT FINANCE
(US$ million)
Government of Indonesia                      Total
Ministry of  DGE and         Total              estimated
Project component         Finance    INPRES  PNP X   GOI    IBRD  (%)    cost
Smallholder development    17.0         1.0      -    18.0   17.0   48    35.0
Nucleus estate processing
facilities                   -         -    4.0      4.0   18.0   82    22.0
Program support - DGE          -        0.5      -     0.5    7.0   93      7.5
Total                17.0       1.5    4.0    22.5   42.0   65    64.5
3.20      Smallholder Development.  All works to be carried out by the nucleus
estate PNP X, including the credit items i.e. repayable by smallholders, of
on-farm development and settler housing and the noncredit items, i.e. non-
repayable, of water supply, village infrastructure and project management will
be financed by the Ministry of Finance (US$17.0 million) and by the Bank
(US$17.0 million). Noncredit expenditures for schools and health facilities
as provided by provincial government agencies will be entirely financed by
INPRES programs (US$1.0 million). The flow of funds for smallholder
development is shown in Chart 4.
3.21      Funds for smallholder development from the Ministry of Finance
budget sources will be channelled directly to the nucleus estate PNP X and
made in automatic quarterly disbursements in accordance with an approved
annual budget and in advance of the expenditures as required by the nucleus
estate. Should project implementation proceed more rapidly than planned, the
Ministry of Finance would, at the request of PNP X, increase disbursements
above scheduled quarterly allocations. Bank funds will be used to reimburse
expenditures by PNP X based on the disbursement percentages for the works
as carried out (para. 3.30). The costs of development will be translated into
/1 Project costs listed in this section are quoted in current prices and
include price and physical contingencies.



- 19 -
standardized credit amounts for individual settlers in credit agreements at
the end of Year 3 when each area of oil palm has come into maturity. BRI will
be the designated handling bank for recovery of smallholder debt obligations.
Loans to smallholders will be for 17 years, and will include a two-year grace
period, with repayment starting in the sixth year after planting. Interest
will be at 10.5% p.a. and will be waived during the grace period. The GOI
will bear the credit risk on all funds onlent by the Ministry of Finance for
smallholder development.
3.22      Processing Facilities.  The proposed palm oil and rubber factories
as well as technical assistance for PNP X in estate engineering and financial
management will be financed from the proceeds of the Bank loan (US$18 million)
and from PNP X's own funds (US$4 million). Bank loan funds will be onlent to
PNP X by Bank Indonesia under the terms of a subsidiary loan agreement. The
loan will be made for 13 years, including 7 years of grace and repayable in 12
equal semiannual annuities starting January 1, 1987. Interest will be 13.5%
and payable from the date of signing the subsidiary loan agreement. The
signing of this loan agreement between Bank Indonesia and PNP X will be a
condition of disbursement for this project component.
3.23      Interest Rates for Onlending.  Government policy is to onlend to
smallholders at 10.5% and to public sector estates at 13.5%. These rates are
fixed for all such loans by Bank Indonesia. Inflation, which in 1980 is pro-
jected at 15%, is expected to fall to an annual rate of 10% thereafter and it
is therefore anticipated that the interest rate charged will not be signifi-
cantly negative in real terms. Government policy in lending to smallholders
on concessionary terms is justified since smallholder beneficiaries in the
proposed project are below the absolute poverty target level and at this rate,
GOI facilitates its objectives for the rural target population. Additionally,
GOI assists, through interest subsidy, the expansion of key public sector
enterprises which return to GOI substantial dividends and corpQrate taxes.
3.24      Bank Loan.  The Bank loan of US$42 million will be lent to Govern-
ment for 20 years, including 5 years of grace at the prevailing interest rate
on the date of circulation of the President's Report to the Executive
Directors.
E. Budgeting
3.25      The Project Manager will prepare an annual work program and budget
including quarterly cost estimates for all works to be carried out by the
nucleus estate for smallholder development. The Team will review and approve
all annual budget appropriations on behalf of the DGE before submitting the
budget to the Ministry of Finance. The Project Manager will also be
responsible for annual budget requests for the noncredit expenditures of
schools and health facilities from the provincial government INPRES programs.
The DGE will be responsible for making its own budget allocation for technical
assistance in the project. Assurances were obtained that the nucleus Project
Manager assisted by the Team will prepare an annual work program and budget by
October 31 each year to be provided to the DGE.



- 20 -
F. Procurement /1
3.26      All agricultural machinery and equipment (US$2.4 million) for oil
palm development and road construction and all processing plant machinery and
equipment (US$14.7 million) will be procured through international competitive
bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank Guidelines. A preference limited to 15%
of the c.i.f. price of the imported goods or the customs duty (which would
have been payable except for the tax exempt status of the project entity),
whichever is lower, will be extended to qualified local manufacturers in the
evaluation of bids. Equipment items costing less than US$30,000 could be
locally procured through prudent shopping involving the solicitation of at
least three quotations. The total procured in this manner will be limited to
the aggregate amount of US$1.5 million for the project. A list of all
agricultural machinery and other equipment is provided in Annex 3, Table 8.
ICB in accordance with Bank Guidelines, will be used for fertilizers
(excluding urea) and agrochemicals (US$4.8 million). Up to US$200,000 for
agrochemicals could be procured annually following prudent shopping procedures
with at least three quotations. Since P.T. Pusri is the sole producer,
supplier, and distributor for urea in Indonesia, and since world market prices
are about 50% higher than the price from Pusri, urea (US$0.5 million) will be
procured directly from Pusri or its authorized distributors and will not
require competitive bidding.
3.27      All civil works contracts for housing, project and processing plant
buildings, and settlement infrastructure (US$9.4 million) will be awarded
after local competitive bidding (LCB). These civil works are not likely to
attract foreign firms and would not be suitable for ICB since they would be
carried out over a five-year period and would involve relatively small amounts
of finance for individual contracts. These civil works would include the
first 570 settler houses. Materials for subsequent houses to be built by
smallholders (3,430 units) will be procured by PNP X under LCB.
3.28      The detailed physical description of the work to be carried out to
block plant 8,000 ha of smallholder oil palm with maintenance up to three
years (US$17.0 million excluding agrochemicals and machinery and equipment)
will be governed by a Smallholder Development Agreement between the DGE and
the nucleus estate. Oil palm development involves the execution of a
specialized, integrated service of labor and machinery which cannot be
procured through a competitive bidding process. Land clearing, as part of oil
palm development, has been carried out by private contractors after LCB in the
NES I Project. This was required because of delays in arrival of machinery.
The proposed project will utilize the services of PNP X for land clearing to
better coordinate all aspects of oil palm development and will not involve a
competitive bidding process. PNP X has demonstrated its ability in the NES I
and Credit 319-IND Projects to implement this type of force account work in a
cost effective manner. Unit cost information for oil palm development is well
/1 As quoted in current prices including price and physical contingencies.



- 21 -
established and will be used to monitor financial requirements and guarantee
quality control. Other works that must be integrated with oil palm
development by the nucleus estate and phased over an extended period of time,
will not involve a competitive bidding process. These include the initial land
clearing by PNP X of a one ha food crop and house and garden area for each
family (US$1.0 million) and the construction and upgrading of primary and
secondary village roads and farm tracks (US$1.3 million). PNP X engineers
will carry out site surveys, plan alignments and other engineering
requirements for these works.
3.29      Consultant specialists to be employed for PNP X (US$2.0 million)
as well as all consultants for short-term contracts to the DGE, and a firm
appointed by the DGE for field inspection services, (US$2.5 million) will be
engaged in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines on terms and conditions
approved by the Bank. Internationally recruited consultants are costed at
US$7,000 per man-month (including international travel, housing allowances and
local transportation) on the basis of past experience in Indonesia. All
items of expenditure included in start-up activities for NES V (Annex 6) as
included in program support to the DGE (US$5.0 million) will follow the same
procurement guidelines as outlined in paras. 3.26-3.28. The proposed alloca-
tion of loan proceeds is shown in Annex 3, Table 10.
G. Disbursements
3.30      Disbursements will be made at the following rates:  (a) 60% of oil
palm development expenditures including all land clearing and overheads, but
excluding agrochemicals, vehicles and equipment, as certified in quarterly
reports provided by the nucleus estate to DGE; (b) 100% of the foreign expend-
itures for agrochemicals and 100% of the total cost of urea (ex-factory); (c)
100% of foreign exchange cost of agricultural and processing plant machinery
and equipment, 95% of the ex-factory cost of equipment manufactured locally,
and 60% of imported farm equipment purchased locally; (d) 50% of the civil
works including estate housing and buildings, garages, workshops and
divisional offices; (e) 100% of the cost of all consultant specialists,
inspection and technical services, and for project start-up expenditures for a
future nucleus estate project. The Bank will not disburse for settler
housing, the provision of water supply, or for the construction and upgrading
of village roads or farm tracks. An estimated schedule of disbursements is
shown in Annex 3, Table 9. Documentation supporting claims for oil palm
development expenditures including overheads not submitted for reimbursement
will be retained in Indonesia and made available for inspection and review by
Bank supervision missions (Annex 7).
H. Quality and Cost Controls
3.31      Oil palm development and all civil works in the project will be
checked for quality and cost control by the Team and its consultants. In
addition, the DGE will appoint an independent firt for inspection services



- 22 -
"para. 4.02) to certify satisfactory completion by the nucleus estate of each
year's objectives for oil palm development and related annual expenditures.
To ensure quality and cost control in development performance, the payment of
management fees to the nucleus estate will be subject to a satisfactory
inspection report as provided annually by a firm appointed for inspection
services. The fee will be payable at the rate of 5% of the direct expendi-
tures of oil palm development excluding machinery and equipment. Construction
of the new palm oil and block crumb rubber factories would also be subject to
inspection for quality by an independent firm appointed by the DGE.
I. Accounts and Audit
3.32      PNP X maintains NES I project cost accounts for smallholder
development expenditures as well as its own corporate accounts. Project cost
accounts are well kept and no change in the format for these accounts would be
required for the proposed project. PNP X will maintain separate accounts for
expenditures channelled to the nucleus estate by the Ministry of Finance for
NES IV smallholder development and will furnish this account as part of a
separate quarterly report to the DGE and the Bank within 30 days of the close
of each quarter. Cost accounts for smallholder develpment in NES I were to
have been audited by state auditors but PNP X presently has these accounts
audited annually by a firm of private commercial auditors in conjunction with
the audit of its own accounts. These audits have been satisfactory to both
the GOI and the Bank. Auditing has been facilitated since the accounts of the
PNP/PTPs are now standardized and prepared with uniform guidelines, the
development of the system having been financed under the NES I Project.
Assurances were obtained that both the accounts for smallholder development
and accounts of PNP X would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank and the audit reports would be submitted to the Bank within four
months of the close of each fiscal year.
4. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
4.01      The Borrower will be the Government of Indonesia.  The DGE will have
overall responsibility for execution of the project. Smallholder development
will be implemented by the nucleus estate PNP X and the First Director of
PNP X acting as Project Manager, with assistance of central government
agencies and the provincial government of South Sumatra. Development of
processing facilities and estate civil works will also be the responsibility
of the First Director of PNP X who will receive guidance and supervision from
the Support Staff Unit in the MOA for these estate activities. Coordination
of these activities with smallholder development would be the responsibility
of the DGE and its Special Team for Externally-Assisted Projects. Project
organization is shown in Chart 5.
4.02      Special Team for Externally Assisted Projects.  This Team will
oversee project implementation on behalf of the DGE (para. 1.21). The specific
functions of the Team will include assistance to the nucleus estate and



- 23 -
Project Manager in preparation of annual work programs and budgets, assistance
with financial administration and guidance in technical and engineering
requirements for the project, and for project procurement. In practice, the
Team will assist the Project Manager with the administrative aspects of
projects required at the central government level. The Team will also have
responsibility for project monitoring and evaluation, including the annual
inspection services for field development. To ensure effective monitoring, an
assurance was obtained that the DGE will employ consultants to provide
inspection services and regular progress reports on implementation of all
project components.
4.03      Nucleus Estate PNP X.  Full authority will be given the nucleus
estate PNP X to establish settler smallholdings, village infrastructure, roads
and processing facilities. As a condition of disbursement, a Smallholder
Development Agreement will be made between the DGE and the nucleus estate
for oil palm development, extension, processing and marketing services. Under
the terms and conditions of this agreement, the nucleus estate will be
responsible for the following services:
(a) For the Immature Period (three years). Land clearing (3 ha); plant-
ing and maintenance of 2 ha of oil palm; procurement and application
of inputs for oil palm development; siting of housing and villages
and procurement and supply of materials for settlers' houses;
development of village infrastructure excluding education and health
facilities; water supply; construction and maintenance of primary
and secondary village roads and oil palm and farm access tracks; the
provision of food crop seed and fertilizer in the first year of
settler entry, and initial cash payments to settlers. PNP X will
also be responsible for employment of one member per family of all
settlers and for all smallholder training; and
(b) During the Productive Period. Smallholder training in oil palm
harvesting and extension services, collection of FFB for processing
and loan repayments, and the provision of marketing services.
PNP X has been selected to carry out these responsibilities since it has
demonstrated its ability in smallholder development in the NES I Project and
is one of the most capable of the Indonesian rehabilitated estates, having
received IDA assistance in the Fourth Agricultural Estates Project
(Credit 319-IND of June 1972). GOI now wishes to grant greater autonomy to
PNP X in estate management, development planning and financial administration.
By converting PNP X to PTP X, operating as a state-owned enterprise with
limited liability, PNP X would be placed on a more competitive commercial
basis with revised taxation and dividend policies. The conversion of PNP X
to PTP X will be a condition of disbursement against the estate development
component of the project.
4.04      Prolect Manager.  Project management proposed for NES IV represents
a departure from previous NES projects. In order to concentrate full
authority in the nucleus estate for project implementation, consistent with



- 24 -
the need to grant greater autonomy to PNP X, the First Director of PNP X will
be made the Project Manager and will supervise and coordinate all project
activities. To assist the Project Manager, the nucleus estate will appoint
one of its estate managers as site manager for the new project area. The site
manager will ensure that the inputs required from the estate for smallholder
settlement, processing and marketing, do not inhibit the progress of project
implementation.
4.05      The Provincial Government.  The provision of health, education and
social services will be the responsibility of the provincial government. The
Chairman of Bappeda assisted by the Project Manager will be responsible for
coordinating local government INPRES programs for the construction of health
and educational facilities with the arrival of settlers. The Provincial
Medical Officer for the settlement area will ensure malaria control by the
Kabupaten health administration including supplies of DDT, chloroquine, and
house spraying before settler arrival. Mother and child health care,
including nutrition and family planning will be provided under existing GOI
programs.
4.06      Provincial Coordinating Committee (PCC).  A PCC was formed in South
Sumatra province to implement the NES I Project. With the exception of the
new Project Manager the PCC for NES I will also serve this project. The PCC
has for its membership, the Bupati, the head of the Dinas Perkebunan Daerah
(Deputy Chairman), the Project Manager, the Nucleus Estates Site Manager, the
head of the provincial BRI and representatives of provincial government
agencies.
4.07      The functions of the PCC will be to:
(a) secure and provide INPRES projects (schools and health facilities)
for settlers within the project area;
(b) arrange for recruitment of prospective settlers for the project
to be approved by the Project Manager as suitable estate laborers;
(c) expedite the granting of land title to settlers.
4.08      Bank Rakyat Indonesia.  A description of BRI is provided in
para. 1.25. BRI has been selected as the handling bank for recovery of small-
holder debt obligations. BRI would enter into smallholder credit agreements,
on behalf of the Borrower, with project settlers three years after settlement
and will receive repayments on these credits from the nucleus estate
processing smallholder oil palm. BRI will receive a handling fee for settler
loan administration of 1% or less on the outstanding loans.
4.09      Directorate General of Agrarian Affaris (DGA), Ministry of Home
Affairs. Land certification will be made by the DGA. The issue of granting
certificate of land title (Hak Milik) requires a detailed plot survey which
will be the responsibility of the provincial and district offices of Agraria.
Hak Milik will be conveyed to those settlers whose performance has been judged



- 25 -
satisfactory after working for three years as laborer/trainees in the oil palm
area developed by the nucleus estate. In agreement with the Project Manager,
each smallholder family, upon arrival, will obtain the right to use 1 ha for
food crops (house, garden and food crop area). Land titles conveyed at the
end of Year 3 will be retained by BRI as security for settlers' debts.
4.10      Settler Selection.  In the initial years of the project, settlers
will be selected from landless families living close to the project area.
TWhen these families have been accommodated, selection will be extended to
landless families in the greater Palembang area, and finally to transmigrants.
Families with male heads of households between 20-40 years of age with family
incomes below Rp 250,000 (US$400) will receive first priority. Recruitment
and registration of potential settlers will be the responsibility of the PCC
but final selection will be the responsibility of the Project Manager to
determine the suitability of potential settlers for estate labor.
5. DEMAND AND MARKETS
A. Palm Oil
Demand and Consumption
5.01      Over the last decade there has been a significant shift in consump-
tion of fats and oils away from animal fats in favor of vegetable oils.
Between 1960 and 1978, world consumption of fats and oils expanded steadily at
an average annual rate of increase of 3.6%, while the world's rate of increase
in consumption of palm oil has grown at over 6.0% p.a. Although the overall
demand for fats and oils is inelastic, demand for palm oil is highly elastic
due to its substitution for other edible oils. During the decade ahead (1980-
90) supplies of fats and oils are projected to grow at a slightly faster rate
than demand. An increasing share of the fats and oils supplies will come from
soybeans and palm oil. The low price of palm oil strengthens its competitive
position relative to many other oils. World palm oil production is expected
to increase from the present level of 4 million tons to 7.9 million tons by
1990. Indonesia, which currently accounts for 16% of the world's production
of palm oil is expected to produce 23% of the world's palm oil in 1990.
5.02      Palm oil has been an Indonesian export crop, accounting for 85% of
production on average over the last five years. In addition to exports of
crude palm oil, Indonesia has exported on average about 50% of its palm
kernel production and 70% of all palm kernel oil processed locally. The
largest export market of Indonesian palm oil, kernels and kernel oil has been
to European countries, accounting for about 40% of Indonesia's exports. The
small proportion of palm oil sold locally has been fractionated and sold for
cooking oil. Indonesia has been able to export the majority of its palm
oil and obtain higher prices on the world market since it has traditionally
used its domestic production of coconut oil for domestic requirements for
edible oils. Supply of coconut oil, however, has not kept pace with demand;
coconut oil production in 1978 was 580,000 tons, the demand for edible oils,



- 26 -
798,000 tons. Indonesia has had to import coconut oil to meet its demand for
edible oils. Coconut oil imports are extremely costly since world market
prices are about 50% higher than the regulated domestic price. To meet
present and expected deficits in edible oil requirements, GOI through the
Ministry of Trade and Cooperatives has taken action to regulate and divert
palm oil and palm kernel oil to the domestic market. The GOI program to
substitute coconut oil with palm oil to meet the deficit is summarized in
Table 5.1.
Table 5.1: PROJECTION OF COCONUT OIL DEFICIT AND
UTILIZATION OF PALM OIL
('000 tons)
1979    1983    1985    1990
Coconut Oil Deficit                        280     394      438     550
Palm Oil (crude oil equivalent)
Production                               568     808      991   1,558
Domestic requirement /a                  300     492      522     683
Available for export                     268     316      469     875
/a  For fractionation to palm olein, palm stearin, together with
palm kernel oil to supply coconut oil deficit.
This substitution reduced exports of palm oil from the 1978 level of
398,000 tons to 268,000 tons in 1979. All palm kernel oil is now locally
consumed. The long-term forecast is that about 50% of palm oil production
would be diverted to the domestic market.
Price Outlook
5.03      World Prices.  A slight decline in real prices of fats and oils is
projected during 1980-90 as a result of increasing world supplies of fats and
oils moving slightly faster than the rate of demand and an expected decline in
the market potential in developed countries. The level of palm oil prices
relative to other fats and oils depends on the share of palm oil in total fats
and oils exports. The effect of increased supply of fats and oils on palm oil
prices is aggravated by the fact that the market for soft oils (soybean oil,
cottonseed oil, corn oil) expands faster than the market for hard oils
(coconut oil, palm kernel oil, palm oil). Although it is physically possible
to substitute hard oils for soft oils, the rapidly growing output of hard oils
can be marketed only at lower prices than those of soft oils. A price dif-
ferential, therefore, of about 20% between palm oil and its main competitor,
soybean oil, has been assumed in Bank commodity forecasts by 1985. Inter-
national palm oil prices (c.i.f. Europe) are expected to increase from the



- 27 -
present price of US$611 per ton (constant 1980) to 1982 and then decline to
US$615 per ton by 1985. In 1990, the price for palm oil is projected at
US$594 per ton, about 97% of the present level.
5.04      Domestic Prices.  Palm oil is now sold in Indonesia at a price about
50% below this world market price; the current domestic price is US$316/ton.
This price is fixed by the Ministry of Trade and Cooperatives and is based on
average production costs in Indonesia and maximum producer profits on palm oil
of 33%. Similarly, the GOI has controlled profits on exports by imposing
higher palm oil export taxes. In addition to the 5% export tax, Government
recently imposed a new variable tax (the PET tax) based on the margin of
profitability in oil palm production. Total taxes on palm oil are now
equivalent to about 26% of the c.i.f. price. With rising costs of production
and declining world palm oil prices, it is expected that the GOI will no
longer impose the additional tax on palm oil producers by 1984.
5.05      Smallholder Palm Oil Prices.  Smallholder production of oil palm
resulting from the project will be processed for crude palm oil by PNP X and
shipped to Jakarta for fractionation to supply palm oil products to the
domestic market. The present domestic price of palm oil at US$316/ton is to
be increased to US$385 in the near future. Based on the GOI price fixing
formula for domestic sales of palm oil and expected oil palm production costs
in the next few years, the domestic price is estimated to be US$405/ton in
1985 (constant 1980) when smallholder oil palm would come into production.
The maximum price payable to smallholders for their production after proces-
sing, transport, port charges, depreciation and overhead costs would be
equivalent to about 50% of the f.o.b. value of palm oil or Rp 38/kg FFB
(constant 1980)(Annex 5, Table 1). Since Government seeks to ensure maximum
benefits for smallholders in the project, an assurance was obtained that the
nucleus estate will pay project farmers for their FFB, a price equivalent to
50% of the prevailing f.o.b. price for palm oil subject however to adjustment
from time to time for cases where there is a large variation in oil content of
fresh fruit, or significant changes in the collection processing or marketing
costs of the nucleus estate processor.
B. Food Crops
5.06      The farm plan proposed for new settlers is based on oil palm.  Food
crops produced by oil palm smallholders in the project would be largely for
family consumption of such staples as upland rice, groundnuts, cassava, and
beans, and some vegetables and fruits produced from garden lots. In the
event small family surpluses of food crops develop in later years of the
project, no problems in marketing of these crops is envisioned. Food crops
from the Betung area are marketed in towns and villages on route to Palem-
bang; there is a ready market for cloves and coffee in Palembang.



- 28 -
6.  AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION, FARM INCOMES AND COST RECOVERY
A. Crop Recommendations
6.01      Oil Palm.  Planting material will be high-yielding germinated Dura
x Pisifera, produced by the PNP/PTP-owned Marihat Research Station in North
Sumatra. Pre and main nurseries will be established using polybags at the
PNP X nursery site on the Musi River. A leguminous cover crop will be
broadcast prior to planting oil palm. The density of planting will be 143
plants per ha in a spacing 9 m x 9 m (triangular system). Planting material
will be between 10 to 12 months old.
6.02      Production and Harvesting.  It is anticipated that assisted polli-
nation will be necessary during the first 4 to 5 years of production. The
nucleus estate will train smallholders in this operation and in weeding
practices and lalang control. Training for harvesting will be organized in
each village unit and harvesting will be done weekly. Each village unit with
190 smallholders will be divided into six groups of 32 smallholders each.
Groups of smallholders will have fixed days for harvesting their 2 ha field
areas to ensure regular harvesting and efficiency in transport. Full
details are given in Staff Working Paper No. 3.
6.03      Food Crops.  The first year package of food crop inputs for each
new settler family in Betung will be supplied by the nucleus estate.
Planting material and food crop inputs will be supplied on a cash basis by
the nucleus estate in subsequent years. No difficulty is perceived in
smallholders purchasing planting material and other inputs since incomes
from estate employment will be sufficient to meet these requirements.
B. Yields, Production, and Farm Incomes
6.04      Oil Palm.  Although production of smallholder oil palm has been
assumed in the fourth year after an immature period of 36 months, it is
expected that harvesting of minor amounts would start 30 months after
planting. Peak yields at maturity (Year 9) are estimated at 17 tons FFB/ha
(Annex 1, Table 5). Comparable estate yields will be 21 tons FFB/ha. At the
peak month of production, the maximum total bunch weight to be harvested by
smallholders will be about 1,300 kg/day. High quality oil will be produced by
ensuring correct timing of harvest, careful handling, and rapid transport of
fresh fruit bunches to the mill.
6.05      Food Crops.  The house garden lot will comprise fruit trees,
vegetables and small amounts of cash crops. On the subsistence food crop
area (0.9 ha), yields are expected to reach 1.6 tons/ha for padi; 12 tons/ha
for wet cassava, and 8 tons/ha for sweet potatoes. Inorganic fertilizers
and compost will be used to obtain projected yields. Prices for food crop
production used in estimating smallholder incomes are included in Annex 4,
Tables I and 2. The farm family labor availability and labor requirements
for food crop production are given in Annex 4, Table 3.



- 29 -
6.06      Farm Incomes.  Farm incomes for settlers are summarized below.
Family incomes are shown in constant 1980 prices, deflated from current
values where appropriate to reflect the projected payments for debt service
and the relative price changes between palm oil and the cost of production.
Table 6.1:  FARM INCOME - BETUNG OIL PALM SMALLHOLDERS
Year
3      10       15      20       25
------ (Constant 1980 US$) --------
Gross value of production of:
Food production (1 ha)                  408      563      638     638      638
Oil palm (2 ha)                            -   1,904   1,824   1,702   1,337
Total costs of production /a               195     443      450     444      426
Net on-farm income                         213   2,024   2,012   1,896   1,549
Nucleus estate employment                  331       -        -        -       -
Total income                               544   2,024   2,012   1,896   1,549
Debt repayments                              -     266      250        -       -
Net income                                 544   1,720   1,753   1,887   1,540
Income without project                     350     350      350     350      350
Incremental net income                     194   1,370   1,403   1,537   1,190
/a Includes Ipeda tax.
6.07      The farm plan has been designed to provide continuity of income to
settlers with estate wages paid until the oil palm reaches maturity and
thereafter from their own farm production. Incomes during the development
period will not be seriously depressed in the event of food crop failures
since employment for the nucleus estate will constitute 60% of net family
income. At oil palm maturity, net family incomes will be US$1,720 (Year 10).
In per capita terms, net incomes of Betung smallholders will grow from
US$70 prior to the project, to US$345. The increase in family incremental
cash incomes will be sufficiently attractive to settler participation.
C. Cost Recovery
6.08      Smallholder Loans.  At the end of Year 3 when land title (Hak Milik)
is granted to individual smallholders, total credit costs are to be divided
into standardized credit amounts for all smallholders. Credits between
farmers and the BRI will be secured with land titles pledged as collateral
until repayment obligations have been met. Credit amounts will be based on
repayment terms of 17 years including 2 years of grace with interest of 10.5%
p.a. Interest will be waived during the grace period. Individual smallholder
loan amounts are estimated at Rp 4.3 million (US$6,896 current).



- 30 -
6.09      Cost Recovery.  The GOI has proposed the adoption of a flexible cost
recovery system with repayments by smallholders for debt obligations made by
the nucleus estate in processing smallholder production, the same procedure as
in NES I, II and III. Although loan amounts will be fixed in financial terms,
debt payments will be made from deductions in the value paid to smallholders
for their fresh fruit bunches (FFB). Smallholders will be required to provide
about 30% of their total FFB production for debt service. The value of small-
holder production will be based on the average oil content of the fruit (the
recorded oil and kernels to the recorded total weight of the fruit at the
mill) and the average monthly contract sales price for palm oil and kernels,
less taxes and charges for processing, bulking, transport and overheads. The
price paid to smallholders for their production will be about 50% of the
f.o.b. value of oil as expressed in FFB (para. 5.05). At this rate and with
the allowance of 30% of production for debt service, smallholder loan obliga-
tions will be repaid in 15 years. The percentage of production for debt
service, however, could be adjusted to reflect adverse or favorable palm oil
price changes or changes in yields affecting smallholders' incomes. The
nucleus estate will keep all records of FFB received per smallholder with
records of mill output and revenues received. Records and revenues from cost
recovery will be sent by the nucleus estate to BRI weekly for which accounts
will be closed monthly or quarterly.  A similar system of cost recovery for
oil palm smallholders under Credit 358-IND in North Sumatra is working
efficiently.
6.10      Rent and Cost Recovery Indices.  Rent and cost recovery indices for
Betung smallholders are shown in Annex 4, Table 6. All figures are in 1980
constant prices and in incremental present values, discounted over the project
period to reflect an opportunity cost of capital of 10%. The rent recovery
index is 49% and the cost recovery index is 85%. The cost recovery index
increases to 100% when only the credit costs are included in public sector
outlays. The noncredit costs of health, schools, village development, water
supply, and project management have been included in the calculation of the
cost recovery index but could be legitimately charged to regional development.
7. BENEFITS. JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Benefits
7.01      Employment and Production.  The proposed project will increase
oil palm and food crop production on a total of 12,000 ha and will directly
benefit 4,000 families or 20,000 people living in rural target population.
In creating two permanent jobs for each family settled under the project,
employment will be generated for 8,000 people. An estimated 500 new jobs will
also be created for estate labor at PNP X. Assuming a conservative estimate
of 20% of the permanent jobs created for additional regional employment in the
project area as a result of spread and multiplier effects, an additional 1,700
palm oil secondary services and tradesmen jobs will result from the project.
The total employment impact from the project will be about 10,200 jobs.



- 31 -
7.02      A total of 33,600 mt of palm oil and kernels will be produced at
full development. Food crop production from the project smallholders is
expected to be about 9,200 mt. The total value of all project incremental
production will be about US$12.6 million (constant 1980) at full development
in 1995.
B. Costs
7.03      Development Costs per Family.  GOI investment costs per family have
been computed as shown in Annex 4, Table 7. Base costs of development will be
about US$4,759 (constant 1980).  The credit costs of oil palm establishment,
machinery and equipment, settler housing, the subsistence package, and for oil
palm and village roads are about 90% of the total costs.
7.04      The cost of individual job creation by GOI for this project will be
about US$2,380 (constant 1980).  This cost includes expenditures for village
development, water supply, education and health services which are normally
considered as part of social or regional development. The cost compares
favorably with job creation in small-scale industry in Indonesia at about
US$7,000, or medium to large-scale industry at about US$18,000.
C. Financial Results
7.05      PNP X.  Financial analysis of PNP X indicates that the company
should have no financial difficulty in expanding its role of assistance to
smallholders by assuming an additional debt burden of US$18 million for new
processing facilities. PNP X is financially sound with assets valued at over
Rp 20 billion (US$32 million), a healthy debt/equity ratio of 55:45, and a net
annual income after taxes of over Rp 2.4 billion (US$3.8 million) in 1979.
Incomes and cash flow projections (Annex 4, Tables 8 and 9) indicate that new
debt obligations of the company will be easily repaid and PNP X will have
profits after taxes of US$14 million (current) by 1985.
D. Economic Results
7.06      The economic rate of return for the project was calculated in
constant 1980 prices, net of taxes, duties and subsidies, taking into account
a standard conversion factor and shadow wage rates. All project investments
for NES IV including roads, village infrastructure, social services,
technical assistance, and physical contingencies are costed in the economic
analysis. Costs and benefits for program support to the DGE for startup
of a future NES project have not been included in the economic analysis.



- 32 -
7.07      Opportunity Costs.  Since the rupiah devaluation, a standard
conversion factor of 1.0 is being used in Indonesia./l For this reason,
financial prices have been used in the economic analysis (early 1980 constant
terms), except as follows:
(a) for oil palm, the projected financial farmgate price is Rp 38/kg
while the economic price is Rp 42 because of export and sales
taxes (Annex 5, Table 1);
(b) for paddy, the price in the project area is Rp 90/kg, but Rp
152/kg is the present economic import-parity price rising to Rp
177/kg by 1985 (Annex 5, Table 2);
(c) for urea and TSP, the GOI-subsidized financial price is Rp 75/kg,
but the economic price for both, based on world market
projections, will be Rp 125-130/kg average over 1980-83,
increasing to Rp 155/kg by 1985 (Annex 5, Table 3); and
(d) for farm labor, the economic opportunity cost has been set at 50%
below the financial wage of Rp 725/day which overstates the
marginal productivity of labor in the project area. Labor
utilization in the project area is only about 50% since there are
considerable numbers of landless families and smallholders with
low productivity.
7.08      Economic Rate of Return.  Using the above assumptions and discount-
ing costs and benefits over 30 years, the estimated economic rate of return
for the project is 19% based on 92% of the project costs for which benefits
have been quantified. The estimated economic rate of return for the
smallholder farm plan is 22% while the economic rate of return for PNP X
investments in the project is estimated at 17%. Economic costs and benefits
are detailed in Annex 5, Tables 4-6.
7.09      Sensitivity Analysis.  Cross-over values for oil palm yields, the
farmgate oil palm price, delays in the project, and investment costs, based on
a 10% opportunity cost of capital, have been calculated as follows:
/1 Local costs are expected to inflate at a faster rate than foreign exchange
costs and benefits. However, this change would be offset by an approxi-
mately equal change in the standard conversion factor, and hence no
adjustment for it is needed in the economic analysis.



- 33 -
Table 7.1: SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
Appraisal    Cross-Over      Percentage
Variable                                    value         value          change /a
Average oil palm yield (ton FFB/ha)           13.8          4.7             -66
Farmgate economic oil
palm price (Rp/kg FFB)                       38          13.0             -66
Delay in project by one year
with total costs (Rp billion)             18.8          33.8             +80
with total benefits (Rp billion)          33.8          18.8             -44
Total investment/operating costs
(Rp billion)                               20.7          37.5             +81
Cost of labor (Rp billion)                    7.3          24.0            +231
/a  The percentage change which reduced the net present value to zero
at 10% OCC.
Oil palm yields and the price for smallholder oil palm proved to be the most
sensitive of the variables tested, but changes as large as those shown in
Table 7.1 have a low probability. Even with delays in project startup by
one year, costs will have to increase by 80% over the life of the project
while oil palm sales will have to decrease simultaneously by 44% to reduce
the economic rate of return below 10%. In recognition that increases in
investment and operating costs or the cost of labor in the magnitude as shown
are not very likely, the project is not critically sensitive to adverse
changes in the variables tested.
E. Prolect Risks
7.10      There are no unusual technical risks for the proposed project.  The
nucleus estate, PNP X, has demonstrated under NES I its administrative,
technical and financial competence in the implementation of a smallholder
development project. The proposed agricultural practices, inputs and yields
are based on experience gained in estate development programs, and the NES
projects. Certain adverse conditions for project implementation have existed
in previous NES projects, most critical of which has been too great a diffu-
sion of management responsibility between the DGE, the nucleus estate, the
Project Manager and provincial government. The lack of full authority given
to the nucleus estates has delayed civil works and particularly settler
housing and village development. By granting full authority to the nucleus
estate for almost all project developments, and by selecting the First
Director of PNP X as Project Manager, project management should be improved
to speed project implementation. The newly established Special Team for
Externally-Assisted Projects (para. 1.21) will assist PNP X with coordination



- 34 -
and integration of inputs from the central government when required. The
provision of inspection services to monitor and report the progress of project
implementation to DGE and the Team will assist this process.
7.11      A less critical risk for project implementation is the inadequate
engineering capacity of PNP X. As evidenced in Credit 319-IND and Loan
1499-IND, poor engineering management and expertise delayed the construction
of the Bekri oil palm mill and the new oil mill at Betung. The cost of
these delays in terms of loss of revenue has been considerable. Prior to
negotiations PNP X contracted for the services of processing engineers and
has reorganized its technical department to streamline engineering require-
ments. It is anticipated that with these changes the risks for engineering
works in the proposed project will be minimized.
7.12      Taking the above safeguards into account, along with the
results of the sensitivity analysis, the indicated risks for the project
are judged to be acceptable.
F. Environmental Effects
7.13      The project will establish oil palm and food crops in an area of
secondary jungle and lalang where a poor economic and ecological pattern of
shifting cultivation is presently practiced. Standard soil conservation
methods will be followed to prevent soil erosion. With the establishment of a
leguminous cover crop, application of fertilizers, crop rotation and fallowing
of food crop land, soil fertility will be improved. The small quantities of
chemicals used to control lalang, pests and diseases will have no significant
adverse environmental effects. The new rubber and oil palm factories will
adopt the appropriate standards for the disposal of liquid effluent to ensure
that it is non-toxic and that it will not harm the health and safety of
factory employees or the preservation of fish and wildlife.
8. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS REACHED
8.01      The following assurances were obtained:
(a) annual work programs and budgets for project implementation will
be submitted by the Project Manager to the DGE before October 31
each year (para. 3.25);
(b) accounts for smallholder development, both separate and
consolidated will be audited yearly by independent auditors and
the audit will be submitted to the Bank within four months of the
close of each fiscal year (para. 3.32);
(c) PNP X will submit to the Bank annual audited reports made by
independent auditors within four months of the close of each
fiscal year (para. 3.32);



- 35 -
(d) the DGE will employ consultants, to provide inspection services
on short-term assignments to monitor the progress of the project
with respect to field conditions, housing, infrastructure and
finance (para. 4.02);
(e) GOI will cause the nucleus estate PNP X as palm oil processor,
to purchase all oil palm (FFB) offered for sale at a price
equivalent to 50% of the prevailing f.o.b. price for palm oil
subject to adjustment from time to time (para. 5.05).
8.02      The following will be conditions of disbursement for the
respective components of the project:
Smallholder Development
(a) signing of a Smallholder Development Agreement between the DGE and
PNP X to specify work to be carried out for smallholder development
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.03);
PNP Expansion
(b) signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Borrower and PNP
X in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.22); and
(c) conversion of PNP X to PTP X (para. 4.03).
8.03      With the above assurances and conditions, the project will be
suitable for a Bank loan of US$42 million, with repayment over 20 years
including 5 years of grace. The Borrower will be the Government of
Indonesia.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
- 36 -
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDER IV PROJECT
Oil Palm
Technical Aspects of Establishment and Production
A. Oil Palm and the Project Area
Climate
1.        The climate in the project area is wet tropical with a mean annual
rainfall in the range of 2,500 to 3,000 mm. The normal dry period is from
June to September, but monthly averages are generally not much below 60 mm
during the driest month. Droughts have occurred once every five years, but
the mean annual maximum drought is 26 days. Rainfall data is provided in
Table 1. The mean temperature varies from 26 to 31 degrees C. Wind veloci-
ties are low and present no risk to oil palm development.
Soils
2.        The soils in the project area are suited for oil palm development.
These soils belong to the group of red-yellow podzolics of southeast Sumatra.
The soil is a well drained, a friable, brown silty clay loam of good physical
structure which lies on a horizon of 10 to 60 cm thick. Below this depth,
the subsoil becomes increasingly mottled. Soil activity varies from pH 4.7
to 5.2, and except for the topsoil, the soil has low available nutrients.
Topography
3.        The project area is gently undulating and dissected by many small
streams flowing either north to Banyuasin or south to the Musi River. The
vegetation is about 65% coarse lalang grass, 30% bush, and 5% old rubber
trees. Slopes on the valley sides are mostly in the range of 4-5 degrees
but the broad ridge tops and concave valley floors are less than 3 degrees.
B. Oil Palm Establishment
Planting Program
4.        The oil palm planting program for project area smallholders is
8,000 ha over a five year period. The phasing for the program would begin
for the 1981/82 planting season and is shown in Table 2. PNP X should have
no difficulty in reaching total plantings of 1,900 ha per year. Over 2,000 ha



ANNEX 1
- 37 -                               Page 2
per year are presently planted on PNP X's own estate in the NES I project
(Loan 1499-IND). The direct costs of oil palm establishment for the three
year establishment period are shown in Table 3 (Rp 803,000/ha or US$1,285
constant 1979). Immature maintenance would be completed in 1988.
Nurseries
5.        Planting Mtaterial.  The planting material used would be high yield-
ing Dura x Pisifera germinated seed produced by the PTP/PNP owned Marihat
Research Station (MRS) in North Sumatra. The planting material requirement
has been calculated on the basis of 220 germinated seeds for a planting
density of 143 plants per ha. Seeds for the first nursery should be ordered
in September 1980 to allow field planting in October 1981. The present PNP
X nursery site on the M4usi River would be used for the project. All
nurseries would utilize polybags. A watering system would be provided to
pre- and main nurseries and fencing would be established prior to nursery
start-up.
The Field
6.        Land Clearing.  Land clearing would start at least six months
before the planting season (October-February period). The bush areas and
the old rubber trees would be cleared using a combination of mechanical and
manual land clearing systems. The use of a 140 HP crawler tractor has been
estimated at 3.5 hours per ha. Mechanical underbrushing and stacking would
be assisted with the help of about 25 man-days/ha of labor from smallholders.
Lalang and other noxious weeds would be eradicated by 2-round plowing and
harrowing operations. Clearing of Lalang would be at a three week
intervals using a 75 HP wheel tractor. Plowing and harrowing have
been estimated as follows (per ha basis): 1st plowing = 6 hours - 75 HP
tractor; 2nd plowing = 4 hours - 75 HP tractor; 1st harrowing = 3 hours - 75
HP tractor; and 3rd harrowing = 2 hours - 75 HP tractor. The cost of land
clearing including surveying, under brushing, stacking and burning, lalang
eradication, and machine services would be about Rp 103,000/ha (US$165
constant 1980).
Cover Crop
7.        After the land clearing operations are completed, a legume cover
crop consisting of a mixture of Puearia Javanica, Centrosema Pubesens and
Calopogonium Muconoides, (5, 6 and 4 kg/ha respectively) would be established
prior to oil palm planting. This legume mixture should be shifted to Colopo-
gonium Caeruleum if it becomes available to PNP X. In this event, 2-3 kgs
would be sufficient to cover 1 ha. Fertilizer (rock phosphate) would be
applied to the cover crop in order to promote growth while regular clean
weeding must be carried out to prevent the regrowth of noxious weeds.



ANNEX 1
- 33 -                               Page 3
Field Planting
8.        The density of planting would be 143 plants per ha using a spacing
of 9 meters x 9 meters (Triangular system). Planting material should be 10-12
months old. The provision for terracing and bunds was at the rate of 10% of
the total area. Since the project area has a low soil nutrient level, heavy
fertilizer applications would be necessary in order to realize the projected
crop yields. Estimated fertilizer schedules are available in staff working
papers. This schedule is given as a standard for cost and budget purposes
and should be revised on actual results of leaf and soil analyses to be
carried out by the Marihat Research Station.
Upkeep/Weeding
9.        Details of upkeep, weeding operations and their costs are available
in Staff Working Papers. Weeding and lalang control is expected to require
228 man days in Year 1, 96 in Year 2, 70 in Year 3, and 58 for mature oil
palm upkeep.
C. Oil Palm Production
Assisted Pollination
10.       It is anticipated that assisted pollination will be necessary during
the first four to five years of production.  The nucleus estate would take
measures to ensure that smallholders are fully trained in this critical
operation.
Yields and Production
11.       Estimated yields are detailed in Table 4.  These yields are 20%
lower than the estate yields forecast for the nucleus estate under the NES I
project. Production has been forecast to commence in Year 4 about 36 months
after planting, although in fact and practice production is expected to
commence as early as 30 months after planting. Yields are expected to reach
17 tons FFB/ha by Year 9. An extraction rate of 22% has been assumed to
produce 3.74 tons/ha of palm oil at full development. Palm kernels at full
development have been estimated at 0.59 tons/ha. Total palm oil and kernel
production from all smallholders is shown in Table 5. These projections were
also used to project transport requirements and the required mill capacity.
Harvesting and Collection
12.       The nucleus estate would train smallholders in bunch harvesting
in Year 3 and would organize collection in each village unit. Harvesting
would be done weekly. Each village unit with 190 smallholders would be
divided into six groups of 32 smallholders each. One day of the week
would be assigned for each group for harvesting. On the assigned day, each



ANNEX 1
- 39 -                                  Page 4
smallholder would harvest the production from his 2 ha field. At the peak
yield and at the peak month the maximum weight of bunches to be harvested by
each smallholder would be about 1,300 kg/day. When compared with the PNP X
oil palm estate this remains an acceptable weight for one laborer. Organi-
zation by village units would prevent too many trucks in the same village in
any one day. The maximum crop to be transported during the peak production
would be about 36 tons of FFB/day for each village unit.
13.       In order to ensure a low free fatty acid (ffa) content for palm
oil, rapid transport to the proposed mill is required. This would be
facilitated with the use of a net system for loading trucks. Each small-
holder would stack his FFB on his own net. Trucks would be fitted with
hydraulic cranes to lift the nets. The crane would also contain a weighing
cell for weighing production from each smallholder. The weight would be
recorded by the truck driver and smallholders would be given a collection
receipt for payment for their FFB. Details of the harvesting and collection
system and palm oil mill operations are available in Staff Working Paper
No. 3.



ANNEX 1
- 40 -                                 Table 1
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS IV PROJECT
Mean Rainfall Data for Project Area
1926-41                 1961-79
Month                          Rainfall  No. days       Rainfall  No. days
(mm)      rain          (mm)       rain
January                           302        18            289        14
February                          248        15            280        13
March                             392        17            315        16
April                             305        17            299        15
May                               212        12            216        11
June                              136         8             92         6
July                              102         7             66         5
August                            106         8            104         6
September                         128         9            120         6
October                           271        14            196         8
November                          359        18            273        14
December                          376        19            325        15
Total                     2,937       162          2,573       129



INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS IV PROJECT
BETUNG SMALLHOLDERS
Phasing of Planting Program
(ha)
Planting Year /a                  1981        1982        1983        1984         1985     1986      1987    1988    1989
Hectares planted    Year 0        1,140       1,9(0       1,900       1,520       1,540         -        -        -        -
Maintenance:         Year 1           -       1,140       1,900       1,900       1,520    1,540         -        _
Year 2          -           -       1,140       1,900       1,900    1,520   1,540          -
Year 3          -           -           -       1,140       1,900    1,900   1,520   1,540           -
Cumulative planted                1,140       3,040       4,940       6,460       8,000          -       -                 -
Total area                       -      1,140       3,040        4,940       5,320    4,960   3,060   1,540           -
under maintenance
Mature area (cumulative)                          -                       -       1,140    3,040   4,940   6,460   8,000
/a  Signifies October of year shown to March of following year.
z
Ili  



INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS IV PROJECT
BETUNG SMALLHOLDERS
Summary of oil Palm Establishment Cost/ha (Rp)
(Constant 1980 Rp)
I.  Labor                                                                II.  Material
Planting             Foreman             Estate              Casual          Total                  other                      Materials and    Total    Total
year          Manday    Cost       Manday    Cost      Manday    Cost         I       Urea    fertilizers    Chemicals   mach. services          II      I&lI
0 (3 mos)         8     9,600        16     11,600      142    102,950   124,150         -       18,500          17,435         192,665       228,600  352,750
1                8      9,600        10      7,250      148    107,300   124,150   6,300         17,300           9,320           4,114        37,034  161,184
2                6      7,200        13      9,425      103      74,675    91,300   9,170        24,365           7,630           4,114        45,279  136,579
3                5      6,000        17     12,325       87     63,075    81,400  13,510        45,905            7,630           4,114        71,159  152,559
Total              27    32,400        56     40,600      480    348,000   421,000  28,980        106,070          42,015         205,007       382,072  803,072
Unit Costs
Foreman - Rp/md - 1,200
Estate labor - Rp/md - 725
Casual labor - Rp/md - 725
Urea - Rp/kg - 70
Rock phosphate - Rp/kg - 50
(included in other fertilizers)
,11
anx



- 43 -                                  ANNEX 1
INDONESIA                                 Table 4
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS IV PROJECT
BETUNG SMALLHOLDERS
Yield Assumption and Extraction Rates
Palm Oil and Kernel
FFB                     Palm oil                           Palm kernel
Years    Ton/ha/year        Extraction rate  Ton/ha/year    Extraction rate  Ton/ha/vear
4            7                  15              1.05                2.0            0.14
5           13                  16              2.08                2.0            0.26
6           15                  18              2.70                2.5            0.38
7           16                  19              3.04                2.5            0.40
8           16                  21              3.04                3.0            0.48
9           17                  22              3.74                3.5            0.59
10           17                  22              3.74                3.5            0.59
11           17                  22              3.74                3.5            0.59
12           16                  22              3.52                3.5            0.56
13           16                  22              3.52                3.5            0.56
14           16                  22              3.52                3.5            0.56
15           15                  22              3.30                3.5            0.52
16           15                  22              3.30                3.5            0.52
17           15                  22              3.30                3.5            0.52
18           14                  22              3.08                3.5            0.49
19           14                  22              3.08                3.5            0.49
20           14                  22              3.08                3.5            0.49
21           13                  22              2.86                3.5            0.45
22           13                  22              2.86                3.5            0.45
23           12                  22              2.64                3.5            0.42
24           12                  22              2.64                3.5            0.42
25           11                  22              2.42                3.5            0.38
26           11                  22              2.42                3.5            0.38
27           10                  22              2.20                3.5            0.35
28           10                  22              2.20                3.5            0.35



ANNEX 1
- 44                                   Table 5
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS IV PROJECT
BETUNG SMALLHOLDERS
Summary of Palm Oil and Kernel Production
Production
FFB         Palm oil         Kernel         Peak production
Year              (ton)           (ton)           (ton)         ton/FFB/hour /a
1985               7,980         1,197             160                 2.4
1986              28,120         4,366             563                 8.4
1987             55,100          9,025           1,188                16.5
1988             82,080         14,144           1,876               24.6
1989            107,680         19,615           2,631               32.3
1990            123,000         23,731           3,421                36.9
1991            129,500         26,533           3,907               38.9
1992            132,940         28,265           4,188               39.9
1993            133,320         29,084           4,543               40.0
1994            132,960         29,252           4,653               39.9
1995            131,060         28,834           4,586               39.3
1996            128,400         28,248           4,596               38.5
1997            124,960         27,491           4,476               37.5
1998            123,060         27,073           4,308               36.9
1999            120,400         26,483           4,215               36.1
2000             116,960        25,731           4,095                35.1
2001            115,060         25,313           4,028               34.5
2002             112,400        24,728           3,935                33.7
2003            108,960         23,971           3,815               32.7
2004             105,920        23,302           3,709               31.8
2005            102,500         22,550           3,589               30.7
2006              97,920        21,542           3,428               29.4
2007              94,500        20,790           3,308               28.4
2008              89,920        19,783           3,148               27.0
2009              86,500        19,030           3,028               26.0
2010              71,660        15,765           2,508               21.9
2011              51,140        11,251           1,790                15.5
2012              30,600         6,732           1,075                 9.0
/a Peak month is 15% of annual production.
Peak monthly production
Note:  Peak production per hour is:    25 days x 20 hours



- 45 -                                 ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDER IV PROJECT
Village Development
General Concepts
1.        In order to determine the best possible settlement layout for the
proposed project it is necessary to consider various factors both social and
physical. The social factors are related to traditional community living
patterns, while the physical factors relate to such items as topography,
availability of a water supply, and access requirements. In examining these
factors relative to the proposed project, the following conclusions were
reached:
(a) the optimum village size to create a viable and distinct community
comprises approximately 150 to 200 families and is the preferred
size of families living in South Sumatra;
(b) to obtain a sense of community, the village area should be as
compact as possible;
(c) the terrain in the project area is flat, to gently undulating and
does not constrain the location of villages or the relative use of
land for village development, food crops and tree crops;
(d) although it need not be an overriding factor, the availability
of suitable underground water should be considered in deter-
mining village locations. Numerous families and villages
scattered nearby the project area depend satisfactorily on shallow
wells for their water supply; and
(e) because of the gently undulating land, the provision of road
access to village sites is relatively simple and need not deter-
mine the siting of villages.
Settlement Layout
2.        The proposed project has utilized a simple grid system to locate
the villages within the project boundaries. It is proposed that each settle-
ment unit be radial in principle with a central village, surrounded by a food
crop area, in turn surrounded by a tree crop area (see Figure 2). Within each
village the land allocated to each family for house and garden should be as
small as practicable to keep the village as compact as possible. The alloca-
tion of land for each smallholder is 1 ha for food crops (of which 0.1 ha is
in the village and 0.9 ha in the surrounding food crop area) and 2 ha for oil
palm. The proposed overall layout of the settlement units with respect to



- 46 -                                   ARNEY 2
Page 2
the project boundary is shown on a preliminary master plan (Ifap 14503). Each
settlement unit is of similar size, occupying about 600 ha and accommodating
190 families. (One settlement unit would accommodate 200 families). A total
of 21 units is proposed for the project, allowing for a total of 4,000 small-
holder families.
3.        The layout for each settlement unit would have the overall dimen-
sion of 2,450 m x 2,450 m. In the gross area of 600 ha, the land allocation
would be:
Area Required
Use                           Gross Area               (for 190 smallholders)
Tree crop                           390 ha                          380 ha
Food crop                          183 ha                           171 ha
Village                              27 ha                           27 ha
Total                          600 ha                          578 ha
The 22 ha excess between gross and required areas would provide about 6 ha for
roads. The remaining area would allow for expansion of village buildings,
primary village roads which may pass through the unit, and for cemeteries.
4.        Actual dimensions proposed for settlement units nay vary slightly
from the schemetic layout as constrained by the project boundaries. Dimen-
sions have been summarized below according to village numbers, and gross
areas are shown:
Dimensions of                  Dimensions of
Village Numbers                    Settlement Unit                 Settlement TTnit
1-3, 6-14                         2,300 m x 2,600 m               598 ha
4                                 2,450 m x 2,450 n                600 ha
5, 15-17                          irregular                        600 ha (approx.)
18-21                             2,200 in x 2,750 Tn             605 ha



ANNEX 2
- 47 -                                   Page 3
Since land use would be based on a radial principle, the maximum distance
from a smallholder's house to his allocated land would be 1,400 meters. A
smallholder house plot, for example, on the northwest corner of the village
would also have food crop and tree crop land in the northwest corner of
the settlement unit.
Village Layout
5.        The proposed village layout is shown schematically in Figure 3.
The standard village would accommodate 190 smallholder families in
19 groups of 10 families. Each house and garden plot would be
50 m x 20 m (0.1 ha). The house and garden plots occupy the circumference
of the village while community facilities including health center, office,
market, hall, mosque, school and sports field are at the center of the
village. A secondary village road runs through the center of the village
and is connected to all plots by a grid network of 3 m wide paths. In this
way the village is compact, with dimensions of 521 m x 518 m and an area of
27 ha. The village area is divided as follows:
Use                               Area
House and garden plots                      19 ha
Community areas                              6 ha
Roads and paths                              2 ha
Total                            27 ha
In order to accommodate a total of 4,000 smallholders, one village would pro-
vide for 200 families with an extra area of 1 ha, as shown on the village
layout drawing.
Smallholder Housing and Village Infrastructure
6.        The house type proposed for the new settler housing is the
Indonesian Government standard for transmigration houses with
better class timber used for structural members. The general arrangement
is shown in Figure 1. This is the same as smallholder housing to be
constructed in the NES I project (Loan 1499-IND). The total floor area is
36 square meters, and construction is of timber with a corrugated, galvanized
iron roof. A separate latrine would be provided for each smallholder house.
Transmigration houses are constructed of class 4 (low grade) timber, but are
not very durable. Cost estimates were obtained as follows using higher
grade timbers:



ANNEX 2
- 48 -                                  Page 4
(a)  Class 2 timber for structural members, and        Total Housing Cost
Class 3 timber for cladding:                          Rp 614,000
(b)  Class 3 timber for structural members, and
Class 4 timber for cladding:                          Rp 425,000
(c)  Class 4 timber throughout:                            Rp 365,000
It was determined that the higher cost of the house as in (a) was not justi-
fied, but that the extra durability gained by construction as in (b)  was
worthwhile for the small increase in cost over (c). Table 1 sets out the
cost structure for the proposed smallholder houses.
7.        In order to ensure that sufficient labor is available for the start
of the oil palm development, the 570 houses programmed for the first year
of the project would be constructed by contract. The cost would
be slightly higher than the unit cost for subsequently built houses erected
by smallholders themselves using materials supplied by the project. Small-
holder housing would be phased along with other village development, but
ahead of oil palm planting in each settlement unit. This would enable
smallholders to be settled and ensure their labor to the development of the
oil palm.
8.        Community facilities to be provided in the villages would include
offices, halls, schools, mosques, markets, cemeteries, sports fields, nursery
homes and health centers. A summary of village infrastructure (Table 2)
indicates the number of each type of facility to be provided, the floor area
and the unit cost data used in total cost estimates.  Table 3 shows the
physical phasing of village infrastructure including smallholder houses.
Water Supply
9.        Availability of water may affect exact location of villages
within the settlements, but a satisfactory water supply in the project
area is available from shallow wells 2 meters to 10 meters deep. Villages
would be located in areas of relatively lower elevation to reduce the cost
of mill construction. As a safeguard, an assured water supply system would be
developed with the construction of small earth dams, surrounded by a number
of shallow wells. This system is being used satisfactorily in the first
Transmigration project (Loan 1318-IND) in South Sumatra. Suitable sites for
such dams exist at many of the proposed village sites. A total of 84 small
earth dams will be required for the project with 840 shallow wells, or 4
small dams per village each dam surrounded by 10 shallow wells. Costing of
water supply components in the project has been used based on contract rates
and actual costs incurred at Baturaja. Unit costs used in estimates were:



ANNEX 2
- 49 -                             Page 5
(a)  earth dam (maximum height 4 meters,
length of wall 30 meters)                    Rp 800,000
(b) shallow wells (including pumps, lining
top 2 meters, concrete top, depth
7 meters)                                    Rp 100,000
Physical phasing of construction for water supply components is available
in the staff working papers.



ANNEX 2
Table 1
- 50 -
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS IV PROJECT
BETUNG SMALLHOLDERS
Cost Structure of Smallholder House
(Constant 1980 Rp)
Contract          Smallholder
erection            erection
---------Rp---------
Materials
Foundation materials                                  23,000
Timber class IV - 3.0 m3 @ 48,000                    165,000
Timber class IV - 3.5 m3 @ 30,000                    120,000
Roofing iron                                          80,000
Miscellaneous materials                               14,000
Total materials                                402,000             402,000
Labor
Erection by contract - 20 mandays @ Rp 1,800          36,000                   -
Erection by smallholders - 28 mandays
@ Rp 725                                                 -              20,300
Total labor and materials                      438,000             422,300
Other
Tax, profit, overheads, etc. 20%                      87,000
Total                                          525,000             422,300



ANNEX 2
- 51 -                                 Table 2
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS IV PROJECT
BETUNG SMALLHOLDERS
Village Infrastructure - Unit Cost Data
(Constant 1980 Rp)
No. of      Floor       Unit rate       Unit      Total
Item                           units        area         per m2       cost        cost
(m2)        _  _  _(Rp ')            -- ~~
Village offices                   7           36           50          1,800     12,600
Community halls                 21            48           30          1,440     30,240
Primary schools                  7           320           75        24,000    168,000
Junior high schools              2         1,000           75        75,000    150,000
Mosques/mushallas               21           100           75          7,500    157,500
Market building                  5            50           30          1,500      7,500
Cemeteries                      10         ----------site clearing only------------
Sports grounds                  21         -----------site clearing only-------------
Nursery homes                   21            36           50         1,800      37,800
First aid posts                 16            15           -----costed separately-----
Village health centers            5          100           -----costed separately-----
Total                                                                     563,640



ANNEX 2
Table 3
- 52 -
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS IV PROJECT
BETUNG SMALLHOLDERS
Village Infrastructure - Physical Phasing
Village Buildings                1981     1982      1983      1984      1985     Total
Village offices                    1         2        2         1         1         7
Community halls                    3        5         5         4        4         21
Primary schools                    1        2         2         1        1          7
Junior high schools                1        -         1         -        -          2
Mosques/mushallas                  3         5        5         4         4        21
Market buildings                   1         1        1         1         1         5
Cemeteries                         2        2         2         2        2         10
Sports grounds                     3        5         5         4        4         21
Nursery homes                      3         5        5         4         4        21
First aid posts                    2        4         4         3        3         16
Village health centers             1         1        1         1         1         5
Smallholder houses /a            570      950       950       760      770      4,000
/a First year built by contractor. Other years built by smallholders.



INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS IV PROJECT
Project Phasing
Activity                                   Unit      1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    Total
Smallholder Development
Oil palm plantings                        ha          -   1,140   1,900   1,900   1,520   1,540    8,000
Land clearing (food crop and house)       ha          -      570     950      950      760     770    4,000
Families settled                          no.         -      570     950      950      760     770    4,000
Houses constructed                        no.       570      950     950      760      770        -    4,000
Villages developed                        no.         3        5        5       4        4       -        21
Processing Facilities and
Estate Housing
Oil palm mill construction /a          ton/FFB/hr    -         -       -       30        -        _       30 /b
Rubber factory construction 7Ia         tons/day    20         -       -        -       20        -       40
Estate houses constructed                 no.        45       65      49        9       13       -       181
/a Shows year for start of construction.
/b Oil palm mill to be expanded by additional 30 tons/FFB/hr by 1989.
I- W
I-aW



INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS IV PROJECT
Total Proec ~Cost~s 
(Rp million)
1980                1981                1982                 1983                 1984                1985                 1986                      Total costs
Local   Foreign    Local   Foreign Local   foreign                                Local   Foreign L.onal   Forneigc    Local    Foreign           Local    Foreign,       Total
Betung Smallholders
On-farm development
Oil palm development                        -          -    251.3      150.8    566.4       287.6    776.4      355.8    869.9       412.0    893.7       449 9    519.6        226.1   3,877.3    1,882. 2   5,759.5
Subsistence package '6                      -          -     52.3       61.5      87.2     102.6      87.2      102.6      70.0       82.1      70.8       83.2         -                  367.5       432.0      799.5
Machinery and equipment                     -      179.4      16.0     408.0      12.3      314.7       0.1       21.8         -      17.5       0.1       20.1         -           -       28.5       961.5      990.0
Subtotal                               -     179.4    319.6       620.3    665.9      704.9    863.7       480.2    939.9      511.6    964.6       553 2    519.6        226.1   4,273.3           3,275 7   7_.540
Settler housing                            89.8      209.5    120.3      280.6    120.3       280.6     96.2      224.5      97.5      227.5         -          -         -                  524.1    1 222.7   1,746 8
Road development Ic                        18.7       43.7     40.5       83.0      36.9       52.3      53.4      77.3      39.3       23.9      31.5          -         -           _      220.3       280.2      500 5
Village health /d                             -          -      29.5      70.7      35.4       59.5      35.4       59.5     51.1      120.9      51.0      120.9         _                  202.4       431.5      633 9
Village infrastructure Id                  40.2       94.3      32.0      74.8      54.5      127.3      21.1      49.2      21.1       46.8         -          -                            168 9       392.4      561.3
Operating cOsts
Overheads oil palm development              -          -     20.1       20.1      42.7      42.7      56.6       56.6      64.1       64.1      67.2       67.2      37.3        37.3      288.0       288.0      576.0
Management fee /d                                      -      20.1          -     42.7          -      56.6          -     64.1          -      67.2          -      37.3           -      288.0           -      288.0
Subtotal                               _         _      40.2       20.1     85.4       42.7    113.2        56.6    128.2       64.1    134.4        67.2      74.6        37.3      576.0       288.0      864.0
Total costs                       148.7      526.9    582.1   1,149.5    998.4   1_267.3  1,183.0          947.3  1,277.1      994.8  1,181.5       741.3    594.2        263.4   5,965.0    5,890.5  11,855.5
Nucleus Estate Investments
for smallholders /d
oil palm processing                         -          -         -         -      11.3       26.3    163.8      605.4    137.3   3,959.3           -          -         -           -      312.4    4,591.0   4,903.4
Rubber processing                       106.3      428.2         -     265.6         -          -         -          -      6.0       14.0       5.0      219.4         -           -      117.3       927.2   1,044.5
Vehicles and equipment                    4.1       37.5       0.2       3.3       0.4        2.7       0.2       4.0       0.1        2.7         -       83.6         -           -        5.0       133.8      138.8
Housing and buildings                    68.8      159.2      74.9     175.2      55.3      130.0      14.5      35.2      17.8       41.5         -          -                            231.3       541.1      772.4
Technical assistance to PNP X            11.2       41.2     33.9      123.9      33.9      123.9     33.9      123.9      22.6       82.6      22.6       82.6         -           -      158.1       578.1      736.2
Total PNP X investments for
smallholders                    190.4      666.1    109.0      568.0    100.9       282.9    212.4       768.5    183.8   4,100.1       27.6      385.6         _           -      824.1    6,771.2   7,5_95.3
Program Support to the DGE
Short-term  consultants                       -          -     37.5      137.5      37.5      137.5     18.7       68.7      18.7       68.7      18.7       68.7         -           -      131.1       481.1      612.2
Inspection services                         5.6       20.6     11.2       41.2      11.2      41.2      11.2       41.2      11.2       41.2       5.6      20.6          -           -       56.0       206.0      262.0
Preproject assistance to nucleus
estates and smallholders /e             521.5      730.5    380.5      632.5         -            -       -                                  _     _          _                            902.0    1,363.0   2,265.0
Total program support             527.1      751.1    429.2      811.2      48.7      178.7      29.9      109.9     29.9      109.9      24.3       89.3         -           _   1,089.1           2,050.1   3,139.2
Total base costs                  866.2   1,944.1  1,120.3  2.528.7  1,148.0   1,728.9  1,425.3           1,825.7  1,490.8   5,204.8  1,233.4   12_16.2    594.2          263.4   7,878.2   14,711.8  22,59
En-tingencies
Physical                                   86.6      194.4    112.0      252.9    114.8      172.9    142.5       182.6    149.0       520.5    123.4    .121.6       59.4        26.3      i07.7    1,471.2   2,258.9
Price                                     181.1     406.2    419.0       945.7    618.7      931.9    948.3   1,285.3  1,214.1   4,719.0  1,264.0   1,448.6    751.4             330.3   5,396.6   10,067.5  15,464.1
Total contingencies               267.7      600.6    531.0   1,198.6    733.5   1,104.8 1,90.8 1,467.9  1,363.1   5,239.5  1,387.4              1,570.2    810.8         357.1   6,184.3   113.7  17,723.0
Total pr -ject costs. 1,133.9   2,544.7  1,651.3   3,727.3  1,881.5   2,833.7  2,516.1   3,293.6  2,853.9  10,444.3  2,620.8   2                            1                .   1            26,2.5  _0,313.0
__________  11339    25447  ____                        . ~~~~~~~~               ____         443 ~~260         2,786.4  1,4050         620.5  14,062.5   262_50.54031_30
/a  1980 and 1986 represent six month periods.
lb Includes initial land clearing 0.9 ha for food crops, seed and fertilizer for first year, and cash payments for new settlers.
/c  Primary and secondary village roads and collection tracks.                                                                                                                                                           p, 
Id  Represents nsn-credit items to smallholders.                                                                                                                                                                          c
/e  Assistance for construction of ho-sing, roads, machinery and nursery development in future NRS prelects.



INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLI8OLDERS TV PROJECT
BETUNG SMALIHOLDERS
Protect Costs
(Ep million)
1980                1981                1982                1983                1984                1985                 1986                   Total -oats
Local   Foreign   Local   Foreign   Local   Foreign   Local   Foreign   Local   Foreign   Local   Foreign   Local   Foreign   Local . Foreign                       Total
Investment Coats
Credit items
Oil paLm development
Wages                           _          -   141.5           -   377.4           -   575.9           -   690.9            -   708.1           -   484.7           -  2,978.5           -   2,978.5
Urea                            _                   -                 3.6        3.6     114        11.2    22.4        22.4    26.3         26.3    24.7        24.7      88.2       88.2      176.4
Other fertilizers/                                                                        of,
chemicals                     -          -        -      41.0         -       98.6        r      1fl.3        -      233.0        -      264.3         -      191.2         -    983.4       983.4
Machine services                -          -   109.8       109.8   185.4       185.4   189.3       189.3   156.6        156.6   159.3       159.3    10.2        10.2    810.6    810.6   1,621.2
Subtotal                _             -   251.3      150.8   566.4       287.6   776.4        355.8   869.9      412.0   893.7        449.9   519.6       226,1  3,877.3  1,882.2   5,759.5
Machinery and equipent
Agricultural machinery            _          _    16.0       408.0    12.3       314.7       0.1       21.8        -       17.5      0.1       20.1        -           -     28.5    782.1        810.6
Road equipment                    -      179.4        -           -       -           -        -          -        -          -        -          -        -           -         -    179.4       179.4
subtotal                  -      179.4    16.0       408.0    12.3       314.7       0.1       21.8        -       17.5      0.1       20.1        -           -     28.5    961.5        990.0
Road development                 18.7       43.7    40.5         83.0    36.9        52.3    53.4        77.3    39.3        23.9    31.5           -         _          -    220.3    280.2        500.5
Settler houstng                  89.8      209.5   120.3       280.6   120.3       280.6    96.2        224.5    97.5       227.5        -          -                         524.1  1,222.7   1,746.8
Subsiste..e package
Cash payments                     -                11.4       11.4    19.0        19.0    19.0         19.0    15.2        15.2    15.4        15.4        _          -      80.0       80.0      160.0
Seed and fertilioer               -          _    13.7        27.5    22.8        45.9    22.8        45.9    18.3         36.6    18.5        37.2        _           _     96.1    193.1        289.2
Initial land clearing                              27.2       22.6    45.4        37.7    45.4         37.7    36.5       30.3    36.9         30.6        -          -    191.4    158.9         350.3
Subtotal                                   5 _  32.3  61.5    87.2       102.6    87.2       102.6    70.0         82.1    70.8        83.2      _           _      367.5     432.0       799.5
Noncredit
Village health
Water and sanitation              -                27.0       63.0    32.6        51.2    32.6         51.2    48.4       112.9    48.4       112.9        -           -    189.0    391.2        580.2
Health facilities                 -           -     2.5        7.7       2.8        8.3      2.8        8.3      2.7        8.0      2.6        8.0        -           -     13.4       40.3       53. 7
Subtotal                _          _       29.5       70.7    35.4        5935    35.4        59.5    51.1        120 9    51.0       120.9      _           _      202.4    431.5        633.9
Village infrastructure           40.2       94.3    32.0         74.8    54.5       127.3    21.1        49.2    21.1        46.8        -           -        -          -    168.9      392.4      561.3
Total investment
costs              148.7       526.9   541.9   1,129.4   913.0   1.224.6 1,069.8           890.7 1.148.9       930.7 1,047.1        674.1   519.6       226.1  5.389.0  5,602.5  1O.991.S
Operating costs
Oil palm development
overheads (credit)                -          -    20.1        20.1    42.7        42.7    56.6        56.6    64.1         64.1    67.2        67.2    37.3        37.3    288.0      288.0       576.0
Management fee (noecc-dit)           _          _    20.1           -    42.7           -    56.6           -    64.1           -    67.2            -    37.3           -    288.0          -      288.0
Total operating
costs                 _            -    40.2        20.1    85.4        42.7   113.2        56.6   128.2        64.1   134.4         67.2    74.6        37.3    576 0    288.5         864.0
Total base costs    148.7        526.9   582.1   1,149.5   998.4   1,267.3 1.183.0           947.3 1.277.1       994.8 1,151.5        741.3   594.2       263.4  5,965.0   5890.5  11,855.5
Contingencies
Physical                       14.9       52.7    58.2       115.0    99.8       126.7   118.3        94.7   127.7         99.5   118.2        74.1    59.4        26.3    596.5       589.0   1,105.5
Price                          31.1      110.1   217.7       429.9   538.1       683.1   832.8       666.9 1,095.7   1,006.1 1,221.7          919.1   751.4       330.8  4,688.5  4,146.0   8,834.5
Total continsenciss  46.0        162.8   275.9       544.9   637.9       809.8   951.1       761.6 1,223.4   1,105.6 1339.9           993.2   810.8       357.1  5,285.   4,735.0  10,020.3
Total costs           194.7      689.7   858.0   1,694.4 1,636.3   2,077.1 2,1341   1,708.9 2,500.5   2,100.4 2,521.4   1,734.5 1,405.0                   620.5 11,250.0  10,625.5  21,875.5



INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS TV PROJECT
PNP X
Project Costs
(Rp million)
1980                1981                 1982                 1983                   1984                    1985                     Total Costs
Local   Foreign    Local   Foreign    Local   Foreign    Local    Foreign            Local    Foreign       Local    Foreign       Local    Foreign       Total
Investment Costs
Processing
Oil Palm Processing
Facilities
Machinery and equipment                                                   -          -      15.6      117.2           -    3,639.0           -           -       15.6    3,756.2   3,771.8
Civil works and others          -          -         -          -      11.3      26.3    148.2        488.2      137.3       320.3          -            -     296.8        834.8   1,131.6
Subtotal                   -                                     11.3       26.3    163.8        605.4      137.3    3,959.3                       -      312.4    4,591.0   4,903.
Rubber Processing Facilities
Machinery and equipment    27.0        243.0         -      265.6         -          -         -           -          -           -       5.0        219.4       32.0       728.0      760.0
Civil works and others       79.3      185.2         -          -         -          -        -           -        6.0        14.0          -            -      85.3       199.2      284.5
Subtotal               106.3     428.2         -      265.6         _          _        _           _         6.0        14.0        5.0       219.4      117.3       927.2   1,044.5
Vehicles and equipment          4.1       37.5       0.2        3.3       0.4        2.7       0.2         4.0       0.1          2.7          -        83.6        5.0       133.8      138.8
Housing and building
program                      68.8      159.2      74.9      175.2     55.3      130.0      14.5        35.2       17.8        41.5          _            -     231.3       541.1       772.4
Total Investments    179.2       624.9      75.1      444.1      67.0      159.0    178.5        644.6      161.2    4,017.5         5.0       303.0      665.7    6,193.1   6,858.8
Technical Assistance
Processing Engineering (2) /a 5.6         20.6      11.3       41.3     11.3       41.3      11.3        41.3       11.3        41.3       11.3        41.3        62.1       227.1      289.2
Financial management            5.6       20.6      11.3       41.3      11.3       41.3     11.3        41.3           -           -          -           -       39.5       144.5      184.0
Short-term (60 m/m,'              -          -      11.3      41.3      11.3       41.3      11.3        41.3       11.3        41.3       11.3        41.3       56.5        206.5      263.0
Subtotal                11.2      41.2      33.9      123.9      33.9      123.9      33.9       123.9       22.6        82.6       22.6        82.6      158.1       578.1      736.2
Total Base Costs      190.4      666.1    109.0       568.0    100.9       282.9    212.4        768.5      183.8    4,100.1        27.6       385.6      824.1    6,771.2   7,595.3
Contingencies
Physical                       19.0       66.6      10.9       56.8     10.1       28.3      21.2        76.9       18.4       410.0        2.8        38.6       82.4       677.2      759.6
Price                          39.8      139.2      40.8      212.4     54.4      152.5      94.5       541.1       92.7    3,577.9        21.3       428.5      343.5    5,051.6   5,395.1
Subtotal               58.8      205.8      51.7      269.2      64.5      180.8    115.7        618.0      111.1    3,987.9        24.1       467.1      425.9    5,728.8   6,154.7
Total Project Costs  249.2       871.9    160.7       837.2    165.4       463.7    328.1    1,386.5        294.9    8,088.0        51.7       852.7   112,500.2  13,750.
/a  Short-term engineering contracts for PNP X mills and bulking facilities.



INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS IV PROJECT
Program Support - DGE
(Rp million)
1980              1981               1982               1983              1984               1985                     Total Costs
Local  Foreign   Local  Foreign   Local  Foreign   Local  Foreign   Local  Foreign   Local  Foreign                Local    Foreign       Total
Short-term consultant funds
(140 man-months)                   -       -      37.5   137.5       37.5   137.5       18.7    68.7      18.7    68.7       18.7    68.7        131.1        481.1      612 0
Inspection services
(60 man-months)                 5.6    20.6       11.2    41.2       11.2    41.2       11.2    41.2      11.2    41.2        5.6    20.6         56.0        206.0      262.0
Subtotal                     5.6    20.6       48.7   178.7       48.7   178.7      29.9   109.9       29.9   109.9       24.3    89.3        187.1        687 1      874 2
Preproject sssistnn.e for
NES V                         521.5   730.5    380.5   632.5            -        -         -        -         -        -         -        -      902.0    1,363.0   2,265 0
Total costs                527.1   751.1    429.2   811.2         48.7   178.7       29.9   109.9      29.9   109.9       24.3    89.3    1,089.1    2,050.1   3,139.2
Contingencies
Physical                       52.7    75.1       42.9    81.1        4.9    17.9        3.0    11.0        2.9    11.0        2.4     8.9        108.8       205.0      313.8
Price                         110.2   156.9    160.5   303.4         26.2    96.3       21.0    77.3       25.7   135.0       21.0   101.0        364.6       869.9   1,234.5
Total contingencies        162.9   232.0    203.4   384.5         31.1   114.2       24.0    88.2      28.6   146.0       23.4   109.9        473.4    11074.9
Total costs                690.0   983.1    632.6 1,195.7         79.8   292.9       53.9   198.1      58.5   255.9       47.7   199.2    1,562.5    3,125 0   4,687.5
2 m



INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS IV PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Project Expenditures /a
Total costs
1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    (Rp M)    (US$ M)
I. Smallholder Development
A. Ministry of Finance to PNP X
Fertilizers/agrochemicals              -      107      244     416      626      768      566      2,727        4.4
Other oil palm development             -      533   1,263   1,677   2,121   2,345   1,196          9,135       14.6
Oil palm overheads                     -       60       98     204      250      286      176      1,074        1.7
Machinery and equipment              235      625      536       39      34       43        -      1,512        2.4
Road construction                     82      182      146     236      124       67        -        837        1.3
Smallholder housing                  392      591      657     579      636        -        -      2,855        4.6
Subsistence package (including
fertilizers)                         -     121      224      246      215      237        -     1,043         1.7
Water supply /b                        -      131      178     196      315      343        -      1,163        1.8
Village infrastructure /b             46       86       96      84       91        -        -        403        0.6
Oil palm management fee lb             -       30       49     102      125      143       88        537        0.9       X
Subtotal                       755   2,466   3,491                       4,232   2,026    21,286         34.0
B. Provincial Government
Schools/health Ic                    130       86     222       64       64       24        -        590        1.0
Total (A+B)                    885   2,552   3,713   3,843   4,601   4,256   2,026    21,&76             35.0
II. Processing Facilities/PNP X Expansion
A. Subsidiary Loan Agreement/PNP X
Palm oil mill                          -        -       62   1,333   8,021         -        -      9,416       15.1
Crumb rubber factory                 700      391        -       -       39      502        -      1,632        2.6
Housing and buildings                299      368      304       90     116        -        -      1,177        1.9
Transport requirements                55        5        5        7       5      179        -        256        0.4
Technical assistance                  67      234      258     284      202      224        -      1,269        2.0
Subtotal                     1,121      998      629   1,714   8,383       905        -    13,750        22.0
III.  Program Support - DGF                     1,673   1,828       373     252      314      247        -      4,687        7.5
Total Costs                  3,679   5,378   4,715   5,809  13,298   5,408   2,026    40,313              64;5    H-.
ozx
/a Includes all contingencies by each category.
/b Noncredit expenditures but financed by Ministry of Finance to the nucleus estate.
Ic Noncredit expenditures from Provincial Inpres programs.



INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS IV PROJECT
Sources of Finance - Project Costs /a
Total costs            % of
Rp         US$     total project
1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986  (million)  (million)             costs
A. Smallholder Development
New Settlement - Betung
Ministry of Finance/PNP X /b
IBRD                           235   1,170   1,749   1,751   1,981   2,351   1,389   10,626            17.0            26
Ministry of Finance            520   1,296   1,742   2,028   2,556   1,881          637   10,660        17.0           26
Provincial Government            130       86      222       64      64       24        -       590        1.0            2
Total                       885   2,552   3,713   3,843   4,601               2,026   21,876        35.0            54
B.  Nucleus Estate (PNP X) Processing
Facilities
Subsidiary Loan Agreement
IBRD                             785      753      418   1,247   7,279       768        -   11,250        18.0           28
PNP X own funds                   336     245      211      467   1,104      137        -    2,500         4.0            6
Total                     1,121      998     629   1,714   8,383        905        -   13,750       22.0            34
C. Technical Assistance
Program Support - DGE
IBRD                           1,665   1,756       293     198      256      206        -    4,374         7.0           11
DGE                                 8      72       80       54      58       41        -       313        0.5            1
Total                     1,673   1,828      373      252      314      247        -                 7.5            12
D.  Total Sources of Finance            3,679   5,378   4,715   5,809  13,298   5,408   2,036   40,313            64.5           100
of which:  IBRD loan             2,685   3,679   2,460   3,196   9,516   3,325   1,389   26,250             42.0           65
Ministry of Finance   520   1,296   1,742   2,028   2,556   1,881           637   10,660        17.0
Provincial government 130        86      222       64       64      24        -       590        1.0             2
DGE DIP                   8      72       80       54       58      41        -       313        0.5            1
PNP X own funds         336     245      211      467   1,104      137        -    2,500         4.0            6
Total GOI                   994   1,699   2,255   2,613   3,782   2,083         637   14,063        22.5            35
/a  Shown by calendar year.
/b  For credit expenditures of on-farm development, overheads, machinery, houses, roads, subsistence package,
and the noncredit expenditures, village infrastructure and water supply, and management fees payable
to the nucleus estate.
/c  For health and education facilities.                                                                                                     a m
_ >e
ax 



- 60 -
ANNEX 3
Table 8
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS IV PROJECT
List of Agricultural Machinery, Vehicles and Equipment
Unit cost               Total cost
Item                                     Quantity   (Rp million)         (Rp million)   US$'000
------------(Constant 1980)--_________
Agricultural Machinery
Crawler tractors (140 HP)                    5          48.80              244.0           390
Wheel tractors (75 HP)                      23          12.30              282.9           453
Rake blades                                  3           6.30               18.9            30
Disc ploughs                               20            1.70               34.0            54
Disc harrows                               20            1.70               34.0            54
Disc sets (replacements):
-plough                                  124           0.30                37.2            60
-harrow                                  124           0.30                37.2            60
Trucks (5 tons)                             6           9.70                58.2            93
Water pumps                                 2            0.60                1.2             2
Handsprayers                               92            0.05                4.6             7
Portable water pumps                        4            0.50                2.0             3
Tanker trailers (3 tons)                     6           9.40               56.4            90
Subtotal                                                              810.6        1,296
Transport Equipment
Jeeps                                       5            5.00               25.0            40
Motorcycles                                22            0.70               15.4            25
Pick-up                                     1            5.00                5.0             8
Minibus                                      1           4.50                4.5             7
Service van                                 1            5.00                5.0             8
5-ton tipper truck                          5          11.90                59.5            95
5-ton tanker truck                          1          14.40                14.4            23
5-ton flatbed truck                         1            9.70                9.7            15
Subtotal                                                              138.5          221
Road Construction Equipment
Bulldozer (140 HP) /a                       -               -                   -            -
Motorgraders (110 HP)                        2          50.00              100.0           160
Compactor (self-propelled)                  1           55.60               55.6            89
Backhoe loader (60 HP) /a                   -                                   -            -
5-ton tipper trucks                         2          11.90                23.8            38
Subtotal                                                              179.4          287
Processing Equipment
Oil Palm
Mill machinery (30 ton FFB/hr)            1       5,616.00             5,616.0        8,987
Water supply                                        211.00               211.0           338
Effluent and drainage system                         76.00                76.0          122
Subtotal                                                           5,903.0         9,447
Rubber
Factory equipment (40 ton/day)            1         325.00               325.0          520
Water supply                                        114.00               114.0          182
Power supply                                        203.00               203.0          325
Laboratory and miscellaneous                        118.00               118.0          188
Subtotal                                                              760.0        1,215
Total                                                              7,791.5        12.466
/a PNP X will use backhoe loader procured under Loan 1499-IND (NFS I).



ANNEX 3
- 61 -                               Table 9
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS IV PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Cumulative
IBRD fiscal year                                  disbursements
and semester                                      (US$ million)
FY81
First
Second                                                1.0
FY82
First                                                 4.0
Second                                                8.0
FY83
First                                                12.0
Second                                               16.5
FY84
First                                                20.5
Second                                               26.5
FY85
First                                                31.5
Second                                               37.5
FY86
First                                                39.5
Second                                               42.0
Closing date: December 1986



ANNEX 3
- 62 -                                Table 10
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS IV PROJECT
Proposed Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Total         Loan
cost/a     proceeds
----US$ million-----
I. Smallholder Development - Betung New Settlement
A. Oil palm development (includes overheads and
subsistence package)                            16.6           9.8
B.  Agrochemicals                                       4.5           4.5
C.  Machinery and equipment                             2.3           1.8 /b
D.  Civil works                                         8.9             -
E.  Management fee                                      0.8             -
Subtotal                                     33.1          16.1
II. PNP X Assistance to Smallholders
A. Processing plant, machinery, equipment
and vehicles                                    13.9          12.5 /b
B.  Civil works                                         4.9           2.6
C.  Consultant services                                 1.9           1.9
Subtotal                                     20.7          17.0
III. Program Support - DGE
A. Consultants, inspection services, special
studies, and start-up for NES V                  7.1           6.6
IV. Unallocated
A.  Physical contingencies                              3.6           2.3
Total                                        64.5          42.0
/a Includes price contingencies.
/b Equal to: (i) 100% of the c.i.f. cost of directly-imported items; (ii)
95% of the ex-factory price of locally manufactured items; and (iii) 65%
of expenditure on imported but locally-procured items.



ANNEX 4
- 63 -                                                 Table 1
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS IV PROJECT
Production from 0.1 ha Garden Lot
(Constant 1980 '000 Rp)
no.(full    Yield unit         priceg per   Year  Year  Year  Year Year  Year  Year  Year  Year  Year  Year  Year
development)      range         unit (Rp)       0      1      2     3    4       5      6     7      8      9    10    15+
Fruit Trees
Jackfruit            5    2-5(fruit)              250       -      -      -      -      -    2.5   3.0   3.5   3.7   4.0   4.7   6.2
Banana              15    1-2(bunches)             350       -    5.2   7.7  10.5  10.5  10.5  10.5  10.5  10.5  10.5  10.5  10.5
Papaya               5      20(fruit)               40       -    4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0
Pineapple           75       l(fruit)               50       -    1.0   2.0   3.7   3.7   3.7   3.7   3.7   3.7   3.7   3.7   3.7
Subtotal                                                       10.2  13.7  18.2  18.2  20.7  21.2  21.7  21.9  22.2  22.9  24.4
Cash Crops
Coconut             10    8-60(nuts)                75      -      -      -      -     -    2.8  11.7  17.4  23.4  29.3  35.1  50.0
Cloves               4    0.15-4.25(kg/dry)   2,750         -      -      -      -    0.8   1.7   3.1   6.2   7.8   9.3  12.5  44.0
Coffee              30    0.2-0.6(kg/dry)         900       -      -      -      -      -    2.7   4.6   6.3   5.8   8.6   6.9  26.2
Subtotal                                                  -      -      -     -    0.8   7.2  19.4  29.9  37.0  47.2  54.5 120.2
Livestock
Poultry             36    16-36                 1,200       -   19.2  25.2  33.6  43.2  43.2  43.2  43.2  43.2  43.2  43.2  43.2
Eggs               144    96-144                    50      -    4.8   6.0   7.2   7.2   7.2   7.2   7.2   7.2   7.2   7.2   7.2
Goats                2       2                 12.000       -   24.0  24.0  24.0  24.0  24.0  24.0  24.0  24.0  24.0  24.0  24.0
Subtotal                                                       48.0  55.2  64.8  74.4  74.4  74.4  74.4  74.4  74.4  74.4  74.4
Vegetables
String beans         -    10-20 kg                150       -    1.5   2.3   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0
Eggplant             -      5-10 kg                100       -    0.5   0.8   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0
Chili                -    10-15 kg                 350      -    3.5   4.2   5.3   5.3   5.3   5.3   5.3   5.3   5.3   5.3   5.3
Spinach              -         5 kg                 40      -    0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2
Cabbage              -    15-20 kg                  75      -    1.1   1.3   1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5
Squash               -    20-30 kg                  75      -    1.5   1.9   2.2   2.2   2.2   2.2   2.2   2.2   2.2   2.2   2.2
Miscellaneous        -    20-30 kg                 100       -    2.0   2.5   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0
Subtotal                                                       10.3  13.2  16.2  16.2  16.2  16.2  16.2  16.2  16.2  16.2  16.2
Total Value of
Production                                                  -   68.5  82.1  99.2 109.6 118.5 131.2 142.2 149-5 160.0 168.0 235.2
Cost of Production
Fruit trees                                                 1.2   3.1   4.1   5.5   5.5   6.2   6.4   6.5   6.6   6.7   6.9   7.3
Cash crops                                                10.7  10.7  10.7  10.7  10.7  10.7   7.4   7.4   7.4   7.4   7.4   7.4
Livestock                                                   -   11.6  15.4  20.4  25.9  25.9  25.9  25.9  25.9  25.9  25.9  25.9
Vegetables                                                  -    3.1   4.0   4.9   4.9   4.9   4.9   4.9   4.9   4.9   4.9   4.9
Total Cost of
Production                                                11.9  28.5  34.2  41.5  47.0  47.7  44.6  44.7  44.8  44.9  45.1  45.5
Net Value of
Production                                               (11.9) 40.0  47.9  57.7  62.6  70.8  86.6  97.5 104.7 115.1 122.9 189.7



ANNEX 4
- 64-                                                          Table 2
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS IV PROJECT
Production from 0.9 ha Field Crop Area
(Constant 1980 '000 Rp)
Year   Year    Year    Year    Year    Year    Year    Year    Year    Year    Year    Year
Crop                           0       1       2        3        4        5        6        7       8        9       10       15+
Area Planted (ha)
Padi /a                      0.4      0.5      0.6      0.6      0.5      0.5     0.5      0.5      0.5      0.5      0.5      0.5
Maize (yellow)                 -      0.3      0.3       -       0.2      0.1      0.3      0.3      -       0.1      0.3      0.3
Cassava /a                    0.4     0.3      0.2      0.3      0.2      0.2     0.3      0.2      0.3      0.2      0.3      0.2
Peanuts                        -      0.3      0.2      0.3      0.4      0.1     0.4      0.2      0.3       -       0.3      0.2
Sweet potato                   -       -       0.1       -       0.1      0.1       -      0.1       -       0.1       -       0.1
Soy bean                       -       -       0.1      0.3       -       0.3       -      0.2      0.1      0.4       -        -
Fallow/legume cover            -        -        -       -       0.1      0.2       -        -       0.2     0.1       -       0.1
Yield Per Hectare
Padi (kg)                     -       900   1,000   1,000   1,100   1,200   1,300   1,400   1,400   1,500   1,600   1,700
Maize (kg)                     -      500      500       -       550      600      700     800       -       800      800      800
Cassava (kg wet)              -    8,000   9,000  10,000  11,000  11,000  12,000  12,000  12,000  12,000  12,000  12,000
Peanuts (kg unshelled)        -       700      700      750      800      800     800      800      800       -       800      800
Sweet Potato (kg wet)         -        -         -   6,000        -    8,000   8,000        -    8,000        -    8,000   8,000
Soy bean (Kg dry)             -        -       600      650       -       750      -       750      750      750      750      750
Value of Production
Padi (90 Rp/kg)               -      32.4    45.0    54.0    59.4    54.0    58.5    63.0    63.0    67.5    72.0    76.5
Maize (60 Rp/kg)               -      9.0      9.0       -       6.6      3.6    12.6    14.4        -       4.8    14.4    14.4
Cassava (8 Rp/kg)             -      25.6    21.6    16.0    26.4    17.6    19.2    28.8    19.2    28.8    19.2    19.2
Peanuts (200 Rp/kg)           -      42.0    28.0    45.0    64.0    16.0    64.0    32.0    48.0             -      48.0    32.0
Sweet potato (20 Rp/Kg)       -        -        -      12.0       -     16.0    16.0        -      16.0       -      16.0    16.0
Soy bean (150 Rp/kg)          -        -       9.0    29.2        -     23.7       -      22.5    11.2    45.0         -        -
Total Value of Production        0    109.0   112.6   156.2   156.4   140.9   170.3   160.7   157.4   146,1   169.6   158.1
Cost of Production /b
Padi /c           -         15.0    28.0    22.8    22.8    28.0    35.2    22.8    28.0    22.8    22.8    22.8    22.8
Maize                          -     12.5    12.5        -       8.3     4.2    12.5    12.5         -       4.2    12.5    12.5
Cassava                     21.0    15.8    10.5    15.8    10.5    10.5    15.8    10.5    15.8    10.5    15.8    10.5
Peanuts                       -      12.2      8.1    12.2    16.3       4.0    16.3       8.1    12.2        -      12.2      8.1
Sweet potato                  -        -       3.4       -       3.4     3.4       -       3.4       -       3.4       -       3.4
Soy bean                      -        -       4.1    12.2        -     12.2       -       8.1      4.1    16.3        -        -
Total Cost of Production    36.5    68.5    61.4    63.0    66.5    69.5    67.4    70.6    54.9    57.2    63.3    57.3
Net Value of Production       (36.5)   40.5    51.2    93.2    89.9    71.4   102.9    90.1   102.5    88.9   106.3   100.8
(0.9 ha field area)
Net value of production
for 0.1 ha garden area
(from Annex 4, Table 1)  (11.9)   40.0    47.9    57.7    62.6    70.8    86.6    97.5   104.7   115.1   122.9   189.7
Net value of production
from 2 ha oil palm area
area /d                         -       -        -        -   167.4   537.4   697.4   815.4   879.4 1,009.4 1,077.4 1,011.4
Total Net Value of
Production            (48.4)   80.5    99.1   150.9   319.9   679.6   886.9 1,003.0 1,096 6 1,213 4 1,306.6 1,301.9
/a Production in the following year.
/b Excludes cost of family labor.
/c Three line applications of 400 kg each every three years starting Year 1.
/d  As calculated from Annex 1, Table 5.



INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS IV PROJECT
Farm Family Labor Availability and Labor Requirements
Year                                   1         2         3         4         5         6         7         8         9       10+
Farm Labor Availability (man-years)
Av. Age
Husband              32             1.0       1.0       1.0      1.0       1.0       1.0       1.0       1.0       1.0       1.0
Wife                26              0.6       0.6      0.6       0.6       0.5       0.5       0.5       0.5       0.5       0.5
Child               10                -      0.2       0.2       0.3       0.4       0.5       0.5       0.6       0.7       0.8
Child                6                -         -         -        -         -       0.2       0.2       0.3       0.4       0.5
Child                4                -         -         -        -         -         -         -       0.2       0.2       0.3
Total family labor            1.6       1.8       1.8       1.9       1.9       2.2       2.2       2.6       2.8       3.1
Total man-days per family /a          480       540       540       570      570       660       660       780       840       930
Annual Labor Requirement (man-days) /b
Rice (0.4-0.6)                       57        71        85       85        71        71        71        71        71        71
Maize (0.1-0.3)                       -        40        40         -       27        14        40        40         -        27
Cassava (0.2-0.3)                    50        37       25        37        25        25        37        25        37        25
Peanuts (0.1-0.4)                     -        45        30       45        60        15        60        30        45         -
Sweet potato (0.1)                    -         -         9        -         9         9         -         9         -         9
Soy bean (0.1-0.4)                    -         -       13        39         -        39         -        26        13        52
Oil palm (2.0)                      285      285       285       161       161       161       161       161       161       161
Fruit trees (0.1)                    10        10       10        10        10        10        10        10        10        10
Livestock                             2         8       40        80       115       115       115       115       115       115
Total labor requirement       404       496       537       457       478       459       494       487       452       470
Family surplus labor           76        44         3       113        92       201       166       293       388       460
/a  Assuming 300 man-days/year for each laborer.
/b  Cropping seasons do not coincide with calendar year.



INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS IV PROJECT
BETUNG SMALLHOLDERS
Estate Field Labor and Smallholder Labor Requirement
(man-year)
1980      1981       1982       1983      1984       1985       1986       1987       1988       1989
Planting Program (ha)                 -     1,140      1,900      1,900      1,520     1,540          -          -          -          -
Prenursery (3 months)
Foreman                             3          5         5          4          4          -
Estate labors                      11         18        18         15         15          -          -         -                     _
Smallholders                       45        75         75         61         61          -         -          -          -          -
Main nursery (9 months)
Foreman                             -          5         8          8          7          7         -          -          -          -
Estate labors                       -          6        10         10          9          9         -          -          -          -
Smallholders                        -        95        160        160        130       130          -          -          -          -
Field
Year 0 (3 months)
Foreman                           -        32         53         53         42        43          -          -          -          -
Estate labors                     -        64        107        107         85        86          -          -          -          -
Smallholders                      -       568        947        947        757       767          -          -          -          -
Year 1
Foreman                           -         -         32         53         53        42         43          -          -          -         a
Estate labors                     -         -         40         66         66        53         54          -          -          -
Smallholders                      -         -        592        987        987       789        800          -          -          -
Year 2
Foreman                           -         -          -         24         40        40         32         32          -          -
Estate labors                     -          -         -         52         87        87         69         70          -          -
Smallholders                      -         -          -        412       687        687        549        556
Year 3
Foreman                           -         -          -          -         20        33         33         26         27          -
Estate labors                     -         -          -          -         68       113        113         90         92          -
Smallholders                      -         -          -          -        340       580        580        464        470          -
Total Nursery and Field
Foreman                             3        42         98        142        166       165        108         58         27
Estate labors                      11         88       175        250        330       348        236        160         92          -
Smallholders                       45       738      1,774      2,567     2,962      2,953      1,929      1,020        470          -
Requirement per Year (additional)
Foreman                             3         39        56         44         24          -         -          -          -          -
Estate labors                      11         77        87         75         80         18         -          -          -          -
Smaltholders                       45       693      1,036        793        395          -         -          -          -          -
Smailholders on project site          -        570       950        950        760        770         -          -          -          -
Cumulated smallholders                -        570     1,520      2,470      3,230     4,000          -          -          -          -



- 67 -                                                                    ANNEX 4
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND N(ALLHOLDERS IV PROJECT
Farm Income Statement
(Constant 1980 Rp '000)
1981     1982      1983      1984     1985      1986      1987     1988      1989      1990      1991     1992      1993      1994     1995
Gross Value of Production
Gade ot (0.1 ha)           --       68.5     82.1      99.2    109.6    118.5    131.2    142.2    149.5    160.0    168.0    235,2    235.2    235.2    235 2
Field crop (0.9 ha)             -     109.0    112.6    156.2    156.4    140.9    170.3    160.7    157.4    146.1    169.6    151.7    158.1    158.1    158 1
Oil palm (2.0 ha)                          -         -        -    280.0    650.0    810.0    928.0    992.0  1,122.0  1,190.0  1,224.0  1,184.0  1,216.0  1,216 0
Subtotal                       -    177.5    194.7    255.4    546.0    909.4  1,111.5  1,230.9  1,298.9  1,428.1  1,527.6   1,610.9  1,577.3  1,609.3  1,609.3
Cost of Production
Garden lot (0.1 ha)           11.9     28.5      34.2      41.5     47.0      47.7      44.6      44.7      44.8     44.9      45.1      45.5     45.5      45.5      45 5
Field crop (0.9 ha)           36.5     68.5      61.4      63.0      66.5     69.5      67.4      70.6      54.9     57.2      63.3      57.3      57.3     57.3      57.3
Oil palm (2.0 ha)                -         -        -         -    112.6    112.6    112.6    112.6    112.6    112.6    112.6    112.6    112.6    112.6    112.6
Subtotal                   48.4      97.0      95.6    104.5    226.1    229.8    224.6    227.9    212.3    214.7    221.0    215.4    215.4    215.4    215.4
Net Value of Production        (48-4)    80.5      99.1    150.9    319.9    679.6    886.9  1,003.0  1086.6  1,213.4  1,306.6  1,395.5  1,361.9  1,393.9  1,3939 
Other Income
Subsistence cash payment    30.0          -         -         -         -        -         -         -         -        -         -         -         -        -         -
Nucleus estate employment 103.3    206.6    206.6    206.6
Subtotal                  133.3    206.6    206.6    206.6            -        -         -         - 6                -         _                  _ -                 _
Total Income               84.9    287.1    305.7    357.5    319.9    679.6    886.9  1,003.0  1,086.6  1,213.4  1,306.6  1,395.5  1,361,9  1,393.9  1,3939
Less IPEDA tam la                4.3     14.4      15.3      17.9      16.0     34.0      44.3      50.2      54.3     60.6      65.3      69.9     68.1      69.7      69.7
Net income after tam            80.6    272.2    290.4    339.6    303.9    645.6    842.6    952.8  1,032.3  1,152.8  1,241.3  1,325.7  1,293.8  1,324.2  1,324.2
Less risk allowance /b             -         -         -        -      42.0      97.5    121.5    139.2    148.8    168.8    178.5    183.6    177.6    182.4    182.4
Net Income before Debt
Service                      80.6    272.7    290.4    339.6    261.9    548.1    721.1    813.6    883.5    984.5  1.062.8  1,142.1  1,116.2  1,141.8  1,141.8
1996     1997      1998      1999     2000      2001      2002     2003      2004      2005     2006      2007      2008     2009
Gross Value of Production
Garden lot (0.1 ha)                   235.2    235.2    235.2    235.2    235.2    235.2    235.2    235.2    235.2    235.2    235.2    235.2    235.2    235.2
Field crop (0.9 ha)                   158.1    158.1    158.1    158.1    158.1    158.1    158.1    158.1    158.1    158.1    158.1    158.1    158.1    158.1
Oil palm (2.0 ha)                   1,140.0  1,140.0  1,140.0  1,140.0  1,064.0  1,064.0    988.0    988.0    912.0    912.0    836.0    836.0    740.0    740.0
Subtotal                          1.533.3  1,533.3  1,533.3  1,533.3  1,457.3  1,457.3  1,381.3  1,381.3  1,305.3  1,305.3  1,229.3  1,229.3  1,133.3  1,133.3
Cost of Production
Garden lot (0.15 ha)                   45.5      45.5     45.5      45.5      45.5      45.5     45.5      45.5      45.5      45.5     45.5      45.5      45.5     45.5
Field crop (0.8 ha)                    57.3      57.3      57.3     57.3      57.3      57.3      57.3     57.3      57.3      57.3     57.3      57.3      57.3     57.3
Oil palm (2.0 ha)                     112.6    112.6    112.6    112.6    112.6    112.6    112.6    112.6    112.6    112.6    112,6    112.6    112.6    112.6
Subtotal                            215.4    215.4    215.4    215.4    215.4    215.4    215.4    215.4    215.4    215.4    215.4    215.4    215.4    215.4
Net Value of Production               I3j17.9  1,317.9  1,317.9  1,317.9  1,241.9  1,241.9  1,165.9  1,165.9  1.089.9  1.089.9  1,013.9   ,                  917.9    917.9
Other Income
Subsistence cash payment               -         -         -        -         -         -         -        -         -         -        -         -         -        -
Nucleus estate employment
Subtotal
Total Income                      1,317.9  1,317.9  1,317.9  1,317.9  1,241.9  1,241.9  1,165.9  1,165.9  1,089.9  1,089.9  1,013.9  1,013.9    917.9    917.9
Less IPEDA tax la                        65.9      65.9      65.9     65.9      62.1      62.1      58.3     58.3      54.5      54.5      50.7     50.7      45.9     45.9
Net income after tax                  1,252.0  1,252.0  1,252.0  1,252.0  1,179.8  1,179.8  1,107.6  1,107.6  1,035.4  1,035.4    963.2    963.2    872.0    872.0
Less risk allowance lb                  171.0    171.0    171.0    171.0    159.6    159.6    148.2    148.2    136.8    136.8    125.4    125.4    111.0    111.0
Net Income Before Debt
Service                             1,081.   1,081.         1,081.0  1,081.0  1,020.2  1,020.2    959.4    959.4    898.6    898.6    837.8    837.8    761.0    761.0
/a 51 of met value of production.
/b  15% of value of palm oil production based on neon variation in palm oil prices.



-68 -                                         ANNEX 4
Table 6
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS IV PROJECT
Rent and Cost Recovery
(Constant 1980 Rp'000) /a
Per farm family
1.  Gross incremental value of farm production                 8,412
2.    Less:  production (cash) costs                           1,628
3.    Equals net cash income                                   6,784
4.    Less:  depreciation                                      1,052
5.    Less:  imputed value of family labor /b                  1,836
6.    Less:  allowance for risk/uncertainty IC                 1,018
7.    Less:  general taxes                                         -
8.    Equals project rent                                      2,878
9.  Rent as % of net cash income                                   42
10.  Debt recovery /d                                              947
11.  Benefit taxes /e                                              759
12.  Total direct/recovery taxes                                1,706
13.  Rent recovery index (12 e 8) - %                               49
14.  Public sector outlays                                       2,010
15.  Cost recovery index (12 - 14) - %                              85
16.  Farmer income per capita                                      216
17.  Estimated critical income level                               69
18.  Estimated national per capita income /g                      225
/a All values in lines 1-15 discounted at opportunity cost of
capital for Indonesia of 10%; values represent incremental
benefits and costs.
/b Discounted value of Rp 206,000 per family per annum.
/c 15% of net cash income.
Id Discounted values of recovery at 30% of annual oil palm
production for 15 years.
/e Ipeda tax and oil palm taxes as direct benefits of recovery
from project.
/f National per capita income of Rp 142,000 (US$227).



AiNEX 4
- 69 -                                   Table 7
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS IV PROJECT
Development Costs per Family
(Constant 1980 US$)
Oil Palm Smallholders /a
Credit   Noncredit   Total Costs
Oil Palma Development (2 ha)
Direct costs                              2,570           -        2,570
Machinery                                   396           -          396
Overheads                                   257           -          257
Subtotal                              3,223           -       3,223
Subsistence Package
Initial land clearing                       140           -          140
Cash payment                                 64           -           64
Seed/fertilizer                              87           -           87
Subtotal                                291           -         291
Settler housing                               592           -          592
Village infrastructure                           -        224          224
Oil palm and village roads                    200           -          200
Village health and water supply                  -        100          100
Project management                               -        129          129
Total Base Costs Per Family                 4,306         453
Contingencies b/
Physical                                    431          45          476
Price c/                                  2,159         227        2,385
Subtotal                              2,590         272       2,861
Total Costs Per Family                      6,896         725        7,620
a/ Two ha of oil palm establishment for 4,000 families.
b/ Contingencies on families entering the project in 1981.
c/ See inflation indices, para. 3.05.



INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS IV PROJECT
PNP X
Prolected Profit and Loss Statement (overall) (Rp Million)
1980     1981      1982     1983      1984     1985      1986      1987      1988     1989      1990
I NCOrME:
Nlet Operating margin - rubber                   9,361   11,291   13,967   15,752   18,398   20,754   23,323   24,799   26,866   28,651   29,965
- Lampung oil palm         1,709    2,915    4,198    5,103    4,948    4,030    3,789    3,702    3,593    3,305    3,021
- Betung oil palm           -         -          679    1,802    2,669    2,514    2,874    3,253    3,635    3,881    4,004
Sub-Total                                    11,070   14,206   18,844   22,657   26,015   27,298   29,986   31,754   34,094   35,837   36,990
Income other products                                  548    1,016    1,084    1,091 T1,18          1,221    1,258    1,296    1,33        1,375    1,416
Income-Smaliholder products                           -        -        (120)      (40)       16        88       336      739    1,232    1,715    2,077
Total Income                                  11,618   15,222   19,808   23,708   27,217   28,607   31,580   33,789   36,661   38,927   40,483
Overhead Charges
Administrative Expenses (40%)                       694      905    1,192    1,531    1,774    2,009    2,256    2,514    2,760    2,975    3,212
Selling Expenses (3%)                               521      678       894    1,148    1,330    1,507    1,692    1,886    2,070    2,331    2,409
Total overhead charges                            1,215    1,583    2,086    2,679    3,114    3,516    3,948    4,400    4,830    5,306    5,621                  1
Net income before interest & depreciations          10,403   13,639   17 ,722  2TTy7E     24,103   25,091   27,632   29,389   :T-,-831   33,621   34,862
Interest Expenses:
Existing loans (credit 31,-IND & Loan 1499)        -        -         -        -         -        3,624    3,489    3,337    3,164    2,968    2,745
New loans (NES IV)                                   53      208       264      432    1,415    1,519    1,519    1,519    1,339    1,134           909
Total Interest expenses                                 53       208      264       432    1,415    5,143    5,008    4,856    4,503    4,102    3,d47
Net profit before depreciation                      10,350   13,431   17,458   20,597   22,688   19,948   22,624   24,533   27,328   29,519   31,215
Depreciation
Existing assets                                  2,190    2,701    3,109    3,365    3,487    3,557    3,669    3,675    3,400    3,200    3,035
Nlew project assets (NES IV)                         99      175       201       320    1,340    1,456    1,456    1,456   _2,84    2,135    2,156
TotaL depreciation                               2,289    2,876    3,310    3,685    4,727    5,013    5,125    5,131    5,584    5,335    5,191
Net profit before taxes                              8,061   10,555   14,148   16,912   17,961   14,935   17,499   19,402   21,744   24,184   26,024
Provision for tax (40%)                              3,224    4,222    5,659    6,765    7,184    5,974    7,178    7,761    8,698    9,674   10,410
Net profit after taxes                               4,837    6,333    8,489   10,147   10,777    8,961   10,327   11,641   13,046   14,510   15,614
Bonuses (12%) /a                                       580      760    1,019    1,218    1,293    1,075    1,292    1,397    1,566    1,741          1,874
Dividends (25%Taa                                    1,209    1,583    2,122    2,537    2,694    2,240    2,692    2,910    3,262    3,628    3,904
/a Must he calculated on an7 corooration tax withol,t accelerated denreciation.
aH1
m M
CO 4X



INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS IV PROJECT
PPiP X
Projected Cash Flow Statement
(Rp million)
Sources of Funds                                      1980     1981      1982      1983      1984     1985      1986      1987      1988      1989      1990
Net profit before interest and depreciation         10,403   13,639   17,722   21,029   24,103   25,091   27,632   29,389   31,831    33,621   34,862
and before taxes
Borrowi ngs
Ceit 319-IND                                     887       308      -         -        -         -         -         -         -         -        -
Loan 1499-IND                                  4,049    3,508    3,780        -        -
New Loan (NES IV)                                785       753       418    1,247    7,279        768
Sub-Total                    5,721    4,569    4,198    1,247    7,279          768
Collection of 1979 advances                          706     -         -         -         -        -         -         -         -         -         -
Total Sources                                    16,830   18,208   21,920   22,276   31,382   25,859   27,632   29,389   31,831   33,621   34,862
Application of Funds
Capital Expend itures
On-going investments                           6,557    5,990    5,004    3,976    1,659    1,791    2,350    1,609             633    1,220
New proiect investments                        1,120       998       629    1,715    8,303        905      -                   -
Sub-Total                    7,677    6,988    5,633    5,691    9,962    2,696    2,350    1,609            633    1,220       -
Increase in Working Capital                             270      211       322       392       284      411        309      481       369       353       439
Repavments-Existing loans
interest                         -         -         -        -         -        3,624    3,489    3,337    3,164    2,968    2,745
principal                        -         -         -        -         -          993    1,128    1,280    1,453    1,649    1,872
Sub-Total                     -         -        -         -         -        4,617    4,617    4,617    4,617    4,617    4,617
New loan
interest                           53       208       264      432    1,415    1 ,519    1,519    1,519    1,339    1,134           902
principal                        -         -         -        -         -         -         -        1,334    1,514    1,719    1,951
Sub-Total                       53       208      264       432    1,415    1,519    1,519    2,853    2,853    2,853    2,853
Total Repayrrents                                  53      208       264       432    1,415    6,136    6,136    7,470    7,470    7,470    7,470
Other Payments
Bonuses                                    442       580 ,    760    1,019    1,218    1,293   .1,075    1,292    1,397    1,566    1,741
Dividends                                  921    1,209    1,583    2,122    2,537    2,694    2,240    2,692    2,910    3,262    3,628
Corporate Taxes                          2,456    3,224    4,222    5,659    6,765    7,184    5,974    7,178    7,761    8,698    9,764
Sub-Total                       3,819    5,013    6,565    8,800   10,520   11,171    9,289   11,963   12,068   13,526   15,133
Total Applications of Funds                      11,819   12,420   12,784   15,315   22,181   20,414   18,084   21,523   20,540   22,565   23,042
Cash Flow                                             5,011    S,788    9,136    6,961    9,201        5,445    9,548    7,866   11,291   11,056   11,820
Cash balance beginning                                  328    5,339   11,127   20,263   27,224   36,425   41,870   51,418   59,284   70,575   81,361
Cash balance ending                                   5,339   11,127   20,263   27,224   36,425   41,870   51,418   59,284   70,575   81,631   93,451
tID



- 72 -                                  ANNEX 5
Table 1
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS IV PROJECT
Calculation of Economic and Financial Price for Oil Palm (FFB)
Smallholder Pricing
(Rp constant 1980)
1985                   1995
Financial              Financial
FOB minus  Economic   FOB minus   Economic
5% export    CIF       5% export      CIF
tax      Europe        tax        Europe
Palm Oil Price /a (Rp/kg)                    253       266           245         258
Palm Kernel /a (Rp/kg)                       193       203           186         196
Smallholder Production
Palm Oil (tons)                         1,197      1,197        28,834      28,834
Palm Kernel (tons)                        160        160         4,586       4,586
Gross Sales (Rp million)
Palm Oil                                   302       318         7,067       7,439
Palm Kernel                                 30        32           854         899
Direct Costs
Processing/bulking                          38        30           935         748
Transport to Factory                         5         5           117         117
Transport to Port                            5         5           125         125
Subtotal                                 48         40         1,177         990
Other Costs
Selling Expenses                            7          7           158         158
PNP X Charges                               66        66         1,584       1,584
Port Charges                                51        51            68          68
Subtotal                                124        124         1,810       1,810
Total Costs                                  172       164         2,987       2,800
Net Available for Producers                  160       186         4,934       5,538
Smallholder FFB Production                7,980      7,980       131,060    131,060
Price paid to Smallholders (Rp/kg)            20        23            38          42
/a  Assumes that by 1985 the domestic price of palm oil and palm kernels would
be at parity with fob price less 5% export tax; also assumes PET tax will be
zero by 1985. Domestic prices have thus been adjusted on the basis of the
constant price trend projected by EAPD, World Bank.



- 73 -                              ANNEX 5
Table 2
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS IV PROJECT
Calculation of Economic Farm-gate Price of Paddy
(constant 1980 prices)
Present           Projected
(1980)            (1985)
Item                               Operation   Rp/kg  US$/ton   Rp/kg  US$/ton
Rice
World Price /a                                 255     408       303     485
Indonesian Imports /b                %         229     367       273     437
Freight & insurance                  +          13      20        13      20
CIF Indonesia                        -         242     387       286     457
Transfer to wholesalers              +           8      12         8       12
Mills to wholesalers                             3       4         3        4
Ex-mill price                        -         247     395       291     465
Paddy
Conversion to paddy /c               %         157     250       183     293
Mfilling costs less value
of by-products                                 0       0         0       0
Farm operations                                  2       3         2       3
Gross farm-gate price                          155     247       181     29D
Farm-gate price
net of transport losses .Ld        %        152      242      177      284
7 a Thai, white rice, 5% brokens, f.o.b. Bangkok.
/b 90% of above (quality adjustment).
/c 68% rice recovery ratio.
/d   2% transportation losses between field and mill.



ANNEX 5
Table 3
-74 -
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS IV PROJFCT
Calculation of Economic Price for Urea and TSP
(constant 1980 prices)
1980-82               1985
(Rp/kg)  (US$/ton)   (Rp/kg)  (US$/ton)
Urea
World price, f.o.b., Europe             103       165         128        205
Value ex-factory, Palembang /a          113       180         138       220
Plus distribution to project
area                                   17        27         17         27
Economic price in project area /b    130          207         155       247
TSP
World price, f.o.b. US Gulf              90       145         120       190
Plus shipping to Indonesia               18        28          18        28
Plus distribution to project area        17        27          17        27-
Economic price in project area /b    125          200        155        245
/a Indonesian urea sells in Asia and enjoys about a $15/ton transport
premium over European exports.
/b The present subsidized delivered price is Rp 70/kg.



INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SHALLLHOLDERS IV PROJECT
Economic Costs and Benefits
Betung Smallholder Oil Palm Farm Model (3 ha)
(Rp million)
Benefits                                                    Costs
Palm oil       Food crops/garden         Operating costs                           Capital costs                     Without project    Net incremental
Year     and kernels   off-farm employment   Oil palm   Food crops          Fertilizers   Civil works   Machinery   Others   net benefits          project benefits
1            -                   -                 -            -              44            564           385         173           52               -1,218
2            -                  82                 -           52              21            186           132          89          103                 -501
3             -                281                 -          102              32            154           132          87          103                 -329
4            -                 307                 -          107              50            123             9         126          103                  -211
5            -                 359                 -          116               -              -             -           -          103                   140
6          322                 266               103          131               -              -             -           -          103                   251
7          754                 266               103          134               -              -             -           -          103                   680
8          930                 313               104          132               -              -             -           -          103                  904
9        1,056                 316               104          135               -              -             -           -          103                1,030
10        1,088                 320               105          120               -              -             -           -          103                 1,080
11        1,258                 320               105          119               -              -             -           -          103                1.251
12        1,326                 352               105          132               -              -             -           -          103                1,338
13-30     1,394-840               399               105          127               -              -             -                      103              1,458-904
NPV - 5,705.1
Economic Rate of Return - 22.0%
m Z
- t-n



INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS IV PROJECT
PNP X
Economic Costs and Benefits
(Rp million)
Benefits                          Capital costs
Palm oil                               Rubber                              Net incremental
Year                       and kernels   Rubber       Oil mill   factory   Buildings   Vehicles   project benefits
1                               -            -            -         456        160           42            -658
2                               -            -            -         266        175            3            -444
3                               -            -           27           -       129             3            -159           1
4                               -            -          578           -         35            4            -617
5                               -            -        3,960          14         42            3          -4,019           a
6                              70           23            -         224          -           84            -215
7                             253          101            -           -          -            -             354
8                             521          257          664           -          -            -             114
9                             813          484        1,519           -          -            -            -222
10                           1,120          686            -           -          -            -           1,806
11                           1,359          827            -           -          -            -           2,186
12                           1,522          920            -           -          -            -           2,442
13                           1,623          983            -           -          -            -           2,606
14                           1,679        1,030            -           -          -            -           2,709
15                           1,692        1,053            -           -          -            -           2,745
16-30                        1,668-390    1,053-0            -           -          -           -          2,721-390
NPV = 2,730.3
Economic Rate of Return = 17.0%
t-in n



INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS IV PROJECT
Economic Costs and Benefits - Total Project
(Rp million)
Costs
Benefits                                           Capital costs                                     Operating costs         Without      Net in-
Food crops/                                       Small-    Smalllholder                                           project    cremental
off-farm      Oil   Rubber   Build-  Vehi-   holder            oil palm               Oil        Food    Over-    net          project
Year   Rubber   Oil palm   employment    mill  factory   ings   cles   machinery  development   Others   palm                   crops   head   benefits    benefits
1       -            -             -          -    456        467    345        179             -           -          -         -        -       30        -1,477
2       -            -            46           -    266       609    388        424           319          83          -        29       60      108        -2,240
3       -            -           235         27       -       605    388        327           642         138          -       106      128      206        -2,332
-4       -           -           517         578       -       413    302         22          818          138         -       206      170      294         -2,424
5       -            -           822      3,960      14       366    248          18          904         111          -       304      192      373        -5,668
6      23          250         1,058          -    224         56    303         20           956         112         59       403      202      412        -1,415
7     101         981          1,992          -       -         -       -         -           493           -       157        468      112      412            632
8     257       2,064          1,190        664       -         -       -          -          303           -       255        495        -      412          1,382
9     484       3,252          1,205      1,519       -         -       -          -          169           -       334        517        -      412          1,990
10     686       4,437          1,183          -       -         -       -          -            -           -       415        523        -      412         4,956
11-30  827-0  5,388-4,725  1,226-1,591           -      -         -       -          -            -           -    417-421  512-508         -   412-412   6,100-4,975
NPV - 18,233.7                                                                                                                                                             X X
Economic Rate of return - 19%.



- 78 -                               ANNEX 6
Page 1
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS IV PROJECT
Program Support to the DGE for NES V
Background
1.        In addition to technical assistance to the DGE for inspection
services, village planning, special studies and project preparation (200
man-months), the NES IV project includes program support to the DGE for
start-up activities for a proposed NES V project in West Java. The GOI has
requested the Bank to assist the DGE, and specifically the nucleus estates
of PTP XI and PTP XIII, by providing start-up capital for nursery develop-
ment, initial housing and buildings, road construction and for procurement
of a few vehicles. The start-up activities are required to develop the
project to a point where settlement and field developments could begin in
late 1981. Bank support for the proposed NES V project prior to full
project appraisal and loan signing would expedite new land development and
settlement by providing funds for this critical period of initial project
implementation. This assistance would also avoid the problems encountered in
previous NES projects of prefinancing and retroactive financing involving
multiple sources of funds.  The details of the proposed NES V project and the
proposed Bank assistance for this project are provided below.
2.        Status of the NES V Project.  The NES V project was identified in
1976 by the Government with Bank assistance using the reports of the con-
sultant firms of Commonwealth Development Corporation and Hunting Technical
Services Ltd. Further discussions of the project between the Bank and the
GOI were held in April 1978 and feasibility studies were begun in June 1979
by the consultant firms of P.T. Agriconsult International in association
with Hassal and Associates. The project was preappraised by Bank staff in
October-November 1979 and is suitable for appraisal in October 1980. The
construction of some project area roads, housing and buildings and the
establishment of nurseries are considered essential prior to project implemen-
tation. These preparatory works should begin not later than June 1980.
Project Description
3.        NES V Project Formulation.  Located in the undeveloped areas of
West Java province, the project would assist about 13,000 smallholder families
in five different sites to establish rubber, coconut with underplantings,
oil palm and food crops on family-sized holdings. It would also assist two
existing public sector estates, PTP XI and PTP XIII, which would implement
the smallholder component, to expand their own estate facilities. The nucleus
estates would be responsible for field planting, settlement of smallholders
and debt recovery of smallholder credit. They would also train smallholders
in oil palm, coconut, rubber and food crop production. Settlers would be
employed by the estates as laborers during the immature period of the crops.



ANNEX 6
- 79 -                            Page 2
Thereafter, they would operate as independent farmers but would receive
assistance for marketing of palm oil, copra and coconut and some surplus food
crop production from the nucleus estates.
4.        Project Description.  The proposed project would include the
following components:
(a) Smallholder Development
(i)  new development of 3,700 ha of rubber in Sanghiang
Damar for 2,450 families;
(ii)  new development of 8,000 ha of oil palm and 4,000 ha
of food crops in South Banten for 4,000 families;
(iii) new development of coconut (and underplanting) of
2,000 ha in Bantar Jaya for 1,300 families, 5,000 ha
in Ciemas for 3,300 families and 2,800 ha in Pangandaran
for 1,860 families;
(iv)  rehabilitation of existing food crop farms of 2,000 ha
in Sanghiang Damar and 1,000 ha in Bantar Jaya;
(v)  housing facilities for about 4,600 new settlers; and
(vi)  distribution of seeds and fertilizers for food crops
and the establishment of planting material supply
units in South Banten and Pangandaran.
(b) Nucleus Estate Development
(i)  new development of 4,000 ha of oil palm in South
Banten for PTP XI;
(ii)  new development of 700 ha of coconut (and under-
planting) in Pangandaran for PTP XIII;
(iii) establishment of 180 ha of coconut seed garden for
PTP XI;
(iv)  processing facilities for rubber, palm oil, copra
and cocoa; and
(v)  provision of technical assistance to PTP XI for
project preparation and implementation.
5.        Total and Start-up Project Costs.  The total project cost is
estimated at US$116 million of which US$75 million (65%) has been estimated
as the foreign exchange component. As a means of achieving timely project
implementation, funds for one year of preparatory works in NES V, about



- 80 -                                  ANNEX 6
Page 3
US$5.0 million of total project costs (Table 1), would be included in the
NES IV project. Start-up expenditures would be eligible for 100% dis-
bursement under NES IV under the Bank's normal procurement procedures.
This procedure would allow for sufficient start-up capital until NES V
could be appraised and made effective.
6.        Project benefits.  The project would increase the incomes of
12,900 poor families or 64,500 people living in West Java from the average
annual per capita income in this area of US$80 to about US$240 at full
development (Year 10). About 25,500 ha of unutilized and poorly utilized
land would be developed with oil palm, coconut, rubber and food crops. The
project would provide jobs for about 31,000 people. The economic rate of
return for the project has been estimated at 23%.



- 81 -
ANNEX 6
INDONESIA                                                Table 1
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS IV PROJECT
Investment Costs for NES V Project Startup
(Rp million)
Unit              1980              1981               Total costs
Investment costs                       No.            cost          Local Foreign   Local Foreign   Local Foreign  Total
Field Development                                     (Rp)
Oil palm nursery             128,000 plants          200            13      13         -      -        13      13        26
Coconut seed garden                180 ha         946,000           85      85         -      -        85      85       170
Subtotal                                                      98      98        _        -        98     98       196
Housing and Buildings                              (Rp million)
Houses - staff                       2                15             5      10         5     10        10      20        30
- monthly paid              27                 4            16      38        16      38        32     76       108
- double units              28                 3            13      29        13      29        26     58        84
- single units             150               0.6            13      32        13      32        26     64        90
Buildings - offices                  1                16             2       6         2       6        4      12        16
- warehouse               1                14             2       5         2       5        4      10        14
Subtotal                                                      51    120         51    120        102    240       342
Roads and Bridges
Sanghiang Damar - roads             10 km          12.6             22     41        22      41        44      82       126
- bridges        201/m             1.5             5      10         5      10        10     20        30
Bantar Jaya - roads                 16 km          12.4             35      65        35     64        70    129        199
- bridges             301/m            1.5              8     15         7      15        15      30        45
Ciemas - roads                      15 km          12.4             33      60        33     60        66    120        186
- bridges                  251/m             1.5             7      12         7      12        14     24        38
South Benten - roads                40 km          14.1             99    184        98    184        197    368        565
- bridges           101/m             1.5            26      49        26      49        52      98      150
Serpong - roads                      6 km           4.0              4       8         4      8         8      16        24
- bridges                   -                 -             -       -         -      -         -       -         -
Pangandaran - roads                 15 km          12.4             33      60        33     60        66    120        186
- bridges              20/m            1.5              5     10         5      10        10      20        30
Subtotal                                                     277    514        275    513        552   1,027    1,579
Vehicles - trucks                      3                 9            27       -         -       -        27      -        27
- jeeps                      2                 7            14       -         -       -        14      -        14
- motorcycles                2                 1             2       -         -       -         2      -         2
Subtotal                                                      43       -         -       -        43       -       43
Technical assistance               2 man-years        52.5            53       -        52       -      105       -       105
Total base costs                                             522    732        378    633        900  1,365    2,265
Contingencies
Physical                                                            52      73        38     63        90    136        226
Price                                                              109    151        145    229       254    380        634
Subtotal                                                     161    224        183    292        344    516       860
Total Costs                                                  683    956        561    925    1,244  1,881    3,125



- 82 -                                  ANNEX 7
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS IV PROJECT
Statements of Expenditure
1.        Statements of expenditure would be used for disbursement for the
following items:
(a) Oil palm development (US$17.0 million) /1 excluding fer-
tilizers and agrochemicals but including the cost of labor,
machine services (excluding depreciation) and overheads
(10% of direct costs of oil palm development excluding
machinery and equipment) and for the subsistence package
excluding fertilizers (US$1.7 million) comprising initial
land clearing for the food crop area (1 ha), initial cash
payments made to settlers (Rp 40,000 per family) and for
seeds; and
(b)  Civil works - PNP X Estate (US$ 5.4 million) including those
civil works required for the palm oil and rubber processing
plants, and for divisional offices, garages, workshops, staff
and labor housing and other estate buildings.
The disbursements would be made based on work performed, as certified in
quarterly disbursement requests prepared by the PNP X nucleus estate and as
certified by the DGE and its Special Team for Externally Assisted Projects.
Unit costs would be checked regularly by Bank staff supervising the project
based on up-to-date cost data. Samples of statements of expenditure are
attached as Tables 1 and 2.
/1 Figures include all physical and price contingencies.



INTERNATIONAL BANC FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS IV PROJECT
Statament of Expenditures from                      to
SUPPORTING DATA FOR OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT
1                2           3         4            5                 6                    7              8               9             10            11                12
Category no. frmn                                                   Others/.ash payments                                         Total       OYverheads       Total            % and
schedule of        Year of    No. of    Cost of    machine           or seed fran         Total direct   Contractors   expenditures    10%. of          oil palm      amount eligible
Loan Agreement      planting   hectares    labor    services         ubsistence package   expenditures           fee           (7 + 8e       line 9      developent    for withdraal
SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT
Betung oil pal. smailkolders                  2
Specify new planting                                    i.e. 1982   i.e. 950                                                                                                                                          60 _
Maintenance                                             i.e. 1981   i.e. 570                                                                                                                                          60   =



INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS IV PROJECT
Statement of Expenditures from_                   to _
1                   2              3           4             5                 6                  7
Category no.       Description and                                              Contractors       % and amount
from schedule         dimension       Cost of    Cost of         Total              cost          eligible for
of Loan Agreement        of item          labor    materials   expenditure   (in lieu of 2-4)    withdrawal
PNP X Estate
Civil works
Description:
Palm oil processing facility
Rubber processing facility
Divisional offices
Warehouses
Garages
Staff housing
Labor housing
Others
Total costs
t



- 85 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS IV PROJECT
Guidelines for Independent Auditors
1.        Independent auditors should submit both short-form and long-form
reports for the PT.
2.        These reports should be addressed to the Chairman of the Supervisory
Board of Directors and not to any member of the PT management.
3.        The following is an example short-form report:
"We have examined the balance sheet of (PT   ) as of
(financial year end) and the profit and loss account
and related statements for the year then ended.
Our examination was made in accordance with generally
accepted auditing standards, and accordingly included
such tests of the accounting records, verification of
assets and liabilities, and such other auditing pro-
cedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.
In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements
and appended notes present fairly the financial po-
sition of (PT ) at (financial year end) and the results
of its operations for the year ended, in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles, applied on a
basis consistent in all material respects with that of
the previous year.
4.        When a qualified opinion is offered by the auditors, the opinion
paragraph of a short-form report should be modified in such a way as to
make clear the nature of the qualification and to the effect on the financial
position and results of operations, if reasonably determinable.
5.        Generally accepted auditing standards include, in addition to
adherence to accounting principles which are generally accepted, standards
of preparation, standards of field records, standards of supervision, review,
reporting and disclosure. The scope of the auditors' examination should be
sufficient to enable them to express the opinion described above. All of
these standards are well-known to qualified public accountants.
6.        If, in any circumstance, generally accepted auditing standards
cannot be followed, the auditors should expressly state so, indicating
specifically the circumstance involved. Where there is a failure to observe



- 86 -                                ANNEX 8
Page 2
these standards, the auditors should refrain from offering an overall
opinion of the financial statements submitted.
7.        Verification of assets and liabilities should include:
(a) cash and bank balances;
(b) a summary of property, plant and equipment by major classi-
fications, distinguishing between assets in service and work
in progress and showing changes during the year;
(c) inventories;
(d) a summary of depreciation provisions for major classifications
of fixed assets, showing changes during the year, and supply-
ing details as to methods and rates of depreciation;
(e) an analysis of loan funds utilized and changes in the amounts
of such loans;
(f)  a summary analysis of accounts receivable and payable, classi-
fied by age;
(g) details of changes in capital accounts (sources of financing)
and reserves during the year; and
(h) receipts and expenditures for technical services.
Verification should also include physical and test checks; examination of
records of expenditure; obtaining of certificates independently from banks
(and other custodians of assets), contractors, suppliers, and other debtors
and creditors.
8.        The report should include comments, if any, deemed appropriate by
the auditor with respect to any material deficiencies or inadequacies in the
organization's accounts or accounting system and recommendations for improving
accounting procedure.
9.        The long-form report is an extension of the short-form report.
Appropriate details (analyses, summaries, explanations and comments) of
items in the various certified financial statements should be included in the
long-form report.
10.       Certified statements would include:
(a) a balance sheet for the PT;
(b) profit and loss account (income and expenditure statement)
for the PT;



- 87                             ANNEX 8
Page 3
(c) comparative financial statements and cost accounts for each
of the major estates comprising the PT as well as comparative
cost price statements of the major commodities produced by
the PT; and
(d) sources and applications of funds.
All statements should, when practicable, show comparative figures for the
preceding years.
11.       Comments and recommendations in the long-form report would
include:
(a) implementation of recommendations made in previous years;
(b) management and organization;
(c) budgetary control;
(d) financial and field controls;
(e) payroll, procurement and sales procedures;
(f) inventory control and stock levels;
(g) adherence to public accounting standards;
(h) efficacy of the internal audit procedures; and
(i) events after the date of the balance sheet significantly
affecting the financial position of the (Project Unit).
April 22, 1980



- 88 -                               ANNEX 9
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS IV PROJECT
Data Available in the Staff Working Papers
Staff
working                                                    No. of
paper                                                      pages  Annexes  Tables
No. 1     Oil Palm - Technical Aspects of
Establishment and Production                     5      -         7
No. 2     Village Development                                 7      -         4
No. 3     NES IV Palm Oil Mill                              119      7         9
No. 4     Palm Oil Mill - Drawings for Tender
Documents
No. 5     Review of Domestic Supply and Demand
for Coconuts and Palm Oil in Indonesia          49      2        19
No. 6     Project Statistical Annex                          95      4        93
A. Physical Data
1.  Oil Palm Planting Program                                17
2.  Yields and Production                                     5
3. Personnel, Housing, Villages
and Roads                                              6
4. Agricultural and Transport
Material                                                3
5.  Food Crops                                                3
B. Project Costs and Financial Analysis -
Smallholders
1.  Project Costs                                            15
2.  Financial/Economic Analysis                               2
C. Project Costs and Financial Analysis -
PNP X
1.  Project Costs                                             5
2.  Financial Analysis                                       10
D.  Total Project Costs and Related Tables                        9



- 89 _
INDONESIA                                           CHART 1
NUCLEUS ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDERS IV PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF DIRECTORATE GENERAL OF ESTATES
AGRICULTURE
PROJECT MANAGEMENT
HOARD                                    DIRECTOR GENERAL               _-                    -Team for Externally
OF ESTATES      [______________                       Assistqe Projects
SECRETARIAT |    [ DIRECTORATE        DIRCORATE          DIRECTORATE                Directorate                  Directorate of
OF PLANNING        OF PROOUCTION      OF MEANS Of OPERATION      of Rehabilitation           Plant Protection
| APPENAS         REVENT             RIA *RI ETC.
NES II
_________    d,.c,I..CI,Of - r
xlulson 11                                                               I ~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~NES III_.
NES IV



- 90 -
INDONESIA                                                                CHAR  2
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS IV PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF A GOVERNMENT OWNED ESTATE GROUP (PNP)
CHAIRMAN OF
SHAREHOLDERS
MEETING
BOARD OF
SUPERVISORS
|FIRST 
Lz                                            | J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OINTl
| PRODUCTION |                                             | COMMERCIAL |        | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MARKETINGJ
| DIRECTOR   l                                                                      | DIRECTOR DEO
World Bank - 17280



- 91 -
_                                    _              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Choot 3
@~~
00                                           I
-r  r0 11                                   1
_4                         I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
_4                                    _
G0_   .                 |                                  ,
000.           0000-
_~~~~~~~0000..                         0        0.
C    _ ._ .      00000_0.
_   000 I    00000I00.0.'3 
0_0   0.  0000000 000 
o4A0,0  00.00000.1000000   0~~ ~~~
00                                                       e 00000-0.0    .000  .
ll 4  0000000    0    0.          0 
00,          000.0000.   (000                  0
000. _         0000.0_ 0.0000        00.00    .0.0
_l~~~-             .     00.00   00              00           .
00      000    00..0.0   0            0.00040                 0
00|                   _000000000.00 _ 0000..0 1              -
4                 40       0K                             a



-92 -                               CHART 4
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS IV PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF FLOW OF FUNDS
FOR SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT
GOVERNMENT
OF
INDONESIA
MINISTRY
IBRD              t|       OF
FINANCE
. - -----
NUCLEUS ESTATE
PNP X /a
SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT              INPRES FUNDS
AT BETUNG /b                SCHOOLS/HEALTH
/a The noncredit expenditures of water supply, village buildings and
management fees would be included in the credit channel to the nucleus
estate. These expenditures would be deducted from smallholder credit
accounts by the BRI at the time of smallholder repayments.
/b Bank Rakyat Indonesia to administer loan accounts and recovery of
smallholder's debt obligations, as collected by nucleus estate
processing smallholder oil palm.



- 93 -
CHART 5
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS IV PROJECT
PROJECT ORGANIZATION CHART
MINISTER OF
AGRICULTURE
TEAM FOR EXTERNALLY             DIRECTOR GENERAL
ASSISTED PROJECTS                  OF ESTATES
4  PROJECT MANAGER                  PROVINCIAL
AND              _           COORDINATING
NUCLEUS ESTATE                        COMMITTEE
SMALLHOLDER DEVELOPMENT
IN NES IV PROJECT
/a To include Project Manager (First Director of PNP X),, the nucleus
estate site manager, Chairman of Bappeda, Bupati, DPD, the BRI
and provincial government agencies.



- 94 -                                                Fig
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS IV PROJECT
SMALLHOLDER HOUSE
FRONT ELEVATION                                                      SIDE ELEVATION
KITCHEN     LR
N0___. __F# 
BEDROOM
4   LIVING ROOM     o
BEDROOM
TERRACE
PERSPECTIVE
PLAN
Wold Bank - 20594



Figure 2
- 95 -
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS IV PROJECT
SCHEMATIC LAYOUT OF SETTLEMENT UNIT
2450 m                                         I
[ X / ~~~~~~~~~TREE CRO 7
0 
1450m m
3 m Farm Access or Collection Track
4 m Secondary Village Road
eZZI aTree Crop Area  390 ha gross (380 ha nett)
E    J] Food Crop Area  183 ha gross (171 ha nett)
KMN^ Village             27 ha
World Bank - 20595



Figure 3
- 96 -
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS IV PROJECT
VILLAGE LAYOUT
(20)
l               l
o    iio ----2      2              3                4              S
0----1
_     '
HEALTH         MARKET
6          OFFICE           HALL          MOSQUE              7
E~~~~~~
U,
8              SPORTS FIELD                SCHOOL             9
10            11              12               13             14
15            16              17               18             19
518 m
3 m Wide Path
= 4 m Secondary Village Road
-_____J House and Garden Plot 50 m x 20 m
House and Garden Plots 19 Groups of 10    19 ha
Community Areas                            6 ha
Roads and Paths                            2 ha
Total Area                                27 ha
No. of Smallholder Families              190 (or 200)
World Bank - 20596



Figure 4
- 97 -
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS IV PROJECT
TYPICAL ROAD CROSS SECTIONS
1.50                                  6.00                                  1.50
15 cm Laterite Gravel
PRIMARY VILLAGE ROAD
1.25                      4.00                 f   1.25
.C)I                                                          I      
01
_                                       I        10 cm LateriteGGravel\j
Slope 1:1
SECONDARY VILLAGE ROAD
11.00                  3.00               1.00
r                  |                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Slope 1:1
FARM ACCESS (COLLECTION) TRACK
World Bank - 20597






IBRD 14505
INDONESIA                                                                       ALftuvoe
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS IV PROJECT                                             |                                                           OCMN0
BETUNG SMALLHOLDERS                                                N-Iroo
Localtion Plan                                           |X rr                                                  A
) _______ Nucleis Estate Boundaries                                          N     . .  
.0 Supot                                NES IV Pro-ect Area                                                     rrl, mp,barr wibr    u                d
Previous Bark Proiects (NES I)
Roads
r   ' ".' '5' I   \  "'-  Rivers)
| ., .  '' ' .............- -- Iternotionol Boundaries 
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1,,,, ,  2, <                             3         
>,z,;-. . . ' .; . J\ BETUNG ESTATE   /
|  /   -   r              F     4 OIL pALM       m      >           /~OI PAL
-  .  .   \s         1                   i                         Lubukkoret~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  Lb~
\ l -- i<TE9~~~~ENAN ==
<    =       tES/TAT~~~~~ES        RUBBER   | C           t          
\  g      |  /~~~OIL PALM               Teben          |/
) )      %         .                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~NES I 
'   /  p           NES W        |       ~~~~~SMALLHOLDER RUBBER                                                    /
H\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T   - IOGaagTngg,
< ()                 i  ~~~~~~~~~~Teluk K,j,g 
\                   ~~~~~~~KILOMETERS0        3 4 5   6 






IBRD 14503
SOUEH CHINA SEA                                     AUGUST 1979
104005'             This map has been prepared by the                              BRUNE
World Bank's staff exclusively for           MA AYSIA                       M .                    PACtFIC OCEAN
the convenience of the readers of    ,                     MALA  IA
the report to which it is attached.              BINGAPO I       ,,
The denominations used and the
boundaries shown on this map                                 KALIMANTAN N
do not imply, on the part of the       9   UMATR
World Bank and its affiliates, anyLA I
judgment on the legal status of         CR     . .ELAI                                o          IoIANJAYA
any territory or any endorsement               \
or acceptance of such boundaries.                        JAV
tNOIAN OCEAN    -        AVA                                   e
_ 104010'                 INDONESIA                      104015'
Supat                       NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS IV PROJECT
BETUNG SMALLHOLDERS
PRELIMINARY MASTER PLAN
3015-
YEAR   SETTLEMENT NO.
1982      4, 5,6,7, 8
1985     18,19,20,21               * _
YPROPOSEDNESPPED                                             AR  VLAEi 
1983~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PL OIL,5,1121                         MI            EXST  G 8t      
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~ETT PAL OILFAM
-301ty                               __l                     W1 ( 
|                              ~~~~~~~       ~     ~~~Lais                     P~  /- IROPOSED TEBENAN 
I _ \ ,f / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~CRUMB RUBBER FACTORY
=< / \:-"/   PROJECT BOUNDARIES
5T luk                                }                        c_                                  OIL PALM PLANTING
PROPOSED PRIMARY VILLAGE
ROADS
\\   \      /   _     _    /                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROPOSED SECONDARY VILLAGE
\BH'ARI LEKI|                               l!                                          ROADS
.             J t PRIMARY VILLAGE ROAD
UPGRADING
___/______  EXISTING ASPHALT SURFACED
ROADS
EXISTING UNSURFACED ROADS
------SETTLEMENT UNIT BOUNDARIES
(  |  l  [i   VILLAGE AND VILLAGE NUMBERS
_   Ei |||  = i=   RIVERS
-.     --     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
(05                                                 eluk Kijing                                                                            3005-
\ \-   /         \           |    ~~~~~~~~~~0    1    2    3    4    5    6
I\ < <   QJ   |    KILOMETERS
104005'                                                                                104115'






IBRD 14504
,   So uth China  BRUNEI
INDONESIA                                                             M LAYSI                                    S
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS IV PROJECT
BETUNG SMALLHOLDERS                                                                    V,5                            Kalimantan
Phasing of Road Construction                                                                I
t    ~~~~~~~~~N/NDAN 0, ifN                                                        av
I Supat
This meap has open prepared bV the Wortd 8ook's staff eec/os oretY for the conveomencye
of1tt,-od-r of th. report to ah,.ho  t,-tahed. The -eoont,e  od -e th.
hofnd-rs fh-  - thrto -p do not -roply, o the par of the Word Baok aod to
affhlate- aoyjudgment oo the lepal status of aoy ter-nto  or any ondoroereot or
aepase f,ouh boondar,a
'      t           \~~~~Bao
_48/81                .B t                          8
5.8/81                                 ngkLop 4n1sN
_ 2.8/81 1.6/81 I          1    8.*           I
2 1/~~~~~~~~l                 8.6 / 80    ~      ~     ~     Paec  Bunare
3.0  82x/8ig R2                                                                               (U         e
2.1/ 82              I/82               \                                         -  N
21832                                                          2
/           \                                  ;;/                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tebenon
Teluk                                                                                                                                  1979
<                        t                          ,jz~~~~~~~~~~~~~13.9 /83
I 3./ 71    j                                          Project Boundatries
/          1   83-\;_3    41/84_                           Existing Roads (AsphailtSurface)
/ / *'t\ t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Existing Roods (UnSurfoced)
/   J                    tx~~~~~2.2 /83  .2t                        -       New Primary Village Roads
.: .. 46/4  ................ ....Primary Village Road Upgrading
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -  -.s New Secondary Village Road.
fg || >\) .t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1.3 /81   Length (km) / Year of Construction
{ t 21 / t | \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~=:                                                        Rivers
:                         f       t~~~~~~~~~Teluk Kijing                                - - -   -   International Boundairies
;      5     S                  KILOMETERS L         1     2      3     4    



