Document ofFIEC P
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P- 2760-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS IV PROJECT
March 31, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autborization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit     - Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00               Rp 625
Rp 100                US$0.160
Rp 1 million          US$1,600
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg)   =   1,000 grams = 2.205 pounds
1 metric ton      =   1,000 kgs = 2,205 pounds = 0.98 long ton
1 hectare (ha)        10,000 square meters (sq m) = 2.47 acres
GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS
BAPPEDA      -  Provincial Development Planning Agency
BAPPENAS     -  Badan Perancana Pembungunan National - National
Development Planning Agency
BIMAS        -  Bimingan Massal Swa Sembada Bahen Mekarar, "Mass
Guidance Program for Self-Sufficiency in Foodstuffs" -
A farm input credit package program
BRI          -  Bank Rakyat Indonesia
BULOG        -  Badan mousan Logistick (rice procurement agency)
Bupati       -  Kabupaten (District) Chief
DGA          -  Directorate General of Agrarian Affairs
DGE          -  Directorate General of Estates
DGFC         -  Directorate General for Food Crops
DPD          -  Dinas Perkebunan Daerah - Provincial Estate Crops
Services
FFB          -  Fresh Fruit Bunch
Hak Milik    -  Right to full ownership of land
IGGI         -  Inter-Governmental Group on Indonesia
INPRES       _  Instruksi Presiden - "Presidential Instruction" a
special program
MOA          - Ministry of Agriculture
ODA          -  Official Development Assistance
REPELITA     -  Five-Year Development Plan
PNP          -  Perusahaan Negara Perkebunan, State-owned Estate
Enterprise
PTP             Perseroan Negara Perkebunan, State-owned Enterprise
with Limited Liability
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA - FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS IV PROJECT
Loan and Proiect Summary
Borrower:          Republic of Indonesia
Amount:             $42 million
Terms:              20 years, including five,years of grace, with interest
at 8.25% p.a.
Relending Terms:   Loans to smallholders with an interest rate of 10.5% p.a.
would be for 17 years, including a two-year, interest-
free grace period. The loan to the nucleus estate, PNP X
would be for 13 years, including 7 years of grace, and
would carry an interest rate of 13.5% p.a. The Government
would bear the foreign exchange risk.
Prodect
Description:     The project will assist the Government to provide new
settlement for 4,000 landless families on unutilized land
in South Sumatra Province, using the public sector estate,
PNP X, as the development agent under the nucleus estates
and smallholders (NES) program. The main project
components include block planting of 8,000 ha of oil palm
and 4,000 ha of food crop establishment, development of
21 villages, erection of 4,000 houses, construction and
upgrading of 92 km of village roads and the establishment
of one 30 ton FFB/hr palm oil mill for processing small-
holder production. A block crumb rubber factory with a
capacity of 40 tons per day would also be constructed
for 2,250 families settled under the NES I Project. The
project would provide basic health services for about
20,000 people through the Government's provincial health
program. Primary and secondary education would be provided
for about 8,000 children. Technical assistance has been
included in the project to strengthen PNP X's capacity in
estate engineering and to assist the DGE with program
support (short-term consultant specialists) and start-up
funds for a future NES project. The main risks in the
proposed project are inadequate overall project manage-
ment and an inadequate engineering capacity at PNP X.
The proposed project includes measures to minimize these
risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Costs:/L                           Local       Foreign       Total
----- $ million -------
Smallholder development                     9.5          9.5         19.0
Processing facilities                       1.3         10.8         12.1
Program support - DGE                       1.8          3.2          5.0
Base cost                                  12.6         23.5         36.1
Physical contingencies                      1.3          2.4          3.7
Price contingencies                         8.6         16.1         24.7
Total Cost                               22.5         42.0         64.5
Financing Plan                                Local       Foreign       Total
=---------- $ million -------
Bank                                           -         42.0          42.0
Government                                  22.5            -          22.5
Total                                     22.5         42.0          64.5
Estimated Disbursement
Bank FY                        1981   1982    1983    1984   1985   1986
Annual                       1.0    7.0      8.5      10.0   11.0    4.5
Cumulative                   1.0    8.0    16.5       26.5   37.5   42.0
Rate of Return:             About 19%.  The estimate is based on 92% of project
costs for which benefits have been quantified.
Staff Appraisal Report:   No. 2780-IND, dated March 31, 1980.
/t Exclusive of taxes due to tax-exempt status of implementing agencies.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF
THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS IV PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of $42 million to help finance
a Fourth Nucleus Estate and Smallholders Project. The loan would have a term
of 20 years, including five years of grace, with interest rate at 8.25% p.a.
The proceeds of the loan would be relent to smallholders at an interest rate
of 10.5% p.a., including a two-year interest-free grace period and to PNP X at
an interest rate of 13.5% p.a. for 13 years with a seven-year grace period.
PART I - THE ECONCMY /1
2.        A basic economic report, "Indonesia:  Growth Patterns, Social Prog-
ress and Development Prospects" (No. 2093-IND dated February 20, 1979), was
distributed to the Executive Directors on February 26, 1979. An updating
country economic memorandum, "Indonesia: Long-Run Development and Short-Run
Adjustment" (No. 2788-IND, dated February 20, 1980) was recently distributed
to the Executive Directors.
Background
3.        The Republic of Indonesia is an archipelago nation of more than
13,000 islands covering a land area in excess of two million sq km. With over
135 million people, it is the world's fifth most populous nation. The
population density exceeds 650 persons per sq km in Java, where 65% of the
population live, but averages less than 30 persons per sq km in the rest of
the country. Over 82% of the population live in rural areas; and although
agriculture only accounts for slightly over 30% of GDP, about 62% of total
employment is still found in the agricultural sector. GNP per capita is
estimated at $360./2
4.        Over the last thirteen years, Indonesia's economic, social and
institutional development has surpassed that of most other heavily populated,
poor countries. Although the new government in 1966 inherited a severely
dislocated and bankrupt economy, it rapidly brought hyperinflation under
control, established full convertibility of the currency and regained the
confidence of western creditors. During the First Development Plan period,
Repelita I (1969/70 to 1973/74), a major rehabilitation of the neglected
infrastructure was initiated, the investment rate was doubled to 18% of GDP
and an average real GDP growth rate of over 9% p.a. was achieved.  During
Repelita II, (1974/75 to 1978/79) economic activity was fueled by a dramatic
/1 Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Fifteenth
Irrigation Project (No. P-2718-IND), circulated under cover of IDA/R80-36,
dated February 28, 1980, and approved by the Executive Directors on
March 18, 1980.
/2 1978 figures. World Bank Atlas, 1979.



- 2 -
increase in foreign exchange resources resulting from the world commodity
boom, the quadrupling of oil prices and expanded public and private foreign
capital inflows. Net oil exports increased from $640 million in 1973 to
$4.0 billion / in 1978, which enabled real Government expenditure to increase
by 20% annually and encouraged a 7% average annual GDP growth rate. Not all
sectors have shared in this growth. In particular, the performance of
nonextractive exports, with some exceptions, such as coffee and palm oil, has
been disappointing; rubber exports, for example, have stagnated since 1971,
and manufactured exports are only now giving any indication of sustained
growth.  In addition, there has been little evidence, despite increased
foreign exchange resources, that the post-oil future of the economy has been
assured through a broad-based expansion of the industrial sector.
Social Developments
5.        While there is general agreement that overall growth in the economy
- an annual rate of almost 8% over ten years /2 - has been impressive, views
diverge on the degree to which the poor have shared in this increased income.
The National Household Surveys for 1970 and 1976 indicate that while overall
income disparities almost certainly widened between those two dates, there was
nevertheless a considerable improvement in the consumption of all income
groups, with real consumption expenditure of the bottom 40% of the population
probably increasing at between 3.5% and 5.5% annually. Growth in per capita
income was generally higher in Java than in the Other Islands and higher in
urban than in rural areas.
6.        Employment growth has been rapid in the 1970s (an average of 4.7%
p.a. between 1971 and 1976, compared with a total population growth of 2%).
However, it is likely that there has been a slight increase in the level of
open unemployment due to a greater rate of growth of working age population
than of total population and to increased participation rates (50% in
September 1971, 55% in October 1976). Most (54%) of the increased employment
during this period was absorbed in nonagricultural activities, resulting in a
decline in the share of agricultural employment from 66% to 62%. Within the
nonagricultural sector, employment increases largely resulted from proliferat-
ing small-scale enterprises in the manufacturing and service sectors, where
productivity is generally extremely low.
7.        Government-sponsored programs deserve at least part of the credit
for many of the major advances of the last decade. In particular, the BIMAS
and INMAS rice intensification schemes and the Government public works
(INPRES) programs have demonstrated the Government's capacity to marshal
resources in pursuit of its social goals. Between 1971/72 and 1976/77 real
expenditures increased at an annual average rate of 37% on Health and Family
Planning, 45% on Education, and 31% on Housing and Water Supply, resulting in
/1 Includes Liquified Natural Gas ($225 million).
/2 Gross Domestic Income grew even faster, at about 9.5% p.a., due to
improvements in the terms of trade.



-3 -
the rapid development of social infrastructure. For example, Indonesia's
health centers, which totalled 1,058 in 1969, were increased to 4,029 by 1977;
between 1973 and 1978, 31,000 primary schools were constructed and primary
school enrollment was expected to reach 85% in 1979, up from 60% in 1974.
Perhaps the most significant achievement of the First and SecorU Development
Plans has been the success of the National Family Planning Program,
established in 1970, in reducing the overall population growth rate to below
2%. Fertility rates have fallen by almost 20% on Java and Bali, where almost
30% of married women in the reproductive age group are practicing modern
methods of contraception.
8.        Despite these advances, however, the magnitude of the poverty pro-
blem, the lack of food security, and the inadequacy of basic public services
remain overwhelming. In 1976, an estimated 50 million people, over one third
of Indonesia's total population, spent less than $90 a year (at 1976 prices
and exchange rate) and a large proportion of the labor force was seriously
underemployed in both rural and urban areas. Moreover, the continued pre-
valence of numerous debilitating diseases, which often stem directly from
nutritional deficiencies and unsanitary living conditions, results in
extremely low life expectancy at birth and a very high mortality rate.
Life expectancy at birth in Indonesia is only 48 years (most recent estimate)
compared with 60 years in the Philippines and 67 years in Malaysia. For the
same countries, infant mortality rates are respectively 126, 65 and 35 per
thousand. Every year in Indonesia approximately 600,000 infants less than
one year old die. These statistics reflect both low incomes and the under-
lying inadequacy of basic public services. Over 100 million Indonesians
remain without access to safe water or sanitary exereta disposal; there are
only 6 physicians and 6 nurses per 100,000 of the population; and almost 40%
of the adult population are illiterate.
Development Strategy in the Nonoil Economy
9.        The rehabilitation of infrastructure which has made possible the
impressive growth rate over the last decade and which has underpinned past
development policy must now give way to a new strategy as the task of
rehabilitation is now essentially completed. The Government has recognized
this in preparing the Third Development Plan, Repelita III (1979/80 to
1983/84). Three primary goals have been specified: a more equitable
distribution of the benefits of growth, a high growth rate, and national
stability. A high priority must now be given to the industrial sector
since neither agriculture nor services can be expected to absorb the
large projected increases in the labor force (1.4 million p.a. up to the
year 2000) and simultaneously ensure rising real wage rates.
10.       The prospects for an outward-looking labor-intensive industrial
development have been improved by some of the policy actions taken in recent
months. The most dramatic of these was the devaluation of the rupiah from
Rp 415 to Rp 625 per US dollar on November 15, 1978.  Its purpose was to
reverse some of the adverse relative price changes in the economy that had
occurred earlier in the decade and thus to encourage a shift of resources
away from the nontraded goods sector towards labor-intensive import



-4-
substitution and export industries. In support of the aims of Repelita III
and the devaluation, the Government has also simplified the investment
licensing process and exporting procedures and introduced a system of export
certificates - tax rebates - to encourage exporters. A new corporation tax
law was promulgated in March 1979 providing greater incentives to entre-
preneurs, particularly those in smaller-scale ventures and those using the
services of a public accountant. On the monetary side a start has been made
in making the commercial banking system more responsive to the needs of
small-scale enterprises.
11.       A detailed industrial development strategy has not yet been articu-
lated, although the Repelita III document acknowledges that private invest-
ment will be relied upon as the primary means of industrial job creation.
Despite the improvements outlined above, it is not yet clear that private
entrepreneurs will be able or willing to invest sufficiently in those
sectors most conducive to job creation and income growth.  Tn particular
there are two issues that require urgent attention. First, although some
improvements have been made, many entrepreneurs still complain about cumber-
some administrative procedures and controls associated with the highly
centralized government bureaucracy. Second, the high level of effective
protection, which has increased over the last year, may encourage the
misallocation of scarce capital and managerial resources. Indonesia's
potential for manufactured exports is considerable but it is unlikely that
these exports will ever provide the stimulus to growth that has been enjoyed
by other smaller East Asian countries. In the medium term it is more likely
that Indonesia's "engine of growth" will be its own large domestic market.
However, it is important that barriers to trade be reduced in order to
provide appropriate market signals and to encourage those sectors in which
a genuine comparative advantage exists. The formal tariff structure is
probably less significant than the high administrative costs and delays
associated with importing. The important improvements made in exporting
procedures over the last year have demonstrated that rapid changes can be made
in this area. Similar advances on the import side would improve resource
allocation by reducing the proliferation of domestic industries that have
little prospect of ever attaining international competitiveness. In many
countries devaluation has been accompanied by a rationalization of the tariff
structure. Although this has not yet occurred in Indonesia, the recent
increases in oil revenues have, by substantially increasing foreign exchange
reserves, provided an additional opportunity.
Short-Run Stability and Long-Run Development
12.       Medium-term prospects for the balance of payments and the Govern-
ment budget have improved fundamentally in recent months. Three factors -
the devaluation, an improvement in the nonoil terms of trade, and the oil
price rise - have been responsible. The effect of the devaluation on the
external accounts is still not clear although there is some evidence of signi-
ficant supply-side response in some sectors. The improvement in the balance
of payments that followed immediately after November 1978 was due less to
the devaluation than to favorable developments in the world prices of



-5-
primary commodities./I As a result, Indonesia achieved an external surplus of
over $700 million in 1978/79. Most important, however, has been the increase
in the export price of crude oil to $32 a barrel in January 1980. This is
expected to -enerate additional oil and LNG export earnings of $3.1 billion in
1979/80. Budget revenues have also benefitted from these developments. Since
over half of the Government's revenues were denominated in foreign exchange,
an immediate effect of the devaluation was to dramatically increase budgetary
revenues in terms of rupiah. As a result of the oil price increases, budget
revenues from oil and LNG are predicted to rise from $3.7 billion in 1978/79
to $8.9 billion in 1979/80.
13.       These favorable developments, while clearly presenting a valuable
opportunity to undertake development programs and stimulate private industrial
enterprise, may also present serious problems of short-run price and monetary
stability. This potential conflict could be seen, for example, in the mea-
sures taken by the Government to ameliorate the inflationary effects of the
devaluation, which, while successful in keeping prices under control, some-
times tended to counteract the desired effects of the devaluation. Notable
here was the tight control exerted over private sector credit creation which
may have limited investment in those export sectors that the devaluation was
designed to encourage. In addition, the increased foreign exchange revenue
presents potentially difficult problems of monetary management. The manner in
which Indonesia increases its capacity to absorb imports effectively will be a
primary determinant of Indonesia' future growth prospects.
Domestic Resource Mobilization and External Capital Flows
14.       In the immediate future, the availability of foreign exchange will
not be a constraint on development due to both the increase in export revenues
and the consequent improvement in creditworthiness. (In 1979 Indonesia's
debt-service ratio has fallen from 18% to 16%)./2 In the medium and long
run, however, the situation is less clear, due to uncertainty about how
quickly Indonesia will be able to absorb its sudden increase in wealth, and
because projections of future export revenues remain highly speculative. It
is therefore important that increased efforts be made to mobilize domestic
financial resources. The Government's concern with this issue is demonstrated
by its stated intention of eliminating budget subsidies on consumer goods. To
this end, domestic prices of all oil products were increased by an average of
about 40% in April and May 1979, although the budget savings have since been
nullified by increases in international prices. There is considerable scope
for improving the nonoil tax base, which accounts for less than 45% of total
revenues. For example, taxes on personal and business incomes amount to only
3% of GNP, and taxes on consumption, 2.5% of GNP. Expanding the tax base,
eliminating loopholes, and improving administration, are the obvious means of
11 The nonoil terms of trade improved by 42% between October 1978 and
July 1979.
/2 Ratio of debt service payments to commodity export earnings, with oil
and gas on a net basis.



- 6 -
securing a larger and more equitable tax burden. The mobilization of private
sector financial resource is hindered at present by the absence of attractive
long-term financial instruments, but the Government's encouragement of the
fledgling Jakarta Stock Exchange will hopefully result in an important source
of domestic funds in the medium term.
15.       The Inter-Governmental Group on Indonesia (IGGI) remains the prin-
cipal source of external capital, including Official Development Assistance
(ODA), to the country. Total ODA (bilateral and multilateral) commitments
in 1977/78 (including grants) amounted to about $1.4 billion; the IGGI
(including the Bank Group and Asian Development Bank) accounted for over 90%
of this. The Bank's 1979 basic economic report on Indonesia recommended that
total ODA reach at least $1.93 billion in 1979/80, of which at least 70%
should be on concessional and semi-concessional terms. At the meeting of the
IGGI in April 1979 the indication of probable commitments in 1979/80 made by
bilateral and multilateral IGGI members amounted to about this level; the
meeting therefore concluded that the Bank's recommendations would be approxi-
mately met. The Bank's recent economic memorandum on Indonesia recommends
$2.1 billion ODA for 1980/81. In real terms this is about equal to last
year's level.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA /1
16.       As of February 29, 1980, Indonesia had received 45 IDA credits
totalling $814.8 million, and 45 Bank loans amounting to $2,575.0 million.
IFC investments totalled $62.2 million. The share of the Bank Group in
Indonesia's total (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end of 1977 was
about 8%, and the share of debt service about 1.8%. By the end of 1978, these
ratios are estimated to have increased to around 8.3% and 3%, respectively.
Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans and IFC investments as
of February 29, 1980, as well as notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
17.       During Repelita I, and in line with the objectives of this First
Plan, a high proportion of Bank Group lending was directed toward the reha-
bilitation of deteriorated infrastructure and production facilities, meeting
the critical shortage of skilled manpower, and technical assistance needed for
pre-investment studies and project execution. As the focus of the Govern-
ment's policy shifted during Repelita II towards expansion of productive capa-
city in the agriculture, transportation and power sectors, as well as improve-
ment in the quality and delivery of basic public services, the thrust of our
lending changed to focus on these objectives. Given the critical importance
of agriculture (including transmigration) for employment, food security and
exports, over one third of Bank Group-supported projects have been in this
sector. In addition, loans and credits have been extended to virtually all
other sectors of the economy, including fertilizer production and distribu-
tion, transportation, education, urban development, water supply, rural
/1 Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Fifteenth
Irrigation Project (No. P-2718-IND), circulated under cover of IDA/R80-36,
dated February 28, 1980, and approved by the Executive Directors on
March 18, 1980.



- 7 -
development, nutrition, industrial development financing (including small industry
development), power, telecomnunications, population and technical assistance.
18.       Indonesia is currently in the process of implementiLK, its Third
Five-Year Plan, Repelita III. As noted in Part I above, this document, while
stressing the need for continued high growth'and stability, departs from
previous Plans by placing special emphasis on income distribution and poverty
alleviation. This focus, which is fully in line with the conclusions of the
Basic Economic Report, in turn requires greater attention to employment
generation and improvements in basic public services. While the Government's
agricultural programs are expected to generate significant employment oppor-
tunities, the long-term solution to Indonesia's employment problem is prima-
rily dependent on the articulation and implementation of a coherent labor-
intensive industrialization strategy. To support this effort the Bank plans
to significantly expand its hitherto modest involvement in this sector. As
part of this initiative, an operation designed to support several industrial
DFCs through an umbrella institution (most probably Bank Indonesia) is at an
advanced stage of preparation, and projects to support export processing zones
and wood processing, and to further expand Bank assistance to small-scale
enterprise are at various stages of identification and preparation. A compre-
hensive program of economic work in the industrial sector is being initiated
to provide the necessary understandings and backup for this expanded operation.
19.       Outside industry, no major shifts in the balance of Bank Group
lending are expected. Given the importance of rice production, irrigation
will continue to absorb a substantial portion of Bank Group agricultural
lending; however, the Bank also plans to take further initiatives to promote
secondary food crops (para. 25 below). For example, the recently approved
Second Agiculture Extension, and the proposed Second Agriculture Research and
Second Seeds projects, will give greater emphasis to these crops. Continued
support for the provision of basic services (population, education, health,
nutrition, urban development and water supply) as well as the traditional
sectors (power and transport) is also anticipated. Since it is clear that the
achievement of the Government's employment and equity objectives will become
increasingly dependent on the development of appropriate sectoral policy
packages and strategies, institutions, and staff development, it is expected
that the focus of the above operations will gradually broaden to a subsector
and sector approach. The proposed sectoral approach is designed to enable
Bank Group assistance to be responsive to these demands, and to continue its
institution-building efforts in a broader context than has been done hitherto.
20.       Although Indonesia's project implementation performance is
generally in line with the overall average for the Bank, both the Bank and
the Government have become increasingly concerned about the level of disburse-
ments, which has shown a declining trend in the past three years.  While some
of this decline is accounted for by a shift in several sectors towards "newer"
type poverty-oriented projects, many of the problems appear to be related to
the Government's cumbersome budgetary, procurement and payment procedures,
including issuance of tender documents and opening of letters of credit.
These problems are further compounded by the severe shortages of both
managerial and technical manpower. A number of steps have been taken by the
Government and the Bank to address these issues. Several special Bank



missions have visited Indonesia to analyze the problems and make recom-
mendations for simplifying budgetary and financial procedures. The Govern-
ment and the Bank have also instituted formal and regular joint review
procedures to identify general and project specific problems and work out
corrective measures. The first of these reviews was held in early March
1979 and a second, more comprehensive one, in June. In addition, a
procurement seminar (planned to be the first of a series) was held in
Jakarta in September 1979. As a consequence of these joint initiatives,
over the past few months the Government announced several measures to
streamline the more complex budgetary and financial procedures affecting
project implementation. Finally, to reduce initial project implementation
difficulties, many operations are now being presented for Board approval at
a later stage in the project cycle. It is still too early to assess the
effect of these steps on project implementation, but improvements are
expected.
21.       From 1968 until 1974, all lending to Indonesia was made through
IDA.  Due to the country's improved creditworthiness following the commodity
and oil price boom in 1973/74, the bulk of the Bank Group's subsequent
lending has been through IBRD loans, with a modest amount of IDA lending
being justified primarily on poverty grounds - per capita GNP ($360 in 1978)
is well below the IDA cutoff of $625. Given Indonesia's much improved
balance of payments position, no further IDA lending is anticipated beyond
the end of the current fiscal year; however, due to the uncertainty of the
effect of the recent oil price increases on Indonesia's resource constraints,
the issue of IDA lending beyond the current fiscal year will be kept under
regular review. In the past, because of domestic resource constraints, the
Bank has financed local costs, particularly in high priority projects in the
rural sector. However, because of the increased availability of finance
following the recent oil price increases, financing of local costs will be
progressively reduced and will only be limited to occasions where it will
make a significant contribution to the project.
22.       The proposed project, which is consistent with the strategy
discussed above, constitutes the seventh lending operation presented to the
Executive Directors this fiscal year, and would bring total lending to date
in FY80 to $401 million. Projects for power, agriculture research, swamp
reclamation, village development, seeds, smallholder coconut development,
population and education are expected to be ready for presentation in the
next several months.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL SECTOR /1
23.       Objectives.  The Government's major objectives for the agricul-
tural and rural sector are to: (a) create productive employment to raise
/1 Paras. 23-29 substantially unchanged from the President's Report
on the Smallholder Rubber Development Project (No. P-2696-IND), circu-
lated under cover of IDA/R80-21, dated January 30, 1980, and approved by
the Executive Directors on February 19, 1980.



- 9 -
the incomes of the rural poor; (b) increase domestic food supply to keep
pace with rising demand; (c) expand agricultural exports, particularly of
smallholder tree crops; and (d) ensure productive, sustainable use of
Indonesia's land, water and other natural resources.
24.       Role and Performance.  Nearly 16 million smallholder families
produce subsistence and cash crops on about 16 million ha, while 1,800
estates occupying 2.2 million ha produce mainly rubber, sugar, tea, palm oil
and tobacco. Despite a 4% average annual growth rate of production, the
agricultural sector's share of GDP has declined from 40% to 31% since 1968,
while its share in total exports dropped from 45% to 37% due mainly to the
markedly increased value of oil exports. Nevertheless, agriculture still
provides 80% of nonoil exports, employs 60-66% of the total labor force
(depending on the season), is the major source of income for about two-thirds
of rural households and one-tenth of urban households, and accounted for 46%
of incremental employment during 1971-76. Outside Java, employment prospects
in agriculture appear quite promising, given the sustained increases in the
smallholder area, including that developed by publicly sponsored and
spontaneous transmigration. On Java continued irrigation rehabilitation is
expected to generate significant employment.
25.       Food Crops.  Given its limited manpower and financial resources,
the Government has concentrated on increasing the production of rice, the
preferred staple food of the great majority of Indonesians. Rice production
increased rapidly (4.5% p.a.) between 1968 and 1974, chiefly due to irrigation
rehabilitation and the provision to irrigated rice growers of fertilizer and
high-yielding variety seed, financed largely through the BIMAS credit program.
The growth rate slowed markedly to 1.7% over 1974-77, in the wake of severe
declines in fertilizer usage (due to restrictions on private sector fertili-
zer trade), successive seasons of untimely rainfall, and unprecedented attacks
by pests and diseases. In 1978, rice production increased by 10%, with
better weather, improved and liberalized fertilizer distribution, and nation-
wide Government distribution of pest resistant varieties. Over the past
decade, output of secondary food crops (maize, cassava, soybeans, peanuts,
and sweet potatoes) grew at only a combined annual rate of 1.6%. These gains
in food output did not keep pace with the 3.5%-4.0% p.a. increase in demand,
stimulated by rising incomes. Over the decade, Indonesia became the world's
largest rice importer, with a record import of 2.3 million tons in 1977, and
about 1.3 million tons in 1978, while wheat imports reached 1.4 million tons
in 1978. The (March 1979) Bank report, "Indonesia: Supply Prospects for Major
Food Crops," (No. 2374-IND) concluded that even with expanded irrigation, and
improved technology, extension, credit and marketing, food production growth
would not exceed 3.5% p.a., leaving a basic food deficit up to at least 1990,
with a rice deficit alone of 2-3 million tons, annually.
26.       Perennial Crops.  Perennial crops occupy about a third of total
cropped land (coconuts and rubber account for 80% of this), and generate about
43% of total nonoil export revenue. Smallholders cultivate 80% of the rubber
area and virtually all coconuts, coffee, cloves and pepper, whereas tea and
oil palm are grown primarily on estates. Past efforts to revitalize the
smallholder tree crop sector were very limited. One approach, (see para. 34)
supported by three Bank-financed Nucleus Estates and Smallholders (NES)



- 10 -
Projects (Loans 1499-, 1604- and 1751-IND), is for Government-owned estates to
plant and maintain tree crops on previously undeveloped land for three years,
using farmers selected to be settlers as employees, and thereafter to provide
the settlers with inputs, extension services and processing facilities. This
is the approach of the proposed project. While the NES approach has been
mainly for new settlers, the Government has also initiated national programs
to assist existing smallholders to replant rubber or coconuts themselves, with
fairly intensive support from Project Management Units (PMUs).  Efforts to
design a lower-cost system of tree crop planting with minimal demands on
management are also starting. Given the vast area of overaged and lowyielding
smallholder rubber and coconuts, the good market prospects and employment
potential for these crops, and the Other Islands' land availability and
natural comparative advantage in them, the rapid expansion of smallholder tree
crops, using all suitable approaches, is a high priority.
27.       Area Development.  Rural development programs designed to meet
basic needs and to generate employment and production have been developed
for certain critically poor areas of Java. Cultivable land in Java is
almost fully utilized, and in some higher watersheds cultivation already
exceeds ecologically safe limits, contributing to increasing erosion,
downstream flooding, and siltation of ports, dams, and irrigation canals.
The Government is preparing watershed development and integrated development
projects to address this problem.
28.       Transmigration.  The primary program for new area development in the
Other Islands, as well as for creating employment and settlement nuclei for
Javanese migrants, is transmigration. Confronted by management problems, the
Government reorganized the program in preparation for Repelita III, by
transferring implementation responsibility from the Directorate General (DG)
of Transmigration to the appropriate technical agencies. This measure needs
to be complemented by continued attention to a variety of technical and policy
issues, some of which the Second Transmigration Project (Loan 1707-IND and
Credit 919-IND) is expected to address.
29.       Bank Group Lending Strategy.  Since the first of 13 irrigation
projects was approved in 1968, the Bank Group has rapidly expanded its
agricultural lending. Within the context of the Government's agricultural
objectives and priorities, as outlined in Repelita III, future Bank Group
agricultural lending is expected to focus on: (a) a diversified irrigation
flood protection, drainage and swamp reclamation program to intensify rice
cropping on Java and extend water management in the Other Islands; (b)
support services including second phase projects for agricultural research,
extension and seeds; (c) smallholder tree crop planting programs; and (d) area
development and transmigration. These projects will continue to be
complemented by extensive sector work. Analyses of employment and income
distribution, irrigation, agricultural support services and food crop
production have been completed, and reviews of the rubber subsector, the
transmigration program, secondary food crops, land tenure and supply and
demand for technical and managerial manpower for agriculture are underway.



- 11 -
The Palm Oil Subsector
30.       Production.  Indonesia is the world's second largeqt palm oil pro-
ducer, with 115,600 tons of palm kernels and 568,000 tons of palm oil
produced in 1979; representing 16% of the world's total. Palm oil is the
fourth largest nonoil export commodity of Indonesia; after timber, rubber and
coffee, and comprises 2% of total agricultural GDP, and 7% of Indonesia's
nonoil export earnings. Recently, favorable price increases in the world
market have coincided with a significant shift in world consumption of fats
and oils away from animal fats to vegetable oils. The total area of oil
palm in Indonesia increased at an average annual rate of 7% over the period
1969-79; from 119,000 ha to 232,000 ha. The rate of growth in palm oil
production (12% p.a.) since 1969 has, with the exception of coffee,
exceeded that of all other Indonesian agricultural commodities.
31.       Estates and Smallholders.  About 95% of the total mature area of
oil palm is located in North Sumatra. Public sector estates comprise about
68% of the total area while less than 1% of mature oil palm (1,000 ha) is
owned bv smallholders. The dominance of the estates in palm oil production
has arisen since smallholders are not able to process palm oil themselves
and have had no access to planting material or the technical expertise
required for fruit collection or processing. The scope for introducing
smallholders to oil palm and increasing production, and thereby rural
incomes, is enormous.
32.       Future Prospects.  Faced with growing domestic demand of fats and
oils and a decline in domestic coconut oil production, the Government is com-
mitted to a policy of rapid expansion in palm oil production to reverse the
increasing heavy burden on the economy of importing coconut oil, and to
increase exports. In 1978, about 100,000 tons of oil, 20% of national
production, was diverted from the export market for fractionation into edible
oil for domestic consumption. All the palm kernel oil production was marketed
locally. In 1979 Government directed that 300,000 tons of palm oil be
diverted from the export market for domestic consumption. Consequently the
proportion of total palm oil production exported fell from 85% in 1977 to 40%
in 1979. With the new plantings of oil palm planned for South Sumatra,
Kalimantan and West Java it is expected that palm oil and palm kernel oil
production will reach 1.8 million tons by 1990, equivalent to an annual growth
rate of 9% from 1979 to 1990. On average, about 50% of total production will
be consumed domestically.
33.       Bank Lending for Oil Palm.  Government and Bank Group assistance for
oil palm development exclusively for smallholders is limited to one project,
the North Sumatra Smallholder Development Project (Credit 358-IND), for $5
million. Although primarily for new rubber establishment, some 1,000 ha of
oil palm was established for about 500 families. Now nearing completion,
implementation of the oil palm component has been impressive. There have been
several Bank Group loans and credits in support of planting and rehabilitation
of oil palm on estates, including Credits 155-, 194-, and 319-IND (the First,



- 12 -
Second and Fourth Agricultural Estates Projects) and Loans 1499- and 1751-IND
(NES I and III). A recent OED project performance audit for Credits 155- and
194-IND rated both projects physically and financially successful.
34.       The NES Prolects.  In recognition of the scarce technical and mana-
gerial expertise available within the Government to implement rural develop-
ment projects, the Government increasingly seeks to utilize the untapped
manpower and financial resources of the public sector estates to promote and
guide smallholder development. To this end, in 1976 the Government initiated
a large tree crop development program which, with the assistance of the public
sector estates, will develop unutilized land for new settlement and
substantially increase rubber, coconut and palm oil production for export and
import substitution. In support of this Government initiative, the Bank has
financed three nucleus estates and smallholder tree crop projects since
November 1977.
35.       The first two NES projects, which respectively became effective in
January and September 1978, are sufficiently advanced to assess their effec-
tiveness in smallholder tree crop development. Both smallholder and estate
plantings are on schedule, with a total of 15,000 ha having been planted to
rubber, coconuts and oil palm. The standard of field development is excel-
lent. Less satisfactory, however, has been the rate of progress of infra-
structure development - road building, water supply, village facilities and
settler housing - which require a great deal of care in the planning and
coordination of inputs by the Central and Provincial Governments and the
nucleus estates. In the third NES Project, which became effective in November
1979, project organization was modified to help overcome these constraints
through delegation of greater autonomy in project implementation to the
nucleus estates and the establishment in the Directorate General of Estates
(DGE) of a Special Team for Externally Assisted Projects to speed project
implementation and assist in procurement, financial administration and project
monitoring.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
36.       The project was identified by the Government, with Bank assistance,
and prepared by the Government and the Bank using reports by the consultant
firms, Commonwealth Development Corporation and Hunting Technical Services.
The project was appraised in July/August 1979 and a Staff Appraisal Report
(No. 2780-IND) is being distributed separately. Supplementary project data
are provided in Annex III. Negotiations were held in Jakarta from February
25 to March 1, 1980 with the Indonesian delegation led by General Pang
Suparto, Director General of Estates, Ministry of Agriculture.
Formulation
37.       The Government has selected PNP X to be the nucleus estate develop-
ment agent for the proposed project. This is appropriate since PNP X is
successfully implementing part of the NES I Project and has an existing oil
palm estate located near the project area. The project is formulated to
provide greater autonomy of the nucleus estate in project implementation.



- 13 -
Unlike the first three NES projects, responsibility for construction of
village infrastructure, such as village roads and water supply, would be
assigned to the nucleus estate. The Provincial Government would continue to
be responsible for the construction of specific project infrastructure such as
schools and health facilities as provided under Provincial INPRES programs.
Consistent with the need to concentrate responsibilities for project
implementation, the project manager would be the First Director of PNP X. The
increasing need for settlement of formidably large numbers of landless rural
poor necessitates that the project be designed to minimize the cost of
settlement per family and yet provide sufficient on-farm investment to assure
their successful livelihood. Farm plans for new settlement of smallholders
provide for the establishment of 2 ha of oil palm, 0.1 ha of an intensively
cultivated house garden lot, and 0.9 ha for field food crop development. The
project would provide full-time employment for new settlers as estate laborers
for about three years after settlement. This would guarantee farm families an
adequate income during oil palm immaturity and provide practical training of
smallholders in oil palm husbandry.
Objectives and General Description
38.       The project's main objectives would be to:  (a) provide new settle-
ment for 4,000 poor, landless families on unutilized land in South Sumatra
Province; (b) raise rural incomes of these families; (c) increase the produc-
tion of oil palm to supply the rapidly expanding domestic demand for edible
oils; and (d) reverse the declining trend of palm oil exports.
39.       The project would be located on 16,000 ha in the province of South
Sumatra, about 75 km from Palembang. The main project components include
block planting of 8,000 ha of oil palm and establishing 4,000 ha of food crops
for 4,000 families. The project includes development of 21 villages, erection
of 4,000 houses, construction and upgrading of 92 km of village roads and the
establishment of one 30 ton FFB/ha palm oil mill for processing smallholder
production. A block crumb rubber factory with a capacity of 40 tons per day
would also be constructed for 2,250 families settled under the NES I Project.
The project would provide basic health services for about 20,000 people
through the Government's provincial health program, and primary and secondary
education facilities would be provided for about 8,000 children. Technical
assistance has been included in the project to strengthen PNP X's capacity in
estate engineering with provision for palm oil engineering and financial
management (about 108 man-months). The DGE would receive program support
(about 200 man-months of short-term consultant specialists) and start-up funds
for future NES projects./l
Project Costs
40.       The total project cost is estimated at $64.5 million (Rp 40.3 bil-
lion) of which $42 million (65%) is foreign exchange. Because of the tax
exempt status of the implementing agencies, the project costs do not include
provision for local, provincial or national taxes. A physical contingency of
/1 Internationally recruited consultants are costed at $7,000/man-month,
including housing and travel.



- 14 -
10% has been allowed on all investment items and on the number of man-days of
management consultants. An allowance for expected price contingencies has
been calculated on the basis of domestic cost increases of 15% in 1980 and
1981, and 10% thereafter, and cost increases on the foreign exchange component
of 9% in 1980, 8% in 1981 and 7% thereafter. Project costs have been based on
early 1980 prices and have been defined as costs incurred from June 1980-May
1986. Costs thereafter until maturity (up to May 1989) would total $20
million for additional maintenance of oil palm and expansion of the proposed
palm oil mill. The Government would make available the funds required from
1986 to 1989.
Project Financing
41.       The proposed Bank loan of $42 million would finance the project's
estimated foreign exchange component (65%) for the first six years of project
implementation. The Government would finance $22.5 million (35%) from the
following sources: Ministry of Finance ($17.0 million), the DGE and INPRES
($1.5 million) and PNP X ($4.0 million). The Government would bear the
foreign exchange risk.
42.       Smallholder Development.  All works to be carried out by the nucleus
estate, including the credit items (i.e., repayable by smallholders) of
on-farm development and settler housing, and the noncredit items (i.e., non-
repayable) of water supply and village infrastructure and management fees
payable to the nucleus estate for oil palm development, would be financed by
the Ministry of Finance ($17.0 million) and by the Bank ($17.0 million).
Schools and health facilities would be provided by provincial government
agencies on a noncredit basis and would be financed by the INPRES program
($1.0 million).
43.       Funds for smallholder development from the Ministry of Finance
budget sources would be channelled directly to the nucleus estate PNP X and
made in automatic quarterly disbursements in accordance with an approved
annual budget. Should project implementation proceed more rapidly than
planned, the Ministry of Finance would, at the request of PNP X, increase
disbursements above scheduled quarterly amounts. Bank funds would be used
to reimburse expenditures by PNP X based on the disbursement percentages
for the works as carried out (para. 46). The costs of development would be
translated into standardized credit amounts to be repaid by individual
settlers, who would each enter into a smallholder credit agreement with Bank
Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) at the end of Year 3 when each area of oil palm has
come into maturity. BRI would be the designated recovery agent for the
Government and would receive a service charge of 1% or less on outstanding
loans. Loans to smallholders would be for 17 years, the loans to include a
two-year interest-free grace period. The interest rate charged would be 10.5%
p.a., which is the standard rate fixed by Bank Indonesia for smallholders
under this type of project. Inflation, which in 1980 is projected at 15%, is
expected to fall to an annual rate of 10% thereafter and it is therefore
anticipated that the interest rate charged will not be significantly negative
in real terms. The Government would bear the credit risk on all credit funds
for smallholders development.



- 15 -
44.       Processing Facilities and Program Support.  The proposed palm oil
and rubber factories as well as technical assistance for PNP X in estate
engineering and financial management would be financed from the proceeds of
the Bank loan ($18 million) and from PNP X's own funds ($4 million). Bank
funds would be onlent to PNP X by Bank Indonesia under the terms of a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. The signing of such an agreement satisfactory
to the Bank would be a condition of disbursement for this component of the
project (Schedule 1, para. 4(c) of the draft Loan Agreement). The loan
would be made for 13 years, including 7 years of grace, and repayable in 12
equal semiannual annuities starting January 1, 1987. Interest would be
13.5% and payable from the date of signing the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Technical assistance to the DGE and start-up funds for future NES projects
would be financed from the proceeds of the Bank Loan ($7.0 million) and from
the DGE ($0.5 million).
Procurement
45.       Agrochemicals (excluding urea) and agricultural and processing
plant, machinery and equipment ($20.8 million) would be procured through
international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank Group
Guidelines. A preference equal to 15% of the c.i.f. cost or the customs
duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to local manufacturers in the
evaluation of bids. Local procurement would be acceptable for equipment
items costing less than $30,000 each subject to an aggregate ceiling of
$1.5 million. Agrochemicals would also be eligible for local procurement up
to a ceiling of $200,000 annually. This would require prudent shopping with
at least three quotations. Buildings, including housing, processing plants,
schools, and health facilities would either be constructed under force
account by PNP X ($5.4 million) or would be contracted under locally
advertised competitive bidding (LCB) ($4.0 million). These civil works are
not likely to attract foreign firms and would not be suitable for ICB since
they are to be carried out over a five-year period and involve small amounts
of finance for individual contracts. Urea ($0.5 million) would be procured
directly from P.T. Pusri or its authorized distributors since it is the sole
producer/supplier of urea in Indonesia and since world market prices are 50%
higher for urea than Pusri's ex-factory price. Vehicles, except tractors,
($0.6 million) would be locally produced in accordance with the Government's
policy of prohibiting vehicle imports. Under this "reserved procurement"
these would not be eligible for Bank financing or disbursement. Oil palm
development (excluding agrochemicals, machinery and equipment), land
clearing for food crops, and construction of village roads ($19.3 million)
would involve an integrated service of labor and machinery and would be
carried out by PNP X. Bidding documents and contracts for machinery,
equipment and civil works estimated to exceed $300,000 would be reviewed by
the Bank under usual Bank procedures.
Disbursements
46.       The proposed loan would be disbursed against:  (a) 60% of oil palm
development expenditures; (b) 100% of the total cost of urea (ex-factory)



- N; -
and of foreign expenditures on all other agrochemicals; (c) 100% of foreign
exchange cost of directly imported agricultural and processing plant machin-
ery and equipment, 95% of the ex-factory cost of equipment manufactured
locally and 60% of imported farm equipment purchased locally; (d) 50% of the
civil works for estate housing, buildings, garages, workshops and divisional
offices; and (ej 100% of the cost of all consultancy services and expenditures
for housing, nurseries, machinery and road development for future NES pro-
jects. Disbursements would be made against Statements of Expenditures for
oil palm development ($17 million) and civil works ($5.4 million) performed
by PNP X.
Accounts and Audit
47.       PNP X would maintain separate accounts for expenditures from funds
channelled to the nucleus estate by the Ministry of Finance for smallholder
development and would furnish this account as part of a separate quarterly
report to the DGE and the Bank within 30 days of the close of each quarter.
Both the accounts for smallholder development and the corporate accounts of
PNP X would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. These
audit reports would be submitted to the Bank within four months of the close
of each fiscal year (Section 4.03 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Organization and Management
48.       Overall responsibility for execution of the project would rest with
the DGE and its Special Team (para. 35) in the Ministry of Agriculture.
Smallholder development would be implemented by the nucleus estate, PNP X.
The DGE would sign a Smallholder Development Agreement with PNP X to specify
all works to be carried out for oil palm and food crop development and the
village and settlement infrastructure. The signing of such an agreement
satisfactory to the Bank would be a condition of disbursement for the
smallholder component of the project (Schedule 1, para. 4(b)) of the draft
Loan Agreement). The First Director of PNP X would be the Project Manager
who would supervise and coordinate all project activities with the DGE and
provincial government agencies in South Sumatra. His responsibilities would
include preparation of project budgets and work programs, village master
planning, and settler registration. A Provincial Coordinating Committee,
composed of the chairman of the BAPPEDA (the Provincial Development Planning
Agency), the Project Manager, the Site Manager, the head of the DPD, the
Bupati (the District Chiefs), the head of the provincial BRI and provincial
government representatives, was established for South Sumatra under the NES I
project. The PCC would select settlers and would coordinate program and
budget matters related to provincial government agencies responsible for
health, education and social services. PNP X is responsible to the Ministry
of Agriculture for its estate development. However, to give greater
managerial and financial autonomy to the estate, the status of PNP X would be
changed to that of a PTP, a limited liability public sector estate. This
conversion of PNP X into PTP X would be a condition of disbursement against
expenditures on the oil palm and rubber processing facilities (Schedule 1,
para. 4(c) of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 17 -
49.       Settlement and Settler Selection.  Each new settler would, on
arrival, receive the right to use one hectare for food crop production and
would be employed as a laborer in the oil palm area developed by the nucleus
estate. After three years each smallholder would, if his performance is
judged to be satisfactory by the Project Manager, receive land title (Hak
Milik) for three hectares (including the one ha for food crops and two ha of
oil palm) (Section 3.10 of the draft Loan Agreement). These titles would be
retained by BRI until loan obligations of each smallholder have been
fulfilled. In the initial years of the project, settlers would be selected
from landless families living close to the project area. When these families
have been accommodated, selection would be extended to landless families in
the greater Palembang area, and finally to transmigrants. Families with male
heads of households between 20-40 years of age with family incomes below Rp
250,000 ($400) would receive first priority. Recruitment of potential
settlers would be the responsibility of the PCC who would then forward the
list for registration to the Project Manager.
50.       Project Monitoring.  Oil palm development and civil works in the
project would be monitored and checked for quality and cost control by the
Team for Assistance and its consultants. In addition, the DGE would appoint
an independent firm for inspection services to certify satisfactory completion
by the nucleus estate of each year's objectives for oil palm development and
the accuracy of Statements of Expenditure. Construction of the new palm oil
mill and block crumb rubber factories by PNP X would also be subject to
monitoring and inspection by an independent engineering firm to be appointed
by the DGE.
Agricultural Production and Marketing
51.       Recommendations for oil palm establishment in the project include
high-yielding germinated Dura x Pisifera oil palms, fertilzers and agro-
chemicals, establishment of leguminous cover crops, assisted pollination,
and settler training in weeding practices and harvesting. With inputs as
proposed and with appropriate estate management and training, peak yields
at maturity should be easily achieved at 17 tons FFB/ha. Food crop yields
for the farm plan have been projected at 1.6 tons/ha for padi 12 tons/ha
for wet cassava and 8 tons/ha for sweet potatoes.
52.       Marketing.  To meet present and expected deficits in edible oil
requirements, the Government through the Ministry of Trade and Cooperatives,
has taken action to regulate and divert palm oil and palm kernel oil to
the domestic market.  The excess of domestic demand for edible oils over
the domestic supply of coconut oil is presently estimated at 280,000 tons and
expected to reach 560,000 tons by 1990. Smallholder production of oil palm
resulting from the project would be processed for crude palm oil by PNP X
and shipped to Jakarta for fractionation. Although domestic palm oil prices
are 50% below the world level, the Government intends to increase the
controlled domestic prices to bring them into line with international prices
by 1984. International palm oil prices are expected to remain favorable



- 18 -
($611/ton in 1980) until 1982 and to decline in real terms by about 3% by
1990, to $594/ton (in 1980 prices). It is therefore expected that prices
will remain sufficiently favorable to ensure ample profits for smallholder
beneficiaries.
Financial Analysis
53.       Farm Income.  The farm plan has been designed to provide continuity
of income to settlers with estate wages paid until the oil palm reaches
maturity and thereafter from their own farm production. Incomes during the
development period would not be seriously depressed in the event of food crop
failures since wages from employment on the nucleus estate would constitute
80% of net family income and 95% of pre-project income. At oil palm maturity
(Year 10) net family incomes would be $1,720 (1980 prices). In per capita
terms, net incomes of smallholders in Betung would grow from $70 prior to the
project, to $345 (Year 10). This compares with absolute and relative poverty
target levels in rural areas of $130 and $98 per capita respectively. The
increase in family incremental cash incomes would be sufficiently attractive
to induce settler participation.
54.       Cost Recovery.  Since BRI has had little experience in credit
operations for oil palm development and has no facilities for credit
operations in the project area, the Government has proposed the adoption of a
flexible cost recovery system with repayments by smallholders made "in kind
through the nucleus estate", the same procedure as in NES I, II and III. Loan
accounts in financial terms would be standardized for all smallholders but
would be payable in oil palm (Fresh Fruit Bunches) collected by the nucleus
estate for processing to palm oil. The proportion of oil palm allocated for
debt service would vary according to price but would not exceed 30% of annual
oil palm production. The price received by smallholders would be equivalent
to about 50% of the f.o.b. value of palm oil, allowing the nucleus estate to
cover processing, marketing, collection and overhead charges. Cost recovery
including debt repayment and incremental tax receipts is estimated at 85%.
This index increases to 100% when the costs of schools, health facilities,
water supply, and project management are excluded.
Benefits, Justification and Risks
55.       Costs and Benefits.  The proposed project would increase oil palm
and food crop production on 12,000 ha and would increase incomes of some 4,000
smallholder families (about 20,000 people) all of whom would be in the rural
target population. The investment costs of smallholder development have been
estimated at about $4,760 per family (constant 1980 prices). While expanding
rural employment with the creation of about 10,200 jobs, the project would
also assist rural development in one of the poorest areas of South Sumatra,
and expand oil palm development outside the traditional oil palm area of North
Sumatra. The investment cost of individual job creation is estimated at about
$2,380 (constant 1980 prices), including costs for village development, water
supply, education and health services. The total value of all project



- 19 -
incremental production would be $12.6 million annually (constant 1980 prices)
at full development in 1995. The estimated economic rate of return would be
19%, based on 92% of project costs for which benefits have been quantified.
56.       Risks.  There are no unusual technical works for the proposed
project. However, a major barrier to effective project implementation under
existing NES projects has been a diffusion of management responsibility among
the DGE, the nucleus estate, the Project Manager and the Provincial Govern-
ment. In particular the lack of authority given to the nucleus estate has
delayed civil works, settler housing and village development. Under this
project, the estate would be given full authority for almost all project
components and the First Director of PNP X would be the Project Manager. The
newly established Special Team for Externally Assisted Projects (para. 35)
would assist PNP X with coordination and integration of inputs from the
Central Government when required. A less critical risk for implementation is
the inadequate engineering capacity of PNP X. However, the estate has
contracted for the services of processing engineers and has reorganized its
technical department to streamline engineering requirements. It is antici-
pated that these changes will minimize the risks in the proposed project.
Environmental Effects
57.       The project would establish oil palm and food crops in an area of
secondary jungle and lalang where a poor economic and ecological pattern of
shifting cultivation is presently practiced. Standard soil conservation
methods would be followed to prevent soil erosion. With the establishment
of a leguminous cover crop, application of fertilizers, crop rotation and
fallowing of food crop land, soil fertility would be improved. The small
quantities of chemicals used to control lalang, pests and diseases would have
no significant adverse environmental affects. The new rubber and oil palm
factories would adopt the appropriate standards for the disposal of liquid
effluent to ensure that it is nontoxic and that it would not harm the health
and safety of factory employees or the preservation of fish and wildlife.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
58.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and
the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of the project are
listed in Section III of Annex III.
59.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 20 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
60.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
March 31, 1980
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5 pagtes
;lOOn~~MMM42 2  A STO  CAQi f(=le
Law AM   mevslum SQ. IK)_ =
TML              2027 .URW                                                                                zm
AMCULTILL         292.9                                  mmRCEN            GEG      C    nc            am
19 0  /b    L970 /b ZSSSTZ /b=                       Map1/c CX     /4  C   ts
GCP P!M CAFTA M5S1                       MO          40.0      360.0            528.9       Z09.6        417.5
M =CO0SWOl PER C"ArI
(r SP2N  OF COAL lQnVALU)            129.0        U20.0     21J.0             371.1        S3.9t       ZU.
POtVLATO AMD VtTJL STATSTICSs
PO0LAI0.MM,             0X5"ON)       94.7        17.6       135.2
U22    POMLAIMI      (IIS  OF T0,TL) 14.6          17.1       1J.4             27.;        15.2         24.i
P02011I  IN TZUI ZOOO cg=GS)                              2037.0
5TIORAUT POPULATONI (XIL3)                                357.0
Im       5o15XUS PODZAION    29m                         U3Z t 
POFMtlt. DENlSIT
PER SQ. in.                         *z.0         311.0     *6.0             1314 a       9.4         45.3
M   SQ   50.11 AGCMTL IAD          37.i3        419.0     456.0            5". 7       Z52.0 a      19.0
0-14 3S.                            40d          ".O       Al. 0            41.3         U.l         45.2Z
LB nsY.                           56.1         53.5      56.4 a            =9         53.2         31.9
65 ns. AND ABon                       3.1          2.5        3.0              3.3        3.0          2.8
TOAL                                 2.1          Z.2        2.0              Z.4         2.4          2.7
TmIs                                  ..          3.7        3.3              4.3         4* .3
CDDZ B35  RAT  (r1. THOUSAND)         47.0         *3.0       37.0             30.2        42.46        39.4
)E D>AT  9UST (PER TWUOD             23.0         lJ.O       16.0              83         U3.9         11.7
GOSS  RERDUCTION itnT                  7. d         3.2        Z. 4             Z. 1        2. S         Z.7J
IFAHnLY PLAAL4
A:CZtIS,  LMA  (MMDOS)                ..        lJ.l    Z213.0
IJSEX  (PQRCZII oF KAUn7t  WOW)                   0.2      19.0              34.1        U.1         13.
FW AMo =NOTITON:O
PS CAPITA (1%96-7-100)              9f.5       IOD.O      lD5.0            106.2        9. .Z        99.6
CiwallS (PnRc2w or
Uqn7KSS)                          S9.          91.0      96.0            104.1        93.3         94.7
FWTEDS (C2AKS FM DAY)               43.0         43.0      U3.d             37.4        32.1         54.3
or 'ACR ANM        D US           15. 0R       14.0   1 6.6               16.9        13.6         17.4
-iZ=t  (G-  L-4) 10=Y    &AT          lt.O         22.0       19.0              4.a       1?.5         11.4
w7! ElPJASCT 4,T M=S   (TIU;)    4L. 0             46.0      44.0             Sl. L       49.3         3i.7
lNFANt .4O:=T  UT  (PER
2WSAD)s                                 *-        U.0           ..46.6                   105.4         6d.1
'DTXL                    *-         ~~~~~~~ ~              ~ ~~~ ~~~3.0  ;20   l9  Z6.3  34.4
MIA                               l       O       .O       35.0             46.2        38. 5        57.9
URAL                                  ..          1.0       6.0             II. a       15.d         Z..'
ACCESS 7D E=R.  DIS7OL  PERCENT
L                        ..         L~~~~~~~         ~    ~ ~~~~~ ~~~~2.0  15.   7.4  16.0  50.d
nuA ~   ~      ~      ~     .          50. 0     60.0             65.0        65.1         71.3
RClL                                  ..          4.0       5. 0            14.7         3.5         27.7
MPM-ala  ?Q2 52YSCIM               *1000.0L   7.6d30.0   16430.0            37,0.5    11396.4        S799.4
?P-7.0TIN ?MI IIJ3523Y  PSsION          ..      S10.D    4670.0             1107.4      !352.4       i5722. 1
?0?AII0N ?Q& M0PIT"L 3ED
DD-L                              L370.0      ;6DJ        1560.0a          613.3      1417.1        726.5
7RB..                                          11;0.0        ..03.6                   1197.3        272. 7
U"lL                                  ..      I90.0          .;103                    2645.9       ;604.4
.LISSION5 ?E1 _0SPI'ZL D               ..           .       2.SU9                        :4.S         Z7.i
Al MGE SIZE OF MUSEROL
,OTL                               4.4A         6.3         .'                         5.3          5..
'RR                                 -^9           S. 3       ...                          .9          5. 1
?17R&L                              4,.3         w.7         ...                          .4S 
4VE&AGE, V4BEB OF ?MSONS ?' ROOM
TOTAL                                 .            .5        ......
!RLAL                                  .*                    .                 ..                      .



- 22 -
ANNE T
Page 2 of 5 pages
1-001634A - SOC-%L '-D"IA=   9A?  SMT
rmxmuu            WMM=  Cacasas (ASX              As
SUU~~~~3U *~ I (A0JU8SX=fl
gza 3sam 
mm  I&MT         =4AIC    :xcoa              mom
l96O /b     1970 /a KSr =  lb          zt=   /c SOE  /bd          S1  /0
R7SM?:       51LT                   a7.0         75.0       u.0o             97.9        61.3         82.7
.ALI                  79.0         s0.0       81.0 a9.7                    79.1         87.3
lua.1Z                ss.o         70.0       77.0             97.4        A8.          7n.J
20M72    70U                         6.0         15.0       60.0             4.2         16.1         21.4
MAli                  10.0         20.0       23.0             46.7         Z2.I        33.0
maiz                   3.0         11.0       15.0             40.9        10.2         u.
VOC&XIOEAL SNOL. (: of S=DaA?T  20.0               22.0       21.0             12. 5         .6          9.
Ri1fAT                              39.0         29.0       30.0             32.3        41.0        3.1
SUc:axT                             14.0         13.0      .13.              25.4        22.7         23.4
4=L  L3T2uJT 1n  (P1E                 39.0         57.0       62.0             84.1        31.2         54.0
POPULATIN                            1.0          2.0        3.2              6.1         2.3         9.3
ZAO  t1122m  P&a Asu0
XtOPU                   - 57.0                     ..       7.0             36.4        27.2         7G.9
T?V uc11m  PM  M
POPUL0                                ..          0.7        2.0             ZZ.4        2.4         L3.5
MSwAPU (UAIL? 1-MAL
mTDZS) C32CS.A7= MM
~usa-u    bPOV0.XZ                      ..           ..       16.0             26.2        5.3           L
CfVi'  MAL AV-"MA=  PU CSI.-A   ..                   ..        0.9              3.6         1.L         2.L
-ML           la=  (TS5UIS)    34027.0          42209.0   51000.0
TM%=  (PUt)                         27.9         31.0      30.5             36.7        :4.          19.2
.402CW        (2                    74.1         66.3      60.1             56.6        69..         62.7
aSU? (!UcoT)                         6.4          9.7      12.0             16.3        10.0        11.9
PARTICZA71ON 863Z (PU=)
10th                                  36.7         35.3      34.6             4.7         36.9         37.1
'4411                                 Y56.2        49.5      41.6             49.9        52..        4'3.
20.0        11.6 A      0.8             31.0        18.0        20..
ZCXoII      Cm =   S70                    1.2         1.3        1.1.1 1                      1.2         1.4
MTI
XISI STEYD
rainST 5 PUC32T Of 3I0e                .         33.7         .              14.9         ..         1.
KaIGST  0 ML=   of M300SZL0S          ..         22.0d .-                    46.    .      . 
rLOWES   0  323   07 NOLlS             *          6.a7W                       6.2          .          6.3
LrnIT 40 PERCET aw RMSLU3S            ..         1.3b         .. 7.a                      ..         16.3
LSTLs72AZ0 sASOUT3;- P0T 3 CZM
LZVEL (USS FM CA=)
&UR"                                : :    ~~~~~~~~~~130.0   Us.237      7.           2
LZVM  (USS ?U  CAr-U2)
-w                - 145.0           136.8        91.9       179.7
lUZLL                                                      98.0             96.3        14.3        l3.?
5T-2AT   PCMUU.0X 3ELoV 43501.0Z
20vnT  ;?XCC4-   L .  ( PM=:S)
.241                                   ...                 59.        J       2.1      ...  - 
RURAL                                              .       65.3             S.5         51.9
9ot a'aiiabe
:. c Arnplilc2ola.
907ms
/a    rhe adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-veighted geoetritc seans. excluding the extreme
values of the indicacor and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries   an  the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961;  for 1970. between 1969 and 1971;
and for Most lecent Estimate. between 1974 and 1980. Poverty levels are estimated 1980 levels at 1980 PrIces.
/c    East AIaI  i Pacific; /d Lo  Oncome (230 or leas per capita 1976); 9e ' or Middle Incope  S;81-550 per capita,
1976); /f 1961-63; 7 1962; /h lncose recipients.
Molt Recent Etstime of CLP per capita and population is for 1978.
Decebor 31. 1979



-23-                                                                ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5 pages
vOInmIOn OF SIAL 13ICATORS
Note., Although the data are drawn from source. generally judged the mast autheritative mand reliable, it ehould e3se be noted that they say not he interna-
c~ayomspearahle because of the tech of etandsrdinsd. definitions, nd concepts used by different countries in colleting the data. The dtat  woe  nonetheless,
ume ful to describe ordersof magnitude, indicate trends, and cheretwrise certain es,jor differenceu between countries.
mc'h  ad4oted urcup averages for eachl indicator are ppulation-weightd. geometric mean, excluding the extreme values of the Indicator and the cost populated
ooniFiF'Ib"jhipT'ffi to lek of data, group avrerges of all indicators for.Capital Surplus Oil Reporters and of indicators of Aceems to Water snd  xeoreta
Disposal, Housing, Income Distribution end Poverty for other countr-y groasp ore popiultion-weighted gaeintric eanss without exclusion of the extreme velues and
the most populated country.  Sios thecv.L  of cutrieser   h  iiestoreAeds on, availshild    of data and Is not uniform, caution must be exercised
In relating averages of one Indicator to anohr Tesavr s or emr  co                 useful as arxinstioso"                ted' v            c W   om u   the veiue  e oner
indicator at a time sangthe country and reference groups.
LAt AREA (thou.sand eghe..)                                                                Aceece to  rsisrta.4 Dinee ormt of nsation)-  toaluban,. an  rurl
___t_   Total ourfs  car.-cacmrising land area mad inland eaters.                          timbe-rof Peol  (toal  ub,ancre)srvdyexradapomal a
Agrcultural .-Hot recent estimate of agricultural acea used temporarily                    percentages of their respective popuaAtions. hxorsta disposal may include
or pernenctly forcrops,Pastures, whret and kitchen gardens or to                         the collection end disposal, with or without treatment, of hnen excrete.
lIe  Calico.                                                                             end waste-eater by wtetr-brms systems or the, use of pit priviese and sucilar
loetallations.
GNiP PER CAPITA )ii$) -GINP per capit  estimcates at current nsarket pri-Os,P. toualpgM                        ai4p4an - population dLivided by number of practicing phymiciene
calIe.il.ted by sane cooversion method ao World Bsisk Atlas (1976-78 basish                 qm               amedlcal school at university level.
1960, 19170, and 1978 data.                                                              Pco  ltic  Ler Pursin  Persos - Population divided by number of practicing male
EPEHOY Ct5UMPIii GN PEP CAPiTA - Ancoad "ocomption of  .mmiercialmenerg                      anMeegaute nurees, practical nursesm, and assistant nurses.
(oladlignite,ptoem           t_olga an-d hy        -eulear ad gec-                 Pouainpr Hosote   ed-total,tuban  ad  rura  - Population (total, urban,
thermal sie-tricit) io kilograms of co.al  quivalect per capita; 1960,                     an  rra)divided byter rep ienumber of hoptlhd  aalbet
1970  and 197h data,                                                                       public end private general and epecialiced hoetpital end rehabilitation centers.
Hospitals are establishments permsnently staffed by at least one physician.
POPULILTION APD VITAL STATISTICS                                                             Establiahebmet  providing principally cuetodial core ace not included. Rural
Toa   oulto,- Au of July 1; 1960, 1970, and                                                hospitals, however, include health and medical centers not persnently staffed
1977 data,                                                                               by a physician (but by a medical aseistant, curse, midwife,* etc.) which offer
Urban population (Percent of total) - Patio of urban to total population;                  in-patient acconnodation and provide a limited renge of medical fecilities.
different definitions of urban area s  affect comparability of data                    Admisin  p_Hospia  Bed - Total number of madmission  to or discharges from
among countrnen; o16,1970, mod 197  data.                                                hoptasdiiedb  tn.heonmber of bed..
Populat ion Proj ections
Population in year 2000 - Current population projectiono ore based on               HOUSING
197.  oa  poualc  yaesd 0c and their mortality and fertility                        Average Sine of House.hold  pers,onspr  househld)- tohtal, urban, and rural -
rntee. Projectic- parcotero for mortality rates oc-prioc of three                      A household coneilt  ofagopo   nIviul  wh hoeliving quarters and
levels aouning life copectuncy at birth Increasing cith country's                      their main neals.  A boorder or lodger mey or mey cot bo included is the
per capita income leve, and female life expectancy etebilisieg at                      heueehold for statistical. purposes..
77.5 yeare.  The parameters for fertility rate mIsc have three 1levl                Average,number of cereoneper room, -ttal rban, ad rual- Average cnmber
auc,ning decline in fertility accrding to income level and past                        of Persons per room in       ubn  edrrl  cuid  osventional dwellings,
fami ly P,  ning p-rforaance. Eacb country In then mosigned one of these               r-pectively,  Dwellings exclude non-permanent etructures and unoccupted parto.
nine combinations of mortelity and fertility trends for projection                  Access ,toaEle,ctri1city  (percent ofid deefiogs)   total,turban. and rural -  Con-
purpocec.                                             ventional doellinge with electricity in livin~~~j'g qu rers aspercentagc of
itatonurypopulation - Ic a stationary population there io no growth                      total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
nince tie Morth ratr in equal to the death rate, and Ilec the age
ntreture re"aino concatant. ThIin inahieved only after.fertility rateo            EDUJCATIOP
d-oliac to the replaocmet icvce  ofuit net reproduotion rate, when                  Adjunted Enrollment Patios
eah genertion of comoc repla-ec it_jf ...aetly.The.taticn.. oy pcpu-                   Pries-y school - total, male end female - Gross total, male and femal  enrol-
intion c, ceca  -timatrd o- the hn-io of the projected characteristics                   cent of all agen at the primary level as percentages of respective primery
of the population ic the year 2000, and the rate of decline of fertility                 school-age popuaations; normally includes children aged 6-1i yearn but
rote to   P replace .nt.leve.                                                            adjueted.for different lengths of prisay education; for coutries with
tear  tatiocary copulation in reached - The year when stationary population                uiversal education enrollment as  euceed 100 percent since occe popiln
nice haa been reached.                                                                   are below or above the officiaLl schcol age.
P.oplation De.nocty                                                                        le ..r  schoo'l -tota   mal and feal  - Computed an alrce;nncoooa.ry
Pler en. Inn. - P1d-year popuistion per square kiloceic  (100 hectares) of                 educatiorqires atleat  four yer  of approvd primary instruction;
total araprovides general vocational, or teacher training instrucetions for pupils
Pee no. Ion.gricuitucal lane - Coputed an above for agricultural land                      usually of 12 to 17 yewru of age; correspondence .. cnreo are g-neraly
only.                                                                                    eucluded.
Population Age Structu,re(percent) - Children (0-14 yearn), coning-age                     Voca.tional enrollment (percent of oecondory) - Vocational  institutioons include
(15-64 years), no' rtied( y ears and over) an percentagen of mid-year                      technical, industrial, or other progresms which operate independently or a
population; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                     dcpartments of secondary institutions.
Peculation Growh "mIt, )2 Ieet) - loa    - OsnA-    croeth ratec of total mid-             Nepil-teacher ratio -_primay  and seecndar  - Iciol students ene1lnd.in
year populations fo W95-0, 19J60-70, ad1970-77                                             primary and seconda   leesdivided by numbero of teachero in the comre-
P.pul.tion Growthta     (pre)- uban - Annual growth -atco of urban                            pocding levels.
pouoin   o   990-60, 1000-70, and 19'70-7S.                                     Adult literacy rate (percent) -iterote adlultu  (able to read and orite) a
Crude Rlrti tate   er thoucaId  - Annual live births pee thoucand of mid-                    apercentage of total adult population aged 15 yearn and ever.
year population; 1  ,17,ad 1977 dta.
Crude Death Rate (c   "onoo)    nna  demte. per thousand of nod-year                   CONOUHPI
ppltion; 1960  1970, and 1977 data.                                                 Pansengeref (Per thousnd population) - Pacoenger eaxu conprine moter earn
GreoTRereduetibon into  - Acs-ge cante  of daughters a conan  ill bear                     crating leon than eight personns; e..cIudso amkulasaces, hearseo and nilitary
in her n..-I repr-du-ti- period if ohe e-p-e-iene  pres...t ago-                         vehiol-n
specific fertility eaten; un-ally five-year average.sending in i96i,                  cadic Rleeivero  per t2heuad cpultahtion) - All types of receivero for radio
i970, and 1975.                                                                          broadoe_te togeneral pbi  per tousand of' ppulation; encludentunlice..ned
FtashyPlanning - Acoptorn. Annul (houands) - Annua.l number of                             re-ivern  in ccuntrieo and in yeses chen registrationiofradio nat amI
accetor  ofbirt-cotro  deic_  ude- ..unpicee of national family                  effect; data for recent yearn  coy not be comparable oioes-t ocoiriec"
pa:lan,eing prog-n                                                                        aboliuhe,d.liceno ing.
Faiy Pl_oing-U dcer   (percet cI married soe)-Percen.tage of married                   TV Re.eivr  (per thou-ad population) - TV rcieofor broadcast to geneal
.0cm  of childb-bain  ag   15-41 year)  h.c on  birth-ooctroi devices                    poblie per th-unad population; emludestunlicensdfTV reiroin coentrien
to all maried  cme  In cane age grou.P,                                                  and in yearn  hen reginration of TV n         .. om  in efect.
nionuonper Circulatjion (per thousand --xlation) - ibhe- the overge  iclto
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                           of "daily general interet n-paper", deIt=ned ..aaPeriodica1 publication
mdccof ood  rodctio  ev  Cupla  196-71-00)- Inec  f pe  caitadeputed primarily torcrding general neon.  It in considered to hr "daily"
aannual prdodctilon of alfood ce itr.Production entude- need and                         if It  popears at le-ot four timoaeet..-k
fend and Ion cc _onied   yea  latin.  C-ndi ties ocoer primery goods                   Cinem  An.oun  Attendance pev Cacita one Yea  - caned on the ousie  of tioheto
;c.g. -  rcn _ ~ inct-endf -aur)  hti.h are vOiblc and -octoicentrienta                  told during the year, including  dd.ia..on  to drive-in ci-emmo and mobLle
eg. coff_can  teaarc ecoloded).  Aggregate production of each coantry                  uio
is lace  00 ontiomi  .er..    prod--v  prior weighto.
Per m pis oucicof o) 'co    oret of Cooroei)     oputed fron                LABOR F0RCE
.enegy eqoco-eot  fC cvt fo'd c-ppl-r  noa..Iblir in o.untry pro capita             Total tab-oo Porte )thousands) - P.nn.emially active persons, including armed
Pee day. A-eilalv  -opp<v-  -omerio  d-'-rtic prdodution , imnports iron               force  and unemployed hut euciuding hnuneciven, ntudentn, etc   . lfini to-n
_ha_<tvc _   1       <hg 0."  tot  oppliro  _celod  soles) feed, needs,         i. o oi-nu  coutrien are cot comparable.
quantitn_ i,ced zo fod  -roolg, and 1--ov  in diotoibotion. tequire-              ),,ode  ..   ntc e; -Female labor force no percentage of total labor force.
neto core  ottioted by PtO lacd on ptyciclogi-al orede for nor mal                   Pg!7! rret) - toter force in farming, forestry, hunting and
ectooc ty and bou,th con-id-ong -vir',-ntal t-npermtsre., hedytwightn,                 fiohing aso percentage of total iabcr fnrc..
ag a bdco .lthti-ns ' f pcpulatl-, and al11oieg 10 percen  for                   Industry (percent) - Later force in mining, construction, mwnufacturing and
smit  atlocrloi  leel                                                            eleciricity, water ad gan an percentage of toftal labor f-ere
Per capito  -uplyIofp-t-i lgeanc pe  day) - Prtocl coonteut of pee                    Paticipton Rate (pret-ttl  sale,h adfemale - Participation or
eapita rot -upply of fo,d p-c day. Net eupply of food in defin-d as                    activity mien see computed an total, omIe, and faemlo labor foroce m  per-
above. Reqo iren...to for all ...untrien cstobliohed by USDA provide fee a ceatagen of total, male and female population of nil ages renpeetively;
nioco-o  alio-anv   of 60 Eoanc of total protein per day and 20 grsnoef                1960, 1970, and 1979 datm.  These are I101's participation. rates reflecting
animal and poler p_ctri,' ofhoch 10 gram  ehoud he ainial protein.                     age-ee etruetu-  of tie popultien, and long time trend,  A fee entimates
Threse standards arc ilcer than thoce of 75 gram,s of total protein and               see from national soucuesr.
25 goon  ofnmdp-tci. c n   an-c-ago for the corid, propose d by FAG                 Economic Dependeny Patio -  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to
in tooh i<v  Worl  Pee) ilcey.                                                        thelborforce inge grop of 15-64 y-a-o
Per capita ProteinIuppiy f-o  anioal and pulue - Protein eupply of feed
d-evod free animai  an-d pI-or  in grMo por day.                                  ICOME DISTR~ITSO            -        thiPahan    id   -Rcie   b    ihs
Chi~ld (ee1-4) Mortal ily Pat  (ore thguan)   Annual desth  per thounand                 Pecnae of Privte Inoe (bot   ncs   n   id       eevdb   iho
inage grou  I-'pcc  oeode   nti   goco;fems   ee-5pret, richest 20prcent, prst20 percen.t, and p--ret 40O percent
oping c--tte- deto dolor) Proc life tablro.                                              of householdn..
HSEALTH                                                                                   tPOVETY TARGOOT GRiOUPS
life Epcac   1brhyan      crg  onbr  oP yearn of iofe                                    Eotimated Absolute poverty Income Level (Us1$ per capita) - urbmaned rural-
reminig s  bith;196,i70, ad 1977. data                                             Aboolute poverty income level is that income level below   hich a minimal
infant   rt tlhy noe(per tho'and ) - Ass..I d-athe of infants under ene                    nutritio  ally1 adequate diet plea... roetial cn.-foed requirements in not
year of age perth-ouad lior birthn.                                                      affordable.
Accesn to Safe Water  ePrcent of popu'laion     toa,ura,ad rura  -                       Estimated Relative Poverty Income Level (USlt per capita) - urban and rural-
Hote   f  voi   ttl,ora,  n  rra)ou    esenbe  ceso to                           Rural relative Poverty incom  lecel in one-thirdeofaverage, per capita
cafe car  ou pplY (1I Icd-n treted surface -t-r  er  ntreatcd bet                        personal income of the country. Urban level ho derived fr   the rura  level
unc-tni-mnted outer ouch no that from protected horeheic-, opringo,                      subh adjustment for higher cost of living in urban areas.
and nanitr  cello) ma p-rntageo of theIr reopectice populations. In                    Eotimated  -Pocutien Below Abolut         etyIom   Levi(ercect -uban and
an urbanarea a public fountain  or etadpn  lcae   otmrthn                                 ua     Preto  pplte   (rban and rual  nbacabouthee"
200 metere from a houee mo  be --cidered mu being within reasonable
a-ees of that houne. In rural acenreas r.onable accees c.uId imply
tha-t t"hebuesife or meahb-  of th  touoe..hold dc not have to  psped. aEicnmic and Sonia1 iata Division
dboproportioat  ar pnt o'f the, day in fetching the fuaily' coaler needs                                                   Ecenoxin Anaysis and Pr-je-tina  Department
August 1979



- 24 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5 pages
ECONONIC IINDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1978 /a                   ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTMl (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln    2          1960-65          IQ65-70          1971-78
GNP at Market Prices           47,461  100.0          1.9               4.9               7.8
Gross Domestic Investment    10,022   21.1            3.3              11.5              14.7
Gross National Saving           9,233   19.5          5.8               5.1              12.0
Current Account Balance        -1,155   -2.4
Exports of Goods, NFS          10,278   21.7          1.5               7.8               8.9
Imports of Goods, NFS           9,144   19.3          0.2              10.9              17.9
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1976
Value Added       Labor Force /b    V.A. Per Worker
USS Hln    2         Mln 10                US$      2
Agriculture                    11,624   31.1       35.3    62.6           329    49.7
Industry                       12,672   33.9        4.7     8.3        2,696   407.3
Services                       13,043   35.0       13.4    23.8          973   147.0
Unallocated                          -    -         3.0      5.3
Total/Average               37,339  100.0      56.4   100.0           662   100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT
(Rp Billion)                             % of GDP
1977/78   1978/79                         1977    1q78
Current Receipts                 3,535      4,266                         18.9    19.6
Current Expenditure              2,149      2,744                         11.5    12.6
Current Surplus                  1,386      1,522                          7.4     7.0
Capital Expenditures             2,157      2,556                         11.5    11.7
External Assistance (net)          738        987                          3.9     4.5
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES
1972    1973    1974    1975    1976    1977   1978
(Mfillion Rp outstanding end period)
Money and Ouasi Money                   695     987   1,452   1,978   2,631   3,131  3,809
Bank Credit to Public Sector            129     153      209      990   1,051      883  1,442
Bank Credit to Private Sector           524     932   1,186   1,376   1,737   2,n17  2,605
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Mfoney as X of GDP   15.2    14.6    13.5    15.6    17.0    16.7   17.5
General Price Index (1971 = 100)        106      139     196      234      280     311    336
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                     6.4    31.1    41.0    19.4    19.7    11.0    8.1
Bank Credit to Public Sector         -14.0    18.6    36.6   373.7         6.2   -16.0   63.3
Bank Credit to Private Sector          65.3    77.9    27.2    16.0    26.2    16.1   29.2
Note:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing
during the period covered.
/a  Exchange rate of Rp 415 = USS1 up to November 14, 1978, Rp 625 = US$1, thereafter.
/b  Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.
"Unallocated" consists mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
Not applicable
East Asia & Pacific Programs
January 30, 1980



- 25 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5 pages
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                        1976    1977    1978        MERCHANDISE EXPORTS
(Average 1976-78)          US$ Mln       %
1.  Exports:                            6,573   7,952   7,989
(a)  Oil and LNG (net)            3,710   4,445   4,010        Oil and LNG (net)              4,055      54.1
(b)  Nonoil                       2,863   3,507   3,979        Timber                           986      13.1
2.  Imports (incl. net NFS)            -6,657  -7,777  -8,129         Rubber                           653       8.7
(a)  Imports                    -6,167  -7,241  -7,543         Coffee                           488       6.5
(b)  NFS (net)                    -490    -536       586       Palm Oil                         190       2.5
3.  Resource balance                      -84      175    -140        Tin                              253       3.4
4.  Factor services                      -718    -865  -1,015         Manufactures                     261       3.5
(a)  Interest public debt /a    -314    -436    -499           All others                       619       8.2
(b)  Other (net)                  -404    -429    -516
5.  Balance on current account           -802    -690  -1,155              Total                     7.505    100.0
6.  Direct foreign investment             287      285      271
7.  Capital grants                         100     100      100
8.  Public M & LT loan /a                                             EXTERNAL DEBT - December 31. 1978
(a)  Disbursement                2,334   1,955   1,627                                          Disbursed  Undisbursed  Total
(b)  Amortization                 -457    -825    -969                                          -------- US$ million --------
(c)  Net disbursements           1,897   1,130       658
9.  Other capital (net)                  -481    -174       834       Total External Public Debt         12,983      5,794    18,777
10. Change in reserves
(- increaise)                   -1,001    -651    -708
11.  Net official reserves               1,557   2,208   2,916         DEBT SERVICE RATIO                         1976    1977    1978
Reserves in months of imports + NFS         2.8     3.4      4.3       Public debt service as % of exports    11.7    15.9    18.4
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                       IBRD/IDA LENDING (February 29. 1980) (US$ million)
IBRD        IDA
August 1971 through November 14. 1978
Outstanding & Disbursed                        809.86    524.55
US$1.00  =  Rp 415                                                 Undisbursed                                  1,765.14    290.25
Rp 1,000 =  US$2.41                                                Outstanding incl. Undisbursed                2,575.00    814.80
Since November 15. 1978
US$1.00 = Rpj 625
Rp 1,000 = US$1.60
/a Based on IBRD external debt data.
East Asia and Pacific Programs
March 21, 1980



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 24 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP.OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of February 29, 1980)
US$ million
Loan/                                                              Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                              (less cancellations)
Number   Year              Purpose                       Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
Two Loans and twenty-three Credits fully disbursed        98.00  313.10        -
259     1971   Tea                                               15.00        0.40
300     1972   Population                                        13.20        1.96
318     1972   Inter-Island Fleet Rehabilitation                  8.50        0.27
319     1972   Fourth Agricultural Estates                       11.00        1.85
355     1973   Beef Cattle Development                            3.60        0.02
358     1973   North Sumatra Smallholder Development              5.00        0.80
387     1973   Third Education                                   13.50        4.25
399     1973   West Java Thermal Power                           46.00        3.04
400     1973   Smallholder and Private Estate Tea                 7.80        5.38
405     1973   Sugar Industry Rehabilitation                     50.00        0.47
428     1974   Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate                     16.50        9.20
451     1974   Fourth Technical Assistance                        5.00        1.34
479     1974   Bali Tourisn                                      16.00        8.08
480     1974   Fisheries Credit                                   6.50        1.41
514     1975   Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension                    30.00       19.09
785     1978   Small Enterprise Development Project              40.00       20.85
827     1978   Rural Credit                                      30.00       29.45
869     1979   Polytechnic                                       49.00       48.42
898     1979   Fifth Technical Assistance                        10.00        9.97
919     1979   Transmigration II                                 67.00       67.00
946     1980   Yogyakarta Rural Development                      12.00       12.00
984     1980   Smallholder Rubber Development/a
Project                                          45.00       45.00
1040     1975   Jakarta Urban Development                 25.00                1.78
1049     1975   Five Cities Water Supply                  14.50                4.60
1089     1975   Second Fertilizer Expansion              115.00                0.08
1100     1975   Sixth Irrigation                          65.00               40.67
1127     1975   Fourth Power                              41.00                2.02
1139     1976   Fertilizer Distribution                   68.00                0.83
1179     1976   Agricultural Research & Extension         21.50               15.30
1197     1976   National Resource Survey & Mapping        13.00                7.24
1236     1976   Fourth Highway                           130.00               86.31
/a Not yet effective.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 24 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                                Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                       Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
1237    1976   Fourth Education                           37.00                28.28
1250    1976   Second Shipping                            54.00                36.04
1254    1976   Third Fertilizer Expansion                 70.00                 7.71
1259    1976   Fifth Power                                90.00                42.72
1267    1976   National Food Crops Extension              22.00                11.41
1268    1976   Seventh Irrigation                         33.00                17.29
1318    1977   Transmigration and Rural Develpment    30.00                    19.23
1336    1977   Second Urban Development                   52.50                13.11
1337    1977   Tanjung Priok Port                         32.00                19.12
1363    1977   Second Private Development Finance
Co. of Indonesia (PDFCI-II)             15.00                6.48
1365    1977   Sixth Power                               116.00                61.72
1373    1977   Nutrition Development                      13.00                11.81
1433    1977   Teacher Training-Fifth Education           19.00                16.20
1434    1977   Eighth Irrigation                          63.00                55.92
1435    1977   Ninth Irrigation                           35.00                26.48
1437    1977   Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO III)  40.00                    10.74
1472    1977   Second Population                          24.50                21.14
1486    1978   Non-Formal Education                       15.00                12.29
1499    1978   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I         65.00                55.00
1513    1978   Seventh Power                             109.00               104.98
S009    1978   Bukit Asam Coal Mining and
Transport Engineering                   10.00                 3.85
1578    1978   Tenth Irrigation                          140.00               134.57
1579    1988   Eleventh Irrigation                        31.00                27.38
1604    1978   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders II    65.00                    64.72
1645    1979   Twelfth Irrigation                         77.00                74.01
1653    1979   Third Urban Development                    54.00                54.00
1691    1979   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control          50.00                49.74
(Thirteenth Irrigation)
1692    1979   Second Agricultural Training               42.00                41.50
1696    1979   Fifth Highway                             130.00               128.97
1703    1979   Fourth BAPINDO                             50.00                50.00
1707    1979   Transmigration II                          90.00                90.00
1708    1979   Eighth Power                              175.00               175.00
1709    1979   Second Water Supply                        36.00                36.00
1751    1980   Nucleus Estates and
Smallholders III                        99.00               98.88



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 24 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                              Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                              (less cancellations)
Number   Year              Purpose                      Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
Total                                        2,575.00  814.80   2,055.39
of which has been repaid                      37.13    0.41
Total now outstanding                        2,537.87  814.39
Amount sold                           28.24               0.00
of which has been repaid          -14.77      13.47
Total now held by Bank and IDA /a            2,524.40  814.39
Total undisbursed                            1,765.14  290.25   2,055.39
/a Prior to exchange adjustment.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 24 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of February 28. 1980)
Fiscal                                Type of            Loan    Equity    Total
year          Obligor               business                  (US$ million) ---
1971   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement              10.6       2.5       13.1
1971   P.T. Unitex                  Textiles             2.5       0.8        3.3
1971   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles               2.0       0.5        2.5
1971   P.T. Kabel Indonesia         Cable                2.8       0.4        3.2
1972   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.         Textiles             4.5       1.5        6.0
1973   P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel    Tourism               11.0         -       11.0
1973   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement               5.4       0.7        6.1
1974   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles               2.0       0.3        2.3
1974   P.T. Monsanto Pan            Electronics          0.9         -        0.9
1974   P.T. PDFCI                   Devel. Fin. Co.        -       0.5        0.5
1974   P.T. Kamaltex                Textiles             2.4       0.6        3.0
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement               5.0       1.5        6.5
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement                 -       1.1        1.1
1977   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.         Textiles             0.3         -        0.3
1977   P.T. Kamaltex                Textiles             1.4       0.1        1.5
1979   P.T. Daralon                 Textiles             0.9         -        0.9
Total                                               51.7      10.5      62.2
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled                 33.4       2.1      35.5
Total held by IFC                                   18.3       8.4      26.7
Undisbursed (including participant's portion)          -         -          -



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 24 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
These notes are arranged by sectors in the following order:
Page No.
Agriculture
Irrigation (Cr. 514, Ln. 1100, 1268, 1434, 1435, 1578,                       6-7
1579, 1645 and 1691)
Other Agriculture Production (Cr. 259, 319, 355, 358, 400,                   8-10
405, 480,
Ln. 1318, 1499, 1604, 1707                 10-11
and 1751)
Agriculture Support Services (Ln. 1179 and 1267)                            11-12
Rural Development (Cr. 946)                                                  12
Agro-Business and Credit (Cr. 785 and 827)                                     12
Education (Cr. 387, 869, Ln. 1237, 1433, 1486 and 1692)                       13-14
Energy (Cr. 399, 1127, 1259, 1365, 1513 and 1708)                             15-16
Industrial Development and Finance
Fertilizer Production (Ln. 1089 and 1254)                                    16
Industrial Estates (Cr. 428)                                                 17
Development Finance Companies (Ln. 1363, 1437 and 1703)                      17
Coal Mining (Ln. S-9)                                                        18
Population and Nutrition
Population (Cr. 300 and Ln. 1472)                                            18
Nutrition (Ln. 1373)                                                         19
Technical Assistance (Cr. 451, 898 and Ln. 1197)                              19-20
Transportation
Fertilizer Distribution (Ln. 1139)                                           20
Highways (Ln. 1236 and 1696)                                                20-21
Marine Transport (Ln. 1250)                                                  21
Ports (Ln. 1337)                                                             22
Tourism (Cr. 479)                                                              22
Urban Development (Ln. 1040, 1336 and 1653)                                    23
Water Supply (Ln. 1049 and 1709)                                               24
/1  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.-



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 24 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
AGRICULTURE
Irrigation
Credit No. 514 Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension: US$30 Million Credit of
October 3, 1974: Effective Date: January 10, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31. 1980.
Initial organizational difficulties and late awarding of the first
construction contract have caused a delay of about 2 years in the project
schedule. The first construction activity started in February 1977 and
contracts for over 70% of the project works have been let. Based on bid
prices for the first contract and revised quantity estimates on the basis of
detailed design, total project cost is now estimated to be about 140% over
the appraisal estimate and the project is currently expected to be completed
by December 1982.
Loan No. 1100   Sixth Irrigation:  US$65 Million Loan of April 10. 1975;
Effective Date: June 20, 1975: Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Good progress has been made on the rehabilitation works, but con-
struction of new works is behind schedule because of delays in preparing
contract documents. The two largest contracts have still not been let.
Substantial cost overruns are anticipated due to unavoidable major changes
in the design of the Sampean Baru dam and unit price increases in other
components. These will be verified as bids are received for the major
contracts.
Loan No. 1268   Seventh Irrigation:  US$33 Million Loan of June 4. 1976;
Effective Date: September 21. 1976; Closing Date:
December 31. 1981.
Construction is underway in the North Sadang and tertiary develop-
ment areas, and studies being funded under the project are expected to be
completed shortly. The mapping progam is progressing satisfactorily.
Disbursements are ahead of schedule.
Loan No. 1434   Eighth Irrigation:  US$63 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977: Closing Date: March 31. 1983.
The project is being implemented satisfactorily, although disburse-
ments are currently about 80% behind the appraisal estimate largely due to



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 24 pages
delays in the Madiun rehabilitation and Ciujung drainage components, and
partly due to late payment to contractors. Disbursements are expected to
improve in succeeding semesters because of increased activity in these
components.
Loan No. 1435   Ninth Irrigation:  US$35 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
While delays have arisen due to inadequate mapping in the Sungai
Dareh-Sitiung area, the project is ahead of schedule and progressing
satisfactorily. Disbursements are ahead of schedule.
Loan No. 1578   Tenth Irrigation:  US$140 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
Delay in implementation of the project components is about 12
months. Some delays have occurred in awarding contracts and the construction
program will have to be accelerated to achieve the completion target. Pro-
gress of studies of dams and irrigation subprojects is behind schedule due
to the late awarding of contracts for aerial mapping for the Kali Progo, Way
Seputih and Way Sekampung areas. Progress on studies at Dumoga and Gumbasa
has been satisfactory. The staff of the PIBD, the Executive Body for Major
Irrigation Projects with World Bank Assistance, will have to be strengthened
in order to cope with the increased construction program from FY80/81 onwards.
Loan No. 1579   Eleventh Irrigation:  US$31 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
A smooth start has been made on some components but two components
are behind schedule due to unforeseen technical problems and delays in
drawing up tender documents.
Loan No. 1645   Twelfth Irrigation:  US$77 Million Loan of December 29, 1978.
Effective Date: May 10, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
Consultant contracts are being finalized and a smooth start to
project implementation is being made.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 24 paO6es
Loan No. 1691   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control:  US$51 Million Loan of
May 7, 1979; Effective Date: October 16, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31. 1984.
This loan became effective last October and the initial progress is
satisfactory.
Other Agriculture Production
Credit No. 259 Tea: US$15 Million Credit of June 24, 1971; Effective
Date: September 17, 1971; Closing Date: August 31. 1980.
Nearly all the targets set at appraisal have been achieved one year
ahead of project completion, but factory capacity still has to be expanded
to take account of the increased production which exceeds appraisal estimates
by about 6,000 tons, or 30%. Financial, technical and managerial performance
has been excellent. Inflation and additional construction and equipment
costs increased project costs by about 17% above appraisal estimate, but the
economic rate of return is good and is expected to be over 20%. The closing
date has been extended to August 31, 1980, in order to make payment for goods
ordered but not delivered by the previous closing date.
Credit No. 319 Fourth Agricultural Estates: US$11 Million Credit of
June 28, 1972; Effective Date: January 30, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The planting program was completed in 1976 at 6,924 ha of rubber
and 5,052 ha of oil palm. By 1981 all areas should be mature and construction
completed at the Bekri Mill, Panjang bulk installation and Way Berulu crumb
rubber factory. Rubber production for 1978 was 10,986 tons (3% above target)
and oil palm was 29,159 tons (35% below target). The drought of 1976/77 and
a severe caterpillar attack in 1977 contributed to this drop.
Credit No. 355 Beef Cattle Development: US$3.6 Million Credit of
January 31, 1973; Effective Date: May 30, 1973;
Closing Date: September 30, 1980.
The PT Bina Mulya Ternak Corporation (PTBMT) is now managed by
Indonesian staff with satisfactory technical capability. Development of ranch
infrastructure and fencing has been completed, but pastures on both Sulawesi
ranches remain understocked. Fertility levels of cattle are low and as yet no
satisfactory solution has been found to improve the situation. A three-year
pasture and grazing research program with Australian bilateral assistance
started in early 1979 and it is expected that, inter alia, the cause for low
fertility may also be determined in 1980 or 1981. Purchases of domestic stock
in 1979 enabled PTBMT to partially utilize its surplus grazing capacity and
improve its finances. The budget for 1980 has been approved and sufficient
funds are available to meet investment and operating expenditures in 1980 and
up to project completion, about mid-1980. The recording system in PTBMT is
satisfactory; there are no specific disbursement problems.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 24 pages
Credit No. 358 North Sumatra Smallholder Development: IJS$5 Million Credit
of February 14, 1973; Effective Date: August 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The 9,000 ha planting program under the project is now completed.
Rubber and oil palm continue to show very satisfactory growth with the
1974/75 plantings of rubber and oil palm coming into production. Control of
weeding and general maintenance standards will require close supervision up
to 1982/83 when all plantings reach maturity.
Credit No. 400  Smallholder and Private Estate Tea:  US87.8 Million Credit
of June 22, 1973; Effective Date: November 30, 1973;
Closing Date March 31, 1982
The project provides credit through Bank Rakyat Indonesia and
extension advice through a Project Management UJnit for improvement of
Indonesian smallholder and private estate tea. Of 13,200 ha, 60% was to be
rehabilitated and 40% replanted. Participants have preferred more costly
replanting and the objective has therefore been changed to 10,500 ha, and
the proportions reversed. Production will not be adversely affected since
replanting yields are higher. Costs are now estimated to exceed appraisal
estimates by about 60% since replanting is more expensive and costs have
risen sharply because of inflation. Disbursements are behind appraisal
estimates for the same reasons. The project has made a significant impact
on the private sector of the Indonesian tea industry. The project training
program is especially noteworthy having now involved more than 9,000
smallholders through practical village training schemes.
Credit No. 405  Sugar Industry Rehabilitation:  nTS$50 Million Credit of
June 26, 1973; Effective Date: April 22, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The two rehabilitated factories and the one newly constructed are
operating satisfactorily, except for problems with instrumentation and
shortage of spares, which are being tackled. Cane areas have been expanded,
but field development to increase yield and sugar content, particularlv on
factory rented cane land, has not received sufficient attention. Although
cane farmers' yields come close to appraisal forecasts, further improvements
are possible. Largely due to uneven supply and poor quality of cane, finan-
cial results of PTP XV and PTP XXI/XXII are poor, though the latter is
improving. The solution is to improve cane productivity and quality and total
factory cane supply and to implement a cost reduction program, including
amalgamation of uneconomic units. The Government is encouraging a switch to
farmers' cane on a much greater scale than foreseen at appraisal, with
consequent dislocation of cane supply. Sugar is a favorable smallholder crop
in rainfed and less well irrigated land, especially in East Java, but inten-
sive research on rainfed cane varieties, intercropping and upland soil



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 24 pages
fertility is needed to encourage farmer interest and maintain cr-l supply.
The Pasuruan Sugar Experiment Station has been slow to carry out this
research.
Credit No. 480 Fisheries Credit: US$6.5 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: January 8, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1980
Initial delays have put the project about 18 months behind schedule.
The marine fishing complex at Ambon is completed, making a promising start
with twenty fishing boats operating, ten by the Government's skipjack tuna
enterprise and ten by a cooperative; two 100 gross ton catcher/carriers have
been ordered. The quality of fishpond lending by Bank Rakyat Indonesia
suffered early deficiencies, but is now completed; results are patchy and
arrears excessive in some areas. Coverage is much less than appraisal fore-
cast (31% of farmers, 60% of area) and details not yet available, but infla-
tion and the inability of smaller owners to participate are probably the
reasons.
Loan No. 1318   Transmigration and Rural Development:  US$30 Million
Loan of July 21. 1976: Effective Date: March 30. 1977;
Closing Date: December 31. 1981
Settlement and construction are lagging about a year behind
appraisal estimates, partly because of the initial delay in project effec-
tiveness and weak project organization and management. Nonetheless, 1,300
migrant families have been settled at Baturaja and are successfully growing
food crops. Initial incomes are satisfactory in spite of inadequate
fertilizer supp'lies and poor seed supply, although one third to one half
originates from construction and rubber planting. These incomes are sub-
stantially above incomes the transmigrants received in Java. As evidence
of the relative attraction of the Baturaja community, 485 spontaneous
settlers have already been attracted to the site. In the existing settled
area at Way Abung, there has been little improvement in incomes because
fertilizers are not available on site and delayed road construction limits
marketing of cash crops. Experience to date highlights the need for
improving project management and ensuring that agricultural support services
and input supply systems are in place as settlement proceeds.
Loan No. 1499   Nucleus Estates and Smallholder I:  US$65 Million Loan
of November 18, 1977; Effective Date: January 2, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project's overall physical progress has been generally good
but unequal. While in some areas the planting program substantially exceeded
the target, in others it remained behind schedule, but recently, energetic
measures have been taken to make up for the delays. Housing, roads and
village development is behind schedule but preparations are under way which
should accelerate implementation in the forthcoming months.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 24 pages
Loan No. 1604   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder II:  US$65 Million Loan of
July 12. 1978; Effective Date: September 13. 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The planting program is almost on schedule, but housing, roads and
village development is behind. The appointment of new project manager and
support staff from local authorities have helped speed up implementation.
The management of PTP IV, the local authorities and the Directorate General
of Estates have agreed to the Bank's recommendation that preparations for
the construction of settlers' houses should start immediately and that the
upgrading and staffing of the Sungai Tiga Extension and training Center in
Jambi should be implemented. The preparation of work programs and budgets
for 1980 should be ready on time, in order to avoid delays in budgeting and
releasing of Government funds.
Loan No. 1751   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders III:  US$99 Million
Loan of August 13. 1979; Effective Date: November 12. 1979;
Closing Date: December 31. 1986
This project became effective in November 1979 and initial progress
is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1707   Transmigration II:  US$157 Million Loan and Credit of
(Cr. No. 919)   June 1. 1979; Effective Date:  October 4, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31. 1985
Some project sites previously identified have been found only par-
tially suitable, and are now being resurveyed. However, final design for
all the project sites are expected to be available by mid-1980 and contracts
let before the end of the year.
Agriculture Support Services
Loan No. 1179   Agricultural Research and Extension I:  US$21.5 Million
Loan of December 19. 1975; Effective Date: February 23,
1976: Closing Date: December 31. 1981
Due to prolonged negotiations over selection and terms and
conditions of employment of consultants, including architects and engineers,
the project is about 18 months behind the appraisal implementation esti-
mates. At the present projected pace of implementation all components,
except fellowships, should be completed by the Closing Date.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 24 pages
Loan No. 1267   National Food Crops Extension; US$22 Million Loan of
June 4. 1976: Effective Date: September 21, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Good progress is being made in the field and, despite organiza-
tional difficulties, an effective extension service is being created.
Appointments of extension staff are ahead of schedule and the project
directorate has been strengthened by the appointment of three additional
Assisant Directors. Civil works have been resumed and the training program
has started. Disbursement is lagging in every category due to prefinancing
difficulties and delays in submission of withdrawal applications with support-
ing documentation for equipment and furniture. The new procedure for pre-
financing outlined by the Finance Ministry last year is expected to help
solve the problem and speed up project implementation and disbursement.
Rural Development
Credit No. 946 Yogyakarta Rural Development: US$12 Million Credit of
August 13, 1979; Effective Date: December 5. 1979;
Closing Date: March 31. 1987
This project became effective in December 1979.
AGRO-BUSINESS AND CREDIT
Credit No. 785 Small Enterprise Development: US$40 Million Credit
of April 7, 1978: Effective Date: August 17, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Bank Indonesia (BI) is making good progress in revising lending
procedures and establishing new lending approaches to serve the medium-term
credit needs of small entrepreneurs. Training of BI and handling bank staff
is progressing and preparation for studies is on schedule, as is sublending
to small enterprises.
Credit No. 827 Rural Credit: US$30 Million Credit of June 23, 1978;
Effective Date: November 3. 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1985
This project provides long-term credit to about 40,000 smallholders,
primarily for fisheries, perennial crops and livestock, and technical assis-
tance to Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) for program development, training,
credit procedures and accounting and management information systems. Due
primarily to delays in obtaining project consultancy, the project is about
nine months behind scheduLe.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 24 pages
EDUCATIO1I
Credit No. 387  Third Education:  US$13.5 Million Credit of June 1, 1973;
Effective Date: August 29, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The project finances the production and distribution of 138 million
primary school textbooks in four subjects, and related in-service training
for 350,000 primary school teachers and 2,800 supervisory personnel.  About
90 million project books have been printed and 3,800 tutors and administra-
tors and about 400,000 teachers (114% of the project target) have received
training nationwide.  Despite the remarkable quantitative achievements,
problems of management, distribution, technology and pedagogy make the project
less effective than it could be. The training program, although on schedule
and making good progress, is out of phase withi book production, which is
almost one year behind schedule due to delays in paper procurement.  Textbooks
and teacher manuals would benefit from better design, organization and illus-
trations, and their content is limited by the national curricula. In response
to Association proposals, the Government has started a major review of the
project to focus on its relation to other ongoing Government textbook programs
and overall future needs for production of instructional materials.
Credit No. 869 Polytechnic: US$49 Million Credit of December 29, 1978;
Effective Date: May 11, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project is designed to help the Government meet the demand for
engineering technicians and trained accountants. It will introduce a new
system (polytechnics) for training technicians at the diploma level by estab-
lishing a Technician Education Development Center and six polytechnics, four
Accountancy Development Centers, and technical assistance for implementation
and related studies.  The project implementation unit has been established and
staffed, and implementation of the technician components (84% of project cost)
is proceeding on schedule: contracts for architectural and technical
assistance services have been signed; sites have been acquired; and sketch
plans have been completed.  Implementation of the accountancy components (16%
of project cost) of the project is six months behind schedule primarily due to
inadequate coordination and control among the several agencies involved in
implementation.
Loan No. 1237   Fourth Education:  US$37 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: June 17, 1976j; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
Initially, all three subprojects - unider the Ministry of Education
(MOn), Ministry of  Uinpowcr (MOM) , and Natio!nlal Institute of Administration
(LAN) respectively - sutftered a ten-m.loonth del.uy due to late signing of the
Funds-in-Trust (FIT) Agree;-ents with the UN Agenicies providing technical



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 14 of 24 pages
assistance, as well as contracts with the consultant architects. Further
delays have occurred in the tendering and awarding of civil works contracts
for the Manpower and LAN components. Overall, the project is about 1-1/2
years behind schedule. About 80% of civil works, 50% of furniture, and
100% of technical assistance have been contracted. Implementation of the
technical assistance programs of all subprojects is in line with the FIT
Agreements. Overall, the IMinistry of Education and LAN components are going
well, but the Ministry of Manpower has had difficulty in managing its
diverse program of establishing 17 training centers.  Delayed implementation
may require postponement of the Closing Date by about six months.
Loan No. 1433   Teacher Training:  USS19 Hillion Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project finances the development of primary and secondary
teacher training. The implementation of the project closely follows the
appraisal schedule, with minor delays. The 40 key educators have returned
from a five-month overseas fellowship program and the training of a further
110 educators has been completed.  The team has now started training of 7,000o
teachers, the development of learning materials and curricula revisions.
Phase I of a three-phase civil works program is 70% completed and Phase II
will begin shortly. M4inor problems with book and furniture procurement, site
acquisition, and disbursements for civil works are being resolved.
Loan No. 1486   Non-Formal Education:  TTSS15 Million Loan of
September 14. 1977; Effective Date: November 4, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project aims at strengthening the nonformal education programs
of the Department of Education in seven provinces. Overall progress in
project implementation is good. All positions in the project unit are filled
and key staff of the provincial centers have been appointed. Total delays in
civil works and equipment procurement is now about 10 months. Staff
training, learning materials development, and evaluation activities are
progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1692   Second Agricultural Training:  US$42 Million Loan of May 7,
1979; Effective Date: July 31, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project constitutes the second phase of the Government's long-
term strategy to improve the quality and supply of middle level agricultural
manpower through construction, provision of furniture and equipment for
agricultural development schools and in-service training centers, and



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 15 of 24 pages
technical assistance for improvement of curricula, educational planning, and
evaluation. Implementation is generally on schedule, and no major problems
have been encountered to date.
ENERGY
Credit No. 399  West Java Thermal Power:  US$46 Million Credit of June 22,
1973; Effective Date: August 28, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
Project implementation was initially delayed due to the necessity
of making additional financing arrangements to meet much higher costs of
equipment resulting from rapid inflation in 1974/75. However, implementation
thereafter progressed smoothly. Both 100 MW generating units have been
synchronized with the grid and are now operating satisfactorily. Consultants
are expected to issue final acceptance of the plant shortly to enable dis-
bursements to be completed before the closing date.
Loan No. 1127   Fourth Power:  US$41 Million Loan of June 17, 1975;
Effective Date:  October 23, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
The third 100 MW unit at Muara Karang was commissioned in August
1979 meeting the appraisal target. Disbursements are expected to be com-
pleted by mid 1980 as forecast.
Loan No. 1259   Fifth Power:  US$90 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: September 20, 1976: Closing Date:
March 31, 1981
All equipment required for the project has been ordered in three
lots within the cost estimate. By end 1980 about 90% of the disbursement
would be complete.  However, construction work lags behind schedule.  ihile
there has been good progress on construction of 20 kV cables, installation
of the associated substations is well behind schedule.  This is due to
problems of acquisition of land which the Government has been requested to
assist in solving.
Loan No. 1365   Sixth Power:  US$116 Million Loan of February 4, 1977;
Effective *~ate:  June 6. 1977; Closing Date:  December 31,
1982
Implementation of the project, consisting of 2 x 200 MW steam
generating units at Muara Karang has been retarded, inter-alia, due to a
misalignment in the center line and consequent delays by the consultant in
finding appropirate solutions. Currently, a delay of about four months is
estimated in the commissioning date for Unit 4 and about 2 months for Unit
5.



- 41 -
ANNEX TI
Page 16 of 24 pages
Loan No. 1513   Se- enth Power:  US$109 Million Loan of February 3, 1973;
Eftective Date:  .June 30, 197,3; Closing Date:  December 31,
1983
All contracts, except for general construction and steel work have
been awarded at highly comupetitive costs.  A reduction in foreign costs of
about US$28.3 million is presently expected.  Delays in award of contracts
for civil works caused by introduction of new procedures for such contract
awards by the Government have resulted in a three-month delay in the tight
construction program.  It will delay commissioning of the 200 MW generating
set is now expected in August 1982.
Loan No. 1708   Eighth Power:  US$175 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: INovember 5, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Project implementation is on schedule so far. Bids for turbine
generator and auxiliary equipment were evaluated and a letter of intent for
the contract was issued in January 1980 as scheduled.  Bids for steaa gener-
ator and auxiliary equipment are under evaluation.
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND FINANCE
Fertilizer Production
Loan No. 1089   Second Fertilizer Expansion:  US$115 Million Loan of
February 28, 1975; Effective Date:  April 29, 1975;
Closing Date;  March 31, 1980
The project (PUSRI III) was commissioned April 9, 1977, one month
ahead of schedule.  During the eight months of operation in 1977, the
project operated at 66% capacity utilization, which increased sharply to
about 92% in 1978 with the overcoming of initial technical problems.
The project is not expected to show a cost overrun.
Loan No. 1254   Third Fertilizer Expansion:  US$70 Mfillion Loan of May 20,
1976; Effective Datc:  August 15, 1976; Closing Date:
Decaeber 31, 1980
Tihe project (PUSRI IV) was commissioned on November 26, 1977,
about four montlhs ahead of schedule.  During 1978, PUSRI IV produced niearly
470,000 tons of urea, reflecting a capacity utilization of 83% in the first
year of operation.  Some auxiliary facilities are planned to be expanded in
1980.  The project is not expected to shiowJ a cost ovcrruni.



42 -
ANNEX II
Page 17 of 24 pages
Industrial Estates
Credit No. 428 Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate: US$16.5 Million Credit of
September 14, 1973: Effective Date: November 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31. 1980
The Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate is now scheduled for completion
in 1982. Of 400 ha of raw land now earmaked for acquisition, 331 ha had
been purchased as of early 1979.  127 ha of the 270 ha of developed land
reserved for factory use has been sold to 107 firms, with full capacity
employment estimated at around 22,000. Slack sales and difficulties in
land acquisition have reduced the amount of land planned for sale from 337 ha
to 270 ha. Operations are profitable with a cash surplus and bank deposits
of Rp 2,389 million over the past three years to the project owners, the
Municipal Government of Jakarta and the Government of Indonesia. The project
is projected to remain profitable.
Development Finance Companies
Loan No. 1363   Second PDFCI:  US$15 Million Loan of January 28, 1977;
Effective Date: April 21. 1977: Closing Date: June 30. 1981
The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1437   Third BAPINDO:  US$40.0 Mlillion Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: September 23, 1977; Closing Date:
September 30, 1981
The project is being implemented satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1703   Fourth BAPINDO:  US$50 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: September 25, 1979; Closing Date:
September 30, 1983
This loan became effective last September and progress is satis-
factory.



- 43 -
ANNEX II
Page 18 of 24 pages
Coal Mining
Loan S-9         Bukit Asam Coal Mining and Transport Engineerinj:
US$10 Million Loan of May 19, 1978; Effective Date:
December 22, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project consists of identifying and engineering much of an
optimum mining and transportation system to mine about 3.0 million tons per
year and ship about 2.5 million tons per year of coal to a power station which
is under construction at Suralaya in West Java. The project has experienced
some initial delays but is now progressing satisfactorily.
POPULATION AND NUTRITION
Population
Credit No. 300 Population: US$13.2 Million Credit of April 20, 1972;
Effective Date: November 2, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The performance of the Indonesian national family planning program
has improved markedly. Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily,
except for delays in the completion of the three buildings still under
construction. The delays are attributable to contractual problems
associated with increases in the prices of building materials and oil.
Contractors consider the recent Government increases on contract costs to be
unacceptable because the revised costs are insufficient to offset losses on
existing contracts. The buildings, which were scheduled to be completed in
September 1979, will now be completed in April 1980.  The Government's
proposals for utilization of savings under the project have already been
agreed upon by both the Association and the United Nations Fund for
Population Activities and implementation of the activities is expected to
start shortly.
Loan No. 1472   Second Population:  US$24.5 Million Loan of July 6, 1977;
Effective Date:  August 4, 1977;  Closing Date:  April 30,
1983
The implementation of the second population project is proceeding
satisfactorily.  Despite the slowdown in construction associated with
increases in the prices of building materials and gasoline, project buildings
are expected to be completed on schedule. Population education and training
components are also making steady progress. Procurement of furniture and
equipment is underway. However, the contraceptive raw materials study and



- 44 -
ANNEX II
Page 19 of 24 pages
the community incentive scheme are behind schedule. The combined effect of
delays in construction and in starting the two research studies has been a
slackening of disbursements. The rate of disbursement has been slow but is
expected to accelerate as buildings currently under construction are
completed and withdrawal applications made.
Nutrition
Loan No. 1373   Nutrition Development:  US$13.0 Million Loan of March 14,
1977; Effective Date: March 31. 1977; Closing Date:
March 31. 1982
Initial progress under the project is satisfactory. The Nutrition
Intervention Pilot Project, the anemia control and home gardens components,
as well as the fellowships program, are proceeding with minor delays. The
Nutrition Academy has increased its student enrollment from 100 to 160, and
48 graduates are expected this year, compared with 25 prior to project start.
Construction of the Nutrition Academy was completed in February 1979. The
Food Technology Development Center is about 50% completed, and the Center
for Research and Development in Nutrition about 63%. While monitoring and
evaluation units for each component have been operational for six months the
central monitoring and evaluation unit of the Project Secretariat is just
starting to be staffed. A mission which recently visited Indonesia is
preparing a Mid-Term Evaluation Report. The Executive Directors will soon
be informed of the results.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Credit No. 451 Fourth Technical Assistance: US$5 Million Credit of
January 2, 1974; Effective Date: February 15. 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Progress under the project is satisfactory. The Closing Date has
been postponed by one year.
Credit No. 898 Fifth Technical Assistance: US$10 Million Credit of May 7,
1979; Effective Date: September 5. 1979: Closing Date:
March 31. 1984
This credit became effective in September 1979 and progress is
satisfactory.



- 45 -
ANNEX II
Page 20 of 24 pages
Loan No. l.7;  National Resource Survey and Mapping:  US$13 Million Loan
of February 5, 1976; Effective Date: April 2, 1976:
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The BAKOSURTANAL complex at Cibinong is now structurally completed,
and most of the cartographic, photographic processing, and printing equipment
required to produce maps has arrived and is being installed. Resource evalu-
ation activities, including the compilation of data for Southern Sumatra and
a study for the Directorate-General of Estates of coconut lands to be
replanted in Sulawesi and Lombok, are also proceeding in the new complex.
Recruitment and training of new staff, particularly junior operatives, has
accelerated. The new photography financed under the Canadian parallel
project will shortly be available, by which time BAKOSURTANAL hopes to have
installed color photo processing equipment and to have fully trained
specialized teams of operatives in the various map production fields.
TRANSPORTATION
Fertilizer Distribution
Loan No. 1139   Fertilizer Distribution:  US$68 Million Loan of July 10,
1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project has been substantially completed at a cost 20% below
the appraisal estimate. Work on the five original port depots is completed
and the sixth depot, which was approved by the Bank in 1977 as an extension
financed from project savings, is nearing completion. All four ships,
including the additional ship approved in 1977 and paid for from project
savings, have been delivered and 52 of 58 inland storage depots are
completed. All the ships, port depots and storage depots are operating.
Shipping operations have not been as cost effective as they could be, due
to some extent to existing large stocks of fertilizer requiring ships to be
used for longer distances for exports. Costs have also been increased
because of delays in ship turnaround time caused by the need to clear
customs on inter-island voyages and the cumbersome procedures involved.
These matters were taken up with PUSRI and improvements are expected.
Highways
Loan No. 1236   Fourth Highway:  US$130 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: August 13, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
All key activities in the implementation schedule agreed with the
Government are completed but with delays of about one year. Construction of



- 46 -
ANNEX II
Page 21 of 24 pages
1,200 km are under way and a last retendered contract of 45 km is about to
start. Some problems and delays in executing roads prevailed for contracts
started in 1976; delays were also encountered in awards of contracts
scheduled for 1977. The 1978 devaluation also contributed to a slower
apparent rate of disbursement as cost adjustments to rupiah construction
contracts had to be and still are being made. While remedial measures taken
in 1978/79 (and others planned) have improved the rate of physical progress
and disbursements, project completion is still forecast at 15-18 months
beyond the loan's present closing date. Project costs in US$ are likely to
be within appraisal estimates but rupiah costs are up significantly due to
devaluation.
Loan No. 1696   Fifth Highway:  US$130 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: August 28, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Delays have been encountered in awarding contracts for about
500 km of road works which were tendered in mid-1979, somewhat behind the
implementation schedule. The 300 km balance of road works is now scheduled
for tendering in May 1980, nearly 10 months behind the schedule. Preparation
of development programs for eight provincial public works departments (DPUPs)
has also fallen behind, and other project components closely linked to, or
forming integral parts of, the DPUP programs, such as procurement of road
maintenance equipment and construction of major support works, are now about
one year behind schedule. Delays have occurred also in appointing consul-
tants, but these delays are less serious.
Marine Transport
Loan No. 1250   Second Shipping:  US$54 Million Loan of May 20. 1976;
Effective Date: October 8. 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Although the delay in the appointment of a number of consultants had
caused a slow start to the project and slowed project implementation and dis-
bursements, progress has now been made in making effective consultant
contracts for sea transport planning (ISTS Team); for improving maritime
training (IMCO project); and for extending the contract for financial and
technical advisers to P.T. PANN, the project entity. Progress has also been
made by the new management of PANN and of the state shipping company, PELNI,
in their new roles and very encouraging financial results have been achieved
by applying cash control as proposed by consultants financed by the Bank. It
is likely though that only about 40% of the loan will be disbursed by the
December 31, 1980 closing date. Some of the major problems facing PANN in
acquiring and leasing ships are: (a) the effect of the 50% devaluation of
rupiah in November 1978; (b) continued overtonnage in the fleet; and (c) the



- 47 -
ANNEX II
Page 22 of 24 pages
reluctance of the Government in undertaking a ship scrapping program and in
enforcing its safety and ship classification regulations. It is anticipated
that the scope of the loan will be broadened to include other than general
cargo inter-island ships and that an extension of the present closing date
will be requested.
Ports
Loan No. 1337   Tan1ung Priok Port Prolect:  US$32 Million Loan of
November 4. 1976- Effective Date:  March 3. 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Slow progress on the construction of Government-financed works has
delayed construction of the first component, but progress is being made. The
first construction contract for Basin III back up facilities is progressing
slowly due to the impact of the rupiah devaluation. The regional berths
component has likewise been affected although a contract for the new works
had been awarded since December 1977. These delays will probably postpone
overall completion of the project to mid-1981 but it is too early to
estimate the full effect of delays on project cost. The Closing Date has
been extended by two years from December 31, 1979.
TOURISM
Credit No. 479  Bali Tourism:  US$16.0 Million Credit of June 14. 1974;
Effective Date:  December 4. 1974; Closing Date:  June 30,
1982
Construction of major infrastructure and related facilities for
the Nusa Dua tourism estate is under way and scheduled for completion in
mid-1980; construction of the hotel training school has been completed. The
completion of project components outside the estate (i.e. roads) is scheduled
for December 1981. Visitor traffic to Bali has been growing; it rose by 8%
in 1977 to 286,000 visitors and by a further 13% in 1978 to 328,000; the
trend continued in 1979 but the increase in the number of foreign visitors
has been modest due to re-emerging air access difficulties, particularly by
foreign carriers to Bali. Three potential hotel projects for Nusa Dua are
under consideration; however, while no final commitment has yet been made.
Construction of a first hotel at Nusa Dua is expected to start in 1980 for
completion by mid-1983.



- 48 -
ANNEX II
Page 23 of 24 pages
URBAN DEVELOPMENT
Loan No. 1040   Jakarta Urban Development:  US$25 Million Loan of
September 27. 1974; Effective Date: January 15. 1975;
Closing Date: December 31. 1980
The kampung improvement part of the project has been completed.
Some 2,080 ha have been upgraded, compared with the original plan of 1,980 ha.
The Klender sites and services component is about 98% complete. Of the total,
6,872 lots have been allocated to date, about 6,500 lots having been occupied.
The entire 7,250 units are expected to be available this year. The closing
date was recently extended by nine months due to delay in completion of the
project.
Loan No. 1336   Second Urban Development:  US$52.5 Million Loan of
November 4. 1976; Effective Date: March 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31. 1981
The project consists of provision of basic sanitary facilities
including footpaths, drainage, water supply and human waste disposal to about
3,000 ha of densely populated areas in Jakarta and 374 ha in Surabaya.
Community health workers are to be trained under a pilot program in both
cities. Upgrading costs for the first two-year program have been within the
appraisal estimates. About 3,435 ha of kampungs in Jakarta and 441 ha of
kampungs in Surabaya have been covered so far, benefitting a total
population of about 1.4 million. About 180 community health workers in
Jakarta and 45 in Surabaya have been trained and are working in the
kampungs.  Land acquisition problems still continue to cause some delays in
completing the requisite number of health facilities and the closing date was
recently extended.
Loan No. 1653   Third Urban Development:  US$54 Million Loan of January 31,
1979; Effective Date: September 26, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
The project provides basic infrastructural facilities including
roads, footpaths, water supply, and sanitation to impoverished, low-income
kampungs (neighborhoods) in the cities of Jakarta (750 ha), Surabaya (580 ha),
Ujung Pandang (375 ha), Semerang (310 ha) and Surakarta (170 ha), benefitting
a total population of about 2.25 million. A comprehensive solid waste
management program is also included in Jakarta and Surabaya, together with a
drainage program in Surabaya. About 775 community health workers are to be
trained in the above two cities to work in the improved kampungs. The pro-
ject is at an early stage of implementation.



- 49 -
ANNEX II
Page 24 of 24 pages
WATER SUPPLY
Loan No. 1049   Five Cities Water Supply:  US$14.5 Million Loan
of October 31. 1974; Effective Date: May 21, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Due to administrative and managerial problems the project is now
running 24 months behind schedule and the closing date has been extended by
eighteen months. All equipment supply and all major civil works contracts,
with the exception of pipe laying contracts (delayed because of slow
procurement of pipe), are under execution. A cost overrun of about 30%,
caused by increases in local costs due to project delays and devaluation, is
expected. The reorganization of the Directorate of Sanitary Engineering has
been completed, and the establishment and development of local water
enterprises is proceeding satisfactorily. Also, disbursements are expected to
accelerate now that contracts are signed and equipment and supplies are being
delivered.
Loan No. 1709   Second Water Supply:  US$36 Million Loan of June 1. 1979;
Effective Date: February 29, 1980; Closing Date: December
31. 1984
This loan has just been declared effective.



- 50 -
ANNEX III
INDONESIA
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS IV PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project: one year
(b) Project prepared by: Government of Indonesia/Bank with assistance
of consulting firms, Commonwealth Development Corporation and Hunting
Technical Services.
(c) Date of first presentation to Bank: November 1978
Date of first Bank mission to consider project: February 1979
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission: July 1979
(e) Date of completion of negotiations: March 1, 1980
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: July 1980
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
Conditions of disbursement for the respective components of the project
would be as follows:
(a) For Smallholder Development: signing of a Smallholder Development
Agreement between the DGE and PNP X to specify work to be carried out for
smallholder development, in form and substance acceptable to the Bank
(para. 48).
(b) For PNP X Expansion: (i) signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between
the Borrower and PNP X, in form and substance acceptable to the Bank
(para. 44); and (ii) conversion of PNP X into PTP X (para. 48).



IBRD 14505
INDONESIA                                                                                          h "k.a ASea  --
PA CIFIC
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS IV PROJECT                                                                                       NOAPOf
BETUNG SMALLHOLDERS                                                      N                                                       jKi:
Location Plan                                                                                                  A
/ \<_, J~~~~ava Sea ' vz.J
| _______ Nucleus Estate Ba-ndaa.es                                               I OAli OCEAN
NSIV Proiect Area                                                          "o.  ., l.. 1
Previous Bank Frolects NES I )                                                      , |= .      - ,5_
Raads
~~ % | a ~~~~~~R,ve,s)I
-~\   ~--  -  International Boundories
'  S   Babal 
. J \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BETUNG ESTATEJ
8   -:  ..  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~    (                            \ ~~~~~  OIL PALM                             /
\  / r~~~~~~~~~~~~ Aika.ap                                                        PNP X/                                   _
\/  NES IV      \                 /                    \S/
{SMAtLKLHOILE  OIL             ohL                   o B, kAL
I   /        %>s      -                    /bETUNG  ~~~~~ESTATE 1              
| / > / OIL PALM P~~~~PP X                               NP Xa NE I
OILO MTL  Eb
\      l          t          >   STEBEANOUST 7
NES II>
t3X0/   )                                  ~~~~~~~~SMALLHOLDER RUBBERI                                            
9>24            (  ~~SMAALLHOLDER OIL PAEM                                                                            <
\S   ('      J'  p      |t ~~~~OTeluk K,j,n                                        h
lX        /           ~~~~~KILOMETER5S? ! 2 3 4 S As






IBRD 14503
104-I05                                                                SOUTH CHINA SEA                      <4'              AUGUST 1979
This map has been prepared by the                              a      ,
World Bank's staff exclusively for           IMA AY$IA                       t -         0           PACIFIC OCEAN
the convenience of the readers of  C                        MALA A
the report to which it is attached.                INO5APGR     ,   -
The denominations used and the                 'o5
boundaries shown on this map                                  KALIMANTAN
do not imply, on the part of the
World Bank and its affiliates, any                a                           LAW SI 
judgment on the legal status of       'IirJI     r A    Dg N      ,                                         PlAN JAYA
any territory or any endorsement
or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                         O
INIOAN OCEAN        -    A9A                 =
g                                  %,        X TI M             O    R-~M0
104010'                    INDONESIA                      104015'
Supat                             |NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS IV PROJECT
BETUNG SMALLHOLDERS
YEAR   SETTLEMENT NO.
1982      4, 5,6,7, 8
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~POOE PRIMAINAY VILLAGELA
\ ,,1 gh*t.- PROPOSFD                       P      EDS IV          VILLAGE
X   2     m   !           z       J  ~~~~~~~ESTATE PALM O IL
-3010 (Y                                                                                                                                        30 1 O31'-
~~ Lais(7~~~~~<                        ,e' ~~~ PRO>o,SEF r r.bLNAN 
\ / e.~~~~~~~~~~~~~iUBBJEz LR.e 1 ACTORY
PROJECT BOUNDARIES
t ~~~~~~~~OIL PALM PLANTING
1/ (\  T  . r /.                        -        PROPOSED PRIMARY VILLAGE
\\            i ~~~~~g.4 < g t  / ~~~~~~ROADS
A\ r /_ - / - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROPOSED SECONDARY VILLAGE
3 < E * ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PRIMAFIYVILLAGE ROAD
UPGRADING
D_/________   E,X ISTING ASPHALT SURFACED
ROADS
EXISTING UNSURFACED ROADS
- - - - - -  SETTLEMENT UNIT BOUNDARIES
VILLAGE AND VILLAGE NUMBERS
X=A\         \                       X 9 /   w   d I <E   =f=  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIVERS
[                      I IS)TEIG k Ki j ng E ~~~~~~~~~  n                   -       - ~~INTERPNATI ONAL BOU NDARIES
\\  /               )                0  1  2~~~~~~~~~~~~ 3  4  5  6
\N   //     A/                             ~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS
104005'                                                    1040A 104015'






IBRD 14504
~~~~~~~.ot 0 <            Sea          BRUNEI 
INDONESIA                                            1          XMhAYaI
NUCLEUS ESTATE AND SMALLHOLDERS IV PROJECT                                                                              S NGAPORE  SAp -
BETUNG SMALLHOLDERS                                                            eKaimantan
Phasing of Road Construction                                                                     A 
I/AD/AAI Or hAA I
.his map has been prepared by the Word Banks steff -he-usirely for use the  thee
of he red-r-f th-rport to whc  ti ttached. The .e.n.sr  en  ed ess the
_boundaries sehswnen th,i map do sot imply. o the pert of the Weld Besh ard its
affiliates any udgmen- en the legal status of a-y territory or soy endorsement or
ae-pt-su of s..sh Osodarte-
4.8/81             \.   Babat
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  /8                                   _     41.81  2./80              N 
L.                               Existin  Rangkop  U   rFa
_   2.8/8   1.6/N81              r8.6/i80 
2 -/!-, --  -  -  I                                    --        ewSeoday   ilag   Ra
2.                                                 ear7/82            o       r
3.0/82-'/   ~            <                  14.0/82                                                          19\
2.1/ 82              1882 
S           ~ ~~~2.1/ 831              116/82                                                         sun
a                       ~~~~~~~~~8.9/81              0e tun
Q   =  x G                   \               '              iiX                                     f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ebenan
<\ { | .. /~~~~~~~~~~~~13.9 /83
+       )       3.2/831        $                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Projeci Boundaries
/   /               |   83        ~~~~~~~4.1 /84 _>Existing Roads (Asphalt Surface)
g   g/     f            h                0                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Existing Roads (Unsurfaced)
/   /        2.2/83    |                  l       -           ~~~~~~~~~New Primary Vlillage Roads
\---1                   * - - - - ' ~Prnmary Vlillage Road Upgrading
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1                                                  /-              -    . -- -- New Secondary Village Road.
< i \>) .t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1.3/ 81   Length (km) / Year of Construction
))  J I I \ =~~~~~~~~~~~~~a7:                                           Rivers
< // I lto~~~~~~~~Teluk Kijing                                                             -)    International Boundaries
\\      <           =         ~~~~~~~~~KlLOMETERS l l     2      ,             i    6
'        4'>/                                               ~~~~~~~~~AUGUST 1979



