.FFICIA
& DOCUMENTS    LOAN NUMBER 1835 IND
Loan Agreement
(Nucleus Estate and Smallholders IV Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                              , 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1835 IND
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                            , 1980, between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA (he inafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
ARTICLE 1
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General. Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "APBD" means ANGGARAN PENDAPATAN DAN BELANJA DAERAH,
the Provincial/Kabupaten Revenues and Expenditures budget;
(b) "APBN" means ANGGARAN PENDAPATAN DAN BELANJA NEGARA,
the State Revenues and Expenditures budget;
(c) "BAPPENAS" means the Borrower's National Development
Planning Agency;
(d) "Basic Agrarian Law" means Law No. 5/1960 of the Bor-
rower (UNDANG-UNDANG POKOK AGRARIA), as the same may be amended
from time to time;
(e) "Betung Settlement Area" means an area of about 16,000
ha located about 75 km west of Palembang in the Kabupaten Musi
Banyuasin in the Borrower's Province of South Sumatra;
(f) "BI" means Bank Indonesia, established by and operating
under Law No. 13/1968 of the Borrower;


﻿-2-
(g) "BRI" means the BANK RAKYAT INDONESIA, established by
and operating under Law No. 21/1968 of the Borrower;
(h) "Credit Expenditures" means expenditures for Part A
of the Project which are intended to be recovered from Partici-
pating Settlers as provided in the Smallholder Financing Arrange-
me!ats, including, inter alia, expenditures for oil palm develop-
ment, machinery and equipment, primary and secondary village roads
and collection tracks, settler housing, the subsistence package
and overheads for oil palm development;
(i) "DGE" means the Directorate General of Estates of
the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture;
(j) 'DPD" means DINAS PERKEBUNAN DAERAH, the Provincial
Estates Crop Services;
(k) "Governing Regulation" means any of (i) Presidential
Decrees Nos. 44 and 45 of 1974, or (ii) the Decrees/Regulations/
Instructions referred to in subsections (p), (s), (t), (u), and
(y) of this Section 1.02;
(1) "Hak Milik" means the right of ownership in respect
of land, as provided under the Basic Agrarian Law;
(m) "INPRES" means INSTRUKSI PRESIDEN, the Borrower's
program for funding Provincial and Kabupaten high priority
community projects;
(n) "Non-Credit Expenditures" means expenditures for Part
A of the Project which are to be financed from (i) the annual
budget sources of the Borrower (APBN) and the Provincial Govern-
ment of South Sumatra (INPRES and APBD) and (ii) the proceeds of
the Loan which are not intended to be recovered from Participating
Settlers. Non-credit expenditures will include, inter alia,
expenditures for water supply and sanitation, health facilities,
schools, village infrastructure and management fees payable to the
nucleus estate;
(o) "Participating Settler" means a settler and his family
settled in the Settlement Area;
(p) ."PNP" means a PERUSARAAN NEGARA PERKEBUNAN, a state-
owned enterprise of the Borrower established and so designated
under Government Regulation No. 14/1968;


﻿-3-
(q)  "PNP X" means PERUSAHAAN NEGARA PERKEBUNAN, and     any
successor thereto;
(r)  "Provincial Coordinating Committee" means the commit-
tee established at the Provincial level in South Sumatra to
coordinate the implementation of Part A of the Project, as more
fully set forth in paragraph 1 (d) of. Schedule 5 to this Agree-
ment;
(s) "PTP" means a PERSEROAN TERBATAS PERKEBUNAN, which is a
public sector agricultural estate of the Borrower established
pursuant to Law No. 9/1969 of the Borrower;
(t) "PTP XI" means PERSEROAN TERBATAS PERKEBUNAN XI estab-
lished and so designated under Govertment Regulation No. 34/1971,
pursuant to Law No. 9/1969 of the Borrower, and any successor
thereto;
(u) "PTP XIII" means PERSEROAN TERBATAS PERKEBUNAN XIII
established and so designated under Government Regulation No.
24/1971, pursuant to Law No. 9/1969 of the Borrower and any suc-
cessor thereto;
(v) "Rupiah" and "Rp" mean the currency of the Borrower;
(w) "Smallholder Development Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into between DGE and PNP X for the purposes of Part
A of the Project, pursuant to Section 3.03 of this Agreement;
(x) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the subsidiary loan
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower or BI on behalf
of the Borrower and PNP X for the purposes of Part B of the
Project, pursuant to Section 3.05 of this Agreement; and
(y)  "Team Khusus". means TEAM KHUSUS PROYEK KERJASAMA LUAR
NEGERI the team created by decree No. 695/1979 of the Borrower's
Minister of Agriculture to assist the DGE in externally financed
projects.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth


﻿or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
forty-two million dollars ($42,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1986,
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of eight and one-fourth per cent (8.25%) per annum on the prin-
cipal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project,
or cause the Project to be carried out, with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
agricultural, engineering, environmental and financial practices,


﻿-5-
and shall provide, in a timely manner, as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) Without limitation on subsection (a) above, the Borrower
shall prefinance from accounts in the Ministry of Finance expendi-
tures of PTP XI and PTP XIII necessary to carry out Part C.2 of
the Project.
(c) The Project shall be carried out in accordance with the
organization and mahagement arrangements set forth in Schedule 5
to this Agreement.
(d) Without limitation on subsection (a) above, the funds
for Part A of the Project shall be provided in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 7 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall employ or cause to be employed
consultants and specialists whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Borrower and the Bank, as follows:
(a) to assist in carrying out Part B of the Project an oil
palm engineer, a mechanical/civil engineer and a financial
advisor at PNP X for a period of 108 man-months; and
(b) to assist in carrying out field and factory inspection
services for PNP X consultants or specialists for a period of
60 man-months.
Section 3.03. Except as the Borrower ant the Bank may
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall, for purposes of Part A of the
Project, cause DGE and PNP X to enter into a Smallholder Develop-
ment Agreement in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank;
said Smallholder Development Agreement to include, inter alia, the
provisions set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 3.01 (a) hereof, the Borrower shall cause
the parties to the agreement referred to in Section 3.03 above
to perform in a timely manner their respective obligations there-
under.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds
of the Loan allocated for Part B of the Project to PNP X under a
subsidiary loan agreement in form and substance satisfactory to


﻿-6-
the Bank, which agreement shall include, inter alia, the terms and
conditions set forth in Schedule 8 to this Agreement.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsid-
iary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of
the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adeqiate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to r-Dlace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, all goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be used exclusively for the Project until its completion.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facili-
ties and construction sites included in the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any rele-
vant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months af.er the Closing Date or such


﻿-7-
later date as may be _greed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borvjwer shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope ind in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations undec the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Bank, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory
to the Bank that such land and rights in respect of land are
available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.09. Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause PNP X to purchase
from Participating Settlers all oil palm (FFB) offered for sale
(including quantities required to be delivered to amortize
Participating Settler debt obligations) at a price equivalent to
about 50% of the prevailing f.o.b. price for palm oil, subject,
however to adjustment from time to time, for: (a) significant
changes in the oil content of the FFB received or in such f.o.b.
price from those prevailing at the date of this Agreement; or (b)
significant changes in the collection, processing or marketing
costs of the nucleus estate processor, from those prevailing at
the date of this Agreement.
Section 3.10. (a) Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure, subject to the provi-
sion of paragraph (b) of this Section 3.10, that each Partici-
pating Settler:
(i)   upon arrival, through an agreement with the Project
Manager, obtains the right to use 1 ha for food
crops and agrees to work for about 3 years as a
laborer for the nucleus estate; and
(ii) receives within three years after settlement Hak
Milik to 3 ha of land, subject, however, to reten-
tion by BRI of the Hak Milik certificate as secur-
ity for Participating Settler debt; and


﻿-8-
(b) the Borrower, through the Project Manager, shall peri-
odically review the performance of Participating Settlers, and
after consultation with the Provincial Coordinating Committee,
shall take appropriate action in the case of any settler found to
have been deficient in his work in the oil palm area being devel-
oped by PNP X or in the husbandry of his land. Without limiting
the generality of the foregoing, the Borrower shall not, except
as otherwise mutually agreed  between the Borrower and the Bank,
issue any certificate evidencing Hak Milik in respect of land to
any settler who has so been found deficient.
Section 3.11. Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause the Project Manager,
assisted by Team Khusus, to prepare by October 31, 1980 and
thereafter by October 31 of each year, a proposed annual budget
and work program showing in detail the program of work for the
Project to be undertaken by the nucleus estate and the Provincial
Government during the following year.
Section 3.12. Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall require the Project Manager
assisted by the Provincial Coordinating Committee: (a) to prepare
and send to DGE for the Borrower's approval at least 6 months
prior to the start of each fiscal year, an annual budget for
Non-Credit Expenditures; and (b) to maintain appropriate cost
accounts acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank in respect of
such expenditures.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek,
in normal circumstances, special security from the member con-
cerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or dis-
tribution of foreign exchange held under the control or for the
benefit of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created
on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for
any external debt, which will or might result in a priority for
the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the alloca-
tion, realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien
shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no
cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of,


﻿- 9 -
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower,
in creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and
at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public
assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any administrative subdivision
thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or operating for
the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such subdivision,
including gold and foreign exchange assets held by any institution
performing the functions of a central bank or exchange stabiliza-
tion fund, or similar functions, for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof, including without limitation
to the foregoing, separate accounts reflecting all expenditures
described in Categories (1) and (2) of the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Loan Account on the basis of certificates of
expenditure.
(b) The Borrower shall retain, until one year after the
Closing Date, all records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account on the basis of
certificates of expenditure and shall enable the Bank's accredited
representatives to examine such records.
(c) Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions
of Section 4.02 (a), the Borrower shall cause PNP X to main'ain


﻿- 10 -
separate accounts in respect of expenditures for Part B of the
Project.
(d) The accounts of all agencies of the Borrower participat-
ing in the implementation of the Project or any part thereof,
relating to the Project, which are to be kept pursuant to the
provisions of subsections (a), (b) and  c) of this Section 4.02,
shall be audited each fiscal year in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank, and as soon as available, but in any case
not later than four months after the end of each such year, the
Bank shall be furnished with certified copies of such accounts for
such year as so audited and the report of such audit by such
auditors of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause PNP X to maintain
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained appropriate accounting practices its respective
operations and financial conditions.
(b) In addition to the audits envisaged under Section
4.02 (d) of this Agreement the Porrower shall cause PNP X to: (i)
have its accounts and financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each
fiscal year audited, in accordAnce with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
able to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available,
but in any case not later than four months after the end of each
such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for
such year as so audited and (B) the reports of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested inclading, without limitation to the fore-
going, a separate opinion by said auditors in respect of the
expenditures and records referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this
Agreement as to whether the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from
the Loan Account on the basis of certificates of expenditure have
been used for the purpose for which they were provided; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements and the audits thereof as the Bank shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause PNP X to take out and
maintain with responsible insurers, or to make other provision
satisfactory to the Bank for, insuran,'e against such risks and in
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.


﻿- 11 -
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall cause PNP X at all times to
manage its affairs, maintain its financial position, plan its
future expansion and carry on its operations, all in accord-
ance with sound agricultural, business, engineering, environmental
and financial practices and under the supervision of experienced
and competent management and    supervisors, if any, assisted by
qualified staff in adequate numbers.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall cause PNP X:
(a) to take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and
renew all such rights and interests in land and all such other
rights,. powers, privileges and franchises as are necessary or
useful in the conduct of its business; and
(b) at all times to operate and maintain its installations
and oil palm plantings, including, inter alia, the areas developed
under the Project, equipment and other property, and promptly as
required to make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all
in accordance with sound agricultural, business, and engineering
practices.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall cause the roads included in
the Project to be maintained in accordance with sound engineering
and financial practices and shall make available, or cause to be
made available, sufficient funds and facilities for the purpose.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a)' the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of PNP X or for the suspension of all or part of its opera-
tions;
(b) PNP X shall have been unable to pay its debts as they
mature or any action or proceeding shall have been taken by PNP X
or by others whereby any of the property of PNP X shall or may be
distributed among its creditors;


﻿- 12 -
(c) the Governing Regulation or any provision thereof
shall have been repealed, amended, suspended, varied or waived, so
as to affect adversely: (i) the carrying out of the Project; (ii)
the performance by the Borrower of any other of its obligations
under this Agreement; or (iii) the performance by any party to any
of the agreements referred to in Section 3.03 or in Section
3.05 of this Agreement, of its respective obligations under such
agreement; and
(d) any of the agreements referred to in Section 3.03
or Section 3.05 of this Agreement shall have been terminated or
abrogated without the concurrence of the Bank, or any party to
any such agreement shall have failed to perform any of its obli-
gations thereunder so as to affect adversely the objectives of the
Project or any part thereof.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof;
(a) any of the events specified in paragraphs (c) and
(d) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall
continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have
been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and
(b) any of the events specified in paragraphs (a) and
(b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Termination
Section 6.01. The date                     0   , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Sectuon 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Adaresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 13 -
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
c/o Director General for International
Monetary Affairs
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 4
Jakarta, Indonesia
Cable address:                      Telex:
MINISTRY FINANCE                 DITJMON JKT 46415
Jakarta                          DEPKEU  JKT 44319
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /S/          &VU"
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in eazh Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Estate civil works             2,600,000       50%
(2) Expenditures for oil           9,800,000       60%
palm development
including overheads,
land clearing for food
crop areas, initial
cash payments and
seeds
(3) Agrochemicals                 4,500,000
(a) Urea                                      100%
(b) Other                                     100% of for-
eign expendi-
tures
(4) Equipment and                 14,300,000
machinery
(a) directly imported                         100% of for-
eign expendi-
tures
(b) locally manu-                             95% of local
factured                                  expenditures
(ex-factory)
(c) imported                                  60% of local
procured locally                          expenditures


﻿- 15 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(5) Consultants' services;        8,500,000        100%
and support for
Part C of the Project
(6) Unallocated                   2,300,000
TOTAL              42,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures:
(a) prior to the date of this Agreement;


﻿- 16 -
(b) under Part A of the Project unless and until evidence
satisfactory to the Bank shall have been furnished to the Bank
that DGE and PNP X have entered into the agreement referred to in
Section 3.03 of the Loan Agreement in accordance with the provi-
sions thereof; and
(c) under Part B of the Project unless and until evidence
satisfactory to the Bank shall have been furnished to the Bank:
(i) that BI and PNP X have entered into the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement referred to in Section 3.05 (a) of the Loan Agreement in
accordance with the provisions thereof; and (ii) that PNP X shall
have been converted into PTP X.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the. table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insuf-
ficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such realloca-
tion cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the dis-
bursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order
that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until
all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's program to assist
smallholder tree crop development in its territories through
smallholder settlement of new areas and support for previously
settled smallholders, by means of (i) the development and alloca-
tion of land and the delivery of a package of services and inputs
to smallholders through the Borrower's public sector estates
(herein sometimes referred to as "nucleus estates"), the DGE, the
BRI, the DPD, and other agencies and authorities of the Borrower
at the national and provincial levels, and (ii) the strengthening
of the Borrower's public sector estates so as to enable them to
participate as nucleus estates for smallholder development in the
future, and of other governmental agencies and authorities having
responsibility in relation to the smallholder and public estate
sectors.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Smallholder Settlement with Development of New Land
through the PNP X Nucleus Estate
1.   New Settlement at Betung, South Sumatra, with PNP X as
the nucleus estate, including:
(a)  construction in the Betung Settlement Area of about
twenty-one new villages, with a total of about
4,000 settler houses and the settlement of about
4,000 Participating Settlers, each village shall
have without limitation, access to the following
iew or existing facilities, village offices,
primary school, mosque, market buildings, community
center and health center, all such facilities to
serve the said Participating Settlers, and equip-
ping and staffing of school facilities and health
facilities for all villages;
(b) establishment and staffing of agricultural credit,
extension and cooperative services for Participat-
ing Settlers;
(c) construction and upgrading .of about 46 km of
all-weather primary village roads, about 48 km


﻿- 18 -
of secondary village roads and about 105 km of farm
access tracks to serve the said Participating
Settlers;
(d) block planting of about 8,000 ha of oil palm and
the maintenance to maturity by PNP X and by Parti-
cipating Settlers thereafter;
(e) land clearing and establishment of food crops on
about 4,000 ha, including supply and distribution
of seeds and fertilizer to Participating Settlers
commencing in the first year of settlement to
support food crop production on an area of about
one ha per settler family; and
(f) provision of adequate water supply and sanitation
facilities in each village.
Part B:   Nucleus Estate - Processing and Other Facilities
1.   Construction and placing into service of a new palm
oil mill with a capacity of thirty mt FFB/hr, and
construction of related facilities.
2.   Construction and placing into service of a new crumb
rubber factory at Tebenen with a capacity of 40 mt/day,
to be built in 2 twenty-ton stages.
3.   Construction of estate garages, workshops, divisional
offices, and about 180 staff and workmen's houses.
4.   Stengthening PNP X by providing about sixty man-months
of short-term consultant and inspection services, and
108 man-months of technical assistance for oil palm
engineering, mechanical/civil engineering and financial
management.
Part C:   Program Support
1.   The continuation of the program of technical assistance
to DGE including about two hundred man-months to assist
with inspection services, village planning, land survey-
ing, and present and future smallholder project studies.


﻿- 19 -
2.   Assistance to PTP XI and PTP XIII for construction of
housing, buildings, road construction, nursery and field
development, and procurement of essential machinery and
equipment, and the provision of two man-years of tech-
nical assistance for the next nucleus estate and small-
holder project as would be agreed between the Borrower
and the Bank.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1986.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 1 and November 1
beginning November 1, 1985
through   May 1, 2000                      1,400,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 21 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years'                           1.25%
before maturity
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                           2.50%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                    4.55%
More than eleven years but not
more than sixteen years
before maturity                                    6.60%
More than sixteen years but not.
more than eighteen years
before maturity                                    7.40%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                                    8.25%


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C of this Schedule, goods shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the BaHk in
March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not later than 60
days prior to the date of availability to the public of the first
tender or prequalification documents relating thereto, as the case
may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and detail and
containing such information as the Bank shall reasonably request;
the Bank -.ill arrange for the publication of such notice in order
to provide timely notification to prospective bidders of the
opportunity to bid for the goods in question. The Borrower shall
provide the necessary information to update such notice annually
so long as any goods remain to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with 'the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Indonesia may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:


﻿- 23 -
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Indonesia if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Indonesia equal to at least 20%
of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eval-
uated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding*to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.


﻿-24 -
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Individual items of equipment expected to cost less than
$30,000 equivalent may be procured through prudent shopping after
soliciting at least three price quotations, provided that the cost
of equipment so procured shall not exceed in the aggregate
$1,500,000 equivalent.
2.   Up to $200,000 equivalent in value of fertilizers
(excluding-urea) and agrochemicals may be procured annually on the
basis of prudent shopping after soliciting at least three price
quotations.
3.   Urea may be procured from PT. PUSRI's designated
distributors in accordance with the Borrower's procedures.
4.   Civil works (housing, project and processing plant
buildings and settlement infrastructure) may be carried out
through contracts awarded after competitive bidding advertised
locally.
5.   Land clearing for oil palm development and-one ha food
crop developm.ent, and construction and upgrading of primary and
secondary village roads and farm tracks may be carried out by
PNP X.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, with respect
to all contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or
more, before qualification is invited, inform the Bank in detail
of the procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifi-
cations in said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request.
The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of
their qualifications and, where applicable, of their eligibility
for domestic preference and of the reasons for the exclusion of
any applicant for prequalification and for such eligibility shall
be furnished by the Borrower to.the Bank for its comments before
the applicants are notified of the Borrower's decision, and the
Borrower shall make such additions to, deletions from, or modifi-
cations in, the said list as the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:


﻿- 25 -
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $300,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, together with the recommendations for
award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award
would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.


﻿- 26 -
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 27 -
SCHEDULE 5
Organization and Management
1.   Smallholder Settlement
(a) Director General of Estates
Overall direction and coordination of the implementation of
the Project will be the responsibility of the Director General of
Estates. DGE will be assisted by, among others, the Team Khusus.
The DGE will be responsible, inter alia, for:
(i) approval of project and village master planning
and work programs as prepared by PNP X;
(ii) overall guidance to the Project Manager and the
Provincial Coordinating Committee for project
implementation;
(iii) obtaining the Borrower's approval of project
budgets and coordinating project financing arrange-
ments;
(iv) advising on project procurement; and
(v) preparation and execution of the contract between
the DGE and PNP X for smallholder development,
and at a later date for extension, processing,
and marketing services.
(b) The Project Manager
The person delegated as Project Manager with appropriate
qualifications and experience to serve as manager for Part A of
the Project would be the First Director of PNP X. The Project
Manager will be responsible to the Director General of Estates,
and will be appointed by the Minister of Agriculture, and will be
responsible for the implementation of those functions under Part A
of the Project which are within the jurisdiction and respon-
sibility of DGE. For this purpose, the Project Manager and a
nucleus estate site manager, appointed by the Project Manager,
will be responsible, inter alia, for:


﻿- 28 -
(i) preparation of village master plans including
siting of villages, houses and water supply;
(ii) preparation of annual budgets and work programs
for all functions under Part A of the Project;
(iii) supervision and'coordination of the implementation
of that part of the Project carried out by Provin-
cial Government agencies, primarily schools and
health services;
(iv) design and supervision of smallholder participa-
tion agreements, land transfers, and allocation
of house, food crop and oil palm areas;
(v) acceptance of prospective settlers as estate
laborers and. later, appraisal of performance
of these laborers to be proposed as Participating
Settlers; and
(vi) monitoring and reporting on project progress
to the DGE, the Provincial Government, and the
Bank.
(c) PNP X Nucleus Estate
The Nucleus Estate PNP X will develop oil palm areas for
Participating Settlers and be responsible, inter alia, for:
(i) During the Oil Palm Immature Period
Clearing land, for oil palm (2 ha) and food crop
areas and house and garden lots (1 ha), planting of
oil palm and provision of seeds and fertilizers for
food crop land for the first year of settler entry,
initial cash payments to settlers, siting and
construction of settler housing or the provision of
materials for construction of settler's own hous-
ing, siting and provision of water supply, planting
and maintenance of oil palm to maturity, siting and
construction of primary village roads and oil palm
and farm access tracks, planning of locations for
village development and construction of village
offices, community halls, and market buildings, and
provision of training; and


﻿- 29 -
(ii) During the Production Period
Smallholder training in oil palm harvesting,
procurement of inputs for oil palm maintenance,
provision of extension services, collection of
FFB for processing and loan repayments, and pro-
vision of marketing services.
(d) Provincial Coordinating Committee
The Provincial Coordinating Committee for South Sumatra
established under Loan 1499-IND shall be responsible for coordi-
nating the implementation of those functions under Pait A of the
Project which are within the jurisdiction and responsibility of
the Provincial Government, including, inter alia, construction of
facilities for schools and health, granting of land title and
construction of some village infrastructure. For these purposes
the PCC will, inter alia:
(i) secure and provide INPRES projects required for
the settlers within the settlement area of the
Project;
(ii) arrange for recruitment of prospective settlers for
the project to be accepted by the Project Manager
as suitable estate laborers;
(iii) coordinate and   supervise participating settlers
in non-technical aspects of the project including
community government, cooperative development, and
other social activities; and
(iv) expedite the granting of Hak Milik for the settler.
(e) BRI will: (i) enter into smallholder credit agreements,
on behalf of the Borrower, with Participating Settlers three years
after settlement; (ii) maintain smallholder accounts; and (iii)
receive repayments for these credits, on behalf of the Borrower,
from the Project Manager.
2.   Estate Development - PNP X
The Executive Manager (Direksi) of PNP X will be responsible
for implementation of Part B of the ProjecL, subject to the
overall responsibility for management and coordination by the
Director General of Estates and the Minister of Agriculture.


﻿- 30 -
3.   Program Support
The Director General of Estates will be responsible for
establishing and administering its own monitoring and evaluation
system for the Project and the provision of consultant services
for field inspection, village planning, land surveying, and
special project studies for Part C.1 of the Project; PTP XI and
PTP XIII will be responsible for all aspects of Part C.2 of the
Project for start-up activities of proposed NES V in West Java, as
supervised.by the Director General of Estates and the Minister of
Agriculture.
4.   Participating Ministries/Agencies
Ministry/Agency primarily
Project Component        responsible for implementation
Part A                       - DGE
- PNP X
- PCC
Part B                       - Minister of Agricul-
ture
- DGE
- PNP X
Part C.1                     - DGE
Part C.2                     - DGE
- PTP XI
- PTP XIII


﻿- 31 -
SCHEDULE 6
Provisions to be included in the
Smallholder Development Agreement
The Smallholder Development Agreement to be entered into
between DGE and PNP X shall require the nucleus estate to under-
take, inter alia, as follows:
(1) to clear land, site and construct settler housing or
supply materials for settlers' own construction of houses, siting
and provision of water supply, plant and    maintain oil palm to
maturity, site and construct primary and secondary village
roads and oil palm and farm access tracks, plan locations for
villages and construct village offices and other project buildings
all in accordance with PNP X's specifications agreed with DGE;
(2) to procure and apply oil palm area inputs in accordance
with the relevant procurement procedures specified in Schedule 4
to the Loan Agreement;
(3) to provide initial cash payments to new settlers;
(4) to provide food crop inputs to Participating Settlers
in accordance with criteria agreed with DGE;
(5) to maintain village roads, oil palm and farm access
tracks to appropriate standards during the project disbursement
period;
(6) to provide training in oil palm husbandry and har-
vesting;
(7) to provide processing and marketing services;
(8) to employ at least one member of each Participating
Settler's family during the first three years after planting,
and additional casual labor where required, in accordance with
normal estate practices and procedures;
(9) to employ adequate staff, as agreed between DGE and
the nucleus estate;
(10) to maintain proper accounts of all expenditures for
Parts A and B of the Project;


﻿- 32 -
(11) to prepare annual budgets;
(12) to facilitate inspection of all works under Parts A and
B of the Project by DGE and the Bank; and
(13) to collect oil palm from Participating Settlers in
payment of Participating Settler debt obligations in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 7 to the Loan Agreement, and to
purchase all oil palm (FFB) offered for sale by Participating
Settlers..


﻿- 33 -
SCHEDULE 7
Provisons governing the
Smallholders Financing Arrangements
1.   The Borrower shall make available to the Project Manager
the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn for Part A of the Project. The
Borrower's contribution to meet the total requirements for Part A
of the Project shall be provided from sources in the Ministry of
Finance on the basis of approved annual budgets under the Bor-
rower's budgetary system.
2.   The arrangement referred to in paragraph 1 shall require
the Borrower to make available to the Project Manager the proceeds
of the Loan withdrawn for Part A of the Project (presently esti-
mated at about $17,000,000 equivalent), and all such additional
funds as are allocated by the Borrower (presently estimated at
about Rupiah 10.7 billion through FY 1985, and estimated at Rupiah
520 million for FY 80-81).
The items to be financed under these arrangements include,
inter alia, the following:
(a) land clearing;
(b) fertilizers and chemicals (including pesticides);
(c) labor costs for oil palm development, road construction
and other project infrastructure;
(d) machinery and equipment;
(e) settler housing;
(f) a subsistence package including first year seed and
fertilizer and cash payments to Participating Settler families;
(g) primary and secondary village roads and oil palm and
farm access tracks;
(h) estate overhead costs and management fees as approved
by DGE totalling 15% of the direct costs of oil palm establishment
(excluding related machinery and equipment);
(i) provision of village infrastructure excluding health and
education facilities; and


﻿- 34 -
(j) provision of water supply.
3.   The Ministry of Finance shall, under the arrangement referred
to in paragraph 1, make available to the Project Manager the
amounts required for Part A of the Project (including both the
amounts to be provided by the Borrower and those to be provided
from the proceeds of the Loan). Such amounts shall be determined
on the basis of annual budgets to be submitted not later than the
end of October and to be approved by BAPPENAS and the Ministry of
Finance not later than the last week of January of the following
year. Specifically, the disbursement procedure under this arrange-
ment shall be as follows:
(a) the Project Manager shall prepare and propose through
DGE the annual budget for each fiscal year to be approved by
BAPPENAS and the Ministry of Finance;
(b) the budget, duly approved by BAPPENAS and the Ministry
of Finance, will be issued to the Project Manager, with copies
furnished to and retained by BAPPENAS, the Ministry of Finance,
the Ministry of Agriculture, DGE and the Bank;
(c) based on the approved budget, the Ministry of Finance
shall disburse the funds by instructing BI to transfer the amounts
required into an account designated by the Project Manager;
(d) the disbursements of the funds for the 1st and 2nd
quarter of each fiscal year by the Ministry of Finance to the
Project Manager shall be without pre-requisites and disbursements
for the 3rd and 4th quarters shall be made in a similar manner, at
which times the Ministry of Finance shall have received an expend-
iture report for the 1st and 2nd quarters, respectively;
(e) should the Project Manager consider that for any parti-
cular quarter, project implementation can be carried out more
rapidly than planned, the Ministry of Finance shall, upon receipt
of the Project Manager's request to that effect, disburse the
requested amounts of funds even exceeding the scheduled quarterly
requirements; and
(f) annual expenditures shall be audited on the basis of
the Borrower's post-audit procedures.
4.   The Project Manager shall be required to establish and
maintain appropriate accounts to record all expenditures from the


﻿- 35 -
proceeds of the Financing Arrangements described in this Schedule.
After the third year of settlement, BRI shall establish and
maintain separate records for each Participating Settler, to which
shall be charged each Participating Settler's share of Credit
Expenditures, in accordance with criteria and procedures to be
agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.
5.   BRI with the assistance of the Project Manager shall require
Participating Settlers to enter into Credit Agreements under which
each Participating Settler will agree, inter alia, to repay his
share of Credit Expenditures charged to his individual small-
holders' account, in kind, on the following basis:
(a) the Participating Settler's debt obligation shall
bear no interest during the first three years and shall bear
interest thereafter at the rate of 10.5% per annum on the amounts
outstanding, said interest to be capitalized and added to prin-
cipal during the following two years, and payable thereafter
starting in the sixth year until the principal amount is fully
repaid;
(b) principal shall be amortized over 17 years including
a grace period of 2 years;
(c) Participating Settlers shall be required to deliver
periodically (on a weekly basis) to the nucleus estate their total
oil palm production, expressed in FFB, including that amount for
payment of debt obligations; the amount deductible for debt
service shall not exceed 30% of such yields per annum;
(d) Participating Settlers shall be credited for all oil
palm so delivered including that amount in payment of debt obli-
gations at the prices determined from time to time in accordance
with the provisions of Section 3.09 of the Loan Agreement (esti-
mated at 50% of the prevailing f.o.b. price for palm oil); and
(e) grace and repayment periods shall be counted from the
end of year 3 for each area of oil palm planting.
6.   The funds to be made available by the Ministry of Finance to
the Project Manager, as set forth in paragraph 2 above, shall be
risk free to BRI and the Project Manager, that is, such funds
shall be repayable: (i) through the Project Manager to BRI, only
from the proceeds of oil palm (FFB) received from Participating
Settlers, in accordance with the Provisions set forth in para-
grsDh 5 above; and (ii) by BRI to the Ministry of Finance, only


﻿- 36 -
from repayments icceived by BRI from the Project Manager pursuant
to (i) above.
7.   BRI shall be paid a handling fee at a rate to be agreed
between the Borrower and BRI on the aggregate amounts outstanding
under Participating Settlers Credit Agreements with BRI. Said
handling fee shall not be included as a part of expenditures to
be recovered from Participating Settlers, and shall be payable
semiannually by the Borrower directly to BRI.


﻿- 37 -
SCHEDULE 8
Provisions to be included in
Subsidiary Loan Agreement
1.   Principal Amount: The equivalent in Rupiahs of the amount
withdrawn from the Loan Account on account of expenditures
for Part B of the Project, estimated at about $18,000,000
equivalent.
2.   Interest and Amortization: Interest will be payable from
the date of signing of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement at the
rate of 13.5% per annum on the amounts withdrawn and out-
standing. The Loan will be repayable in 12 approximately
equal semiannual payments including both principal and
interest, with the first payment to be made January 1,
1987.
3.   Other: Performance covenants of PNP X under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  12      day of, 198 0.
FOR SECRETARY


