Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7279-JO 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Public Sector Reform Capacity Building Project) 
 
between 
 
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated June 13, 2005 
 
Page  2
2
Page  3
LOAN NUMBER 7279 -JO 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated June 13, 2005, between THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM 
OF JORDAN (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Beneficiary” means a local institution that receives a Challenge Fund 
Grant (as hereinafter defined) under Part B.2 of the Project; 
 
(b) 
“Cabinet Secretariat” means the Cabinet Office/Secretariat in the Prime 
Ministry (as hereinafter defined); 
 
(c) 
“Challenge Fund Grant” means a grant provided to a Beneficiary under 
Part B.2 of the Project, pursuant to Schedule 7 to this Agreement; 
 
(d) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
Page  4
-
2
-
(e) 
“Government Communications Directorate” or “GCD” means the 
Government Communications Directorate in the Prime Ministry (as hereinafter defined); 
 
(f) 
“Government Performance Directorate” or “GPD” means the 
Government Performance Directorate in the Prime Ministry (as hereafter defined);  
 
(g) 
“Human Resource Policy Directorate” or “HRPD” means the Human 
Resource Policy Directorate in the Prime Ministry (as hereafter defined); 
 
(h) 
“MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance, or any successor 
entity thereto; 
 
(i) 
“MOJ” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Justice, or any successor entity 
thereto; 
 
(j) 
“Operating Units” means collectively, GPD, GCD, HRPD, PSRD, the 
Cabinet Secretariat, or any other institution selected by the Borrower, satisfactory to the 
Bank; 
 
(k) 
“Operational Manual” means the Borrower’s Operational Manual, 
satisfactory and acceptable to the Bank, including any amendments made to such manual, 
from time to time, with the Bank’s approval, that sets forth various procedures and 
information necessary for carrying out the Project; performance indicators and 
monitoring and evaluation guidelines; administrative, accounting and financial 
procedures; procurement and disbursement guidelines; and the eligibility criteria for the 
Challenge Fund Grants; 
 
(l) 
“Prime Ministry” means the Borrower’s Prime Ministry; 
 
(m) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated 
February 16, 2005, covering the initial 18 month period (or longer) of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month periods (or 
longer) of Project implementation; 
 
(n) 
“Project Coordination Team” or “PCT” means the Project Coordination 
Team maintained pursuant to paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 of this Agreement; 
 
(o) 
“Project Improvement Unit” or “PIU” means the Project Improvement 
Unit in a selected ministry or a department, to be established under Part B of the Project; 
 
(p) 
“Public Sector Reform Program” means the Borrower’s Public Sector 
Reform Program for public sector reforms; 
 
Page  5
-
3
-
(q) 
“Public Sector Reform Directorate” or “PSRD” means the Public Sector 
Reform Directorate of the Prime Ministry under Part A of the Project; 
 
(r) 
“Sub-Grant Agreement” means a written agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and a Beneficiary in accordance with terms and conditions set 
forth in the Operational Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, including those set forth in 
Schedule 7 to this Agreement;  
 
(s) 
“Sub-Project” means a public sector quality improvement development 
project or scheme to be carried out by a Beneficiary under Part B.2 of the Project which 
meets the eligibility criteria to receive a Challenge Fund Grant set out in the Operational 
Manual; and 
 
(t) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to fifteen million 
United States Dollars ($15,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan and in respect of the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in the Central Bank of Jordan on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2009 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any waiver of a portion 
of such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time.  On or promptly after 
Page  6
-
4
-
the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to:  
(i) eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and  
(ii) seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semi annually in 
arrears on October 1 and April 1 in each year. 
 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
 
Page  7
-
5
-
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial and technical practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, 
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as said 
provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not later than 
twelve (12)
 months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s 
approval. 
 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the 
sustainability of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
 
Page  8
-
6
-
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank) audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank), (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
 
(ii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in the 
audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section. 
 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 5 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
Page  9
-
7
-
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
and 
 
(ii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty five (45) 
days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of 
such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later 
than forty five (45) days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such 
calendar quarter. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Termination 
 
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Planning and International Cooperation of the 
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation 
P.O. Box 555 
Amman 11118 
The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan 
 
Cable address:  
Facsimile: 
 
21319 
NPC 
JO 
    962-6-4649 
341 
 
Page  10
-
8
-
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development  
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
   
  64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Washington, District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and 
year first above written. 
 
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN 
 
By /s/ K. Kawar 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR DEVELOPMENT   
 
AND RECONSTRUCTION 
 
By /s/ C. Poortman 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  11
-
9
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars
to be financed 
(1) 
Goods and equipment 
600,000 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures, 
 
100%
of local 
 
Expenditures 
 
(ex-factory cost) 
 
and 85% of local  
 
expenditures for other 
 
items procured locally  
 
(2) 
Consultants’ services 
10,950,000 
90% of local 
expenditures for 
services of consulting 
firms domiciled 
within the territory 
of the Borrower; 
5% of local 
expenditures for 
services of individual 
consultants domiciled 
within the territory of 
the Borrower; and 
90% of foreign 
expenditures for 
services of consultant 
firms and individuals 
 
(3) 
Challenge Fund Grants 
900,000 
90%  
 
(4) Training 
and 
870,000 
100% 
 workshops 
Page  12
-
10
-
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars
to be financed 
(5) 
Incremental Operating Costs 
180,000 
50%  
 
(6) 
Front-end fee 
75,000 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
(7) Unallocated 
1,425,000 
 
_________ 
 
15,000,000
TOTAL 
                 ======== 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Incremental Operating Costs” means the incremental expenses 
incurred on account of Project implementation and management, including maintenance 
of equipment, office supplies, communication charges, advertisement and publication 
costs, periodicals subscription, but excluding salaries of the officials of the Borrower’s 
civil service. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of  
US$1,500,000 may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that 
date but after December 31, 2004. 
 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods costing 
less than US$250,000 equivalent per contract; (b) for services of individual consultants 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent per contract; (c) for services of consulting firms 
under contracts costing less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract; (d) training and 
Page  13
-
11
-
workshops; (e) Challenge Fund Grants; and (f) incremental operating costs, all under 
such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  
Page  14
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to assist in the implementation of the 
Borrower’s Public Sector Reform Program; and (b) to that end, to provide support to 
implementing reforms in areas ranging from policy coordination to improved financial 
and human resource practices. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A
:
Improving Policy Coordination and Decision Making
Strengthening the Prime Ministry by establishing Operating Units and building 
the capacity of those units already established. 
 
Part B:
Strengthening Performance Monitoring and Evaluation
1. 
Carrying out of programs for performance management and service delivery 
improvement through the capacity building, restructuring and reorganization of selected 
government line-ministries and departments, including establishing of PIUs on a pilot 
basis. 
 
2. 
Financing of the Sub-Projects, through provision of the Challenge Fund Grants to 
the Beneficiaries. 
 
Part C:
Improving Institutional Streamlining
Carrying out of programs for institutional streamlining through capacity building, 
restructuring and realignment of selected government line-ministries and departments. 
 
Part D:
Resource Management
1. 
Management of human resources through: (i) the drafting of new civil service 
bylaws; (ii) the carrying out of human resource management policies and procedures;  
(iii) the streamlining and restructuring of relevant government institutions and agencies; 
and (iv) the developing of a strategy for pay reforms. 
 
2. 
Strengthening the financial management of MOF and MOJ through
,
inter alia
,
staff training and technical assistance. 
 
Page  15
-
13
-
Part E:
Monitoring and Evaluation of the Public Sector Reform Program
Carrying out of monitoring and evaluation of the Public Sector Reform Program. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2008. 
Page  16
-
14
-
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying: (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 Payment 
Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each April 1 and October 1 
 
Beginning April 1, 2010 through April 1, 2021 
4.17% 
 
On October 1, 2021 
4.09% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Page  17
-
15
-
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
 
Page  18
-
16
-
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with the 
provisions of this Schedule.  
 
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule. 
 
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Services (other than 
Consultants’ Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding. The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding.
Goods estimated to cost less than US$250,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of National 
Competitive Bidding and the following additional provisions: 
 
(a) 
invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one national newspaper 
with a wide circulation, at least 30 days prior to the deadline for the submission of bids; 
 
(b) 
bid documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to all who 
are willing to pay the required fee; 
 
(c) 
foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding and no preference of 
any kind shall be given to national bidders in the bidding process, to that end, having a 
presence in the Borrower’s territory should not be a condition for bidding; 
Page  19
-
17
-
(d) 
qualification criteria shall be stated in the bidding documents, and one 
envelop system shall be used; 
 
(e) 
except for late bids
,
bids shall be opened in public, immediately after 
the deadline for submission of bids, and the prices for all bids will be read out in this 
public session and no disqualification shall be made at that stage; 
 
(f) 
before rejecting all bids and soliciting new bids, the Bank’s prior 
concurrence shall be obtained;  
 
(g) 
bids shall be solicited and contracts shall be awarded on the basis of unit 
prices, and not on the basis of a schedule of rates, 
and award will be based on all items 
included within the bid or the lot in case of multiple lots.
 
(h) 
contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated and qualified bidders; 
and  
 
(i) 
post-bidding negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest evaluated 
or any other bidders. 
 
2. Shopping
.
Goods estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
 
3. Direct 
Contracting
.
Goods which the Bank agrees meet the requirements for 
Direct Contracting may be procured in accordance with the provisions of said 
procurement method 
 
Section III.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this 
Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality and Cost-based Selection. For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than 
US$200,000 equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. Least-cost 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Bank agrees meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Page  20
-
18
-
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
3. 
Single Source Selection
.
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source Selection, 
may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
4. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. Under the circumstances 
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a sole-source basis subject to the prior review of the Bank. 
 
Section IV.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank: 
 
(a) 
each contract for goods and services (other than consultants’ services) 
procured on the basis of International Competitive Bidding; 
 
(b) 
the first two contracts for goods and services (other than consultants’ 
services) regardless of value, procured on the basis of National Competitive Bidding; 
 
(c) 
the first two contracts for goods regardless of value, procured on the 
basis of Shopping; 
 
(d) 
each contract for goods regardless of value, procured on the basis of 
Direct Contract; 
 
(e) 
the first two contracts for consultants’ services for each selection method 
regardless of value; 
 
(f) 
each contract for consultants’ services: (i) estimated to cost the 
equivalent of US$100,000
 
or more and provided by a firm; or (ii) estimated to cost the 
equivalent of US$50,000 or more and provided by an individual consultant;  
 
(g) 
each contract for consultants’ services procured on a single source basis; 
 
(h) 
each contract awarded before the Loan Effectiveness and to be paid from 
the proceeds of the Loan regardless of the value; and 
Page  21
-
19
-
(i) 
in respect of the Challenge Fund Grant: the first two procurement 
packages regardless of the value, procured on the basis of: (i) selection of individual 
consultants; (ii) selection of firms; and (iii) Shopping. 
 
2. 
All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
Page  22
-
20
-
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Implementation Program 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall not later than September 30, 2005, prepare the Operational 
Manual in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, and shall carry out the Project in 
accordance with said manual. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not amend or waive any provision of the Operational Manual if, in the opinion of 
the Bank, such amendment or waiver may materially and adversely affect the carrying 
out of the Project or the achievement of the objectives thereof. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall maintain PCT which shall be located in PSRD in a form and 
with functions, staffing and resources satisfactory to the Bank. PCT shall be headed by a 
Project Director assisted by an adequate number of staff (including a Procurement 
Officer, a Financial Officer, and a Public Sector Reforms Specialist). The PCT Project 
Director and staff of PCT shall have qualifications and experience, and be appointed on 
terms and conditions, satisfactory to the Bank. The PCT shall be responsible for overall 
management of the Project and the coordination of its implementation. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall not later than May 31, 2005, appoint a financial management 
specialist and a procurement specialist, whose qualifications and experience are 
acceptable to the Bank, will be assigned to the Project throughout its execution. 
 
4. 
The Borrower shall ensue that the Challenge Fund Grants shall be made to the 
Beneficiaries in accordance with eligibility criteria set out in the Operational Manual, and 
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including those set forth in  
Schedule 7 to this Agreement. 
 
5. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about July 31, 2007, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said 
report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following 
such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by September 30, 2007, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
Page  23
-
21
-
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
 
Page  24
-
22
-
SCHEDULE 6 
 
Special Account
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4), and (5) 
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
US$1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to US$500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the 
equivalent of US$2,000,000. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
Page  25
-
23
-
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
Page  26
-
24
-
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request, or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b), and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
Page  27
-
25
-
SCHEDULE 7 
 
Challenge Fund Grants 
 
1. 
(a) 
To be eligible for a Challenge Fund Grant, a Beneficiary must prepare 
and furnish a Sub-Project proposal to the Borrower that fully satisfies the eligibility 
criteria specified in the Operational Manual.  
 
(b) 
In evaluating each Sub-Project proposal, consideration shall be given to 
the Beneficiary’s capacity to carry out, manage and maintain the Sub-Project in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, technical and managerial 
standards. 
 
2. 
(a) 
The Borrower shall make the amounts of the proceeds of the Challenge 
Fund Grant available to the Beneficiary under a Sub-Grant Agreement. The Sub-Grant 
Agreement shall provide for rights adequate to protect the interests of the Bank and the 
Borrower, including to the extent that it shall be appropriate to: 
 
(i) 
require the Beneficiary to carry out the Sub-Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound 
administrative, financial, technical and managerial standards; 
and maintain adequate records for the Sub-Project concerned; 
 
(ii) 
require that all goods and services required for the Sub-Project 
shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 
4
to this Agreement; 
 
(iii) 
require that all goods and services shall be used exclusively in 
the carrying out of the Sub-Project; and 
 
(iv) 
suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to the use of the 
proceeds of the Challenge Fund Grant upon the failure by the 
Beneficiary to perform any of its obligations under the Sub-
Grant Agreement. 
 
