                                          Document of
                                        The World Bank

                                  FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                         Report No: 31334-JO




                            PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                              O NA

                                       PROPOSED LOAN

                           INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$15MILLION

                                            TO THE

                                 GOVERNMENT OF JORDAN

                                             FOR A

              PUBLIC SECTOR REFORMCAPACITY BUILDINGPROJECT

                                        February 24,2005




Social and Economic Development Group
MiddleEast andNorthAfrica


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bankauthorization.

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                      (Exchange Rate Effective January 18,2005)


                           Currency Unit = Jordanian Dinar
                                 JD0.713  = US$l
                                 US$1.44 = JD 1

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                               January1   - December31




                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CDC      Cabinet Department for Communications
COMD     Council o f Minister's Department
CSB      Civil Service Bureau
CSD      Cabinet Secretariat Department
DfID     Department for IntemationalDevelopment (UK)
GFMIS    Govemment Financial Management Information System
GOJ      Govemment of Jordan
EAP      East Asia andPacific
ECA      Eastem Europe and Central Asia
GNI      Gross National Income
GBD      General BudgetDepartment
GPD      Government Performance Directorate
FM       Financial Management
FMR      Financial Management Report
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
L A C    Latin America and Caribbean
LIL      Learning and Innovation Loan
M O A D  MinistryofAdministrativeDevelopment
HRM      HumanResource Management
HRPD     HumanResources Policies Directorate
MENA     Middle East andNorthAfrica
M O F    Ministry o f Finance
MOJ      Ministryo fJustice
MOPIC    MinistryofPlanningand Intemational Cooperation
NIT      National Institute for Training
OED      Operations Evaluation Department (World Bank)
PAC      Public Administration Committee
PCF      Project Consulting Firm
PCT      Project Coordination Team
PIU      Performance Improvement Unit

                                                         FOR OlFFIczALUSEONLY




 P M        PrimeMinister
 PSDA       Public Sector Development Administration
 PSR4       Public Sector ReformAuthority
 PSRL       Public Sector ReformLoan
 PSRD       Public Sector ReformDepartment
 PCF        Project Consulting Firm
 SIL        Structural InvestmentLoan
 SDIS       Service DeliveryImprovement System
 SPP        Strategic Programmatic Plan
 USAID      United States Agency for International Development




                             Vice President:      Christiaan Poortman
                   Country ManagerDirector:       JosephP. Saba
                             Sector Director      Mustapha K.Nabli
                            Sector Manager:       Dipak Dasgupta
                          Task Team Leader:       Giulio de Tommaso




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without W o r l d Bank authorization.


                          THE HASHEMITE KINGDOMOF JORDAN
                   PublicSector ReformSupport CapacityBuildingLoan

                                                        CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                               Page

A.  STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE                                           .................................................................      1
 1.  Country and sector issues....................................................................................................                   1
 2.  Higher level objectives to which the project contributes ....................................................                                   4

B
.   PROJECTDESCRIPTION                       .................................................................................................       4
 1.  Lending instrument.............................................................................................................                 4
 2.  Project development objective and key indicators..............................................................                                  4
 3.  Project components          .............................................................................................................       4
 4.  Lessons learned and reflectedinthe project design............................................................                                   9
 5.  Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                            ............................................................      10

C.  IMPLEMENTATION                  ........................................................................................................        11
 1.  Partnership arrangements..................................................................................................                     11
 2 . Institutional and implementation arrangements.. ..............................................................                                 11
 3 . Monitoringand evaluation o f outcomesh-esults................................................................                                  14
 4 . Sustainabillty.....................................................................................................................
           . . .                                                                                                                                    14
 5.  Critical risks andpossible controversial aspects...............................................................                                15
 6.  Loan conditions andcovenants .........................................................................................                         16

D APPRAISAL SUMMARY
 .                                         .................................................................................................        16
  1. Economic and financial analyses ......................................................................................                         16
 2 . Technical...........................................................................................................................           16
 3 . Fiduciary ...........................................................................................................................          16
 4 . Social.................................................................................................................................        16
 5 . Environment......................................................................................................................              17
 6.  Safeguard policies.............................................................................................................                17
 7 . Policy Exceptions and Readiness......................................................................................                          17

Annex 1: Country and Sector or ProgramBackground                                     .........................................................      18

Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bankand/or other Agencies                                                              .................22

Annex 3: ResultsFrameworkandMonitoring                              ........................................................................   23

Annex 4: DetailedProjectDescription                  ......................................................................................    30

Annex 5: ProjectCosts     ...............................................................................................................      38

Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements                        .................................................................................   39

Annex 7: FinancialManagementArrangements                                .....................................................................  42

Annex 8: ProcurementArrangements                     ......................................................................................    51

Annex 9: ProjectPreparationand Supervision                           .......................................................................   69

Annex 10: Documentsin the ProjectFile                      .................................................................................   70

Annex 11: Statement of LoansandCredits                        ..............................................................................   71

Annex 12: Country at a Glance             .................................................................................................    73

Annex 13: Maps ...........................................................................................................................     74


Map
IBRD 29234

                          THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN

                 PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM CAPACITY BUILDINGLOAN

                              PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                            MIDDLEEASTAND NORTHAFRICA

                                             MNSED

Date: 2/24/05                                      Team Leader: Giulio D e Tommaso
Country Director:                                  Sectors: Generalpublic administration sector
JosephP. Saba                                      (100%)
Sector ManagerDirector:                            Themes: Administrative and civil service
DipakDasguptaNustapha K.Nabli                      reform (P)
Project ID: PO91787                                Environmental screening category: Not
                                                   Required
LendingInstrument: Specific Investment Loan Safeguardscreeningcategory: No impact

[XILoan      [ ] Credit   [ ] Grant   [ ] Guarantee     [ ] Other:

For Loans/Credits/Others:
Total Bank financing (US$m.): 15.00
Proposed terms: Fixed Spread Loan (FSL) with levelrepayments. The Loan has a 17-year maturity,
includinga five-yeargrace period. The currencyof the Loanwill be denominatedinU S Dollars.




INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR                                                15.00             15.OO
RECONSTRUCTIONAND
DEVELOPMENT
Total:                                                3.00            15.00             18.00

Borrower: GovernmentofJordan

ResponsibleAgency:Public Sector ReformDepartmentin the PrimeMinister'sOffice,
under the authority of the Minister of Statefor Public Sector Reform

                          Estimateddisbursements(Bank FY/US$m)
FY           200516 2006/7 2007/8          2008/9
Annual        5.28     5.36       2.75     1.61
Cumulative    5.28     10.63      13.38    15.00

Does the project depart from the CAS incontent or other significant respects?
Ref:PAD A.3
   .,                                                                                        [ ]Yes [XINO

Does the project require any exceptions from Bank policies?
Re$ PAD D.7                                                                                  [ ]Yes [XINO
Have these been approved by Bank management?                                                 [ ]Yes [XINO
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                                 [ ]Yes [XINO
Does the project include any critical risks rated "substantial" or "high"?
Re$ PAD C.5                                                                                  [ ]Yes [XINO

Does the project meet the Regional criteria for readiness for implementation?
Re$ PAD D.7                                                                                  [XIYes [ ] N o

Project development objective Re$ PAD B.2, TechnicalAnnex 3

The project's principal goal i s to support the ongoing implementation o f the Government's public sector
reform strategy by ensuring that the requisite institutional infrastructure i s inplace and functioning. It
also seeks to support an important set o f cross-cutting reforms inareas ranging from policy coordination
to improved financial and humanresource practices. It will be deemed successful if capacity is
strengthenedwithin the Prime Minister's office so that performance monitoring, administrative reform
and policy coordination functions are established and finctioning well by project completion. Another
indication o f success i s that the broader set o freforms has been implemented effectively.
Project description

a. Policy Coordination and DecisionMaking

The Government o f Jordan's Public Sector Reform strategy calls for strengthening the ability o f the
Prime Minister's Office (PMO) to coordinate policies, oversee the realization o f the National Agenda'
and monitor progress towards that end, and spearhead the reform o f the public sector. It recommends
restructuring the PMO and creating four operating units reporting to the Prime Minister: (1) the Cabinet
Office/Secretariat; (2) the Government Performance Unit (GPU); (3) the Public Sector Reform
Department (PSRD); and (4) the Human Resource Policy Unit.

b. Performance Management and Service DelivervImprovements

The Public Sector Reform Program calls for fostering high-performing, citizen-responsive services
through the development o f adequate evaluation o f government's performance. The proposed operation
would build manpower and provide training, capacity building and consultancies to address: (1) the
institutionalization and roll-out o f the Service Delivery Improvement Strategy (SDIS) across various line
ministries and departments; (2) capacity building within GoJ institutions themselves to be able to
implement the SDIS; and (3) selected initiatives for improving performance (such as by restructuring
andor reengineering certain services) inline ministries.

c. Institutional Streamlining

The proposed operation would finance staff costs and provide technical assistance in a limitednumber o f
agencies for streamlining exercises. Agencies which have already begun the process o f restructuring and
will be able to provideresults within the period of implementationo fthe loan are expected to be pilots for
this component. As an incentive, the GoJhopesto allow ministries that moveproactively on streamlining
and rationalizationto move more rapidly to a new salary structure that reduces salary compression.

d. ResourceManagement

On issues o f HR Management, the operation would increase capacity by hiring o f staff, as well as by
providing technical assistance to the restructuring o f the CSB and other concerned units. The proposed
operation would also provide technical assistance in the development o f a strategy for pay reform and
employment rationalization. The ultimate goal will be to provide enough detailed analytic work for
widespread salary reform to reduce compression and ensure continued access to skilled managerial and
technical talent. As noted above, the GoJ i s proposing implementation o f an innovative program inwhich
departments will be able to move to a revised salary structure in exchange for progress in streamlining
and rationalizing their operations.

On issues o f Financial Management, this lending operation will be carefully and selectively targeted at a
couple o f highpriority issues. They include: (1) strengthening the macro-economic forecasting capacity
o f the M o F (a critical component for budget preparation); and (2) developing a plan for more closely
integrating the Budget Department within the MoF. The loan will help strengthen the M o F and its
monitoring function for recurrent expenditures and the Ministry of Planning and International
Cooperation (MOPIC) for its capital investment monitoring functions. On a highly selective basis, it
could also support pilot efforts to improve the performance orientation o f the budget process inministries
such as Justice.

Which safeguard policies are triggered, if any:
None

Significant, non-standard conditions, if any, for:

Boardpresentation: None

Loadcredit effectiveness: None

Covenants applicable to project implementation:

With the exception of standard covenants, none is requiredconsideringJordan's experience with Bank
projects and satisfactory compliance with commitments


                           THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OFJORDAN

              PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT


STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE

1. Country and sector issues
In the aftermath of the 1989 financial crisis, Jordan embarked into a full-fledged adjustment
program with continuous support form the IMF and the World Bank. After more than a decade
o f adjustment and structural reforms, public debt has been more than halved from above 200
percent o f GDP to less than 100 percent, and Jordan has been a star performer among emerging
countries interms o f structural reforms throughout the 1990s. The country's economic prospects
have been very dependent on regional political developments, which significantly dampened the
impact o f these reforms on economic growth, which nonetheless, has resumed to over 4 percent
inthe last few years ofthe 1990s.
The payoff o f reform seems to have accelerated in the first years o f the new millennium. GDP
growth reached almost 5 percent in 2002, and after a mild recession in 2003 due to the war in
Iraq, the economy has rebounded strongly in2004 reaching around 7 percent growth. Jordan has
graduated from its continuous stream o f IMF programs in July 2004, while external reserves
have beenstrong.
Yet governance systems and structures have not evolved as quickly as the macro-economic
setting in creating an enabling environment for market-led growth, or delivering services
effectively and efficiently to people.           There is general agreement that continued economic
progress depends on tackling public service reforms.
Jordan's public administrationhas traditionally been regarded as one o f the best inthe region. It
has a reasonably well-functioning civil service, and a strong nucleus o f committed high-level
civil servants. Intemational comparisons on issues o f governance reveal that Jordan ranks near
the top o f the list among the MENA countries in terms o f overall governance effectiveness as
well as individual categories such as `voice and accountability', `regulatory quality', and the rule
o f law.6
However, these assets are underutilized due to the institutional liabilities o f the system:
regulatory rigidity, an abundance o f red tape, weak policy coordination and programming
capacity, and absence o f a service culture, resulting inindifferent and ponderous service delivery
and sub optimal resource allocation and use.
For example, household and firm surveys reveal that a) procedures for closing a business and
firing workers are more cumbersome than in the rest o f the region, and b) Jordan remains
significantly less friendly to business and does worse on regulatory and corruption issues than


 Kaufman, Kraay and Mastruzzi, Govemance Matters, 2003




                                                       1

many upper middle income countries it i s seeking to emulate, such as Chile and Malaysia. It has
also been evident that the quality of public service delivery and business regulation did not
improveas significantly as expected inthe past several years.7
Public Sector Reform has been on the government's agenda since 1984, but progress has been
uneven and slow.              Some o f the reasons for lack o f progress have been political instability
(governments used to average less than a year in power), lack o f committed resources to carry
out reforms beyond diagnostics, and the role assigned to public sector employment in the
delicate socio-political equilibriumo fJordan.
In 1999 Jordan launched a broad-based Public Sector Reform Program, with support from the
Bank and other bilateral donors. To date, there has been progress in modernizing the legal
framework o f the government, pilot reforms have beeninitiated, and extensive diagnostics work
has been undertaken. Additionally, capacity was created within the Ministries o f Administrative
Development, Finance, Justice and ICT, as well as the General Budget Directorate. However,
other agendas, such as improving policy coordination, or better integrating the institutions
involved inpolicy formulation have not advanced significantly.
Since October 2003, the authorities have decided to step up the pace o f reform. InOctober 2004
the outgoing Government o f Jordan approved the "White Paper on Public Sector Reform." This
plan builds on previous collaborative work with the Bank and DfIDbut, in structure and content,
it is essentially homegrown. It maintains-in terms o f content-the direction developed since 1999.
It is comprehensive in dealing not only with priority initiatives but also in setting out clear
objectives and in incorporating concrete time-tables and institutional responsibilities. The basic
approach i s incremental and pragmatic. It focuses on obtaining early successes and ensuring the
development o f good will andmomentum for each subsequent measure. This modus operandi i s
based on a vision o f public organizations and institutions as needing continuous improvement
rather than conformity to an ideal model.                          Substantial efforts are devoted to setting up
organizations and institutions with a highcapability for self-diagnosis, with incentives to identify
needed changes and launch them. This perspective o f aiming for organizations with high
adaptability and inherent capacity for change i s in full agreement with recent literature inpublic
or private management.
Ownership and commitment to the reform program are solid. The program has benefited from
the unwavering support o f H i s Majesty King Abdullah 11. Moreover, a number o f the reforms
included in the Government strategy has already been approved, in particular the integration or
creation of Public Sector Reform units into the Prime Minister Office, under specific delegated
ministers. To ensure coordination o f the reform effort across the Government, the Authorities
transformed the recently activated Inter-ministerial Steering Committee on Public Sector Reform
into a permanent Public Administration Cabinet S~b-Committee.~


'CPIA   indexes.
 The Inter-Ministerial Committee i s chaired by the DeputyPrime Minister and Minister o f State for Government Performance.
It includes all the ministers concerned with public sector reform, and among them the Minister of Planning, the Minister o f
Finance, the Minister o f State for Public Sector Reform, the Minister o f Justice and the Minister o f Information, Communication
and Technology.




                                                                  2

Rationale for Bank involvement
The Bank has long recognized the importance o f public sector modernization in Jordan. Four
successive CAS have articulated the need to support various aspects o f administrative reform. In
1999, Jordan launched a broad-based Public Sector Reform Programwith support from the Bank
and other bilateral donors.
The first two Bank-financed Public Sector Reform Loans (PSRL-I and 11) have assisted Jordan
since 1999 to initiate a structural reform program for core public sector functions. In terms o f
content, the first two PSRL loans have launched the Public Sector Reform along four parallel but
complementary tracks:
    Public sector reform proper, led by the Ministryfor Administrative Development. This track
    deals with a) the reform o f civil service institutions (new Civil Service By-Law, training o f
    civil servants); b) government restructuring (boundaries between state and private sector,
    redistribution o f responsibilities betweenministries); structural changes inresponsibilities (as
    in the case for the audit functions); c) improving services to the citizens in ensuring better
    quality o f service and easier access to them for households and businesses (information
    dissemination, guidance for users, procedural simplification and re-engineering o f processes
    inpublic organizations).
    The e-government initiative, led by the Ministry for Post and Telecommunications. This
    track deals with IT development inside government, communications within government, and
    communications between government and businesses and citizens. This initiative i s seen as a
    key component o f the overall human resources-based economic growth strategy, which
    intends to transform Jordan into the regional center for exports o f services and expertise in
    the field.
    Judicial Reform, started under a Royal Commission for the Development o f the Judiciary
    (RCDJ), and then under the leadership o f the Ministry o f Justice.         This track aims at
    modernizing the entire justice system from its day-to-day operations to judges' training and
    appointments, to procedures and evidence law.
    Financial management and budget reforms involve restructuring the expenditure budget,
    going over to a medium-term budgetary framework and modernizing financial management.
    This stream is under the responsibility o f the Ministry o f Finance, with donor-funded capital
    expenditure portion being ledby the Ministry o f Planningand International Cooperation.
Both operations have received satisfactory ratings interms o f project outcome and sustainability,
based on the Bank ICRs. These ratings were confirmed by OED.
Starting in late 2003, DfID-with         the active engagement o f the Bank in terms o f policy
dialogue-provided      support to the Jordanian Authorities to build up their capacity to engage into
a further and more decisive stage o f design and implementation o f their Public Sector reforms.
The US$ 8 M grant provided for staffing the Public Sector Ministry with both local and
international experts, set up a program management function for the Reform, and funded the
necessary studies and other required technical assistance. DfID's assistance will come to an end
on June 30, 2005, at which time the Government's PSR program will still be only in the early
stages of implementation. The capacity o f the key units to manage the reform program will still



                                                  3

be limited. Additional external assistance will be required untilthe implementationprocess has
reached maturity.
The proposed operation will support the government's efforts for reform by ensuring (i)     strategic
staffing within key agencies involved in administrative reform with qualified staff; and by (ii)
providing training and other capacity buildingto ensure that this staff i s able to actively manage
the reform process. The loan seeks to continue the capacity building efforts begununder DfID
assistance and to reduce disruptions. It i s anticipated that by providing technical assistance and
buildingcapacity, the operation will greatly accelerate the systematic mainstreaming of the reform
effort.
Additionally, a programmatic loan (the PSRL 111), currently under preparation, could continue to
providepolicy support for key elements o fthe Public Sector Reformprogram inthe future.
2. Higher levelobjectives to which the project contributes

The project seeks to strengthen capacity to advance public sector reforms, by hiring staff,
providing goods and equipment, as well as technical assistance to key central government
agencies responsible for carrying out a broad and ambitious public sector reform program. As
such, it i s fully consistent with the current CAS for Jordan (December 2002). The project also
indirectly supports the strategic objective of promoting a more effective and responsive public
sector. It i s one o f the Government's highestpriorities.

B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION

1. Lendinginstrument

The Borrower selected a Fixed Spread Loan (FSL) with level repayments. The Loan has a 17-
year maturity, includinga five-year grace period, The currency o f the Loan will be denominated
inU S Dollars.

2. Project developmentobjectiveand key indicators

The project's principal goal is to support the ongoing implementation of the Government's
public sector reform strategy by hiring staff, procuring equipment and providing technical
assistance in key agencies responsible for carrying out administrative reform in Jordan. It also
seeks to support the timely implementation o f an important set o f cross-cutting reforms in areas
ranging from policy coordination to improved financial and human resource practices. It will be
deemed successful if the agencies responsible for carrying out performance monitoring,
administrative reform and policy coordination are established and functioning well by project
completion.      Another indication o f success i s that the broader set o f reforms has been
implemented effectively.

3. Projectcomponents

Consistent with the proposed areas o f Public Sector Reform highlighted by the White Paper, the
proposed project will build capacity by hiring staff and providing training and equipment to
support reform in five main areas o f activity. These are: (a) policy coordination and decision-



                                                  4

making; (b) performance monitoring and evaluation; (c) streamliningandrationalizing government
institutions; (d) management o f financial andhumanresources, and (e) management and evaluation
o f the public sector reform process. The nature o f each activity and the loan's proposed input i s
described below.

a. Policy Coordination and Decision Making

The Government o f Jordan's Public Sector Reform strategy calls for strengthening the ability o f
directorates under the authority o f the Prime Minister to coordinate policies, oversee the
realization o f the National Agenda" and monitor progress towards that end, and spearhead the
reform of the public sector. It recommends restructuring the Prime Ministry and creating four
operating units reporting to the Prime Minister: (1) the Cabinet Offce/Secretariat; (2) the
Government Performance Directorate (GPD); (3) the Public Sector Reform Directorate (PSRD),
and (4) the HumanResourcedPolicy Directorate (HRPD).

One of the most important sets o f reforms being pursued under this rubric is to strengthen
capacity at the Cabinet secretariat to reduce the amount o f routine business flowing before
Cabinet to allow it to focus upon more strategic issues. In2003, for example, nearly 2,800 items
were advanced to Cabinet for decision. (The average in many OECD countries is 500 to 700.)
Many were minor innature and did not require Cabinet attention."                             Underthe new structure, the
role o f the Cabinet Secretary will be strengthened to effectively manage the Cabinet process; a
series o f ministerial sub-committees will be established to carefully vet decisions before they go
to Cabinet; and by-laws will be re-drafted to reduce the amount o f routine business being
forwarded on to Cabinet for decision.

b. Performance Monitoring and Evaluation

The Public Sector Reform Program calls for fostering high-performing, citizen-responsive
services through the development o f adequate improved monitoring and evaluation o f
government's performance. While many ministries and institutions have adopted measures to
improve the quality o f service delivery within their individual domains, the concept o f service to
the public has yet to become a major motivating force across Jordan's public administration.

The move to a more performance-based, client-focused culture will need to overcome a number
o f obstacles. The proposed operation would build manpower and provide training, capacity
building and consultancies to address: (1) the institutionalization and roll-out o f the Service
Delivery Improvement System (SDIS) across various line ministries and departments; (2)
capacity building within GoJ institutions themselves to be able to implement the SDIS; and (3)


lo According to the White paper "The National Agenda is a published document which will provide clear statements of where
Jordan wants to be in economic, social and govemance terms over the next 10-15 years. This document will determine the
National Goals which will become the mandates of the Govemment as a whole. The national goals should be high level and
limited innumber. To measureperformance, each goal will have Key Performance Indicatorswhich are regularly measuredand
reported upon, in order to answer the question: "Is govemment working". The national goals are translated into a government
strategy, i.e. objectives and plans on how to deliver the National Agenda. These objectives and plans will then determine the
specific results of each ministry and institution must achieve, and the resources allocated to them. The resultswill be reflectedin
the Govemment's Budget documents." A new department in the Prime Ministry, called the Govemment Performance
Directorateunderthe leadershipof aMinister of Statehasbeenassignedthis task.
"ExamplesincludethedispositionofminorpropertyassetsorwhethercertainindividualsqualifyforJordaniancitizenship.



                                                                 5

selected initiatives for improving performance (such as by restructuring and/or reengineering
certain services) inline ministries.

First, the GPD will be established and given the role o f helping to define the national
development agenda and monitoring Performance towards its implementation across government
(about which more will be said below). The Ministry o f Administrative Development will be
brought directly under the Prime Ministry and reconstituted as the PSRD, so that its higher
profile will allow it to better advance reforms across the civil service. Other functions, ranging
from human resource policy to strategic communications and parliamentary affairs, will be
strengthened and enhanced. The proposed lendingoperation would support the move to the new
Prime Ministry structure, help ensure that the new policy processes are hlly established and
functioning smoothly, and build the manpower and capacity o f the GPD and the PSRD and
provide training for their development.

A comprehensive strategy has been developed to institutionalize such an approach at every level
o f government. The strategy has two maincomponents:

The first is policv level performance management, which seeks-to ensure that Government as a
whole is working towards clear goals and targets and measuring its performance. The starting
point i s the development o f a National Agenda, which provides clear statements o f Jordan's
economic, social and governance objectives over the next 10-15 years. This agenda in turn
determines national goals, which become the key mandates for the Government as a whole. To
monitor performance, each goal will have Key Performance Indicator(s) attached to it, which are
regularly measured and reported upon. The national goals are then translated into a government
strategy, which will then determine the specific results each ministry and institution must achieve
and the resources allocated to them. The results will be reflected in the Government's budget
documents.

The second part o f the strategy focuses upon service delivery improvement at the operational
level, which will help ensure that Government i s continuously improving its performance on the
ground.      Policies are translated into service standards that define the targeted level o f
performance, along with indicators and action plans (objectives, processes, resources, etc.) for
delivery. Actual performance against standards will be regularly monitored, and performance
reports will be published. Gaps in performance will be identified and reported, together with
plans for closing the gap. The cycle aims to ensure continuous improvement ineffectiveness and
efficiency o f service delivery, based on client needs. This component will support the creation
o f Performance Improvement Units (PIUS)on a pilot basis inselected ministries and institutions,
along with the development of a general service standard setting methodology, "client voice"
tools and capacity building. After pilot testing, these initiatives will be rolled out in other
ministries and institutions ina carefully sequenced manner.

Other efforts to enhance transparency and improve performance, such as the Challenge Fundwill
also be supported under this component o f the project."


l2The Challenge Fundwas launched inAugust 2004 and provides challenge grants to local institutions to implement
innovative projects for which they do not have the necessary technical expertise. ??? o f Challenge Fundgrants will
be consistent with procedures


                                                        6

c. StreamliningandRationalizingGovernmentInstitutions

The PSR strategy calls for a fundamental restructuring o fthe Government andthe realignment o f
functions in a number o f ministries and agencies. At present, Jordan has 28 ministries, 27
departments and around 100 autonomous agencies.                       Since the average number o f cabinet
ministries in the OECD i s approximately 16, the number o f ministries in Jordan i s clearly
exce~sive.'~The White Paper envisions gradually reducing the number o f ministries over the
next five years to fewer than 20. It also envisions reviewing and rationalizing the number,
mandate and status o f other government institutions, with particular emphasis upon
differentiating between policy and executive functions and ensuring that all agencies with a
policy function are directly under ministerial oversight. Finally, this work stream envisions
providing support for efforts to review and improve the efficiency and effectiveness o f
procedures and work methods within ministries and institutions.

The proposed operation would finance staff costs and provide technical assistance in a limited
number o f agencies for streamlining exercises. Agencies which have already begunthe process
of restructuring and will be able to provide results within the period o f implementation o f the
loan are expected to be pilots for this component. As an incentive, the GoJ hopes to allow
ministries that move proactively on streamlining and rationalization to move more rapidly to a
new salary structure that reduces salary compression (see the Human Resource Management
section below).

d. Managementof FinancialandHumanResources

This component will support reforms intwo critical areas: financial and human resource
management, with particular emphasis upon supporting HRMreforms. A more detailed
discussion o f each i s provided below.

HumanResource Management (HRM)

With approximately 2.5 civil servants per 100 inhabitants, Jordan's civil service is not
particularly overstaffed by global or regional standards. At 16 percent, the proportion o f GDP
being spent on the government wage bill is high, but when one deducts the expenditure on the
armed forces, spending on the remainder o f the civil service is not inconsistent with regional
norms. However, problems do remain with staffing and skills mix, a highly compressed wage
structure, and ensuring maximum motivation, productivity and efficiency from staff.

With the support o fDfID,important preliminary diagnostic work has beenundertaken inthe area
o f civil service reform and improved human resource management. In the upcoming phase o f
the program, such efforts will be further advanced. They include the roll out o f a new civil
service bylaw and the implementation o f new human resource management policies and
procedures across Government. These reforms are intended cover a wide range o f HRM issues,


l3Two caveats are worth mentioning inthis context. First, there i s no "optimal" size o f ministries, and international
experience varies considerably o n this score.        Second, comparative experience indicates that it i s often
extraordinarily difficult to reduce the number o f ministries, since efforts to do so are resisted on both political and
administrative grounds.


                                                           7

such as improving manpower planning; overhauling existing recruitment and promotion
procedures; improving pay and grading; rationalizing the system for contract employment (a
particular problem within Jordan); and improving procedures for performance appraisal and staff
development, among other goals. They will also address the reorganization o f the Government's
HRM functions and restructuring of various overlapping agencies (such as the proposed HR
Policy Unit and the Civil Service Bureau, or CSB), as well as the decentralization o f some HRM
operations and oversight capacity.

The operation would increase capacity by hiring o f staff, as well as by providing technical
assistance to the restructuring o f the CSB and other concemed units. The proposed operation
would also provide technical assistance in the development o f a strategy for pay reform and
employment rationalization. The ultimate goal will be to provide enough detailed analytic work
for widespread salary reform to reduce compression and ensure continued access to skilled
managerial and technical talent.

Financial Management (FM1

The goal o f Jordan's financial management reforms i s to improve the efficiency and
effectiveness o f administration through better overall management o f the way budget resources
are allocated and spent, as well as through the development o f incentive frameworks that support
an administrative culture o f performance. The White Paper envisions a broad agenda o freforms,
ranging from developing a Medium Term Fiscal Framework and Medium Term Expenditure
Framework to ensure that strategic resource allocation decisions are made within a consistent
macro-framework, to strengthening the linkage between budgeting, performance management
and the proposed national development agenda. A substantial amount o f diagnostic work has
already been undertaken in this field, including a joint BaWFund review o f public expenditure
management carried out in March 2004. The recommendations o f the joint report have been
agreed by the Ministry o f Finance, who has incorporated many o f its recommendations into its
own plan for financial management reform.14

In light of the presence of other agencies (particularly the Fund and GTZ), this operation will
selectively target those areas where tangible results can be achieved.            They include: (1)
strengtheningthe capacity o f the MoF for macro-fiscal analysis (a critical component for budget
preparation); (2) developing a plan aimed reviewing internal organization o f the M o F and its
related departments; (3) strengthening selected treasury management hnctions including initial
structures for a GFMIS; (4) strengthening the budget preparation process by developing more
sophisticated budget preparation instruments, such as the Medium Term ExpenditureFramework
(MTEF), and strengthening the capacity o f the budget department as well as the budget
preparation capacity o f selected pilot ministries; (5) developing a more modern and relevant
budget classification as a basis for developing result-oriented budgeting, and (6) supporting
efforts to improve the performance orientation o f the budget process intwo pilot ministries.




l4 Joint Bank-FundAide Memoire, Jordan: Work Programfor Consolidating Budget Management Reforms, March
2004.


                                                   8

e. ManagementandEvaluationof Pubic Sector ReformProcess

This component will focus on ensuring that the Public Sector Reform Program (PSRP) is
implementedefficiently and effectively; that its strategic objectives are met; and that lessons are
learned, shared and continuously applied in light o f experience. The strategic vision and policy
framework will be systematically evaluated and adjusted-based on both feedback received from
various monitoring and evaluation exercises and on a systematic benchmarking against best
practice in the field o f public sector reform. The monitoring and evaluation functions will be
based on the Strategic Program Plan (SPP) that was developed based on the public sector reform
policy paper and its implementation strategies. The purpose o f the SPP i s to provide the
Administration with a clear view o f the strategic goals and objectives in each PSRP Component,
against which progress inimplementingthe Program will be monitored over the next five years.
The loanwill finance the establishment o fthe Project Management function within the PSRD.

4. Lessonslearnedand reflectedin the projectdesign

Lessons learned from Bank-supported Public Administration Reform and Capacity Building
projects in the LAC, E M , ECA and MENA Regions and previous efforts to improve public
administration inJordan highlightthe following as success factors: (i)  ownership, commitment to
reform and a clear strategy to move forward; (ii)early and systematic consultation o f clients
during project preparation to improve ownership and compliance; (iii)    training and continuity o f
staff infunctional postings to develop expertise, and (iv) adequate counterpart o f funding for the
project and for the agency incharge o f the reform.

The project contains the following features to incorporateprevious lessons learned:

Ownership, commitment to reform and a clear strategy for moving forward: The project i s
supported by H i s Majesty King Abdullah I1and the Prime Minister, whose office i s responsible
for overall Public Sector Reform.        In addition, the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of
Government Performance i s at the head o f a Ministerial Committee in charge o f Government
Reforms. This highlevel committee includes the Minister o f Finance, the Minister of Justice, the
Ministers o f State for Government Performance and Public Sector Reforms, and the Minister o f
Planning, all o fwhom are champions o f the reform process.

The White Paper provides the program with a well defined vision and strategy to achieve Public
Sector Reform, and includes very important lessons from international experience, such as the
development o f a performance-based staff compensation and incentive system, well developed
hiring, evaluation and dismissal procedures, and provisions for simplification o f business
processes across the public sector.




                                                 9

Consultation with the client: The project has beenprepared inclose consultation with Jordanian
counterparts since the very early part o f identification.       This dialogue has ensured that
implementation mechanisms which are flexible and effective will be instituted to effectively
manage the process o freform.

Training and continuity of staff in key functionalpostings: The rationale for this project i s to
ensure that staffing in key functional positions i s both adequate and continuous, despite changes
ingovernments, donor assistance agencies, and other complicating factors. Duringpreparation,
all mitigating measures have been taken to ensure that this takes place. Among them: (i)
extending the PCF contract for the first year o f project implementation to ensure that Jordanian
capacity i s inplace and that there i s a seamless transition away fiom international expertise; (ii)
the hiring-under project financing-of a number o f national staff for a transitional period o f three
years, recognizing that retention o f this staff depends on ensuring that it is adequately
compensated, and (iii)    the project finances studies and activities aimed at the reform o f the
employment and wage structure to ensure that competitive compensation packages are
institutionalized.

Adequate counterpartfunding for theproject and the agency in charge of the reform: This
project does not include provisions or conditionality to this effect. However, this has been
discussed with the Jordanian authorities and should a programmatic and it recognizes the
importance o f ensuringthat the reform process is adequately and securely financed for as long as
it's necessary.

5. Alternatives consideredandreasons for rejection

The government could have chosen a Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) or a policy
instrument, either inthe context o f an Adaptable Program Loan (APL)or a Programmatic Loan.

A LILwas considered and rejected early inthe preparation process. It could have been usedto
pilot reforms in one key area and then used to scale up the results and develop a larger, longer
term project at a later stage. However, the government felt that preparing a LILand then waiting
for the outcomes of the innovation and buildingthem into a more comprehensive project would
risk losingthe reform momentum and allowing the vested interests against reform to regroup and
oppose future reform measures.

The proposed operation could also have been included into a programmatic instrument. An
adaptable program loan (APL) could have been used to support a phased implementation of
reforms. This would have had the advantage that the Bank could review progress during the
course o f the reform program and approve future credit tranches on the basis o f performance
achieved during program implementation. However, the government felt that this instrument did
not allow enough flexibility inmanaging its reform program over the medium to long term.




                                                 10

C. IMPLEMENTATION

1. Partnershiparrangements

This project reflects extensive coordination among donors. DfIDhas been the primary financier
o f the Public Sector Reform Program during the period 2002-2004. However, DfiD will not be
the primary financier o f the public sector reform program in the 2005-2008 period. The Bank
and DfID have been in close cooperation to ensure that the operations are properly sequenced
andcoordinated.

USAID i s proposing to parallel finance the work undertaken by the loan through an additional
US$4.5 million trust fund for public sector reform, to be managed by the Bank. The activities o f
the trust fund will be mainly inthe Service Delivery and Improvement o f Services work stream
(approximately US$3 Mywith the rest remaining unallocated for the moment) andwill be closely
aligned with the loan-financed activities to ensure maximum effectiveness and minimize
duplication.

The U.K.agencies are considering possible parallel financing through the Global Opportunities
Fund, aimedat providing support to the Challenge Fundand senior technical expertise.

2. Institutionaland implementationarrangements

The project will beimplemented inalmost four years, from June 1,2005 to March 31,2009.

Executing Aaencv

The public administration Reformprogram currently undertakenby the Government o f Jordan, i s
a complex, multi-sectoral endeavor, with several agencies and ministries involved in the
management o f different work-streams.      At the policy level, the strategic leadership o f the
program i s entrusted to the Public Administration Committee, which meets regularly, and i s
headed by H.E. the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister o f State in charge of Government
Performance. Consistent with the situation on the ground, the Public Sector Reform Capacity
Building Loan finances activities o f virtually all work streams, undertaken by virtually all
intervening agencies o fthe Public Administration ReformProgram.

An Executive Level Interministerial Committee, headed by the Executive Director o f the Public
Sector Reform Directorate and inclusive o f Secretary General level staff o f all concerned
agencies, as well as a representative o f the secretariat o f the PAC will be created as a steering
committee for the project. Its function i s two fold: ensure that the directions provided by the
PAC are being carried out and are reflected at the executive level, monitor the K P I s for the
project, and ensure that any problem that arise are tackled and resolve quickly. This committee
will meet at least once monthly.

The Public Sector Reform Directorate will take the leadership inthe reform program, and as such
will be the executing agency for the loan.



                                                11

Each agency i s responsible for providing technical input necessary to implement their respective
components as well as to monitor and report for the purpose o f the project. Within each unit, the
Secretary General, who i s represented at the executive level, will take the overall responsibility
for its component.

Proiect Management

A Project Coordination Team domiciled in the Public Sector Reform Directorate will have the
overall responsibilityof the PSRCB project implementationover a period o f 3.8 years (start June
1, 2005 - end March 31, 2009). This team i s composed o f a Project Manager, a Financial
Officer, a Procurement Officer and a Lead Public Sector Reform Advisor (international expert).

The PCT will report directly to the Executive Director of the Public Sector Reform Directorate.
The procurement and financial aspects o f all the loan components (including financing the
challenge fund) will be centralized with the PCT who will also be responsible for the
compilation o f progress, annual and completion reports on project implementation. For each
component, a coordinator whose responsibility i s to ensure regular coordination with the PCT as
well as following up to ensure timely procurementwill be identified.

Inatransitional period, not to exceed 12months, the Project Consulting Firm(PCF) willprovide
assistance to the Project Coordination Team. PCF's detailed Terms o f Reference for this
assignment are currently under preparation., In addition to project management, procurement
and financial management assistance (which is described in detail below), PCF's functions will
finance the Technical Lead position, and include diagnostic and analytic work. This will include
(i)identification o f suitable expertise to undertake the reform program, formulation o f strategies;
(ii) implementation plans for reform; and (iii)   capacity building, in which international experts
will transfer knowledge to the local team.

Financial Management Issues


The Public Sector Reform Directorate (PSRD) will be responsible for the implementationo f this
project however the project's funds will be managed by the Ministry o f Planning and
International Cooperation (MOPIC). The project will benefit, in addition to the PSRD, different
entities being the Government Performance Directorate, Ministry o f Justice, Ministry o f Finance
(MOF),     Human Resources Policies Directorate,            Cabinet  o f Secretariat,  Government
Communication Unit and Prime Ministry. A Project Coordination Team (PCT) will be
supporting the PSRD inmanaging, monitoring and coordinating the project implementation and
will be following on the project financial management and procurement aspects. For a
transitional period o f 12 months, a project consulting firm (PCF) will be supporting the PCT in
the overall project management including the financial management aspects o f the project. The
PCF main responsibilities will include: (i)developing a Financial Procedure Manual, (ii)
assisting in identifying and implementing an accounting system and (iii)     assisting the project's
Financial Officer inhandling all financial management activities and transactions.




                                                  12

The PSRD is a directorate established under the Public Sector Development Administration
(PSDA), a newly established body (bylaws issued in Official Gazette dated 17 January 2005).
The financial management system in place at PSDA is based on principles and procedures
definedby the legal framework and operational decrees applicable to the public sector inJordan.
Currently, the PSRD's expenditures are included in the MOPIC budget however they are
approved and executed by the MOF. As at the date o f this assessment the PSRD, as per the local
regulations, was not eligible to have a MOF financial controller residing in its premises and
accordingly authorizing the execution o f its own expenditures. According to recent
correspondence between the M O F and the PSDA, it i s expected that the PSRD will be able to
execute its own expenditures by the first quarter o f 2005. However, and in order to reduce the
risk o f PSRD not being able to manage the project funds, the MOPIC will manage the project's
Special Account and will make available the project counterpart funds. Accordingly, the PSRD
will process the invoices and will issue payment requests addressed to the MOPIC for execution.
However, the PSRD will be responsible for the accounting and report generation under the
project through the installation o f a ring fenced accounting system able to generate the Bank
required FMRs and other financial reports to be used for monitoring and decision making
purposes.

The loan will be disbursed over an expected implementation period of approximately 3.8 years
(46 months) and its proceeds will be disbursed in accordance with the Bank's disbursements
guidelines as outlined in the Disbursement Handbook. Transaction based disbursement will be
used under the project. Accordingly, requests for payments from the loan account will be
initiated through the use o f withdrawal applications (WAS) either for Direct Payments,
Reimbursements, Replenishments to the Special Account (SA),             or Issuance o f Special
Commitments. To ensure that finds are readily available for project implementation, a SA inU S
dollars will be opened at the Central Bank o f Jordan andwill be operated by MOPIC.

The Project financial statements will be audited annually by an external independent auditor,
acceptable to the Bank, and in accordance with internationally accepted auditing standards. The
PSRD will submit annual audit reports to the bank no later than 6 months following the close o f
each fiscal year subject to an audit. Terms o f Reference for the audit will be prepared and
submitted for the Bank's no objection, no later than 9 months prior to the end o f each fiscal year.
Audit costs will not be financed by the Bank loan. Financial management arrangements are
detailed inAnnex 7.

Procurement Issues

Procurement for the proposedproject would be carried out in accordance with the World Bank's
 "Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits             "  dated M a y 2004; and
 "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated May
2004, and the provisions stipulated in the Legal Agreement. The majority o f the procurement
will be for (i) technical assistance in the form o f firms and individual consultants, (ii)training
and study tours, and (iii) provision o f office equipment. The methods for the procurement o f
Consultants will be Quality and Cost Based Selection, Least Cost Selection, Single Source
selection and Selection Based on Consultant's Qualifications and selection o f Individual
Consultants.   The methods for the procurement o f Goods will be International Competitive



                                                 13

Bidding, National Competitive Bidding, and Shopping. No procurement o f works is envisaged
underthe project.

The Public Sector Reform Directorate (PSRD) -under the guidance o f the Minister o f State for
Public Sector- will be responsible for the overall procurement under the project. This agency i s
s t i l l in the process o f being staffed. The current staff i s a mix of civil servants and new recruits
with private sector experience and background. The PSRD will benefit from the support o f the
PCF currently in place on DflD financing project (which will be ending prior to loan
effectiveness) andwhose services will be retained duringthe first year o f the project inparticular
to provide assistance to the Project Coordination Team. However, there remains a need for
intensive capacity building on the Bank Procurement Guidelines and procedures and for the
selection o f Consultants.

Single source o f several consultants under the project will be required. These procedures are
operationally justified to ensure continuity inthe program at a crucialjuncture o f implementation
andtaking into account the frontloaded nature o f the program. Moreover, the nature o f activities
undertaken by the project, and that critical importance o f the assignments envisaged to be
procured under these procedures for the achievement of the project's development objectives
ensure a compelling case for single sourcing.

The consultants envisaged to be retained on single sourcing basis are: (i)          the consulting firm for
the project management (estimated cost US$500,000 for 12 months), and an individual
international consultant for the Institutional Streamlining (estimated cost US$510,000 for 12
months).Theremaybe also the need to extend contracts o f several national consultants.

3. Monitoring and evaluation of outcomes/results

The Monitoringand Evaluation of the project will refer to the performance indicators outlined in
Annex 3; monitoring o f progress in project activities is also outlined in Annex 3. A Mid Term
review will be carried out on January 31, 2007 and an Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
will be preparedbythe Borrower and the Bank no later than September 1,2009.

4. Sustainability

Prospects for sustainability increase when the Government itself drives a reform program and
incorporates international experience and stakeholder feedback in the design. The Government
has benefited in designing the reform program and from substantial international experience
throughBank and the DfID sponsored assistance.

Furthermore, a clear strategy has been prepared providing for implementation o f reform
measures over the short, medium and long term. The short term measures - which this project i s
directly supporting - are already showing visible and positive outcomes, which gives strength to
thereform program and improves its chances o fbeingsustainable.




                                                     14

The government i s further addressing the issue o f stakeholder involvement by developing a
public information and consultation strategy to be implemented over the next three years. If
successfully implemented, the prospects o f successful reform are further increased.

Sustainability will further depend upon the Government's incorporation o f the various experts
who are made available to it under this project into the permanent fabric o f the public sector.
The Government has pledgedto do so immediately following the development and approval o f a
new civil service by-law and a new incentive framework.

5. Critical risks and possible controversial aspects

This loan can be considered riskyfor four reasons:

   First, continuing political instability in the Middle East (particularly in neighboring Iraq)
   could pose a risk to the implementation o f Government programs, especially those that tackle
   public sector reform. Such uncertainty i s a persistent problem for Jordan, and its past record
   suggests that such concerns can be managed effectively. While the risk i s real, it i s important
   that its potential impact not be overstated.

   Second, as public sector reform i s an inherently long term and comprehensive task, there i s
   the risk that the program will be implemented more slowly than envisaged, and that
   enthusiasm will wane over time. Such problems are exacerbated by Jordan's tendency to be
   over-dependent upon foreign advisors and limited middle management experience. On the
   positive side, substantial impetus for reform comes from the H i s Majesty King himself. The
   government i s using this loan to strengthen the management o f its program by building
   capacity and streamlining procedure at the Prime Ministry and developing indigenous
   capacity to manage the reform agenda.           In addition, ongoing dialogue with the Bank
   (particularly through the PSRL operations) and other external partners can help emphasize
   the importance o f a long term commitment, facilitate the design o f feasible reforms and help
   craft realistic targets and benchmarks. The evidence would suggest this risk i s manageable.

   Third, Jordan has a penchant for rapid cabinet turnover, with the average government
   remaining inpower for about 9 months. The most recent reshuffle took place inmid-October
   2004, and the responsibilities o f the M o A D have been reassigned to two Ministers o f State.
   The frequent reconfiguration o f the government has made it difficult in the past to sustain
   momentum and continuity for reform. For this reason, the adoption and dissemination o f the
   White Paper as a long term policy statement on the part o f the GoJ is an important and
   unusual indication o f government commitment to the Public Sector Reform Program. Still,
   there i s indeed a risk that succeeding governments - over time - may potentially lose interest
   inthe process of government reform. There are no additional steps that canbe taken during
   preparation o f this operation to mitigate this risk. However, strong signals exist o f the
   commitment o f HMthe H i s Majesty King to this process and his intention to continue with
   theprogram for however longit is necessaryto achieve results.

   Fourth, when international donors finance staff in a government unit in charge o f reform,
   there i s a risk that the reform will not be sustained once the donor hnds have dried out. The



                                                  15

    present loan is meant as a transitional redress to distortions in the compensation schemes o f
    the Government o f Jordan. The present pay structure provides an inadequate incentive for
    the recruitment o f qualified staff to manage the reform operation. The loan i s an interim
    measure while the government i s undertaking pay reform.           Pay reform i s prominently
    featured inthe White Paper and i s likely to be one o f the conditionalities o f the relatedpolicy
    operation (PSRL 111). Inthis instance again, the risk i s real. The Bank i s trying to address it
    inthe context ofthe policy operation.

6. Loanconditionsand covenants

With the exception o f standard covenants, none is requiredconsideringJordan's experience with
Bank projects and satisfactory compliance with commitments.

D. APPRAISALSUMMARY

1. Economicandfinancialanalyses
Not Applicable

2. Technical
Project Designi s consistent with the structure of ongoing reform, as reflected inthe Government
White Paper.

3. Fiduciary

As explained in section C above, the financial management system in place for this project is
based on principles and procedures defined by the legal framework and operational decrees
applicable to the public sector inJordan and are acceptable to the Bank.

Procurement for the proposed project will be carried out in accordance with the World Bank's
"Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004; and
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated May
2004, and the provisions stipulated in the Legal Agreement. The majority o f the procurement
will be for technical assistance in the form o f firms and individual consultants, in addition to
training and some procurement o f goods. The methods for the procurement o f Consultants will
be Quality and Cost Based selection, Least Cost Selection, Single Source selection and Selection
Based on Consultant's Qualifications and selection o f Individual Consultants. Procurement o f
works will mostly be under National shopping.

Detailed information about financial management and procurement arrangement can be found in
Annex 7 and 8 o f the PAD.

4. Social

There are no social safeguard issues likely to be triggered by this project. The program assists
the government in the development o f a pay reform and employment rationalization scheme.




                                                 16

However, the loan will not support a retrenchment operation. Moreover, it i s not expected that
any employment rationalization will take place inthe period under consideration for the loan.

5. Environment

The project has been ratedEnvironmental Category C. There are no environmental issues likely
to be triggered by this project.

6. Safeguard policies

N o environmental or social issues concern the proposed lending operation. The project, pending
approval from management, i s classified as S3.


  Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                             Yes                    N o
  Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                                                 [I                   [X 1
  Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                                            [I                   [ XI
  Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                                [I                     XI
  Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, beingrevised as OP 4.11)                                   [I                   [ XI
  Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                                    [I                   [ XI
  IndigenousPeoples (OD 4.20, beingrevised as OP 4.10)                                     [I                   [ XI
  Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                                     [I                   [ XI
  Safety o fDams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                              [I                   [ XI
  Projects inDisputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                                               [I                   [ XI
  Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                                      [I                   [ XI

7. PolicyExceptions andReadiness

The Government is able to begin implementation o f the project as soon as the loan becomes
effective. The Government has preparedTerms o f Reference for all assignments taking place in
the first year o f operation, and these have been reviewed and approved by the Bank. Moreover,
procurement procedures have been initiated where necessary to reduce potential delays in
implementation.




* By supporting theproposed project, the Bank does not intend toprejudice thefinal determination of theparties' claims on the
disputed areas.


                                                              17

                        Annex 1: Country and Sector or ProgramBackground
                      JORDAN: PublicSector ReformCapacityBuildingLoan


    Jordan's public administration has traditionally been regarded as one of the best in the
    region, but there is scopefor improvements.

    Jordan's public administration has traditionally been regarded as one o f the best in the
    region, and performs relatively well given the country's development level.                               It has a
    reasonably well-functioning civil service, as witnessed by Jordan's good human development
    indicators, and a small nucleus o f committed high-level civil servants, as evidenced by
    governance indicators.

        0    Jordan's score on the index o f overall government effectiveness i s 66.6, com ared
             with 49.9 for the MENA region and 41.5 for lower middle income c~untries.'~On
             individual governance categories such as `voice and accountability' , `regulatory
             quality', and the rule of law, Jordan ranks near the top o f the list among the MENA
             countries. However, the composite corruption index calculated by Kaufmann, Kraay,
             andMastruzzi for Jordan is 69.3, which is slightlyhigherthan the regional average o f
             54.7 and substantially higher than the average for lower middle income countries of
             37.0.

         0   The quality o f Jordan's regulatory environment is also quite good. According to the
             World Bank's Doing Business database, entrepreneurs expect to spend on average 36
             days to open a business. The world average for business registration is 40 days. The
             cost o f opening a business inJordan is 52 percent o f gross national income (GNI) per
             capita. The regional average cost for setting up a business i s 53 percent o f GNI per
             capita. Contract enforcement for existing firms i s relatively easy and inexpensive.
             The average duration for contract enforcement in Jordan i s 147 days. The MENA
             average i s 305 days; nearly twice as long.

Yet, there is scope for improvements.                Household and firm surveys reveal much scope for
improvement, as the system exhibits institutional liabilities: regulatory rigidity, an abundance of
red-tape, weak policy coordination and programming capacity, and absence o f a service culture,
resulting in indifferent and ponderous service delivery and sub optimal resource allocation and
use:


         0   While Jordan falls in the middle o f the pack in terms o f barriers to entry and
             outperforms the regional average on indicators o f contract enforcement, some trouble
             spots remain.         Procedures for closing a business and firing workers is more
             cumbersome than inthe rest o f the region.




l5The governanceindex i s compiledby Kaufmann,Kraay andMastruzzi (2003). Itrepresentsa statisticalcompilationof
responseson the quality ofgovernance givenby enterprises, citizens andexperts. The index uses ascalerangingfrom 0-100 in
which higherrankingrepresentbetter outcomes.


                                                             18

       0   Jordan remains significantly less friendly to business and does worse on regulatory
           and corruption issues than many upper middle income countries it i s seeking to
           emulate, such as Chile and Malaysia. It has also been evident that the quality o f
           public service delivery and business regulation did not witness any significant
           improvements inthe past several years.16

       0   Jordan faces challenges in simplifying business regulation. For instance, it takes 11
           procedures to establish a business in Jordan.      In rest of the MENA countries the
           average number o f steps i s 9. At 12 percent of GDP, Jordan's level o f private
           investments i s also lower than other similarly growing economies.

       0   Other areas o f concern involve civil service human resource management and quality
           o f financial management. On the latter, a lack o f coordination between macro and
           fiscal policy and lack o f clarity on the expenditure cycle and extra-budgetary funds
           leaves the achievements o f financial stabilization on soft footing.

  In the past twenty years, Jordan has undertaken significant reforms which have paved the
  way for effective public sector reform. Since the balance o f payments crisis o f the late 1980s
  and the disturbances associated with the first Gulf War (300,000 Jordanians returningwithin
  a few months), Jordan has undertaken successful stabilization and adjustment efforts - efforts
  which have been supported by the Fund, the Bank and a large number o f bilateral donors.
  Inflation and budget deficits have been reduced and the current-account stabilized.           In
  addition, Jordan has implemented a major shift in trade policy, signing an association treaty
  with the EUin 1999,joining the WTO in2000, and entering into a free-trade treaty with the
  UnitedStates in2001.

  Progress has been achieved in other areas as well, including privatization, maintaining
  exchange rate stability and building sufficient foreign exchange reserves, putting in place a
  broad-based VAT, reducing public external debt, increasing recourse to internal financial
  markets, and fiscal consolidation. Combined, these adjustment efforts have borne h i t and
  are spurringgrowth.

  Conforming to the patterns o f success observed inother countries, Jordan steadily progressed
  from macro-stabilization, to trade policy reform, to a shift to private sector-led growth.
  International experience suggests that only after these types o f reforms were undertakenwere
  intense reforms o f the core public sector able to be successfully launched.

  Public Sector Reform in the past five years has come front and center of the national
  agenda.

  In 1999Jordan launched abroad-based and far reachingPublic Sector ReformProgram, with
  support from the Bank and other bilateral donors. The first two Bank-financed Public Sector
  Reform Loans (PSRL-I and 11) aimed at assisting Jordan in initiating a structural reform
  program for core public sector functions. Both operations have received satisfactory ratings


l6
 CPIA indexes.


                                                 19

   interms ofproject outcome and sustainability, based on the Bank ICRs. These ratings were
   confirmed by OED.

   Interms o f content, the first two PSRL loans have launched the Public Sector Reform along
   four parallel but complementary tracks:

    0   Public sector reform proper, ledby the Ministry for Administrative Development: This
        track deals with a) the reform of civil service institutions (new Civil Service By-Law,
        training o f civil servants); b) government restructuring (boundaries between state and
        private sector, redistribution o f responsibilities between ministries); structural changes
        inresponsibilities (as inthe case for the audit functions); c) improving services to the
        citizens in ensuring better quality o f service and easier access to them for households
        andbusinesses (information dissemination, guidance for users, procedural simplification
        andre-engineeringo fprocesses inpublic organizations).

        The e-government initiative, led by the Ministry for Post and Telecommunications.
        This track deals with IT development inside government, communications within
        government, and communications between government and businesses and citizens.
        This initiative is seen as a key component o f the overall human resources-based
        economic growth strategy, which intendsto transform Jordan into the regional center for
        exports o f services and expertise inthe field.

    0   Judicial Reform, started under a Royal Commission for the Development o f the
        Judiciary (RCDJ), and then under the leadership o f the Ministry of Justice. This track
        aims at modernizing the entire justice system from its day-to-day operations to judges'
        training and appointments, to procedures and evidence law.

     0  Financial management and budget reforms involve restructuring the expenditure budget,
        going over to a medium-term budgetary framework and modemizing financial
        management. This stream i s under the responsibility o f the Minister o f Finance with
        substantial parts beingledbythe Minister o f Planning.

  Despite these efforts, the effects o f the overall institutional impact of this reform program to
  date are modest. This i s perhaps in part because o f the longer term nature of the initiated
  reforms, but most importantly, due to lack o f committed resources, bureaucratic resistance and
  the impact o f government instability (the average life o f a government inJordan is six to nine
  months). In the past few years the overall perception o f the quality o f governance in the
  country has declined.      Between 1998-and 2002, in all six governance indicators, the
  performance o f Jordan has slipped. Perceptions that Government effectiveness, regulatory
  quality, rule o f law and the control o f corruption have declined in the past four years are
  particularly pronounced.l7

  Since October 2003, the authorities have decided to step up the pace o f reform. In October
  2004, the outgoing Government o f Jordan approved the "JT7zite Paper Strategy oy1 Public


17Kaufman, Kraay, and M.Mastruzzi 2003: Governance Matters 111: Governance Indicators for 1996-2002.


                                                  20

Sector Reform.  "   This ambitious plan was produced by the Inter-ministerial Steering
Committee on Public Sector Reform, which met regularly for several months with support
from DfID and the Bank. This strategy seeks to substantially transform the structure o f the
Government and radically improve the Government's core functions. It i s comprehensive in
dealing not only with priority initiatives but also in setting out clear objectives and in
incorporating concrete time-tables and institutional responsibilities. It defines five main areas
o f activity.  These are: (a) policy coordination and decision-making; (b) performance
monitoring and evaluation; (c) streamlining and rationalizing government institutions; (d)
management o f financial and human resources, and (e) management and evaluation o f the
public sector reform process.

The reform plan was formalized in a government White Paper in October 2004. DfID
assistance to the program comes to an end in June, 2005, and without external assistance the
government capacity to move ahead with public sector reform will be severely limited. And
this will come at a critical juncture when the major institutional initiatives are only beginning
implementation. It i s also relevant to note that despite the earlier achievements in improving
public service delivery and improving informational capacity, Jordan still faces serious
challenges. The objective o f the loan i s to ensure that this work continues; the Government o f
Jordan has requested assistance from the Bank to support its work once DFID funding i s no
longer available.




                                               21

   Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bankand/or other Agencies
            JORDAN: PublicSector ReformCapacityBuildingLoan



 Sector                 Project                          Ratings
  Issue                                       (BankFinancedProjectsOnly)
          I Component   I       Name                   OEDRatings
             it refers  I
ComDletedProjects                           Outcome     Sustainability  ID
                                                                      Impact
WorldBank  All           Public Sector     Satisfactory Likely        Modest
                         Reform Loan I
WorldBank  All           Public Sector     Satisfactory Likely        Modest
                         Reform LoanI1


           Management Management and
                         Budget Execution
                         support
DFID       All           Public Sector
                         Reform
USAID      Legal and     AMIR Program
           Judicial
           Reform
USAID       Service
           Deliverv




                                      22

       .E



c
B
CI
I
0
e
4
58a
8



c,



C
0

a
s




                      m
                      N




             P   0
                 Y

I .E

                     v)
                     N




0
     0          0
?         .?
          J


                  c

 e    e    e    e    e    e  .   e     e



                                   a,




a
#


                                   .d
                                   M




                       R13




pa
El
.I
h                                   Ea
.I
c.,
0
El
i                        h
                       3


3
Y
m

m
a                      42
L
(1.
0
c.,
m
I!            0    3   2

s                            gm  IA
pa            0    3   5        3


2E!
El



                             g
         I    d     d    00  P   3


      B                      g
   .I
   I
      a,
      s
      p?      hl   2     0    m  0

                 x   4x    x
              I 3
                9         3
                          9
                 cd         cd




E l             g    g
       vr
      3     2   b     vr   m



                           N




       3    3              3

    I

*a
2

w
s
       0    0   0     0    0


c0
Y

%
U
E



Y
88
6

                                  Annex 4: DetailedProjectDescription
                           JORDAN: PublicSector ReformSupportLoan

Consistent with the proposed areas o f Public Sector Reform highlighted by the White Paper, the
proposed project will build capacity by hiring staff and providing training and equipment to
support reform in four main areas o f activity. These are: (a) policy coordination and decision-
making; (b) performance monitoring and evaluation; (c) streamliningandrationalizing government
institutions; (d) management o f financial andhumanresources, and (e) management and evaluation
o f the public sector reform process. The nature o f each activity and the loan's proposed input i s
described below:

a. PolicyCoordinationandDecisionMaking:

The Government of Jordan's Public Sector Reform strategy calls for strengthening the ability o f
the Prime Ministry to coordinate policies, oversee the realization o f the national developmental
agenda and monitor progress towards that end, and spearhead the reform o f the public sector. It
recommends restructuring the Prime Ministry and creating four operating units reporting to the
Prime Minister: (1) the Cabinet Office/Secretariat; (2) the Government Performance Directorate
(GPD); (3) the Public Sector Reform Directorate (PSRD); and (4) the HumanResources Policies
Directorate.

One o f the most important sets o f reforms being pursuedunder this rubric i s revising the Cabinet
and its associated business practices to reduce the amount o f routine business flowing before
Cabinet and allow it to focus upon more strategic issues. In 2003, for example, nearly 2,800
items were advanced to cabinet for decision. (The average in many OECD countries i s 500 to
700.) Many were minor in nature and did not require Cabinet attention."                           Under the new
structure, the role o f the Cabinet Secretary will be strengthened to effectively manage the
Cabinet process; a series of ministerial sub-committees will be established to carefully vet
decisions before they go to Cabinet; and by-laws will be re-drafted to reduce the amount o f
routine business beingforwarded to Cabinet for decision.

Other important changes will also be supported in this area. The project will support the
establishment o f GPD to ensure the role o f defining the national development agenda and
monitoring performance towards its implementation across government (about which more will
be said below). The Ministryo f Administrative Development will be brought directly under the
Prime Ministry and reconstituted as the PSRD, so that its higher profile will allow it to better
advance reforms across the civil service. Other functions, ranging from human resource policy
to strategic communications and parliamentary affairs, will be strengthened and enhanced. The
proposed lending operation would support the move to the new Prime Ministry structure, help
ensure that the new policy processes are fully established and functioning smoothly, and build
the manpower and capacity o f the GPD and the PSRD and provide training for their
development.



    Examples include the disposition of minor property assets or whether certain individuals qualify for Jordanian
citizenship.


                                                        30

b. Performance Monitoring and Evaluation

Morevoer, the Public Sector Reform Program calls for fostering-high performing, citizen-
responsive services through the development o f adequate evaluation capacity for government's
performance. The proposed operation would build manpower and provide training, capacity
building and consultancies to address: (1) the institutionalization and roll-out o f the Service
Delivery Improvement System (SDIS) across various line ministries and departments; (2)
capacity buildingwithin GoJ institutions themselves to be able to implement the SDIS; and (3)
selected initiatives for improving performance (such as by restructuring andor reengineering
certain services) inline ministries.

Following the adoption o f the Public Sector Reform White Paper, all ministries and institutions
are responsible for setting service delivery standards, monitoring Performance against these
standards and striving to improve their performance. PSRD i s mandated to support ministries
and other government institutions in implementing these reforms by designing and rolling out a
SDIS. SDIS i s at the heart o f efforts to develop more efficient and effective public services in
Jordan. It i s a process o f continuous improvement based on recognition that the only reason for
delivering a service is to satisfy the legitimate needs o f clients or citizens. The concept o f
"Client Centred Service" has been adopted globally in public sector reform initiatives as a core
means o f re-thinkingwhat services are needed and how they should be delivered. SDIS i s built
on the following five stage process:




                                     Delivery
                     t
The SDIS is based on the concept o f continuous performance improvement. A prerequisite for
implementation o f the strategy i s that there i s awareness-both   within and beyond the public
sector-af the need for a 'client based' public service ethos. In order to exercise their voice,
citizens need both awareness and a capacity to organise with others to express or act upon that
voice. Strategies to raise awareness include popular education, mass media, and education and
literacy campaigns.

PSRD will support ministries and institutions inimplementing SDIS with a view to helping them
deliver higher quality services to clients and citizens by reviewing client perceptions and
establishing standards for improvement. It will do so primarily through the production o f a
service delivery improvement toolkit, through initial training o f Performance Improvement Units
in the ministries and institutions, and through general advisory support.      PSRD has already
prepared a preliminary toolkit of methodologies. The toolkit covers the following areas: client


                                                 31

voice, measuring performance and service delivery, setting service targets and standards,
institutional appraisal, performance improvement, and intemal and extemal communication.

In order to develop the toolkit, an initial pre-pilot was undertaken inthe National Institute for
Training (NIT), and the first full-scale pilot i s to be undertaken inone ministryhnstitution (to be
determined inMarch 2005). Next, overlapping stages o f the same cycle will include first six and
then eight further ministries and institutions before a comprehensive roll-out plan will be
developed to implement SDIS Government-wide at almost two equal numbers o f ministries and
institutions.

Other efforts to enhance transparency and improve performance, such as the Challenge Fundwill
also be supported under this component o f the project.lg

c. StreamliningandRationalizingGovernmentInstitutions

The PSR strategy calls for a fundamental restructuring o f the Government and the realignment o f
functions in a number o f ministries and agencies. At present, Jordan has 28 ministries, 27
departments and around 100 autonomous institutions. Since the average number o f cabinet
ministries in the OECD i s approximately 16, the number o f ministries in Jordan i s clearly
excessive."     The White Paper envisions gradually reducing the number o f ministries over the
next five years to fewer than 20. It also envisions reviewing and rationalizing the number,
mandate and status o f other government institutions,                         with particular emphasis upon
differentiating between policy and executive functions and ensuring that all agencies with a
policy function are directly under ministerial oversight. Finally, this work stream envisions
providing support for efforts to review and improve the efficiency and effectiveness o f
procedures andwork methods within ministries and institutions.

This work will proceed along several dimensions. To support the streamlining process, a
database i s being developed that records details o f the mandate and function o f every ministry,
department and institution. When completed, the database will provide an invaluable source o f
information during the implementation process and serve as a tool for managing the machinery
o f government inthe future.

The first stage review will focus on aligning ministerial portfolios more closely with core
government functions and examining the potential for combining mandates to improve policy
coordination. The second stage will focus on departments and institutions. Initial work suggests
the need for clearer, more functionally-related criteria for determining the most appropriate
status and governance arrangements.




''   The Challenge Fund was launched in August 2004 and provides challenge grants to local institutions to
implement innovative projects for which they do not have the necessary technical expertise.
2o   Two caveats are worth mentioning in this context.          First, there is no "optimal"    size o f ministries, and
intemational experience varies considerably o n this score. Second, comparative experience indicates that it is often
extraordinarily difficult to reduce the number o f ministries, since efforts to do so are resisted on both political and
administrative grounds.


                                                           32

The proposed operation would finance staff costs, and provide technical assistance in a limited
number o f agencies for streamlining exercises. Agencies which have already begunthe process
o f restructuring and will be able to provide results within the period o f implementation o f the
loan are expected to be pilots for this component. As an incentive, the GoJ hopes to allow
ministries that move proactively on streamlining and rationalization to move more rapidly to a
new salary structure that reduces salary compression (see the human resource management
section below).

d. ManagementandEvaluationof the Publicsector ReformProcess

This component will support reforms in two critical areas: financial and human resource
management, with particular emphasis upon supporting HRM reforms.               A more detailed
discussion o f each i s provided below.

     0   HumanResource Management (HRM)

With approximately 2.5 civil servants per 100 inhabitants, Jordan's civil service i s not
particularly overstaffed by global or regional standards. At 16 percent, the proportion o f GDP
being spent on the government wage bill is high, but when one deducts the expenditure on the
armed forces, spending on the remainder o f the civil service i s not inconsistent with regional
norms. However, problems do remain with staffing and skills mix; a highly compressed wage
structure; and ensuring maximum motivation, productivity and efficiency from staff.

With the support o f DFID, important preliminary diagnostic work has been undertaken in the
area o f civil service reform and improved human resource management. Inthe upcoming phase
o f the program, such efforts will be further advanced. They include the following:

HR Policy Reforms:

One o f the fundamental goals o f the HR reform effort is to strengthen and professionalize HR
management within both the center o f government and, more importantly, at the level o f the line
departments. This work has several components. The first i s the production o f a revised civil
service bylaw that will provide the regulatory framework for these changes.         It should be
completed by June 2005.          After the bylaw is completed, a new more detailed manual
encapsulating the new policies and procedures will be prepared and rolled out to the various
ministries and other government institutions.

Revised Institutional Frameworkfor HR Management:

The proposed HR reforms will also address the reorganization o f the Government's HRM
functions and restructuring o f various overlapping agencies, with the goal o f separating the
policy and oversight functions and strengthening the capacity o f line departments to manage
their staff. Currently, policy, management and HR oversight functions are concentrated in the
CSB. The proposed reforms will create an HR policy unit within the Prime Ministry whose
function will be to develop and oversee HR policies and procedures for the civil service as a
whole. An independent oversight body will be set up to ensure meritocracy in recruitment and
promotion, and it may serve an appeals function as well. Day to day responsibility for the


                                                 33

management o f HR matters in areas such as transfers, promotions and manpower planning will
behanded over to newly created HRunitswithinvarious line departments on aphased basis.

Recruitment and Promotion:

There is a widespread consensus within Jordan that current recruitment and promotion practices
are in need to serious overhaul.     Recruitment currently takes place through a civil service
database that i s biased against recent graduates and makes it difficult to apply for specific jobs.
It places too much emphasis on level o f qualifications and knowledge, rather than skills, and is
heavily weighted towards performance on the civil service examination. Performance appraisal
tends to be non-transparent, focused on behavior rather than results, and not linked to
departmental objectives. A number o f initiatives are underway to remedy these problems that
will be supported by the loan. Finally, this effort will seek to rationalize the system o f contract
appointments, which can be prone to abuse and used to circumvent weaknesses in existing
recruitment procedures.

Pay and GradingReform:

The proposed operation would also provide technical assistance in the development o f a strategy
for pay reform and employment rationalization. One o f the major activities will be support for a
major pay and grading exercise, which will create job descriptions across the civil service and
rationalize ad-hoc and disparate pay structures. Some initial work on comparing public sector
salary structures with the private sector has already been completed, and more will be done.
Other work will seek to model the benefits and costs o f various pay reform scenarios. The
ultimate goal will be to provide enough detailed analytic work for widespread salary reform to
reduce compression and ensure continued access to skilled managerial and technical talent.

Training and Human Development:

Finally, the loan will support efforts to transform the National Institute for Training into a high-
quality, demand-driven provider o f training and development programs for senior and middle-
level managers within the public service. It will bothprovide the top-most echelons o f the public
service with the training and development they require to perform their strategic policy and
management roles effectively and facilitate the development o f HR capacity within government
ministries and institutions.


     0  Budget and Financial Management (BFM)

Improved financial management (including both fiscal policy and public expenditure
management) i s an essential prerequisite for the success o f the public sector reform program. It
i s closely linked to all the other components: policy and decision-making, performance
management and service delivery, institutional streamlining and human resource management.
The shift to a more results- and citizen-focused public service cannot be achieved without
appropriate mechanisms that create the necessary incentives to ensure that all public funds are
not only allocated in line with National Agenda policies and programs, but are also spent as
efficiently and effectively as possible to deliver the required results. This will require major



                                                 34

changes to the Government's financial management and budgeting systems, as well as a
significant enhancement o f financial management capacity throughout all institutions o f
government.

A ComprehensiveStrategyfor Financial Management Reform:

The MoF has adopted a comprehensive strategy for financial management reform for the period
from 2004 to 2007 which covers three levels o f reform.            The first i s modernizing the
organizational structure o f the ministry and capacity building to ensure more efficient
perfonnance and capacity to manage reform initiatives. In addition to a comprehensive review
o f the ministry's role, and the legislative and administrative framework directing its work, this
effort will include probable changes in enlarging and enforcing the role o f the ministry in
managingpublic funds.

The second level deals with all financial reform programs aimed at helping financial policy in
achieving its objectives. Those objectives are enforcing financial stability and avoiding financial
crisis through more efficient allocation o f available resources according to national priorities.
This will help in achieving sustainable economic growth, which will reflect positively on the
living standards o f citizens all over the kingdom.

The third level concentrates on the importance o f achieving harmonization and enforces the
forward and backward relations between the financial management reform agenda and other
dimensions o f public sector reform. These components include policy and decision making,
performance management & service delivery, the restructuring o f government institutions and
humanresources management.

The Project Components

The current loan i s aligned with the Government's strategy and intended to improve current
budget practices in terms o f strengtheningthe macro framework, improved budgetary alignment
with government priorities, and better budget execution and treasury management. It is also
intended to provide the basic foundation (and selected pilot activities) to support a gradual
transition towards a more result-oriented budgeting system. This lending operation will be
selectively targeted on the following issues where tangible results can be achieved.

(1) Strengtheningthe Capacity ofthe MoF for Macro-Fiscal Analysis

After more than decade under IMF programs, Jordan needs to develop full capacity to establish
its own fiscal policy, ensuring macroeconomic stability as the basis for solid economic
development. Sound and credible macro-economic forecasts are also needed to support a change
inthe current method of budget negotiation to one where ministry budgets are prepared on the
basis o f a pre-approved ceilings, consistent with the overall budget constraints and the Cabinet
strategic budget allocations. The MoF has recently created a macro-fiscal unit that will report
directly to the minister and will help strengthen advice on macro-fiscal policy. The loan will
ensure that suitable capacity i s established inthe macro-fiscal unit interms o f personnel, training
and equipment,



                                                 35

(2) Developing a Plan AimedReviewingIntemal Organization o fthe Ministryo fFinance and its
    RelatedDepartments

The budget and financial management reforms require a comprehensive review o f the MoF's
role, legislative framework and intemal organization. This will include enlarging and enforcing
the role o f the ministry in managing public funds, regulating the activities of spending units in
relation to accounting, cash management control, reporting and intemal audit functions, and
ensuringthe maximum degree o f integration o f the budget function. For this purpose, the major
tasks o f the ministry, its directorates and general departments will be defined and the job
descriptions established. The review would also aim at strengtheningMoF's capacity to manage
the reform process by developing a formal reform management structure that i s anchored in the
existing line management structure, with specific reporting and coordination arrangements at the
top. Some o f the policy reforms outlined above may need modification o f the General Budget
Law and related legislation. The loan funds such broadreview o f the MoF role and organization.

(3) StrengtheningSelected Treasury Management Functions

The treasury cash management system needs to be modemized to ensure predictable flows o f
funds in line with program spending profiles and to minimize the cost o f public debt. Better
control over the budget financial execution will be achieved through the modemization o f the
financial and accounting systemin conformity with international accounting standards, attaining
ideal management o f treasury accounts by applying monthly cash flow plan, and applying the
Single Treasury Account concept. This will permitprecise assessmentsregarding the current and
future financial status o fthe treasury inorder to provide neededliquidity at the right time, which
by tum will ease debt management. Studies to design a GFMIS system that integrates the
accounting, control and reporting functions will also be initiated.

(4) Strengthening the Process o fBudgetPreparation

Work as started in both the MoF and MOPIC on the development o f a Medium-Term
Expenditure Framework (MTEF), which will translate the Government's objectives as outlined
inthe National Agenda into athree-year rolling expenditure allocation that includes bothcurrent
and capital expenditures. Budget preparation in line ministries needs also to be improved to
make sure it i s fully consistent with the overall national goals, and with the specific constraints
on the ground. Internal budget process at the level o f the line ministry need to be modemized,
and their capacity with respect to budgeting enhanced.              Finally, the General Budget
Department's intemal capacity needs to be strengthened.          The loan will fund the required
technical assistance and training to support these reform activities.

(5) Developing a More ModernBudget Classification for Result-Oriented Budgeting

The modemization o f the budget classification system i s a key pre-requisite to reforming the
internal budget preparation process by allowing a more detailed view o f how the budget i s spent
at various administrative levels. Budget classification modernization, in particular, economic,
functional, program and geographic classification, i s also key to allow the linkages between
financial allocation and the monitoring o f outputs and outcomes.



                                                 36

(6) Support Pilot Efforts to Improve the Performance Orientation o f the Budget Process in Two
     PilotMinistries

Result-oriented budgeting will be developed using a model that i s adapted to Jordan's current
systems and capacity. This should result in a system where spending authority i s decentralized
closer to the service delivery levels, and where spending authority will be aligned with
accountability to deliver pre-specified results. The introduction o f Result-Oriented Budgeting
will be closely related with the performance monitoring system established through the
Government Performance Directorate.
e. Management and Evaluation of The Public Sector Reform Process.

The main role o f the this component is to ensure that the Public Sector Reform Program (PSRP)
i s implemented efficiently and effectively; that its strategic objectives are met; and that lessons
are learned, shared and continuously applied in light o f experience. The strategic vision and
policy framework will be evaluated and adjusted-basedon both feedback received from various
monitoring and evaluation exercises and on a systematic benchmarking against best practice in
the field o f public sector reform. The program management functions will be based on the
Strategic Program Plan (SPP) that was developed based on the public sector reform policy paper
and its implementation strategies. The purpose o f the SPP i s to provide the Administration with
a clear view o f the strategic goals and objectives in each PSRP Component, against which
progress inimplementingthe Program will be monitored over the next five years. The loan will
finance the establishment o f this monitoring and evaluation function within the PSRD




                                                 37

                                    Annex 5: ProjectCosts
                  JORDAN: PublicSector ReformCapacityBuildingLoan




Project Cost By Component and/or Activity                 Local           Foreign          Total
                                                       U S $million U S $million US $million
PolicyandDecisionMaking                                      1.03           0.36             1.39
ImprovingPerformanceManagementand
Service Delivery                                             3.95           2.59             6. 54
InstitutionalStreamlining                                    1.92           1.73             3.65
ImprovingResourcesManagement                                 2.41           4.17             6.58
   HumanResourceManagement                                   0.96           1.56             2.53
   Financial ResourceManagement                              1.45           2.59             4.05
PSRProgramManagementand Coordination                         1.23           0.98             2.21
TotalBaselineCost                                          10.54            9.83           20.37
 Physical Contingencies                                      0.19           0.16             0.35
 Price Contingencies                                         0.61           0.3 1            0.90
                                 TotalProjectCosts'        11.34           10.28           21.62
                         Interest duringconstruction
                                       Front-end Fee                        0.08             0.08
                         TotalFinancingRequired            11.34           10.36           21.70



'Identifiable taxes and duties are US$3.01 million, and the total project cost, net o ftaxes, i s
US$18.92 million. Therefore, the share o fproject cost net of taxes i s 86.27%.




                                                38

                            Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements
                    JORDAN: Public Sector ReformCapacityBuildingLoan

The public administrationreform program currently undertaken by the Government o f Jordan, is
a complex, multi-sectoral endeavor, with several agencies and ministries involved in the
management o f different work-streams. To ensure the strategic coherence o f the program, the
Governmenthas approved a White Paper, which defines the strategy o f the Government interms
o f reform and identifies deliverables in the medium and long term. At the policy level, the
strategic leadership of the program i s entrusted to the Public Administration Committee, which
meets regularly, and i s headed by H.E. the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister o f State in
charge of Government Performance. Its membership i s composed o f H.E. the Deputy Prime
Minister, H.E.the Ministers o f Finance, Planning, ICT, Trade, and Justice, and H.E.the Minister
of State for Public Sector Reform,

Executing Agencv

An Executive Level Interministerial Committee, headed by the Executive Director o f the Public
Sector Directorate and inclusive o f Secretary General level staff o f all concerned agencies will be
created as a steering committee for the project. Its function i s two fold: ensure that the directions
provided by the PAC are being carried out and reflected at the executive level, and ensure that
any problem that arise are tackled and resolve quickly. This committee will meet at least once
monthly. The Public Sector Reform Department will take the leadership in the reform program,
and as such will be the executing agency for the loan.

Each agency i s responsible for providing technical input necessary to implement their respective
component as well as to monitor and report for the purpose o f the project. Within each unit, the
Secretary General, who i s represented at the executive level, will take the overall responsibility
for its component.

Proiect Management

A Project Coordination Team domiciled inthe Public Sector Development Administration will
have the overall responsibility o f the PSRCB project implementation over a period o f 3.5 years
(start June 1, 2005 -end March 31, 2009).       This team i s composed o f a Project Manager, a
Financial Officer, a ProcurementOfficer and a Lead Public Sector Reform Advisor (international
expert). This team i s principally made up o f local staff. The technical expert, financed by the
PCF is meant to provide the technical leadership for the broaderreform effort.

The PCT will report directly to the Executive Director o f the PSRD. The procurement and
financial aspects of all the loan components (including financing the Challenge Fund) will be
centralized with the PCT who will also be responsible for the compilation o f progress, annual
and completion reports on project implementation. For each component, a coordinator whose
responsibility i s to ensure regular coordination with the PCT as well as following up to ensure
timely procurement will be identified.




                                                39

In a transitional period, not to exceed 12 months, a management consulting firm, PCF, will
provide assistance to the Project Coordination Team. PCF's Terms o f Reference are currently
being prepared by PSRD.       In addition to project management, procurement and financial
management assistance (which i s described in detail below), PCF's functions will include
diagnostic and analytic work.     This will include (i)identification o f suitable expertise to
undertake the reform program, formulation o f strategies; (ii)implementation plans for reform,
and (iii)capacity building, in which intemational experts will transfer knowledge to the local
team.

The project is expected to be implemented over 46 months, from June 1, 2005 to March 31,
2009.

          Table A: ComponentandParticipatingAgencies ofthe PSRCBProject


Strengtheningthe capacity                  0   Strengthening Capacity of         ClOMD
                                               C O M Directorate
                                           0   Improving Business Processes      ZSD
                                               at Cabinet Level
                                           0   Communications Strategy           CDC


                                           0   Developing a National Agenda      GDP
ImprovingPerformance                       0   Developing a Service Delivery     PSRD
Managementand Service Delivery                 Improvement System (SDIS)
                                           0   Financingthe ChallengeFund        PSRD

InstitutionalStreamlining                                                        PSRD


                                           0   HumanResources Management         HRPD
                                               -HRPilot inMOJ                    MOJ

                                           0   Support to Financial
                                               Management                        MOF
ImprovingResource Management                   -Macroeconomic Forecasting        M O F
                                               -Institutional Reform inMOF       M O J
                                               -FMPilot inMinistry o fJustice
                                               Strengthening the Capacity o f    GBD
                                               the General Budget Department
                                               for Financial Sector Reform

PSRProgramManagementand                    0   Support to Project Management     PSRD
Coordination                                   Unit

ProjectManagement(PCT)                                                           PSRD




                                              40

      U




           3
           d




dd

                       Annex 7: FinancialManagementArrangements
              JORDAN: PublicSector ReformCapacityBuildingLoanProject




ExecutiveSummary

Bank policies require that loan proceeds be usedonly for the purposes for which they were made
available, with due regard to economy, efficiency and the sustainable achievement o f the
project's development objectives. Therefore, the recipient o f the loan i s requested to maintain,
among other things, an appropriate and adequate financial management system, including
records, accounts and financial statements, which adequately reflect the operations, resources
and expenditures o f the project. The objective o f this assessment i s to determine whether the
entity implementing the Bank Financed project has acceptable financial management
arrangements including its financial management system, its accounting, reporting and auditing
arrangements as well as its internal controls and flow of funds.


The Public Sector Reform Directorate (PSRD) will be responsible for the implementation of this
project however the project's funds will be managed by the Ministry o f Planning and
International Cooperation (MOPIC). The project will benefit, in addition to the PSRD, different
entities being the Government Performance Directorate, Ministry o f Justice, Ministry o f Finance
(MOF), Human Resources Policies Directorate,              Cabinet  o f Secretariat,    Government
Communication Unit and Prime Ministry. A Project Coordination Team (PCT) will be
supporting the PSRD inmanaging, monitoring and coordinating the project implementation and
will be following on the project financial management and procurement aspects. For a
transitional period of 12 months, a project consulting firm (PCF) will be supportingthe PCT in
the overall project management including the financial management aspects o f the project. The
PCF main responsibilities will include: (i)developing a Financial Procedure Manual, (ii)
assisting in identifying and implementing an accounting system and (iii)     assisting the project's
Financial Officer inhandling all financial management activities andtransactions.

The PSRD is a directorate established under the Public Sector Development Administration
(PSDA), a newly established body (bylaws issued in Official Gazette dated 17 January 2005)
replacing the Ministry o f Administrative Development.The PSDA i s headed by the Minister o f
State for Public Sector Development. The financial management system in place at PSDA i s
based on principles and procedures defined by the legal framework and operational decrees
applicable to the public sector in Jordan. Currently, the PSRD's expenditures are included inthe
MOPIC budget however they are approved and executed by the MOF. As o f the date o f this
assessment the PSRD, as per the local regulations, was not eligible to have a MOF financial
controller residing in its premises and accordingly authorizing the execution o f its own
expenditures. According to recent correspondence between the M O F and the PSDA, it i s
expected that the PSRD will be able to execute its own expendituresby the first quarter o f 2005.

The Special Account (SA) will be opened at the Central Bank and will be managed by the
MOPIC. The PCT will be responsible for project planning, budgeting, invoice clearing,
consolidating project information and reporting on these activities including the generation o f


                                                42

FMRs and other project monitoring reports to be used for project management and decision
making. For this purpose a "Ring fenced" accounting system will be implemented to facilitate
the project accounting and reporting functions and to enable the project to generate the Bank
requiredFinancial Monitoring Reports (FMRs).

The Project's financial statements will be audited annually by an external independent auditor,
acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with internationally accepted auditing standards. PSRD
will submit the audit report to the Bank no later than six months following the closing of the
fiscal year being audited. The audit's Terms o f Reference (TOR) will be prepared and submitted
for the Bank's no objection, no later than ninemonths prior to the end o f each fiscal year.
RiskAssessment andMitigationSummary

The overall inherent risk relating to this project i s rated as moderate based on recent Economic
and Sector Work (ESW) that identified weaknesses in the private and public sector's financial
accounting, reporting and auditing activities as well as PSRD's limited experience in
implementingBank financedprojects.

The main control risks relate to: (i)the PCT's limited experience in Bank guidelines and
procedures, (ii)  the lack o f an information system able to generate project reports, (iii)the
number of beneficiaries involved in this project which affects the reliability o f the flow of
information process, and (iv) the legal status of the PSRD. These risks will be mitigated through:
(i) providedtothePCTandthePCF,(ii)
    training                                           introducing a ring fenced accounting system
for the project, (iii)defining the flow o f information and funds between the different entities ina
financial procedure manual to be prepared by the PCF and (iv) having the MOPIC manage the
project funds as it i s experienced with Bank's rules and regulations since it follows and monitors
Bank financedprojects as well as manages the SA o f different projects.

A detailed financial management questionnaire was carried out and is included inthe project's
files, the risks identified and the mitigating measures addressing these risks are detailed in the
table below.

Accounting system: The PSRD lacks an accounting system capable o f following on the project's
activities and generating timely reports for project management and monitoring purposes.
Parallel arrangements will be implemented to overcome this shortcoming whereby PSRD will
install a simple accounting system that would enable it to record all project related transactions
and generate project reports. Copies o fpayment requests and supporting documents forwarded to
the MOPIC will be kept in the project's files at the PSRD while the original documents will
remain with the MOPIC. A detailed chart o f accounts identifying funds by financiers and
expenditures by component and entity will be developed for the project and included in the
financial Procedure Manual. Spreadsheet applications will be used initially till the accounting
software becomes fully operational.




                                                  43

Risk               I Riskrating I                 Risk mitigatingmeasures

InherentRisk
                                 (i)  According to recent ESW includinga CFAA, the
Country financial                     financial risk inthe HashemiteKingdom o f Jordan i s
management strategy  Moderate         moderate

                                 (i)  PCF will be assisting the PCT, for the first 12
                                      months, inmanaging the project and coordinating
                                      among the different entities
Project financial
management issues    Moderate    (ii) Parallel arrangements will be implementedto
                                      generate timely monitoring reports

                                 (iii)providedto
                                      Training inBank policies and guidelines will be
                                                   PCT and PCF

                                 (i)  MOPIC will include the project funds inits budget
Counterpart funds      Low            andwill make available the counter part funds needed
                                      for implementation
OverallInherent
risk                 Moderate


ControlRisk
                                 (i)  PCF will be assisting the PCT inmanaging the
                                      project and coordinating among the different entities

                                 (ii)  Training inBank policies and guidelineswill be
                                      provided to PCT andPCF
Implementingentity   Moderate
                                 (iii) Ringfencing the project's implementation

                                 (iv)  Parallel arrangements will be implementedto
                                       generate timely monitoring reports

                                 (i)   The flow o f funds process will be included ina
                                       Financial Procedure Manual to be developed by the
                                       PCF
Funds flow           Moderate    (ii)  MOPIC will include the project funds inits budget
                                       andwill make available the counter part funds
                                       needed for implementation


Staffing             Moderate    (i)   A financial officer withrelevant experience will be
                                       hiredto follow up on the project's FMarrangements


                                         44

                                                         Risk mitigating measures

                                       (ii)  A PCFwill support the financial officer inthe FM
                                              aspects o f the project for the first year
                                       (i)   Theproject's expenditures will follow the internal
Internal audit               Low              audit procedures-as per government rules and
                                             regulations

                                       (i)    External audit will be carried out by an independent
External audit               Low              auditor acceptable to the World Bank

                                       (i)    Quarterly FMRswill be issued by the PCT and
                                              submitted to the bank

                                       (ii)   Annual auditedstatements will be submitted to the
Reporting and                                 Bank
Monitoring                 Moderate

                                       (iii)  Flow o f information betweenthe different entities
                                              will be included inthe FinancialProcedure Manual to
                                              be developed bythe PCF

                                       (i)    Introducing a ring fenced accounting systemwhich
Information systems        Moderate           will enable the PCT to report on the project activities
                                              and generate txoiect financial reDorts

Overall Control risk       Moderate


Staffing and training: It has beenagreed that a financial officer with relevant experience will be
part o f a PCT that will be engaged by project effectiveness. The financial officer will be assisted
by a PCF for the initial 12 months o f the project and will be responsible for the financial
management arrangements o f the project. Training will be provided to the PCT and the PCF on
Bank rules, regulations and guidelines.

Financial Procedure Manual: For the purpose o f having accurate and complete financial
information as well as for defining the flow o f information between the different beneficiaries
and the flow o f funds, a Financial Procedure Manual will be developed by the PCF and will
document:

  - Flow o f documents, the time frame required for clearance of invoices and the level o f
    authority;
  - The relationbetweenthe different entities;
  - Supporting documents retention and safety;
  - Process for preparing andremitting withdrawal applications;
  - Chart of accounts for the project;
  - Budgetingprocess;


                                                45

 - Financial reporting including formats o f FMRs;
 - Contracts postinginto the system;
 -- Flow o f funds; and
    Accounting policies and procedures to be followed


Flow of funds

To ensure that funds are readily available for the project's implementation, the MOPIC will open
a special account denominated i s U S $ at the Central Bank o f Jordan.          Deposits into and
payments from the SA will be made in accordance with the provisions o f the Loan Agreement.
The task o f preparing the replenishment applications throughout the implementation period will
be the responsibility of PSRD while MOPIC would have the responsibility of issuingpayment
requests to the Central Bank and submittingthe replenishment applications to the Bank (refer to
Figure 1for details o fthe project flow o f funds).

Payment for services rendered under the Challenge Fund will be centralized within the PCT.
The annual audit report issued by the project's external independent auditor will include an
opinion on the financial activities o f the fund.

All invoices, whether for advance payments or for expenses incurred, will be subject to PSRD
and MOPIC controls and procedures as well as to the approval and authorization o f the PCT and
the MOF financial controller.
Reportingarrangements

Quarterly: The PCT will be responsible for generating FMRs and submittingthem to the Bank
as part o f the project progress report or separately. These reports are made up of:
      -   Financial reports: to include a cash flow statement, beginning and ending project cash
          balances and an expenditure report comparing actual and planned expenditures in
          addition to a special account reconciliation statement. Also, a narrative report
          explaining all variances that exceed 15 percent when compared to plan and the

      -   proposed corrective actions should be included as an annex to the financial reports.
          Procurement reports: providing information on the procurement o f goods, services,
          training and the selection o f consultants showing procurement performance against
          plan, including information on all authorized contract variations. The reports should
          also include a listing o f all contracts showing amounts committed and disbursed under
          each.

These reports should be remitted to the Bank within 45 days from the end o f the quarter. The
proposed format o f the reports will be agreed during negotiations and included in the Financial
Procedure Manual.

Annually: Audited project financial statement (PFS) will be submitted to the Bank and will
include:

      -    Statement o f sources and utilization o f funds, indicating funds received from various
           sources and project expenditures.


                                                   46

       -    Appropriate schedules classifying project expenditures by component, showing yearly
            and cumulative balances.
       -
       -    Special account reconciliation statement reconciling opening and year end balances.
            Statement o fpayments made usingSOEs procedures as definedinthe legal agreement.
       -    Statement o f project commitments, being the unpaid balances under the project signed
            contracts.
Auditing arrangements

The PSRD will remit to the bank no later than six months after the end o f each year the audit
report o f the project. The external audit report shall encompass all projects' activities and shall be
in accordance with internationally accepted auditing standards (such as the international
standards on auditing: ISA). The annual audit report o f the project accounts shall include an
opinion on the PFS and the special account transactions. In addition to the audit reports, the
auditor will prepare a management letter identifying any observations, comments and
deficiencies, in the system and controls that the external independent auditor consider pertinent
and shall provide recommendations for their improvements. The external auditor should be
acceptable to the Bank and his TOR will be prepared and submitted for the bank's no objection,
at least nine months prior to the end o f the project's fiscal year. Audit costs will not be financed
bythe Bank Loan.


Banksupervision

The project will require intensive supervision during the start up phase to ensure the timely
implementation o f the agreed upon action plan, including hiringthe Financial Officer, installing
the accounting system and appointing the Auditor. The first supervision mission after
effectiveness will take form of a launch workshop where the PCT and PCF will be trained on
Bank rules, regulations and guidelines. The project will be supervised regularly to ensure
compliance with Bank requirementsand to develop financial management ratings.


Action plan agreedwith the borrower
1  Action                                                  Duedate
i Hire a financial officer with relevant exDerience     II BYeffectiveness


I Finalize
II Engage the PCT
   Install an accounting. software                      II Bv effectiveness
                                                           Within 3 monthsafter effectiveness         II
            a Financial Procedure Manual                I  Within 3 months after effectiveness




                                                  47

          Figure 1:



                                                            .
           ,-I                                                                                                        Beneficiaries
                         IBRD loan accountI-------------MOP sends WA to Bank



                                                                                                                            !
                                                                                                         Send payment request+ supportinginvoices

                                                                                                                   i
                       Bank ReplenishesSA                                           FO sends WA to MOP--------------
                                                             authorizesthe WA
                                                               and payment                                            PCT at PSRD
                                                                                FO sends payments requests and .-..--.
                                                                                                                    supported by PCF
Direct Payment to Supplier                                                       Supporting invoices to MOP


                                               Payment request       j
                                                  issued to CB                                                     t
                                                                     ~




                                                         Cheque issuanceby MOP
       A                                                                                                             Accounting entry
                                                                                                                      project system

                                I
                            Payment
                                I                         i  Counterpart Funds

                                                                                                                         Financial
                     I                                                                                              Monitoring Reports
                           Consultants      P-payment-                                                                   (FMRs)

       Consultants




    ______:   DocumentFlow
    -:CashFlow




                                                                           48

DisbursementArrangements

The loan will be disbursed over an expected implementation period o f approximately 3.8 years
(46 months) and its proceeds will be disbursed in accordance with the Bank's disbursements
guidelines as outlined in the Disbursement Handbook. Transaction based disbursement will be
used under this project. Accordingly, requests for payments from the loan account will be
initiated through the use o f withdrawal applications (WAS) either for Direct Payments,
Reimbursements, Replenishments to the Special Account, or Issuance o f Special Commitments.
All WASwill include appropriate supporting documentation including detailed Statements o f
Expenditure (SOEs) for reimbursements and replenishments to the Special Account.

Authorized signatories, names and corresponding specimens o f their signatures will be submitted
to the Bank prior to the receipt o fthe first replenishment application.

Retroactivefinancing: Payments made to the borrower out o f its own resources before the date
o f a loan agreement are normally not eligible for financing under the loan, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent o f US$1.5 million, may be
made inrespect o f all categories on account o f payments made for expendituresbefore that date
but after December 31,2004. Payments mustbe for expenditures that are eligible under the Loan
Agreement. Procedures for procurement and the use o f consultants, and processing and
clearances are subject to the Bank's Procurement and Consultants Guidelines. Documentation
requirements for expenditures claimed under retroactive financing are the same as those for
disbursementagainst payments made after the LoanAgreement is signed.


                                    Allocation of loanproceeds

                         Amount of
  Category             loanallocated             PercentageofExpendituresto befinanced
                                       100% o f foreign expenditures; 100%of local expenditures (ex-
   (1) Goods                 $600,000 factory cost), and 90% o f local expenditures for other items
                                       procuredlocally.
                                       90% for firms domiciled withinthe territory of the borrower;
                                       95% of local expenditures for services of individual consultants
   (2) Consultant                      within the territory o fthe borrower; 90% of foreign
       Services           $10,950,000 expenditures for services o f individual and firms.
   (3) Training              $900,000 100%
   (4) Challenge fund        $870,000 90%
   (5) ODeratine costs       $180.000 50%
   (6) Front EndFee           $75,000 Amount due under Section 2.04 o fthe loan agreement.
  (7) Unallocated          $1,425,000

  Total                   $15,000,000




                                                   49

Statement of Expenditures (SOE): During implementation SOEs will be used for all
expenditures relating to (i) under contracts costing less than US$250,000, (ii)
                             Goods                                                    consulting
services under consultants firms contracts costing less than US$lOO,OOO equivalent each ahd
under individual consultant contracts costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each and (iii)
operating cost, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
borrower. The supporting documentation will be maintained at the PSRD and will be made
available for review by Bank supervision missions upon request. Documentation relating to
SOEs would be retained for up to one year from the date the bank receives the audit report for
the fiscal year inwhich the last withdrawal application from the loan account was made.

Special Account: To facilitate project implementation and make timely payments, the MOPIC
will open a US$SA at the Central Bank o f Jordan. The authorized allocation will be
U S $ l,000,000 (representing approximately four month o f eligible expenditures financed by the
loan), with an initial deposit o f US$500,000. Fullallocation can be claimed once the cumulative
disbursements reach US$2,000,000. The SA will be managed and administered by the MOPIC.
The MOPIC will be responsible for submitting the withdrawal applications with appropriate
supporting documentation for expenditures incurred. Deposits into and payments from the SA to
pay consultants, suppliers and others will be made in accordance with the provisions o f the loan
agreement. Replenishments o f the SA would follow Bank's procedures. The minimum amount
for submitting replenishment applications for direct payments and special commitments would
be 20% o f the respective authorized allocation o f the SA.




                                                50

                             Annex 8: ProcurementArrangements
                   JORDAN: PublicSector ReformCapacityBuildingLoan

A)      General

Procurement for the proposedproject would be carried out in accordance with the World Bank's
"Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004; and
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated May
2004, and the provisions stipulated in the Legal Agreement. The general description o f various
items under different expenditure categories are described below. For each contract to be
financed by the Loan, the different consultant selection methods, estimated costs, prior review
requirements, and time frame are agreed between the Borrower and the Bank project team in the
Procurement Plan. The Procurement Plan will be updated the first time six months after
effectiveness and at least annually thereafter or as required to reflect the actual project
implementation needs and improvements ininstitutional capacity. The project allocations will be
targeted to finance consultants, training, study tours, equipment and the Innovation and
Excellence Fund. N o procurement o f Works i s envisaged under the project.

Procurement of Goods: Goods procured under this project would include mainly office
equipment, computers and related equipment. The procurement will be done using the Bank's
SBD for all ICB and National SBD agreed with or satisfactory to the Bank for conducting
National Competitive Bidding(NCB) for values o f contracts less then US$250,000. The national
procedures for N C B will be adapted to comply with clauses 3.3 and 3.4 o f the Guidelines. In
particular the following will be observed: all bidding opportunities will be advertised with a
reasonable time for submission o f bids (not less then three weeks); evaluation criteria will be
clearly stated in the bidding documents; a one envelope system will be used, a public bid
opening in which the prices o f all bidders (except for late bids) are read out will be promptly
conducted after the deadline for submission o f bids; award will be to the technically responsive
bidder who has offered the lowest price and had the requiredqualifications; no negotiations will
be conducted with awarded bidders and award will be on based on all items included within the
bid or the lot incase of multiple lots. Shopping will be the method used for contracts less then
$100,000. The procedures will be incompliance with clause 3.5 o f the Guidelinesand will allow
for open biddingwith simplified forms for requests for quotations. These forms will cover all the
necessary information required from biddersto submit responsive quotations.

Selectionof ConsultingServices: The Consulting Services from firms andindividuals that are
required for the different components o f the project and the purchase o f Goods are as follows:

i.PolicyCoordinationandDecisionMaking:Theestimatedcostofthis component, inclusive
o f contingencies, i s US$1.39 million and i s mainly to strengthen manpower and the capacity o f
the staffing o f the GPD and the PSRD and provide training for their development. The objective
i s to provide the required support to the Prime Ministry to coordinate policies, oversee the
realization o f the national developmental agenda and monitor progress. The proposed
arrangements for the component envisage the selection o f national and international individual
consultants, andthe purchase o f office equipment. The services o f firms will also be requiredand




                                                51

they will be selected under the Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) and Selection Based
on the Consultant's Qualifications (CQS).

ii.PerformanceManagementandServiceDeliveryImprovements:Theestimatedcostofthis
component, inclusive o f contingencies, i s US$6.71 million. However, out o f this, US$1.OO
million i s allocated for the Innovation and Excellence Fund while US$5.71 million are targeted
for the selection for consultants to build manpower, and provide training capacity building and
consultancies to address: (1) the institutionalization and roll-out o f the Service Delivery
Improvement System (SDIS) across various line ministries and departments; (2) capacity
building within GoJ institutions to implement the SDIS. The proposed arrangements for the
component envisage the selection o f national and international individual consultants, and the
purchase o f office equipment. The services o f firms will also be required and they will be
selected under the Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) and Selection Based on the
Consultant's Qualifications (CQS).

iii. Institutional Streamlining: The estimated cost of this component, inclusive of
contingencies, i s US$3.65 million. The objective i s to build capacity and provide technical
assistance in a limited number o f agencies for streamlining exercises. The proposed
arrangements for the component envisage the selection o f national and international individual
consultants, and the purchase o f office equipment. The services o f firms will also be requiredand
they will be selected under the Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) and Selection Based
on the Consultant's Qualifications (CQS). One of the international individual consultants has
already been recruited under DfID financing and his services are expected to be single sourced
underthe project for an estimated cost o fUS$510,000 over aperiodo f3.8 years.

iv. Resource Management:the estimated cost for this component, inclusive of contingencies, is
US$6.70 million. The proposed arrangements for the component envisage the selection o f
national and international individual consultants, and the purchase o f office equipment. The
services o f firms will also be required andthey will be selected under the Quality and Cost Based
Selection (QCBS) and Selection Based on the Consultant's Qualifications (CQS). The
component resources are distributedamong two sub-components:

a) Human Resource Management (HRM): this will include the roll out o f a new civil service
bylaw and the implementation o f new human resource management policies and procedures
across Government.       This will also address the reorganization o f the Government's HRM
functions.

b) Financial Management (FM,,; this will include carrying reform to strengthen the role and
capacity o f the Ministry o f Finance and its recurrent expenditures monitoring functions and the
Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation for its capital investment monitoring
functions, inaddition to the budgetdepartments o f line ministries and the Audit Bureau.

v. ProgramManagement:the estimated cost for this component, inclusive o f contingencies, is
US$2.21 million. The proposed arrangements for the component envisage the selection o f
national and international individual consultants, and the purchase o f office equipment. The
services o f firms will also be required and they will be selected under the Selection Based on the



                                                 52

Consultant's Qualifications (CQS). The project coordination and facilitation shall be carried by a
Project Coordination Team staffed with skills for undertaking the overall coordination o f the
project and its different funds, and in particular procurement activities and financial
management. For the first year, the currently recruited international firm financed under DfID i s
proposed by the Government to be single sourced for supporting the PMT and providing
technical expertise for an estimated cost o fUS$500,000 over a period not to exceed one year.

Others: under the Performance Management and Service Delivery Improvements,                        a
US$l.OO million i s allocated for the Innovation and Excellence Fund targeted for selected
initiatives for improving performance in line-ministries. Government entities can propose
initiatives which will be assessed using criteria elaborated in the Operation Manual developed
for this fund. The proceeds of this fund will be provided to the selected entities on a grant basis.
PSRD can then procure the required goods and services on a simplified competitive basis. The
guidelines and procedures for the preparation, submission, and implementation o f initiatives are
detailed in the Operational Manual. Under the fund the selection o f individual consultants and
the procurement o f goods under shopping procedures are envisaged. The services o f firms will
also be required and they will be selected under the Selection Based on the Consultant's
Qualifications (CQS). The first two procurement packages for each of the following: selection o f      .
individual consultants, selection o f firms and shopping for goods shall be subject for revision by
the Bank.

B)      Assessment of the agency's capacity to implement procurement

Jordan's public procurement system i s a highly centralized, well defined system by a series o f
regulations issued by the Council o f Ministers and managed by the Government Tenders
Directorate (GTD) o f the Ministry o f Public Works and Housing (MoPWH) for civil works and
consultants' services and by the General Supplies Department (GSD) o f the Ministryo f Finance
(MoF) for supplies and equipment. Inthe central government, procurement regulations specify
the responsibilities o f ministries. Regulations also establish a series o f thresholds which
determine what level o f government authority exists for procurement o f civil works, goods and
services. Within each threshold level, the process i s under the responsibility o f committees. In
addition, Special Tender Committees (STC) are formed for a particular project which i s
distinguished by its size, source of finding or other characteristics that require special attention.
Committees do not make final decisions but submit their recommendations to higher level policy
officials for ratification. STC i s not restricted to any threshold and are used to expedite
implementation o f special projects. The currently establish STC for the on-going Innovation and
Excellence Fundshall see its agenda extended to cover the project.

Procurement activities for this project will be carried out by the Public Sector Reform
Department (PSRD) under the guidance o f the Ministry o f State for Public Sector Reform. The
agency i s staffed by public servants assisted by consultants recruited by the Ministry. For the
first year o f the project, a project management firm will continue to support the staff of the
Ministryand inparticular the Project Coordination Team. This will provide valuable assistance
to the Ministry for the preparation of TOR'S and the technical specifications o f equipment,
technical evaluation o f proposals and biddings, and management o f contracts. However, the
Project Coordination Team inthe Ministrywill prepare and manage the procurement process. It



                                                 53

is expected that by the loan effectiveness, a Procurement Officer shall be selected and dedicated
to carry out and coordinate all procurement functions for this project. It i s highly recommended
to select a staff with past experience inthe World Bank or intemational projects. The assessment
o f the capacity o f the MSPSR to implement procurement actions for the project has been carried
out by the Bank team Senior Procurement Specialist on November 10, 2004. The assessment
reviewed the organizational structure for implementing the project and the interaction between
the project's staff responsible for procurement and the Ministry's relevant central unit for
administration and finance.

Most o f the issues/risks concerning the procurement component for implementation o f the
project have been identified and are mainly related to the fact that the Ministry i s a newly
established entity and the procurement person i s not yet recruited and potentially might not have
experience in the Bank Guidelines for procurement. Moreover, the implementation period for
this project is 3.8 years which necessitates strict adherence to the implementation plan to avoid
any slippages in the set schedules. However, these risks are offset by the fact that the Ministry
has also staff and consultants with solid skills in drafting TORS and managing technical
assistance and by the fact that the handover and training shall be ensured for the first year by the
intemational firm retained from DflDproject. Capacity buildinginprocurement skills i s required
to complement the skills o f the team working on this project. This will be achieved by providing
the Ministry team with training on the Bank Guidelines for the Selection o f Consultants and
Procurement o f Goods through a seminar to be conducted prior to the project launch. As for the
procurement officer, he will be provided with the opportunity to attend the relevant training
which i s conducted by IntemationalLabor Organization inTurin, Italy.

     The overall project risk for procurement is moderate.

C)      Procurement Plan

The Ministry, at appraisal, developed a Procurement Plan for project implementation which
provides the basis for the procurement methods. This plan will be agreed between the Ministry
and the Project Team and will be made available at the Ministry's offices. It will also be
available inthe Project's database and inthe Bank's extemal website. The Procurement Plan will
be updated in agreement with the Project Team first time 6 months after effectiveness and
afterwards annually or as required to reflect the actual project implementation needs and
improvements ininstitutional capacity.

0)      Frequency of Procurement Supervision

In addition to the prior review supervision to be carried out from Bank offices, the capacity
assessment o f the ImplementingAgency has recommended two supervision missions to visit the
field to carry out post review o f procurement actions during the first year o f the project and once
per year for years two andthree And last year o fthe project.




                                                 54

Attachment1

1.      Goods andWorks andnonconsultingservices.


(a) The List o f contract Packages which are expected to be launched inthe first 18 months o f the
project i s detailed inthe hereunder table 1.
2.      ConsultingServices.

(a) The List o f Consulting Assignments which are expected to be launched inthe first 18 months
o fthe project i s detailed inthe hereunder table 2.


(b) Short lists composed entirely o f national consultants: Short lists o f consultants for services
estimated to cost less than US$200,000 equivalent per contract, may be composed entirely o f
national consultants in accordance with the provisions o f paragraph 2.7 o f the Consultant
Guidelines.

3.      Reviewby the Bank of Procurement

Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the following contracts
shall be subject to Prior Reviewby the Bank:

             All contracts awardedbefore the loan effectiveness and to be paid from the proceeds
             o f the loan regardless o fthe contract amount;
             The first two contracts from each type o f procurement o f Goods or selection of
             Consultants, regardless o f the contract amount;
             Each contract for Goods estimated to cost the equivalent o f US$250,000 or more;
             Each contract with a Consultant for services provided by a firm estimated to cost the
             equivalent o fUS$lOO,OOO or more;
             Each contract with a Consultant for services provided by an individual consultant
             estimated to cost the equivalent ofUS$50,000 or more
             All Direct Contracts and Single Source contracts;
             All contracts with cumulative amendment(s) that meet the respective thresholds;
             In respect o f the Innovation and Excellence Fund: The first two procurement
             packages for each of the following: selection o f individual consultants, selection o f
             firms and shopping for goods.


All other contracts shallbe subject to PostReview bythe Bank.




                                                    55

       l-

                     v    N
                          m       I>  N     t-
                                      0     \o

                     -

                     3    3                 N
                          N        rl       \o




                                       Y

                                      a8


            I
                z0   0
                     z




B                         VI
                          13                 t-
                                             N

.cs:
E     e
s .-   -r       n
                2         2
                          m
                                            wl
                                            I
                Z




                          od                 x
         h l -             00                4
                          hl




c




                      -4
                     -I            2
                     d
                     - -           N


                      3    ,..     3
            I         n            n


         & s L g
         4 0 0 0


TT




   tt-




      2 2 2

                 l-


                   e,  I   IZ



              t-




0             c

-                      F   1:
               B       a    B
`C
 B  p  .-
a &           `C
              a            (E
   -t
u
Q                      )    u
Y             Y        >
                       i    4
                            Y

m
vl
v-!
[I
[I

   t--       c


       n
       v
       m

        a,
        a,
       2
       zd,
       .-
       U

        s:
        0



       aC
       -21
       *
       1
       Y




       c-"
        6
       VY
       E;
       VY
       2L
       ...xPB
       Y



       u
       aM
       m

0
N
N


5
-
vl
0
N
<

  I      IT
                t   l 4        (r
  4
0
m         9




  r3            II
W
d         3             ri
                        ri
                I       -   I
*

                         L
                         8E:
P,

  I                         1
2  8Y 18Y 2              2




  I




  I      -+I---             -+-
0
m                     E:
hl a la   a 1:        m
  I
E;                       s   E;It
m
B                        a
                         d
4         4     14 14
           \ o r - 0 0
                         0
                         4

         _j
            E ?




          0 -
          u -




0




u
9
E

\o
0
2
IA




      -t+

                     ?r
          I



          1

          I




.d
8

     Y
     5
     :
     M
  .I
   2                      a -
                           E l l
     CI
     0
     .-.-P
     e
     0
     Y        4  I -
     L

     n
     8




          I t




          I

  -7-
  4-
i



.
.I         2



4
U           W




            uv1
            a
  tY            2




      l o f




                 0
                 2

                   n
                   c)    IC .
                   n
                   -4       +



             bE          (E
                         /L
            L
          -

            2
                          -
                          cc
                          0.
       E                  0.




           -
            N      m        8
           t       4        d


$A 54  .       I
         A

                   -
                   00
                   0
                   m

 l-




-
n      w             0          N
     I        N        m     2  N


-

n       Q\             0
                       r.4   t- 2


        Y

        a    128




3
3               0
n               0
>       f       8
N       c       d
3               m




    I
    I   II      I      I      I




d w w   15      18
0         t-     00
  0 0
8 818

                    ,
  f              .
                    \I


  -                         i
  4m




   N  N
      N




       L                       -
                               8  8
      ae                      e
          t                 t
                              T
       VI
       3
       Y

                           W            a
                                        a

                           N   " 4 :
          1 1       3




          I
   4:                N
   m                 N
                     d

.
cd

   -8
   N   m
       ,--  4121     !l
   -   8             8

     vl
     N




E

I

h




9




vl




d c
  0

                       Annex 9: ProjectPreparationand Supervision
                  JORDAN: PublicSector ReformCapacityBuilding Loan


                                                    Planned             Actual
PCNreview                                        November 11,2004     November 11,2004
Initial PID to PIC                                  January 10,2005     January 10,2005
Initial ISDS to PIC                                 January 10,2005     January 10,2005
Appraisal                                           January 22,2005     February 1,2005
Negotiations                                        January 31,2005    February16,2005
Board/RVP approval                                February 24,2005       March22,2005
Planneddate of effectiveness                           May 15,2005
Planned date ofmid-termreview                    December31,2006
Planned closing date                             December 31,2008

Key institutions responsible for preparation of the project:
IBRD

Bank staff and consultantswho worked on the project included:

Name                                       Title                        Unit
Robert Beschel           LeadPublic Sector Specialist                 MNSED
Robert Bou Jaoude        Sr. Financial Management Specialist          MNACA
Giulio de Tommaso        Sr. Public Sector Specialist                 MNSED
Lina Fares               Procurement Specialist                       MNACS
Diana Masri              Financial Management Specialist              MNACS
RichardMessick           Sr. Public Sector Specialist                  PRMPS
Imad Saleh               Sr. Procurement Specialist                   MNACA
Thao L e Nguyen          Sr. Disbursement Officer                      LOAGl
Alexandra Sperling       Sr. Program Assistant                        MNSED
Lucie Tran               OperationsAnalyst                             AFTS4
Paolo Zacchia             Sr. Economist                               MNSED


Bankfunds expendedto date onprojectpreparation:
    1. Bank resources:US$ 65,000
    2. Trust funds: 0
    3. Total: US$ 56,000

EstimatedApproval and Supervision costs:

    1. Remaining costs to approval:          US$50,000
    2. Estimatedannual supervision cost:     US$ 75,000




                                                 69

                        Annex 10: Documentsinthe ProjectFile
                    JORDAN: PublicSector ReformSupport Loan


Government of Jordan

   0  White Paper Strategy on Public Sector Reform (2004)

World Bank

      OPCS (2001). Kevperfonnance indicators for managing andachieving results.

   0  World Bank (2004): Countrv Brief:MiddleEast andNorthAfrica Region: Jordan

   0  World Bank (2004): Countrv GovernanceBrief : Jordan


Other donors

   0  DflDProgramofPublic SectorReformSupport 2002-2004




                                            70

                          Annex 11: Statement of Loans and Credits
                       JORDAN: Public Sector ReformSupportLoan

                                                                                Difference
                                                                                  between
                                                                               expectedand
                                                                                   actual
                                Original Amount inUS$ Millions                 disbursements
Project FY  Purpose              IBRD    IDA      SF    GEF    Cancel. Undisb. Orig.   Frm.
ID                                                                                     Rev'd
PO81505 2004 JO-AMMAN            38.00    0.00    0.00    0.00  0.00   38.00   0.00      0.00
             DEVELOPMENT
             CORRIDOR
PO75829 2003 JO-Education       120.00    0.00    0.00    0.00  0.00   113.68  17.28     0.00
             Reformfor
             Knowledge Econ.1
PO69847 2003 JO-Conservationof    0.00    0.00    0.00     5.00 0.00    4.51   0.31      0.00
             MedicinanerbalP1
PO76961 2002 Hort. Exports        5.00    0.00    0.00     0.00 0.00    4.30   2.73      0.00
             Promotion & Tech.
             Transfer
PO69326 2000 JO-HIGHER           34.70    0.00    0.00     0.00  0.00   17.96  15-76     0.00
             EDUCATION
             DEVELOPMENT
PO39749 1999 HEALTHSECTOR        35.00    0.00    0.00     0.00  0.00   6.95    6.95     3.82
             REFORM
PO48521 1999 JO-AMMAN           055.00    0.00    0.00     0.00  0.00   6.83    6.83     0.00
             WATER &
             SANITATION
PO35997 1998 JO-SECOND            32.00   0.00    0.00     0.00  0.00    9.05   9.05     4.18
             TOURISM DEV.
                          Total: 319.70   0.00    0.00     5.00  0.00  201.28  58.91     8.00




                                             71

                                        JORDAN
                                  STATEMENT OF IFC's
                               HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                 InMillions ofU S Dollars


                                        Committed                    Disbursed
                                       IFC                          IFC
FY         Company            Loan   Equity Quasi Partic. Loan      Equity Quasi Partic.
Approval
1998      AIHC                0.00      3.60   0.00    0.00  0.00    3.60     0.00 0.00
1990195103 Al-Hikma            15.05    0.00   0.00    0.00  15.05   0.00     0.00 0.00
1997      BTC                 2.22      0.00   0.00    0.00  2.22    0.00     0.00 0.00
2001      BoscanJordan        7.20      0.00   0.00    0.00  7.20    0.00     0.00 0.00
1997       El-Zay              1.43     0.00   0.00    0.00   1.43   0.00     0.00 0.00
2001       Jordan Gateway      3-00     0.00   0.00    0.00  3.OO    0.00     0.00 0.00
1999       MAICO              0.00      1-00   0.00    0.00  0.00    0.75     0.00 0.00
2003       MEC                 19.00    0.00   0.00    0.00  19.00   0.00     0.00 0.00
2000       MEIB               0.00      0.00   2.15    0.00  0.00    0.00     2.15 0.00
2002       MEREN              4.40      0.60   0.00    0.00  4.40    0.60     0.00 0.00
2002       SIC                4.90      0.00   0.00    0.00  4.90    0.00     0.00 0.00
1996       Zara                13-76    2.97   0.00    0.00  13.76   2.97     0.00 0.00
               Totalportfolio: 70.96    8.17   2.15    0.00  70.96   7.92     2.15  0.00



                                              ApprovalsPendingCommitment
           FY         Company                 Loan    Equity  Quasi    Partic.
           Approval




                               Totalpending   0.00      0.00    0.00     0.00
                                commitment:




                                            72

                                          Annex 12: Country at a Glance
                                    JORDAN: PublicSector ReformSupportLoan
                                                                                                               Jordan

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                         1983    1993     2002    2003     Inflation (%)                                I
Domestic prices
(%changej
Consumer prices                             5.1     3.3      18      2.5
implicit GDP deflator                       5.4     2.8      12      1.9

Government finance
(%of GDP, includescurrent grantsj
Current revenue                           43.5    34.9     30.2    33.9  l2    1     98    99     00     01    02
Current budgetbalance                      B.6      6.1      2.4     2.1
Overallsurpius/deficit                      7.0    -0.1    -5.0     -4.9             -GDPdeflator       d C P I


TRADE
                                         1983    1993     2002    2003
(US$ millions)                                                              Export and import levels (US$ mill.)

Totalexports (fob)                         580    1248    2,773   3,005
 Food                                       x)O    202       8 9     141
 Phosphates                                 142     141      0 6     143
 Manufactures                               182    509     1,502   1,660   4,000

Total imports (cif)                      3,039   3,541    5,000   5,480
 Food                                      497     628       691    745    2.000
 Fueland energy                             571    442      762      815
 Capital goods                             855      8P     1,256   1,328        0

Export price index(S95=WO)                   80     83       92      88             97   98    99   00    01   02     03

import price index(S95=WOj                  x)5     92        111    Iff                    Exports        lworts
Terms of trade (S95=WOj                      76     90       83      76

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                         1983    1993     2002    2003
(US$ millions)                                                              Current account balance t o GDP (%)

Exports of goods and services             1,757  2,822    4282    4,393
imports of goods and services             3,914  4,494     6,186  6,908     6 T
Resource balance                         -2,156  -1,672   -1,903  -2,515

Net income                                  46    -30        -79     99
Net current transfers                     1,721   1,337   2,450    2,845
Current account balance                   -369    -644      468     429

Financing items (net)                       3 0   15         441     t31          97   98    99   00     01   02     03
Changes in net reserves                      76   -866     -909     -561   ~ . 2
                                                                               !
Memo:
Reserves includinggold (US$ millions)     1024    1,737   3.474    3,940
Conversion rate (DEC, locaNUS$)             0A      0.7      0.7     0.7

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                         1983    1993     2002    2003
(US$ millions)                                                                ;omposltion o f 2003 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding anddisbursed       3,021  7,644     8,a8    8,337
  IBRD                                       03    592     1,020    1,off
  IDA                                        84      73       52      50

Total debt service                         364      611     589     1,158
  iBRD                                        6     x)l       94      96
  IDA                                          1      2        3       3

Composition of net resource flows
  Official grants                          626       73     384
  Official creditors                       209       52       64   -226
  Private creditors                        267      -111     -35   -479
  Foreigndirect investment                   35     -34       56
  Portfolio equity                            0       0      -52

World Bank program
  Commitments                                66     0 5      a5      PO     A IBRD
                                                                                -                           E- Bilateral
  Disbursements                              30      69      136      35    8-IDA       ~-0therrmItilate-al F-private
  Principal repayments                         1     59       50      67    C - I M F                       G- Short-term




                                                               73


          Annex 13: Maps
JORDAN: Public Sector ReformSupport Loan




                   74


