                         PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                                           APPRAISAL STAGE
                                                                                    Report No.: AB1344
 Project Name                       Public Sector Reform Capacity Building Loan
 Region                             MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA
 Sector                             General public administration sector (100%)
 Project ID                         P091787
 Borrower(s)                        GOVERNMENT OF JORDAN
 Implementing Agency                Public Sector Reform Department
                                    Government of Jordan
                                    P.O. 555
                                    Jordan
                                    11118
                                    Fax: 962-6-4645861
                                    Khaled.T@MOP.GOV.JO
 Environment Category               [ ] A [ ] B [X] C [ ] FI [ ] TBD (to be determined)
 Safeguard Classification           [ ] S1 [ ] S2 [X] S3 [ ] SF [ ] TBD (to be determined)
 Date PID Prepared                  January 24, 2005
 Date        of      Appraisal January 24, 2005
 Authorization
 Date of Board Approval             March 22, 2005

1. Country and Sector Background
Jordan's public administration has traditionally been regarded as one of the best in the region. It has a
reasonably well-functioning civil service, and a strong nucleus of committed high-level civil servants.
International comparisons on issues of governance reveal that Jordan ranks near the top of the list among
the MENA countries in terms of overall governance effectiveness as well as individual categories such as
`voice and accountability', `regulatory quality', and the rule of law.1

However, these assets are underutilized due to the institutional liabilities of the system: regulatory
rigidity, an abundance of red tape, weak policy coordination and programming capacity, and absence of a
service culture, resulting in indifferent and ponderous service delivery and sub optimal resource allocation
and use.

For example, household and firm surveys reveal that procedures for closing a business and firing workers
are more cumbersome than in the rest of the region, that Jordan remains significantly less friendly to
business and does worse on regulatory and corruption issues than many upper middle income countries it
is seeking to emulate, such as Chile and Malaysia. It has also been evident that the quality of public
service delivery and business regulation did not improve as significantly as expected in the past several
years2.

This situation is at odd with the ambitious development vision of the Kingdom which seeks to transform
Jordan from a lower-middle income country into a dynamic knowledge economy.                 The economic
quantum leap entailed by this vision requires a corresponding upgrading in the provision of public
services, specifically in the field of human resources development, and in the area regulation and policy
making in support of private sector development.


1Kaufman, Kraay and Mastruzzi, Governance Matters, 2003
2CPIA indexes.

The diagnosis of the ills of the public sector is not recent. It is shared by the whole polity and has become
a mainstream public complaint since 1984.3 Public Sector Reform has been on the government's agenda
ever since, but progress has been uneven and slow. Some of the reasons for lack of progress have been
political instability (governments used to average less than a year in power), lack of committed resources
to carry out reforms beyond diagnostics, and the role assigned to public sector employment in the delicate
socio-political equilibrium of Jordan.

In 1999 Jordan launched a broad-based Public Sector Reform Program, with support from the Bank and
other bilateral donors. To date, there has been progress in modernizing the legal framework of the
government, pilot reforms have been initiated, and extensive diagnostics work has been undertaken.
Additionally, capacity was created within the General Budget Directorate, as well as the Ministries of
Administrative Development, Finance, Justice and ICT. However, other agendas, such as improving
policy coordination, or better integrating the institutions involved in policy formulation have not
advanced significantly.

Since October 2003, the authorities have decided to step up the pace of reform. In October 2004 the
outgoing Government of Jordan approved the "White Paper Strategy on Public Sector Reform." This
ambitious plan builds on previous collaborative work with the Bank and DfID but, in structure and
content, it is essentially homegrown. It maintains-in terms of content-the direction developed since 1999.
It is comprehensive in dealing not only with priority initiatives but also in setting out clear objectives and
in incorporating concrete time-tables and institutional responsibilities. The basic approach is incremental
and pragmatic. It focuses on obtaining early successes and ensuring the development of good will and
momentum for each subsequent measure. This modus operandi is based on a vision of public
organizations and institutions as needing continuous improvement rather than conformity to an ideal
model. Substantial efforts are devoted to setting up organizations and institutions with a high capability
for self-diagnosis, with incentives to identify needed changes and launch them. This perspective of
aiming for organizations with high adaptability and inherent capacity for change is in full agreement with
recent literature in public or private management.
Ownership and commitment to the reform program is solid. The program has benefited from the
unwavering support of King Abdallah. Moreover, a number of the reforms included in the Government
strategy have already been approved, in particular the integration or creation of Public Sector Reform
units into the Prime Minister Office, under specific delegated ministers. To ensure coordination of the
reform effort across the Government, the Authorities transformed the recently activated Inter-ministerial
Steering Committee on Public Sector Reform into a permanent Public Administration Cabinet Sub-
Committee4.



2. Objectives

The project's principal goal is to support the ongoing implementation of the Government's public sector
reform strategy by ensuring that the requisite institutional infrastructure is in place and functioning. It
also seeks to support an important set of cross-cutting reforms in areas ranging from policy coordination
to improved financial and human resource practices.                      It will be deemed successful if capacity is
strengthened within the Prime Minister's office so that performance monitoring, administrative reform
and policy coordination functions are established and functioning well by project completion. Another
indication of success is that the broader set of reforms has been implemented effectively.


3The King's programmatic note to the past 15 governments has a mandate to reform the public sector and improve its services.
4The Inter-Ministerial Committee is chaired by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of State for Government Performance. It
includes the Minister of Planning, the Minister of Finance, the Minister of State for Public Sector Reform, the Minister of Justice
and the Minister of Information, Communication and Technology .

3. Rationale for Bank Involvement


The Bank has long recognized the importance of public sector modernization in Jordan. Four successive
CAS have articulated the need to support various aspects of administrative reform. In 1999, Jordan
launched a broad-based Public Sector Reform Program with support from the Bank and other bilateral
donors.

The first two Bank-financed Public Sector Reform Loans (PSRL-I and II) have assisted Jordan since 1999
to initiate a structural reform program for core public sector functions. In terms of content, the first two
PSRL loans have launched the Public Sector Reform along four parallel but complementary tracks:

·   Public sector reform proper, led by the Ministry for Administrative Development: This track deals
    with a) the reform of civil service institutions (new Civil Service By-Law, training of civil servants);
    b) government restructuring (boundaries between state and private sector, redistribution of
    responsibilities between ministries); structural changes in responsibilities (as in the case for the audit
    functions); c) improving services to the citizens in ensuring better quality of service and easier access
    to them for households and businesses (information dissemination, guidance for users, procedural
    simplification and re-engineering of processes in public organizations).

·   The e-government initiative, led by the Ministry for Post and Telecommunications. This track deals
    with IT development inside government, communications within government, and communications
    between government and businesses and citizens. This initiative is seen as a key component of the
    overall human resources-based economic growth strategy, which intends to transform Jordan into the
    regional center for exports of services and expertise in the field.

·   Judicial Reform, started under a Royal Commission for the Development of the Judiciary (RCDJ),
    and then under the leadership of the Ministry of Justice. This track aims at modernizing the entire
    justice system from its day-to-day operations to judges' training and appointments, to procedures and
    evidence law.

·   Financial management and budget reforms involve restructuring the expenditure budget, going over
    to a medium-term budgetary framework and modernizing financial management. This stream is under
    the responsibility of the Minister of Finance with substantial parts being led by the Minister of
    Planning.

Both operations have received satisfactory ratings in terms of project outcome and sustainability, based
on the Bank ICRs. These ratings were confirmed by OED.

Starting in late 2003, DfID--with the active engagement of the Bank in terms of policy dialogue--.
provided support to the Jordanian Authorities to build up their capacity to engage into a further and more
decisive stage of design and implementation of their Public Sector reforms..           The US$ 12 M grant
provided for staffing the Public Sector Ministry with both local and international experts, set up a
program management function for the Reform, and funded the necessary studies and other required
technical assistance. DfID's assistance will come to an end on June 30, 2005, at which time the
Government's PSR program will still be only in the early stages of implementation. The capacity of the
key units to manage the reform program will still be limited. Additional external assistance will be
required.

The proposed operation is will support the government's efforts for reform by (i) strategic staffing within
the revamped Prime Minister's office with qualified staff; and by (ii) providing training and other
capacity building to ensure that staff is able to actively manage the process of Administrative Reform in
Jordan. The loan seeks to continue the capacity building efforts begun under DfID assistance and to

reduce disruptions. It is anticipated that by providing technical assistance and building capacity, the
operation will greatly accelerate the systematic mainstreaming of the reform effort.

4. Description

Consistent with the proposed areas of Public Sector Reform highlighted by the White Paper, the proposed
project will build capacity by hiring staff and providing training and equipment to support reform in four
main areas of activity.           These are: (a) policy coordination and decision-making; (b) performance
monitoring and evaluation; (c) streamlining and rationalizing government institutions; and (d)
management of financial and human resources. The nature of each activity and the loan's proposed input
is described below.


a. Policy Coordination and Decision Making

The Government of Jordan's Public Sector Reform strategy calls for strengthening the ability of the Prime
Minister's Office (PMO) to coordinate policies, oversee the realization of the National Agenda5 and
monitor progress towards that end, and spearhead the reform of the public sector. It recommends
restructuring the PMO and creating four operating units reporting to the Prime Minister: (1) the Cabinet
Office/Secretariat; (2) the Government Performance Unit (GPU); (3) the Public Sector Reform
Department (PSRD); and (4) the Human Resource Policy Unit.

One of the most important sets of reforms being pursued under this rubric is revising the Cabinet and its
associated business practices to reduce the amount of routine business flowing before Cabinet and to
allow it to focus upon more strategic issues. In 2003, for example, nearly 2,800 items were advanced to
Cabinet for decision. (The average in many OECD countries is 500 to 700.) Many were minor in nature
and did not require Cabinet attention.6 Under the new structure, the role of the Cabinet Secretary will be
strengthened to effectively manage the Cabinet process; a series of ministerial sub-committees will be
established to carefully vet decisions before they go to Cabinet; and by-laws will be re-drafted to reduce
the amount of routine business being forwarded on to Cabinet for decision.

Other important changes will also be supported in this area. The GPU will be established and given the
role of helping to define the national development agenda and monitoring performance towards its
implementation across government (about which more will be said below).                                    The Ministry of
Administrative Development will be brought directly under the PMO and reconstituted as the PSRD, so
that its higher profile will allow it to better advance reforms across the civil service. Other functions,
ranging from human resource policy to strategic communications and parliamentary affairs, will be
strengthened and enhanced. The proposed lending operation would support the move to the new PMO
structure, help ensure that the new policy processes are fully established and functioning smoothly, and
build the manpower and capacity of the GPU and the PSRD and provide training for their development.




5 According to the White paper "the National Agenda is a published document which will provide clear statements of where
Jordan wants to be in economic, social and governance terms over the next 10-15 years. This document will determine the
national goals which will become the mandates of the Government as a whole. The national goals should be high level and
limited in number. To measure performance, each goal will have Key Performance Indicators which are regularly measured and
reported upon, in order to answer the question: "Is government working". The national goals are translated into a government
strategy, i.e. objectives and plans on how to deliver the National Agenda. These objectives and plans will then determine the
specific results of each ministry and institution must achiee, and the resources allocated to them. The results will be reflected in
the Government's Budget documents." A new department in the PMO, called the Government Performance Department under
the leadership of a Minister of State has been assigned this task.
6 Examples include the disposition of minor property assets or whether certain individuals qualify for Jordanian citizenship.

b. Performance Management and Service Delivery Improvements

The Public Sector Reform Program calls for fostering high-performing, citizen-responsive services
through the development of adequate evaluation of government's performance. The proposed operation
would build manpower and provide training, capacity building and consultancies to address: (1) the
institutionalization and roll-out of the Service Delivery Improvement Strategy (SDIS) across various line
ministries and departments; (2) capacity building within GoJ institutions themselves to be able to
implement the SDIS; and (3) selected initiatives for improving performance (such as by restructuring
and/or reengineering certain services) in line ministries.

These steps, in turn, will require that a variety of supporting measures be undertaken. As noted above, the
GPU will be established under the PMO and tasked with a variety of responsibilities. It will help
articulate and publish a national development agenda that specifies the Government's strategic goals. The
agenda will be based upon extensive research and integrate inputs from key players and organizations
within and outside of Government. These goals will be closely linked to the SDIS, which will require
government ministries and agencies to set and publish standards for the services they provide to citizens
and to monitor and publish the results regularly. Building upon performance monitoring initiatives
already underway in a few ministries, such as the Ministry of Justice, this component will support the
creation of Performance Improvement Units (PIUs) on a pilot basis in selected line ministries, along with
the development of a general service standard setting methodology, client voice tools and capacity
building. After pilot testing, these initiatives will be rolled out in other ministries in a carefully sequenced
manner.

Other efforts to enhance transparency and improve performance, such as the Challenge Fund and the King
Adallah II Award for Excellence, will also be supported under this component of the project7.

c. Institutional Streamlining

The PSR strategy calls for a fundamental restructuring of the Government and the realignment of
functions in a number of ministries and agencies. At present, Jordan has 28 ministries and around 170
agencies and departments. Since the average number of cabinet ministries in the OECD is approximately
14, the number of ministries in Jordan is clearly excessive8. The White Paper envisions gradually
reducing the number of ministries over the next five years to fewer than 20. It also envisions reviewing
and rationalizing the number, mandate and status of other government institutions, with particular
emphasis upon differentiating between policy and executive functions and ensuring that all agencies with
a policy function are directly under ministerial oversight. Finally, this work stream envisions providing
support for efforts to review and improve the efficiency and effectiveness of procedures and work
methods within ministries and institutions.

The proposed operation would finance staff costs and provide technical assistance in a limited number of
agencies for streamlining exercises. Agencies which have already begun the process of restructuring and
will be able to provide results within the period of implementation of the loan are expected to be pilots for
this component. As an incentive, the GoJ hopes to allow ministries that move proactively on streamlining



7The Challenge Fund was launched in August 2004 and provides challenge grants to local institutions to implement
innovative projects for which they do not have the necessary technical expertise.
8Two caveats are worth mentioning in this context. First, there is no "optimal" size of ministries, and international
experience varies considerably on this score.        Second, comparative experience indicates that it is often
extraordinarily difficult to reduce the number of ministries, since efforts to do so are resisted on both political and
administrative grounds.

and rationalization to move more rapidly to a new salary structure that reduces salary compression (see
the human resource management section below).

d. Resource Management

This component will support reforms in two critical areas: financial and human resource management,
with particular emphasis upon supporting HRM reforms. A more detailed discussion of each is provided
below.


Human Resource Management (HRM)

With approximately 2.5 civil servants per 100 inhabitants, Jordan's civil service is not particularly
overstaffed by global or regional standards. At 16 percent, the proportion of GDP being spent on the
government wage bill is high, but when one deducts the expenditure on the armed forces, spending on the
remainder of the civil service is not inconsistent with regional norms. However, problems do remain with
staffing and skills mix, a highly compressed wage structure, and ensuring maximum motivation,
productivity and efficiency from staff.

With the support of DfID, important preliminary diagnostic work has been undertaken in the area of civil
service reform and improved human resource management. In the upcoming phase of the program, such
efforts will be further advanced. They include the roll out of a new civil service bylaw and the
implementation of new human resource management policies and procedures across Government. These
reforms are intended cover a wide range of HRM issues, such as improving manpower planning;
overhauling existing recruitment and promotion procedures; improving pay and grading; rationalizing the
system for contract employment (a particular problem within Jordan); and improving procedures for
performance appraisal and staff development, among other goals.              They will also address the
reorganization of the Government's HRM functions and restructuring of various overlapping agencies
(such as the proposed HR Policy Unit and the Civil Service Bureau, or CSB), as well as the
decentralization of some HRM operations and oversight capacity.

The operation would increase capacity by hiring of staff, as well as by providing technical assistance to
the restructuring of the CSB and other concerned units. The proposed operation would also provide
technical assistance in the development of a strategy for pay reform and employment rationalization. The
ultimate goal will be to provide enough detailed analytic work for widespread salary reform to reduce
compression and ensure continued access to skilled managerial and technical talent. As noted above, the
GoJ is proposing implementation of an innovative program in which departments will be able to move to
a revised salary structure in exchange for progress in streamlining and rationalizing their operations.

Financial Management (FM)

The goal of Jordan's financial management reforms is to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of
budgetary allocation. The White Paper envisions a broad agenda of reforms, ranging from establishing a
permanent Cabinet sub-committee to take collective responsibility for fiscal and budget policies;
developing and introducing a Medium Term Fiscal Framework and Medium Term Expenditure
Framework to ensure that strategic resource allocation decisions are made on an informed basis; and
strengthening the linkage between budgeting, performance management and the proposed national
development agenda. A substantial amount of diagnostic analysis has also already been undertaken in
this field, including a joint Bank/Fund review of public expenditure management carried out in March

2004. This analysis has been agreed by the MoF, which has incorporated many of its recommendations
into its own plan for financial management reform.9.

Although the MoF has requested support under the proposed capacity building loan, in light of the
presence of other donors and agencies (and particularly the International Monetary Fund), this lending
operation will be carefully and selectively targeted at a couple of high priority issues. They include: (1)
strengthening the macro-economic forecasting capacity of the MoF (a critical component for budget
preparation); and (2) developing a plan for more closely integrating the Budget Department within the
MoF. The loan will help strengthen the MoF and its monitoring function for recurrent expenditures and
the Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation (MOPIC) for its capital investment monitoring
functions. On a highly selective basis, it could also support pilot efforts to improve the performance
orientation of the budget process in ministries such as Justice.

5. Financing
Source:                                                                                     ($m.)
BORROWER                                                                                     3
INTERNATIONAL               BANK         FOR       RECONSTRUCTION                  AND 15
DEVELOPMENT
                                                                                  Total     18

6. Implementation

This project reflects extensive coordination among donors. DfID has been the primary financier of the
Public Sector Reform Program during the period 2002-2004. However, DfID will not be financing the
public sector reform program in the 2005-2008 period.               The Bank and DfID have been in close
cooperation to ensure that the operations are properly sequenced and coordinated.

USAID is proposing to parallel finance the work undertaken by the loan through an additional
US$5 million trust fund for public sector reform, to be managed by the Bank. The activities of the trust
fund will be closely aligned with this project to ensure maximum effectiveness. In addition, special care
will be taken to ensure that activities financed under the loan are complementary to those financed by the
IMF (who has appointed a resident budget advisor in Amman working with the embryonic macro-fiscal
unit) and GTZ (who are working on the medium-term fiscal framework and other issues).

The project will be implemented over three and a half years, from June 1, 2005 to December 31, 2008.

The Public Sector Reform Department (PSRD) in the Prime Minister's Office will be the executing
agency of the project. The Minister of State for Public Sector Reform is fully committed to undertaking
the reforms and is keen to proceed with the staffing of his team as well as the GPU. The team to be
assembled is expected to perform several important functions, including acting as a driver for reform in
the initial phase, building capacity within government, and ensuring that the PSR program is implemented
on time.

To ensure sustainability of reforms and high-level ownership and coordination, a steering committee for
Public Sector Reform, chaired by, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of State for Government
Performance, has been created. Its mandate is to monitor and evaluate progress on reform. The Minister
of State for Public Sector Reform and the Steering Committee would be responsible for the overall



9Joint Bank-Fund Aide Memoire, Jordan: Work Program for Consolidating Budget Management Reforms, March 2004.

implementation of the project, with each member of the committee responsible for implementation of
components within his/her functional area.

7. Sustainability

Prospects for sustainability increase when the Government itself drives a reform program and
incorporates international experience and stakeholder feedback in the design.          The Government has
benefited in designing the reform program and from substantial international experience through Bank
and the DfID sponsored assistance.

Furthermore, a clear strategy has been prepared providing for implementation of reform measures over
the short, medium and long term. The short term measures ­ which this project is directly supporting ­
are already showing visible and positive outcomes, which gives strength to the reform program and
improves its chances of being sustainable.

The government is further addressing the ssue of stakeholder involvement by developing a public
                                                i
information and consultation strategy to be implemented over the next three years. If successfully
implemented, the prospects of successful reform are further increased.

Sustainability will further depend upon the Government's incorporation of the various experts that are
made available to it under this project into the permanent fabric of the public sector. The Government has
pledged to do so immediately following the development and approval of a new civil service by-law and a
new incentive framework.

8. Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector
Lessons learned from Bank-supported Public Administration Reform and Capacity Building projects in
the LAC, EAP, ECA and MENA Regions and previous efforts to improve public administration in Jordan
highlight the following as success factors: (i) high-level political support and ownership of program; (ii)
presence of a critical number of `champions of change' within government; (iii) market-based salary
structures and merit-based career development prospects; (iv) special attention and focus on improving
institutions rather than seeking expedient facilitations of reform; (v) reduction in the discretionary powers
of government employees; (vi) simplification of procedures and focus on service delivery; (vii) early and
systematic consultation of clients during project preparation to improve ownership and compliance; (viii)
training and greater continuity of staff in functional postings to develop expertise; and (ix) adequate
counterpart and institutionalization of funding for the project and adequate funding for the agency in
charge of the reform.

The project contains the following features to incorporate previous lessons learned:

Ownership, commitment to reform and a clear strategy for moving forward: The project is supported by
the King and the Prime Minister, whose office is responsible for overall Public Sector Reform. In
addition, the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of Government Performance is at the head of a Ministerial
Committee in charge of Government Reforms. This high level committee includes the Minister of
Finance, the Minister of Justice, the Ministers of State for Government Performance and Public Sector
Reforms, and the Minister of Planning.

The White Paper provides the program with a well defined vision and strategy to achieve Public Sector
Reform, and includes very important lessons from international experience, such as the development of a
performance-based staff compensation and incentive system.

Consultation with the client: The project has been prepared in close consultation with Jordanian
counterparts since the very early part of identification.

9. Safeguard Policies (including public consultation):

No environmental or social issues concern the proposed lending operation. The project pending
approval from management is classified as S3.

  Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                         Yes                   No
  Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                                            [ ]                   [ ]
  Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                                       [ ]                   [ ]
  Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                           [ ]                   [ ]
  Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, being revised as OP 4.11)                             [ ]                   [ ]
  Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                               [ ]                   [ ]
  Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20, being revised as OP 4.10)                              [ ]                   [ ]
  Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                                [ ]                   [ ]
  Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                         [ ]                   [ ]
  Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                                         [ ]                   [ ]
  Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                                 [ ]                   [ ]


10. List of Factual Technical Documents


Government of Jordan

    ·    White Paper Strategy on Public Sector Reform (2004)


World Bank

    ·    OPCS (2001). Key performance indicators for managing and achieving results.

    ·    World Bank (2004): Country Brief: Middle East and North Africa Region: Jordan

    ·    World Bank (2004): Country Governance Brief : Jordan


Other donors

    ·    DfID Program of Public Sector Reform Support 2002-2004



11. Contact point
Contact: Giulio De Tommaso


*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the
disputed areas

Title: Public Sector Mgmt. Spec.
Tel: (202) 458-0048
Fax: (202) 522-2510
Email: Gtommaso@worldbank.org

12. For more information contact:
        The InfoShop
        The World Bank
        1818 H Street, NW
        Washington, D.C. 20433
        Telephone: (202) 458-5454
        Fax: (202) 522-1500
        Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop

