Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1203 
Project Name 
Public Sector Reform Capacity Building Loan 
Region 
MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA 
Sector 
General public administration sector (100%) 
Project ID 
P091787 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF JORDAN 
Implementing Agency 
 
Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation 
P.O. 555 
Jordan 
11118 
Fax: 962-6-4645861 
Khaled.T@MOP.GOV.JO 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[
]
S
1
[
]
S
2
[X] S
3
[
]
S
F
[
]
TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
November 1, 2004 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
November 15, 2004 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
January 11, 2005 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
The Bank has long recognized the importance of public sector modernization in Jordan.  Four successive 
CAS’s have articulated the need to support various aspects of administrative reform. The latest CAS 
(December 2002) identifies improvements in public sector performance as a central pillar of the Bank’s 
assistance, with particular attention to strengthening the delivery of core services in light of outmoded 
administrative procedures that impose substantial costs on the public.  
 
In 1999 Jordan launched a broad-based Public Sector Reform Program with support from the Bank and 
other bilateral donors.  The first two Bank-financed Public Sector Reform Loans (PRSL-I and II) were 
part of a series of three successive programmatic adjustment loans aimed at initiating a structural reform 
program for core public sector functions.  The strategy focused on providing impetus to several practical 
measures capable of improving the lot of citizens, as well as setting the ground for deeper reform.  
 
These lending operations supported reforms along a number of complementary tracks.  The Ministry for 
Administrative Development (MoAD) addressed the reform of civil service institutions; government 
restructuring (including redefining the boundaries between state and private sector and redistributing 
responsibilities between ministries); and ensuring easier access and better quality service for households 
and businesses.  The e-government initiative, was led by the Ministry of Post and Telecommunications 
and addressed issues of IT development inside government.  Judicial Reform aimed at modernizing the 
entire justice system, from day-to-day operations, to judicial training and appointments, to procedures and 
evidence law.  Expenditure management reforms focused upon restructuring the recurrent budget, 
transitioning to a Medium Term Budget Framework, and implementing other initiatives aimed at 
modernizing financial management. This stream is under the responsibility of the Minister of Finance 
(MoF) with substantial parts being led by the Minister of Planning (MoP).  
Page  2
Both operations have received satisfactory ratings in terms of project outcome and sustainability, based 
on the Bank ICRs and confirmed by OED. The ICRs identify a series of lessons learned, including the 
need to strengthen overall coordination and monitoring for the reform agenda; the importance of 
developing a broader monitoring and evaluation capacity for the public sector as a whole; and the need to 
strengthen the budget system.  
 
Starting in late 2003, DfID
—with the active engagement of the Bank in terms of policy dialogue—
expanded on the original program and developed a more detailed and comprehensive strategy for public 
sector reform.  The plan has been finalized and formalized in a White Paper (along with detailed 
supporting documentation) and has been approved by the Government.  This strategy seeks to 
substantially transform the structure of the Government and radically improve the Government’s core 
functions.  DfID’s assistance will come to an end on June 30, 2005, at which time the Government’s PSR 
program will still only be in the early stages of implementation.  The capacity of the PSR Unit (and other 
GoJ institutions) to sustain the program will still be limited.  Additional external assistance will be 
required.     
 
The proposed operation, the
 Public Sector Reform Capacity Building Loan
 will support the government’s 
efforts for reform by (i) strategic staffing within the revamped Prime Minister’s office with qualified staff; 
and by (ii) providing training and other capacity to ensure that these new staff are able to actively manage 
the process of Administrative Reform in Yemen.  The loan seeks to continue the capacity building efforts 
begun under DfID assistance and to reduce disruptions. It is anticipated that by providing technical 
assistance and building capacity, the operation will greatly accelerate the systematic mainstreaming of the 
reform effort. 
 
This loan will complement PSRL III, which is expected to go to the Board sometime in the beginning of 
FY 06.  This policy loan will continue to provide policy support for key elements of the Public Sector 
Reform program, such as the consolidation of budgetary institutions or a reduction in surplus staff.  It is 
expected that by assisting the government through two separate channels, the Bank will ensure that the 
immediate, tangible needs in the area of technical assistance and equipment are addressed while there is 
significant dialogue, accountability and ownership for the reform’s broader, long-term outcomes is 
maintained.  The two loan approach is consistent with OPCS guidelines and recommendations.  The 
current operational advice provided by OPCS indicates that it is best to provide investment inputs and 
policy inputs through independent operations which can be assessed with different criteria and supported 
with different skill mixes.   
 
Ownership and commitment for the reform program is solid.  The program has benefited from the 
unwavering support of King Abdallah himself.  To ensure that His Royal Highness’ vision is 
implemented, the Government has actively sought to development an appropriate institutional 
infrastructure capable of driving the reform agenda forward.  To ensure coordination of the reform effort 
across Government, an inter-ministerial steering committee was reactivated in March 2004.  The 
proposed loan will support the transformation of MoAD into a Public Sector Reform Unit under the direct 
authority of the Prime Minister, who will assume responsibility for providing overall direction and 
coordination of the administrative reform effort .  
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
Page  3
The development objectivegoal of the project is to build capacity within the centralGg in adequate capacity 
to sustain public sector reformstrengthen public sector management in  over the long termgenerally, by 
improving the Government’s institutional capacity and incentives reform manage’s ability government to 
conduct public administration reforms on an ongoing, sustainable basis by hiring qualified staff 
(consultants), providing training for them and procuring equipment necessary to assist the team to carry out 
Public Sector Reform..   
 
3. Preliminary 
description 
Consistent with the Government’s White Paper, the proposed project would concentrate its 
intervention upon four main areas of activity: (i) improving mechanisms for policy coordination 
and decisionmaking; (ii) refocusing government towards results by strengthening performance 
monitoring and evaluation; (iii) streamlining and rationalizing government institutions to 
eliminate unnecessary and/or redundant tasks and strengthen the focus on core functions; and 
(iv) improving efficient management of financial and human resources. 
 
4. 
Safeguard policies that might apply 
 
No environmental nor social issues concern the proposed lending operation.  The project pending 
approval from management is classified as S
3
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER  
5 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
 
15 
 Total 
20 
 
6. Contact point 
 
Contact: 
Giulio de Tommaso 
Title: Sr. Public Sector Mgmt. Spec. 
Tel:  (202) 458-0048 
Fax: (202) 522-2510 
Email: Gtommaso@worldbank.org
 
