Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11859
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JORDAN
SECOND CITIES AND VILLAGES DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
(LOAN 2614-JO)
MAY 6, 1993
Infrastructure Sector Operations Division
Country Department II
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit =  Jordanian Dinar (JD)
1985  JD 1       =    US$ 2.53
1986  JD 1       =    US$ 2.86
1987  JD I       =    US$ 2.95
1988  JD 1       =    US$ 2.66
1989  JD I       =    US$ 1.74
1990  JD 1       =    US$ 1.51
1991  JD I       =     US$ 1.47
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CBJ       -    Central Bank of Jordan
CVDB      -    Cities and Villages Development Bank
CVDB I  -    First Cities and Villages Development Bank Project (Ln 1826-JO)
CVDB II  -    Second Cities and Villages Development Bank Project (Ln 2614-JO)
EIB       -    European Investment Bank
GOJ       -    Government of Jordan
IMF       -    International Monetary Fund
JD        -    Jordanian Dinar
MMRA    -    GOJ's Ministry of Municipal and Rural Affairs
MOF       -    GOJ's Ministry of Finance
MOP       -    GOJ's Ministry of Planning
PCR       -    Project Completion Report
PR        -    President's Report
SAR       -    Staff Appraisal Report
WDR       -    World Development Report
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.SA
Off0o of DIroton-G.n.l
OpemUona Evludion
May 6, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Jordan - Second Cities
and Villages Development Project (Loan 2614-JO)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled 'Project Completion Report on Jordan - Second Cities
and Villages Development Project (Loan 2614-JO)" prepared by the Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office, with Part II contributed by the Borrower.
The main objectives of the project were to finance municipal and village infrastructural projects
(e.g., roads, schools, health centers) through the Cities and Villages Development Bank (CVDB);
strengthen CVDB's capacity to help councis prepare and execute projects; improve CVDB's own
institutional capacity; and provide training to local council officials. Out of the original $15 million,
$5.4 million was cancelled when the loan was closed on schedule.
CVDB's performance has been uneven: its standards of appraisal and supervision have been
lax and portfolio quality has become highly dependent on improvements in municipal management and
finances on which CVDB has limited leverage. The Government has interfered in CVDB's decision-
making. In the wake of Government effort to prevent the bankruptcy of the local finance system,
CVDB emerged as a truncated and financially weaker institution. The scope of its operations was
curtailed and lending activities declined. The actions taken undermined CVDB's authority and tarnished
its image.
Thus, while the project did improve road conditions, create municipal market facilities, and train
municipal officials, the overall project performance is rated as unsatisfactory, its impact on institutional
development as partial, and its sustainability as uncertain.
The PCR is very satisfactory, comprehensive in its coverage, and candid in its assessment of
project outcomes.
Therefore, given the absence of a follow-on operation and the diminished importance of CVDB
as an agent for municipal development, this operation will not be audited.
Attachment
This docmea_t *a a re=rite disbutio and may be used by FSwpients only in the prmonnane of their offiia do". Its
coteous may so otherwise be dicosed without World fank authorizato.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JORDAN
SECOND CITIES AND VILLAGES DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
(LOAN 2614-JO)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE   .................................................                                                                i
EVALUATION  SUMMARY   ......................................                                                             iii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ....                                                   ........    1
A. Project Identity  ............................................                                                         1
B.  Background   ..............................................                                                           1
Macro-Economic Context ....................................                                                      1
Sector Development Objectives  ................................                                                  2
Policy Context  ..........................................                                                       2
Linkages between Project, Sector and Macro-Policy Objectives   ............                                      3
C. Proiect Objectives and DescriDtion
Objectives  .............................................                                                        3
Components  ............................................                                                         3
D. Project Design and Organization   .................................                                                    4
E.  Project ImDlementation   .......................................                                                      5
The March  1987 Cabinet Decision   ..............................                                                5
Other Aspects of Implementation  ...............................                                                 7
F.  Project Results   ............................................                                                        7
G. Project Sustainability   ........................................                                                      9
H. Bank Performance  ..........................................                                                           9
I.   Borrower and CVDB  Performance  ................................                                                    10
J.  Project Relationships   ........................................                                                     10
K. Consulting Services   .........................................                                                       10
L.  Project Documentation and Data   .................................                                                   10
M. Lessons of the Experience   .....................................                                                     10
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (cont'd.)
Page No.
PART n: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE .......13
Introduction ..................    13
Objectives Achieved ..................    14
Implementation Experience ..................   15
Results ..................    16
Sustainability ..................    16
Conclusions ..................    17
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION ............................  18
Related Bank Loans ..................   18
Project Timetable ..................    19
Loan Disbursements ..................   20
Project Implementation ..................   21
Status of Covenants ..................   22
Use of Bank Resources ..................   24
Staff Inputs ..................   24
Missions ..................   25



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JORDAN
SECOND CITIES AND VILLAGES DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
(LOAN 2614-JO)
PREFACE
This Project Completion Report pertains to the Second Cities and Villages Development
Bank (CVDB) Project in Jordan, for which a loan in the amount of US$15.0 million was approved
on August 27, 1985. The loan was closed on June 30, 1991, as originally scheduled. The last
disbursement was made on August 31, 1991. Total disbursements were US$9.56 million and
US$5.44 million were cancelled.
The PCR was prepared by the Infrastructure Operations Division of the Middle East and
North Africa Country Department II (Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III), with Part II contributed
by the Borrower. Preparation of this PCR began during a field mission to Jordan in April 1992,
which included visits to the Ministry of Planning, the Ministry of Municipal and Rural Areas,
CVDB, and some eight cities and villages throughout the country. The findings of this report are
based inter alia on: the Staff Appraisal Report; the President's Report; the Loan and Project
Agreements; Supervision Reports; the Project Files; Sector Reports and Papers, as well as
discussions with GOJ, CVDB and Bank staff involved with the Project.



I



- Ijj -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JORDAN
SECOND CITIES AND VILLAGES DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
(LOAN 2614-JO)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.      Jordan is a middle income developing country with a small economy, open through trade
to the political volatility of events affecting its neighbors. Remittances of Jordanian workers in the
Gulf and grant aid, traditionally major sources of income, fell sharply. The Government of Jordan
(GOJ) addressed ensuing macro-economic difficulties (which included sharp falls in local council
revenues) with the assistance of the IMF and the Bank in 1989.
2.      Municipal development is important in Jordan, where 67 % of the population live in urban
areas which generate most of the nation's GDP. GOJ sector policy has been twin-tracked:
(a) direct support to the capital Amman (responsible for 60% of all local council revenues in
Jordan); and (b) through CVDB loans to other local councils (responsible for 40% of revenues). As
GOJ's principal agency for municipal development outside Amman and with the successful
experience with the first project (CVDB I) behind it, CVDB was the appropriate executing agency
for the Project.
3.      GOJ's strong support for lending to local councils based upon sound financial principles
waned with the onset of local councils' financial difficulties. A March 1987 Cabinet Decision
(decision) to bail out local councils across-the-board by rescheduling all CVDB lending was a major
change of policy. Even councils' overdue payments to contractors were converted to long term
loans. GOJ's current municipal finance policy priorities are not clear.
The Project
4.      The project had three objectives: (a) to help execution of local development plans through
financing infrastructure and profit-making projects; (b) to strengthen CVDB's capacity to help
councils prepare and execute projects; and (c) to improve CVDB's own operations. To this end,the
Project provided loans (through CVDB) to finance investment projects and technical assistance to
CVDB itself. Training of local council officials was also an important component. Implementation
arrangements were similar to that of the first Cities and Villages Development Bank Project
(CVDB I). Local council solvency requirements and detailed lending terms and conditions were
spelt out in CVDB's Statement of Policy, which became part of the Project's legal agreements.
Implementation Experience
5.      The Cabinet decision to bail-out local councils' finances in March 1987, less than a year
after Loan Effectiveness, undermined the credibility of CVDB, the Project and the lending
instrument itself. Altering the basic terms and conditions of CVDB's lending to local councils
detrimentally affected CVDB's performance. Bank reaction, however, was not forceful enough in



- iv -
taking action to remedy the situation. CVDB itself was a mere observer of events under the control
of the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and the Central Bank of Jordan (CBJ) and might have been more
proactive.
6.      Financially weak local councils could borrow less and less. The level of CVDB lending
fell sharply as did the share of long term lending of its total assets.
Results
7.      Some 202 subprojects were financed through 159 local councils. Most were small, street
paving being the most popular. Profit making subprojects performed unevenly, depending upon the
thoroughness of their appraisal. Many training courses for local council officials were administered
successfully. The technical assistance component of the Project allowed CVDB to computerize its
accounting.
8.      Although CVDB emerged weakened, it could still play an important role municipal
development in Jordan if the Government so wishes and adopts an appropriate policy.
SustainabfliIy
9.      Strong GOJ commitment to municipal development and sound local government finance is
also necessary for long term strengthening of the local government finance system in Jordan.
Bank and Borrower Performance
10.     Bank supervision missions had difficulty in monitoring key project events during
implementation. CVDB's performance was uneven and standards of sub-project appraisal and
supervision declined during implementation.
Findings and Lessons
11.     GOJ/Bank sector dialogue at the highest level is essential to sustain Bank lending
operations. Projects financed by the Bank can only succeed if they have, and are seen to have, the
unequivocal support of the borrower.
12.     Project legal agreements need to be sustained. In the case of this Project, legal
agreements were overridden by a decision of Jordan's Cabinet. For its part, the Bank should be
ready to invoke legal remedies in the event of non-compliance of important covenants.
13.     When project performance deviates significantly from that planned, a project mid-term
review should be undertaken to make necessary adjustments (to lending parameters, for example).
14.     Continuity of Bank staff and management is essential for project success when projects run
into significant difficulty.
15.     Effective demand for loans by local councils should be thoroughly assessed prior to
project appraisal of such municipal finance projects.



v 
16.     To be more effective, municipal development projects need to monitor local councils'
solvency continually and provide technical assistance to councils to help keep them solvent.
17.     The Project teaches us to be wary of the syndrome of success. The widely disseminated
success of its predecessor (CVDB I) helped make this follow-on operation appear an inevitable
winner, and hence supervision of it less critical.
18.     Project training of local council officials was successful, helping local government in
Jordan to retain basic administrative skills, which many other countries are still struggling to
achieve.



I



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JORDAN
SECOND CITIES AND VILLAGES DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
(LOAN 2614-JO)
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Project Identity
Name             :       Second Cities and Villages Development Bank Project
Loan Number              2614-JO
RVP Unit         :       Middle East and North Africa
Country                  Jordan
Sector           :       Urban Development
Subsectors       :       Municipal Development; Local Government Finance
B. Background
Macro-Economic Context
1.      With US$1,640 GNP per capita in 1989, Jordan is classified as a middle income developing
country. Its small (1989 GDP US$3.9 billion) and open (1989 imports plus exports equal to 78% of
GDP) economy is vulnerable to volatile political events affecting its immediate neighbors, Jordan's main
trading partners. Balance of payments deficits, however, were traditionally financed through substantial
remittances by some 330,000 Jordanian workers in the Gulf States and Saudi Arabia and through grant
aid.' Within these restrictive parameters, Jordan maintained economic growth in a stable monetary
environment at least until 1988. By then, however, declines in regional trade, workers' remittances and
external aid all took their toll.
2.      By January 1989, Jordan was unable to service its US$6.4 billion external debt, which
represented 181% of GNP, the highest reported ratio for any country in the world (WDR 1991).
Annual inflation, less than 7% for a decade, soared to 25.8% in 1989. By April of that year, GOJ
signed a Standby Agreement with IMF, and later embarked upon a Structural Adjustment Program with
the assistance of the Bank. A 35% devaluation of the Jordanian dinar (JD) in 1989, and 30% fall in
external grant aid to Jordan during 1982-89 (World Bank Jordan Country Brief June 1991) exposed
weaknesses of the country's local finance system, upon which the success of the project directly
depended.
3.      Local municipal and village council revenues, necessary to repay CVDB loans under the
project, fell by some 14% during the 1982-88 period. Meanwhile, financial deficits rose as council
expenditures continued to increase.Y To deal with the local councils' (and hence CVDB's) financial
1'  1990: workers' remittances US$614 million; GOJ external revenues US$772 million (CBJ Monthly Statistical
Bulletin Jan 1992).
y'  World Bank, The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan: Local Government Finance Sector Study (Green Cover)
April 20, 1990, para. 2.16.



-2-
crisis, GOJ's Cabinet decided in March 1987 to re-schedule all CVDB loans. The decision had a
devastating impact upon the project, which is discussed extensively in this PCR (paras. 14; 20-25;
44-45).  Today, Jordan is in urgent need of sound local government finance and development
mechanisms, not least to help resettle up to 300,000 returnee workers from the Gulf?
Sector Development Objectives
4.       Municipal development in cities is very important in Jordan where 67% of the nation's
population live in urban areas in which service activities responsible for 65% of GDP are located. The
Amman-Zarqa agglomeration (1.2 million population), which includes the nation's capital, is the most
important. The remainder of Jordan's 1.4 million urban inhabitants live in some 173 municipalities,
mostly within a 100 km radius of Amman itself. GOJ's policy towards municipal development has been
twin-tracked. Firstly, Amman as the capital city has been singled out for special attention, including
direct lines of finance. Its mayor enjoys the rank of Cabinet Minister, and its annual income of US$85
million in 1988 accounted for nearly 60% of all local council revenues in Jordan. Secondly, CVDB
(executing agency for the project) was established in 1980, with Bank assistance, to finance development
projects in the rest of Jordan's cities and villages, which account for some 40% of local revenues.
5.       Administratively, Jordan is made up of five governorates, with some 183 municipalities
headed by elected mayors. In addition, there are 346 village councils usually headed by appointees of
the governors. After Amman, the next largest cities are: Irbid (pop. 161,690); Rusaifa (pop. 70,085);
and Aqaba (pop. 40,725). Although financially and administratively weak, municipal and village
councils throughout Jordan are responsible for providing and maintaining urban infrastructure and
services within their jurisdictions. To pay for these services, they can collect property taxes and user
fees. The smallest ones, however, rely heavily on GOJ transfers for the bulk of their income. Except
for Amman, all are entitled to apply to CVDB for loans.
6.       CVDB is thus Jordan's principal agent for municipal development, except in the case of
Amman. As most municipalities and villages are small, CVDB itself is one of GOJ's smallest
development banks, with a staff of some 144 in 1990. Its JD 70.5 million (US$106.5 million) assets
reported in that year accounted for only 5.9% of the total assets of GOJ's six specialized credit
institutions (CVDB Annual Report 1990/CBJ Monthly Statistical Bulletin Jan. 1992 - the other five are:
Industrial Development Bank; Housing Corporation; Agricultural Credit Corporation; Jordan
Cooperative Organization; and Housing Bank). Given its mandate and experience with the first project
(Ln 1826-JO), CVDB was the appropriate executing agency for this project.
Policy Context
7.      At project appraisal in 1985, Bank strategy was to support improvements to the delivery of
urban infrastructure and land and to strengthen local councils' appropriate planning and implementation
capabilities (PR para.34). This fitted neatly into the strategy pursued by Jordan's Five Year Plan for
Economic and Social Development (1986-90), then being prepared. Economic problems mentioned
earlier (paras. 1-2), however, obliged GOJ to shift its attention to the immediate goals of
macro-economic stabilization and adjustment. Municipal development strategy took second place.
2'  The resettlement cost is estimated at $4.5 billion, more than one year's GDP in the following report: Jordan MOP
The Financial Burden of the Jordanian Returnees on the Economy (preliminary report), Sept. 7, 1991, Amman.



-3-
8.      To help it re-establish a strategy towards municipal development, in November 1986 GOJ
urgently requested the Bank undertake a sector study of local finance in Jordan. The report, The
Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan: Local Government Finance Sector Study (green cover April 20,1990)
confirmed the poor shape of Jordan's local finance system. Study recommendations included:
(i) revaluation of local taxes whose values had been eroded by inflation; (ii) basing transfers to local
councils upon total GOJ revenues, and not only on the volatile "fuel tax"; and (iii) merging small
councils to create viable economic units. The same recommendations were re-stated in a later sector
report: Jordan: Public Expenditure Review, officially issued in February 1991.
9.      At the time of writing the Bank still awaits GOJ's comments upon those recommendations.
With neither consent nor dissent, it is difficult to identify GOJ's current priorities for the sector.
Linkages between Project. Sector and Macro-Policy Objectives.
10.     The project aimed to help Jordan's macro-development by: (i) consolidating CVDB as the
prime agency to finance local development plans, and (ii) ensuring the efficient local use of scarce
resources available to local government. As a small agency, CVDB could not by itself have a major
direct impact upon Jordan's macro-economy, but an improved CVDB would serve as a valuable model
for larger agencies in other sectors to emulate. CVDB was also cast in the role of de facto regional
development agency, in view of its responsibility for stimulating development outside the capital,
Amman.
C. Project Objectives and DescriDtion
Objectives
11.     According to Schedule 2 of the Loan Agreement, the objectives of the project were: " ...(i)
to facilitate the execution of municipal and village development plans through the financing of
infrastructure and profit making projects; (ii) to strengthen the capacity of CVDB in assisting cities and
village municipal councils in the preparation and execution of projects; and (iii) to further improve the
operational policies and procedures of CVDB." Focus upon municipal development in the first
objective was appropriate for a follow-on operation, whose predecessor (CVDB I) concentrated upon
setting up the institution CVDB itself. This means, however, that the performance of the project
(CVDB II) must be judged against a broader set of local development criteria.
Components
12.     Under Schedule 2 of the Loan Agreement, the project components were: "Part A. Investment
projects--provision by CVDB of sub-loans for the financing of specific investment projects. Part B.
Equipment and Technical Assistance -- (i) Provision for CVDB of operation equipment, including
micro-computer work stations. (ii) Assistance to CVDB's Technical Department, through experts'
services, in the area of project appraisal and supervision. (iii) A training program to be prepared and
implemented by CVDB for its own staff and for the staff of local councils. "Apart from training, the
project provided no technical assistance to local councils, an aspect of its design that weakened its
municipal development impact (paras. 4748).



-4 -
D. Project Design and Oreanization
13.      Despite the shift in emphasis towards municipal development, the design and implementation
arrangements of CVDB II were similar to those of CVDB 1. Proceeds of the Bank loan were on-lent
to CVDB which, in turn, made sub-loans available to municipal and village councils to finance eligible
projects agreed with the Bank. CVDB I's success--documented in the project PCR and endorsed by
OED's subsequent audit-' -- recommended continuity, but it may have created a syndrome of success
that helped make rigorous project supervision appear less crucial (paras. 37 and 50).
14.      Bank preparation missions and CVDB staff worked closely together upon a very important
technical document of the project, namely the CVDB Statement of Policy, which was annexed to the
SAR. The statement went beyond an exposition of the priorities and philosophy of the project, to detail
specific CVDB lending terms and conditions to local councils. These were incorporated into the
project's legal documents, as covenants requiring GOJ and CVDB not to alter the statement (and hence
lending terms and conditions) without the agreement of the Bank. The March 1987 Cabinet decision
to re-schedule all CVDB lending (para. 21), however, left both GOJ and CVDB in non-compliance with
these important covenants (LA section 4.01(e); PA section 2.11).
15.      Another important tool developed by Bank missions prior to appraisal was a Lotus spreadsheet
model to project financial cash flows resulting from sub-project investments. It also estimated the
financial rate of return of such investments. Although well conceived, its potential was not fully
exploited in CVDB, whose staff were unfamiliar with its lengthy internal calculations.
16.      Local councils had to pass a "solvency test" to be eligible for CVDB loans. They had to
demonstrate to CVDB that they needed to use only 75% of "resources available for debt service" (net
revenues minus recurrent expenses minus debt service payments minus capital investments from its own
resources) to pay off a CVDB loan (SAR Annex 3, para. 16). Even this mildly rigorous test
disqualified many municipalities and villages under the program, and encouraged the Cabinet Decision
to re-schedule municipal and village debt. In hindsight, more could have been done prior to appraisal
to estimate the number of local councils likely to qualify and to assess the vulnerability of their revenues
to macro-economic changes (para. 49).
17.      CVDB H innovated through the introduction of financial ratio covenants into the Project and
Loan Agreements. Thus, CVDB was required to maintain its debt:equity ratio below 4:1 (PA
3.03-3.04) and its debt service coverage ratio above 1.15:1 (PA 3.05). For its part, GOJ undertook
to ensure that CVDB's margin on all resources be at least two percentage points (LA 3.03). During
most of implementation, these covenants were complied with. In 1987, however, CVDB's debt service
coverage ratio fell to 0.52:1 because of the March 1987 Cabinet Decision to re-schedule CVDB loans.
4/   According to the PCR of CVDB I: "The project has achieved its objectives and has been instrumental in bringing
about major policy and institutional changes in the municipal development sector in Jordan. Because of the
project, CVDB evolved from a simple disbursement fund into an effective municipal development bank able to
achieve a satisfactory financial performance and to deliver well-appraised projects. It has now established a strong
track record as the main intermediary channelling financial and technical assistance to local governments in
Jordan." (PCR 1826-JO). For OED: "the project was successful in achieving its objectives. It was, albeit with
some delays, implemented efficiently and that its benefits are likely to be sustained in the forseable future. CVDB
should be considered a good example of a sound development and financial institution dedicated to assisting
municipalities and smaller communities not only as a steady source of funds but as an effective training institute
and monitoring agency of the municipalities." (PPAR Loan 1826-JO, paras. 37-38).



- 5 -
18.      The debt service coverage ratio itself provided potentially useful information to CVDB. Its
projection could help avoid possible maturity mismatches in the future, but there were few signs of this
ratio having been effectively used in CVDB's financial planning. More curious was the emphasis given
CVDB's debt:equity  ratio in the project's legal agreements.   CVDB  had traditionally been
conservatively managed and under-leveraged; its debt:equity ratio at appraisal was 0.7:1 - hardly a
candidate for under-capitalized borrowing that a debt:equity ratio is designed to avoid.5' In hindsight,
the project could have given more attention to the management of its lending portfolio. Portfolio quality
had deteriorated through: (i) insolvency of some borrowers; and (ii) lending for subprojects with
inadequate rates of return. Close and continuous assessment of local council finances and administrative
performance is an essential aspect of portfolio risk assessment.@
E. Project Implementation
19.      Project implementation coincided with important political changes such as an increasingly
important role for Parliament and a generally greater need for consultations at all levels as the number
of elected officials increased. Thus, for example, Loan Effectiveness was delayed six months, pending
Parliament's ratification of the project's legal documents. The formalization of subsidiary loan
agreements between CVDB and the municipalities and villages also took longer than expected.
The March 1987 Cabinet Decision
20.      Jordan's macro-economic problems (paras. 1-2) were felt soon after Loan Effectiveness in
June 1986. Thus, the Bank's very first supervision mission report in July 1986 filed a warning from
CVDB's General Manager at that time that: "The rapidly deteriorating financial situation of some
municipalities and village councils could adversely affect CVDB's financial situation and profitability".
21.      Faced with what it considered the possible bankruptcy of Jordan's local finance system built
around CVDB, the Cabinet took drastic action to bail out the municipal and village councils, and hence
CVDB itself. Thus in March 1987, the Cabinet decided that:
(a)  Local councils would no longer be responsible for financing schools, health centers, main
through roads, and related land acquisition (transferred to Ministries of Education, Health and
Public Works respectively);
(b)  CVDB would re-schedule all outstanding loans (including overdrafts) and local councils'
overdue payments to contractors for a period of ten years with a two-year grace period.
Costs to be borne directly by the Treasury;
5'   Experience with Bank financed projects has shown that: "the debt-equity limit has usually not proved to be an
important issue for development banks that have been in operation for less than fifteen years. It takes several years
for an institution to build up its portfolio and to reach the limits of its debt." Diamond, W. and Raghavan, V.S.,
Asnects of Develonment Bank Management, John Hopkins for the World Bank, 1982 (p. 198).
Y   There are no simple financial ratios for portfolio risk assessment. It has to rely upon the careful judgement of
a manager. Thus: 'The principal problem is in not knowing what to do (about portfolio risk), but rather in
ensuring that this task is not neglected because of staff preoccupation with other more glamorous tasks such as
appraising and deciding upon new investments or overcoming obstacles to project implementation and
disbursement." QL4, pp. 201-202).



- 6 -
(c) All interest payments on outstanding loans obtained by local councils until December 31,
1986 would be borne by the Treasury;
(d) CVDB would no longer provide loans to village councils for land acquisition; and
(e) Loans approved by CVDB would be based upon the local council's ability to service the debt
and to collect their own revenues effectively.
The cost of this bail-out were later estimated through to 1990 at JD 9.8 million (US$ 14.8 million
equivalent or about $ 10 per inhabitant in urban centers outside of Amman), of which only JD 4.5
million (US$ 6.8 million equivalent) has been paid to date.
22.      Thus, only ten months after Loan Effectiveness, and with less than ten per cent of the Loan
disbursed, the Cabinet Decision had four devastating consequences for the project: (i) it shifted GOJ
policy towards local councils without reference to the project; (ii) it altered CVDB's lending policy
(notably terms and conditions of loans), thereby undermining the authority of CVDB; (iii) it dealt a
severe psychological blow to the credibility of the lending instrument as seen by the local councils; and
(iv) it placed both GOJ and CVDB in non-compliance with basic covenants of the project's legal
agreements (para. 14).  Particularly damaging was the across-the-board treatment given all
municipalities. Debt forgiveness and re-scheduling on a case-by-case basis might have been a more
appropriate way to reward those local councils that had made the greatest efforts to improve their
finances. Re-scheduling councils' overdue payments to contractors as ten year loans with two years'
grace risked being interpreted by cities and villages as a reward for financial irresponsibility and
profligacy. On the other hand, the decision did at least call for local councils to improve their revenue
collection, to which the project had given insufficient attention (paras. 18 and 47-48).
23.     Following the Cabinet Decision, GOJ and CVDB were in non-compliance of legal covenants
of the project, requiring them not to alter CVDB's Statement of Policy without the agreement of the
Bank (para 14). The decision altered this Statement in at least three ways by: (i) reducing the list of
eligible subprojects (through eliminating schools and health centers); (ii) relieving local councils' of their
obligation to pay interest to CVDB; and (iii) changing lending terms and conditions through extending
maturities and doubling grace periods in some cases.
24.      CVDB and Bank reactions to the new situation were slow. A supervision mission fielded in
April 1987, one month after the Decision, reported the facts of the case, but still deemed the project
problem-free. CVDB promised to send the Bank a study of the decision's impact upon its finances, but
informed the Bank by telex as late as February 1988 that "CBJ and MOF were still looking into the
Decision". Only in April 1988, more than one year after the Cabinet's action, did the Bank receive its
own consultant's report on the consequences of the decision for the project. Bank slowness may be
explained by project staff and divisional manager changeovers and the fact that the Bank was
preoccupied with its own internal reorganization at that time. Had the Bank exercised remedies under
the legal agreements it would have clearly demonstrated to GOJ its own commitments to the agreed
objectives of the project. It might have become a valued interlocutor for GOJ in its search for solutions
to Jordan's crisis in local government finance. The reasons for CVDB's failure to act are less clear,
but a lack of autonomy appears to be the cause.



-7 -
Other Aspects of Implementation
25.      Weakening local councils finances, successive devaluations of the Jordanian dinar and a
reduction in the number of clients with the transfer of a number of local authorities to the Greater
Amman Municipality led to sharp falls in CVDB's disbursements and a decline in the importance of
long-term lending as a share of its total assets (Table 1). The fall was particularly sharp after 1987
when all CVDB lending was re-scheduled by the Cabinet. This inevitably led to a fall in CVDB's
productivity as measured by lending per staff member. In 1986 it was US$230,000; by 1990, it fell
to US$54,900.
26.      With fewer solvent municipalities to lend to, and the declining value of the local currency,
vis a vis the US dollar, it became clear that the project would not absorb 100% of the Loan proceeds.
US$4.0 million was therefore canceled in May 1990.
27.      The degree of decline in CVDB's activity could not have been fully foreseen at appraisal.
In hindsight, however, changes to project performance of this magnitude might have been subject to a
mid-term review to re-structure the operation.
Table 1: CVDB: LONG-TERM LOANS
In millions of:                    Long-term loans as
JDs               tUS$                  % of total assets
1985               9.3                23.3                         72
1986               9.4                26.9                         73
1987               11.9               35.1                         79
1988               6.8                18.1                         74
1989               5.9                10.3                         62
1990                5.2                7.9                         56
Source: CVDB Annual Reports and Financial Statements.
Note: JD:US$ conversion made using annual average exchange rates published by CBJ.
F.  Project Results
28.      For the purpose of fulfilling its principal objective of financing local infrastructure and profit
making projects, loans were made to 159 local councils for 202 subprojects under the project, more than
twice the number under CVDB l. Most of the subprojects were small (median size US$ 28,000).
Nearly three quarters of them were for street paving and sidewalks, the most popular investment among
local councils. Local council buildings, as well as schools and health centers also proved to be popular.
The investments made (particularly in street paving and sidewalks) brought improved environmental
conditions to neighborhoods benefitted, providing potential (yet to be exploited) for betterment taxes
to be levied.



- 8 -
29.      Profit making subprojects (e.g., vegetable markets, commercial centers, cold stores, slaughter
houses etc.) had mixed results. Some small commercial centers were implemented and are operating
successfully in the port city of Aqaba for instance, but a poorly located and shoddily constructed
vegetable market in the town of Rusaifa has literally fallen apart in disuse. Although opinions differ
within the Bank about the value of CVDB lending for profit-making investments, if well designed and
appraised, they can help induce an entrepreneurial approach to municipal management and be used to
leverage financial improvements in local councils. Arrangements can be made for the private sector
to fully assume responsibility for such investments in the medium term.
30.     Training constituted an important part of the project particularly during 1987-89, when a full-
time training specialist was working in CVDB. Later, the level of training activity fell, following a
change of CVDB management (Table 2). It is reportedly picking up again now, however. Courses
were held in Amman and were well attended and highly regarded by their local council participants.
Courses on municipal budgeting and procurement were particularly valued. Short courses were also
provided under the project for CVDB staff.
Table 2: CVDB TRAINING OF LOCAL COUNCILS' STAFF
No. of             No. of
Courses          Participants          Participant/hours
1986                  7                 310                     n.a.
1987                 51               1,227                  13,010
1988                 84                1,637                 19,650
1989                 43                 750                  15,000
1990                 32                 720                   3,200
Source: CVDB Annual Reports and Financial Statements.
31.     Under the project Technical Assistance component, micro-computer work stations were
introduced to assist CVDB's accounting tasks in particular. CVDB plans to update the system further.
32.     In terms of strengthening CVDB and improving its practices and procedures, the results of
the project were disappointing. CVDB's level of activity declined sharply (para. 25). The agency today
is only a shadow of its former self, both in the level and quality of its operations. Through the March
1987 bail-out of local councils, CVDB does have resources to lend, but many of its client councils are
too poor financially to borrow. On the liabilities side, CVDB remains under-leveraged. It could do
much more in shaping municipal development in Jordan today.
33.     Without a clear GOJ local government finance policy CVDB risks becoming an agency with
money but without a mission. There are many indications that the necessary support has not been
forthcoming: (i) CVDB's authority was undermined by the March 1987 Cabinet Decision and its
aftermath; (ii) the Decision withdrew GOJ's support for the concept of municipal development based
upon responsible lending operations, espoused by CVDB under the project; (iii) project scope was
reduced by the exclusion of schools and health centers and by taking 23 local councils out the sphere



- 9 -
of CVDB and incorporating them into Greater Amman; (iv) GOJ has yet to make up to CVDB the full
cost of the March 1987 loan re-scheduling; and (v) CVDB is still bound by rigid civil service rules
which, among other things, preclude it from acquiring the equipment it needs to modernize operations
and from adequately rewarding its skilled staff.2'
G. Project Sustainability
34.      Sustainability is seriously at risk without the resumption of a strong GOJ commitment to an
agreed set of priorities and principles of municipal development. Although weakened, CVDB still has
the necessary ingredients and responsibility to help Jordan's cities and villages to develop. With the
restoration of its authority to lend to municipalities and villages under sound financial criteria and GOJ
guaranteeing its freedom from political interference, a revamped CVDB could help sustain municipal
development achievements in Jordan. Municipal and village councils too retain important institutional
resources worth saving. They have kept an in-house capability for bookkeeping and day-to-day cash
management for example -- essential material on which to re-build a more solid financial relationship
between GOJ and local councils for the future.
35.      The sustainability of the physical investments made under the project will also depend in part
upon GOJ's commitment to improve municipal finance and management to allow local councils to
maintain the infrastructure and operate the facilities built.
H. Bank Performance
36.      Bank identification and preparation missions worked closely with the borrower and CVDB,
making conceptual and practical contributions to project design that were well appreciated in Jordan.
Within the Bank itself, the appraisal documents, which included the CVDB policy statement and the
financial flows model, were considered exemplary by management at that time.
37.      The results of Bank supervision, on the other hand, were disappointing. Missions were
fielded regularly, but key developments, among which the March 1987 Cabinet decision was the most
important, were not adequately followed up. Thus the October 1988 and March 1989 supervision
mission filed identical 590 form entries with respect to project status, action taken and action proposed.
38.      The design of the project resulted in the Bank having to review a large number of subproject
applications in Washington, without additional staff resources for this task. This appears to have
contributed to the so-called Irbid Commercial Center (which was in fact the city hall) being approved
by the Bank (and by CVDB), despite its financial rate of return being only 9. 1%, well below the 12%
minimum necessary to assure full cost recovery. Now constructed, the building, which was the most
costly subproject to be financed under the loan (US$ 0.7 million of Bank funds), represents a heavy
burden upon Irbid's municipal finances, especially as its financial performance turned out to be even
worse in practice (3.1% rate of return).
Z'  A recent Bank report, in referring to civil service salaries in Jordan, noted that the "compression ratio' (i.e. the
wage ratio between the earnings of high and low paid civil servants) at 4:1 was particularly low, providing little
career incentives for civil servants. International experience suggests that a ratio of between 12:1 and 9:1 to be
efficient. (World Bank, Jordan Public Expenditure Review, Feb. 1991, paras 2.10-2.12).



- 10 -
1.  Borrower and CVDB Performance
39.     GOJ supported the project and its municipal development objectives at appraisal, but that
support appeared to wane as Jordan's macro-economy deteriorated and local government finances
entered into crisis. The March 1987 decision imposed new conditions upon the project and cast CVDB
into a secondary role. GOJ's failure to respond to the Bank's recommendations about local government
finance in Jordan has left the Bank uncertain about the government's priorities for the sector.
40.     CVDB's own performance was uneven. It was fully involved in project preparation, and
actively implemented the training components. After a good start when CVDB's Technical Department
was first set up, subproject appraisal was efficient, but it later became a routine task of form filling.
While many local councils' proposals for subprojects were turned down following CVDB's appraisal,
a number whose technical and financial feasibility were in doubt were eventually financed upon
recommendations to CVDB's Board of Directors. Subproject supervision was never a strong point for
CVDB, and it all but disappeared from 1990 onwards. Its necessity was not always recognized by
CVDB management, nor did field trips attract staff, who saw little reward for the additional efforts
involved. One striking result of inadequate supervision was the case of a commercial center subproject
in southern Jordan that had been converted for use as a girls' school dormitory for some time without
the knowledge of CVDB.
J.  Project Relationships
41.     Professional and personal relationships established through the project between Bank and GOJ
and CVDB were exceptionally good. CVDB also enjoyed the respect and cooperation of municipal and
village councils throughout Jordan. Between CVDB and GOJ however, the relationship was less
positive, mainly due to uncertainty about the responsibilities of each party and GOJ's own policy
priorities.
K. Consulting Services
42.     Consultants were not retained by CVDB under this loan. In hindsight their input might have
been helpful in: (i) the technical supervision of projects; and (ii) the evaluation and improvement of
municipal and village financial management.
L.  Project Documentation and Data
43.     On the whole, both CVDB records and Bank files provided a thorough account of the
experience of the operation.
M. Lessons of the Experience
44.     Close Government and Bank engagement in sector policy dialogue at the highest level of
policy formulation is necessary for Bank lending operations to be sustainable. A Bank-financed project
can only succeed if it has, and is seen to have, the unequivocal support of the borrower. Project
preparation and appraisal in this case benefitted from intensive discussions that allowed each party to
understand the other's position clearly. During implFmentation, however, and particularly after the
March 1987 Cabinet Decision, the Bank followed policy developments in Jordan only with great
difficulty. Bank recommendations made about local finance in Jordan in response to GOJ's request for
the sector study, have so far met with no response from the Jordanian authorities. Jordan enjoys one



- 11 -
of the highest levels of Bank urban sector lending per capita in the world, and yet the sector dialogue
there has been much less active than in places where Bank urban lending has been much more modest.
45.     Undertakings in project legal agreements need to be sustained. Thus, the support of the
borrower's highest authority active in the sector should be sought to underwrite future operations. In
this case, undertakings in the project's legal agreements were overridden by Cabinet decision. For its
part, the Bank should be ready to invoke legal remedies, such as notice of suspension of disbursements,
in the case of protracted non-compliance with important covenants of legal agreements.
46.     A project, such as this one, whose performance and parameters deviate significantly from
those planned, could benefit substantially from a mid-term review. A mid-term review would provide
an opportunity to make necessary adjustments (especially to CVDB lending terms and conditions) in the
light of the project's likely achievements.
47.     Project design and supervision of municipal development operations need to focus principally
upon strengthening local councils themselves. This project correctly required municipalities initially
to pass a solvency test to become eligible for lending, but did not provide for continual monitoring of
municipal and village council financial performance throughout implementation. Nor did the project
provide technical assistance to councils to help them improve their revenue collections, for example,
in order to remain eligible to borrow from CVDB. Financial and administrative improvements to local
councils, which are a key to the success of municipal development, need to be included in any similar
future projects.
48.     The experience of this and more recent projects in other countries demonstrates that municipal
development projects can be more effective if they include, among others, the following features:
(i) municipal solvency throughout implementation (monitored by CVDB) as a condition of CVDB
lending to a local council; (ii) progress in overall strengthening of municipal finances and management
(monitored annually by Bank) as a condition of disbursement of the Bank loan; (iii) technical assistance
to local councils to help them obtain/maintain their solvency; (iv) random spot checks by Bank, CVDB
and auditors of local administration and finances; and (v) subproject appraisal to include assessment of
impact of proposed investment upon municipal solvency. Some of these conditions may slow
disbursements initially, but will assure the borrower of the Bank's commitment to agreed goals, by its
own willingness to forego short run gains in disbursement for medium to long term gains in municipal
development.
49.     The effective demand (i.e. taking into account solvency tests and other legal requirements)
for CVDB loans by municipal and village councils needs to be thoroughly assessed before appraisal in
order to estimate the likely market for the loans. Among other things, this assessment would help
determine the appropriate size of a Bank loan. In the case of this project, the financial weakness of
local councils only became apparent after project start-up when solvency tests were applied to them.
50.     This project teaches us to be wary of the syndrome of success. The widely disseminated
achievements of the earlier CVDB I project appears to have made a follow-on operation with the same
executing agency appear an inevitable winner. In such circumstances, project supervision risks being
seen as less critical. Clearly, operations with complex institutional goals require rigorous supervision
throughout.



- 12 -
51.      Staff and management continuity is desirable for project success. Bank monitoring of key
project events was made less easy by the fact that the project had five different project officers and three
different division chiefs during its implementation.
52.      One of the most successful components of the project was training, which benefitted 4,644
municipal officials. Despite the financial crisis of local councils this effort helped retain basic
administrative skills still to be found in cities and villages throughout Jordan today. Even the smallest
towns keep accurate and up-to-date financial records. Through cooperation with the power utility, for
example, a few councils collect their taxes efficiently through billing them jointly with electricity
charges. Important elements of local administration such as these, should not be undervalued. Many
countries are still struggling to establish what Jordan already has.



- 13 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JORDAN
SECOND CITIES AND VILLAGES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2614-JO)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVEY
1.     INTRODUCTION
1.1. This report evaluates the second World Bank- loan of ULS $ 15
million under No.2614-Jo.This report has been prepared upon
request from the World Bank.
1.2  Onily U` $ !(:;.S Mn'lion of tile loar (ORS uti.li.sed by CVDE:
9.nd the  oilatin     i portxon of  LS it 4.0 nmlllion has heen
cancelled u,pon the requei:J  o:t QVDB.
1 Annexes detailing the type, regional distribution, and characteristics of the
projects financed are available in the Project File.



14 -
2.   OBJECTIVES ACHIEVED
21   Supporting the Uiovernment's efforts to improve living  standards
in J'ordan's less developed cuter regions.
Under  world Fank Loan No.2614- Jo second  project,CVDB  extended
loans to local Councils reaching US$ 10379750 to finance 234
Froject  with  13CI cities and 104 villages benefiting  from  such
Loans. T'his indicates the inmportance of this sub-project towards
improving the living standards in Jordan's less developed reigons
directly and indirectly.(Annex VII)
2.2  Ccntinuirng to facil'tate the execution of municipal and village
development plans by funding well- appraised projects.
CVDP  together  with  1MRAE  utilized  the world E'ank second Loan
to finance different types of projects as invisaged in the
lending  policy   of  CVDB.  About 72% of the Loan  was  used  to
finance   road  projects. Annexes(I,II,&III). This improved   the
transportation networks in the cities and villages. Remaining
amounts were used to finance other infrastructural and profit
making projects as indicated in Annex (IV;.
The Loans; extended to  profit  making projects aimed at inmproving
thie sources of funds of thie local ccunc:ls.
All projects finance.l by the loan were well studied by the
technical  staff  of  both  CVDB and  1MRAE to  insure  viability
and necessity of the projects benefiting from such loans.
-rerytinenir,linv'Dl -:!  2.tiwoi; l  cand financial capacity
TIve  Wor'l'  `ani  second lari helped in  strengthining  CVDB
i;stj i.,Lional   Lapacity   as   well   as   local   Councils'
.F)it itUconal  .aPLacitv by way of rroviding the necessary
trainiing tc thteir staff znd also tihe necessary equipments for
tI'at purpose  nclud ins computers



- 15 -
3.     Implenmentation Experience
laking into account the objectives of the World Bank second
loan, one can safely say that in general the implementation  of
second   sub-project   loan   of   the   World   Bank.   passed
satisfactorily
However,  it is important to take note of the following remarks
that  could  help in future to benefit irom suc:h projects in   a
better  nmanner including n,ore Professional way -f handling such
finances in both the appraisal and i.mpletmentation stages including
supervision and follow up .
1.      (VDB  was rnot able to utilize tl,e whole amount of the loan  a.
indicated  in  the introduction due to the fact  that  projects
related to land acquisitions by local councils were not
dicceptable to be financed under this loan,  and only 50% of the
such  loan  zmount  is provided by the  World  B}ank.  Also  the
government resolutions taken inr 1987 tAnnex VI) resulted in
excluding   many projects relating to health  centers,  schools,
etc. from the domain of CVDB financing.
It  would  have  been  more  beneficial  if  land  acquisitions
projects were included under projects viable to be financed  by
the World Bank loan specially that they are usually part of the
financed project . Further it would bave been more beneficial
if  the  mentioned percentage was increased up to  80%  of  the
total loan amount.
2.      In t2ur opinion the interest rate of the World Bank second loan
is considered high specially if it is compared to the interest
rate structure applied to the loans extended to the local
councils.
3.      In order to imptove the quality of the technical and financial
stuoies, it is felt that appropriate training be considered fr
Che  7'C-LB fs technical 'taff tith irsLide and ;,Utside the  Lounttrv
by sFpecialied instituti.onr.,



-16 -
4.    RESULTS
4.1   Achievements
The project has achieved its objectives as mentioned in page  2.
CVDB continued to grow and develop and was able to achieve its
gools
Careful  selectiorn  and design of projects,  as well  as  better
financial discipline helped CVDB to grow and achieve its goals.
CVDB has firnaned 7.9% of the value of its secoind loan fronm the
World Bank for revenue - generating Projects and 71.9% for road
Projects  which facilitate transportation through the cities and
villages .
4.2   Lessons Learned
4.2.1 Appraisal of subproject
The  appraisal  reports follow what the Bank & CVDB have  agreed
upon.These reports are done by using special fornis which  have
been prepared by the help of the World Bank. CVDB is ready to
develop the appraisals and the studies with the help of the World
Bank.
CVDB now concentrates on studying and appraising revenue generating
projects.k special coninittee has; been fornmed for  preparing  the
feasibility studies, for revenue generating projects as these
projects assist in providing a constant inconme to the local
cotunci l s.
4.2.2 Supervision cil SUibprcijects;
Ps of rnid 1990:! a thorough revision of the supervision and folXlow
,Ap proceduires  have  been  effected to  activate  the  role  of
supervisior, arid follow up. Since the beyinn:rng of 1391 up to now
23' site visits were effected by tl-he CVDF Technical Staff.
4.2. 3 Tr-ainting
CVDB  concrntrates  on  this issue and a nmajor revision  to  the
content of the training programmes were effected. Eight training
programnmes were arranged and executed as shown an  (Anne?' V)
5.    Sustainabality
CVDB is committed to its law and policies and i;-g. alwAys revisi.-ng
such  poicies  for potential improvenmentts in order to  continuAe
serving the local councils as anvisagea .n its law.



- 17 -
6.     CONCLUSIONS
ss.ssmsssss
From the above it is clear that CVDB has played a significant
role  in  niunicipal development .  However from  the  experience
gained  during  years  of operation it  is  believed  that  CVDB
can play even a stronger role provided that the following
points are carfully considered :
1.   EBy Law CVD? is the banking agency for the local councils in the
kingdom   and  theref'ore  all  their  banking  transactions  are
supposed to be effected through CVDP .
Accordingly strict abidance by local cuncils by this role of
CVDE is of vital importance both to CVDB and local councils as
it asures efficient sound practice of their responsibi4ities r
2.     CVDB  has  continued  to finance different  types  of  projects
related to local councils. However a decline in its lending
volume   is  appearent  during  the  last  few  years  due   to
financial   difficulties  facing  many of  the  local  councils
arising  from the limited sources of their funds which  do  not
nieet the increasing needs of the communities and the irncreasing
costs  of  their-  neecled projects  .  Therefor   considerations
should  be  given to facilitate more resourses  for  the  local
councils
t s Tht  f Oan-L .i positicn of n,ost of the  local  c ounrc ls].s
call-,  for- stronget 4inanciai and administrative manzaagement o)1
teleir  .tel    r soureced  for better allocations,
4.      Due  to the above points ,   CVDB in the recent past has  been
trving  to  assist the local councils through  effecting  some
necessary  c:lhanges  to its l.ecnding policy irn order  tc) enable
('VDB to provide  necessary loans  to needed  projects  of  local
councils.In  particular  CVDB  is looking  to  finance  loacal
coUncils profit-nmakinig projects, and strengthiening the role of
its technical  .taff in  the F)reparation  Cotf  necessary  studi.e:
appraisals,  and  periodical follow LIP of projects ftinanced by
CVDB, all in line with its law.
An  important step to further strengthening CVDB and there for
enharice municipal development is to look into the  possibilit;y
of rmerging all government ageincies working for the development
under one uminbrella.



- 18 -
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.  Related Bank Loans
Year of
Loan Title     Objectives                   Approval        Status          Comments
Ln. 1286-JO    *Establish CVDB as a          1980           Closed          PPAR in 1988 noted
CVDB           development bank.                            06/86           that project was
*Train CVDB staff.                                          successful in achieving
*Study ways to increase                                     its objectives.
productivity of projects in
local communities.
eAdvisory assistance to CVDB
management.
Ln. 1893-JO    *Provision of 5,000 serviced    1980         Closed          Project was successful
Urban          plots.                                       12/87          in achieving major
Development    *Upgrading 4 low income                                      objectives. Closing was
settlements.                                                extended twice, each
*Provision of training, service                             time for 1 year.
equipment and consultancy
services.
Ln. 2334-JO    *Strengthen Amman's           1983           Ongoing         Initial loan $30 M was
Amman          transport infrastructure.                                    restructured to $25 M.
Transport &    *Strengthen solid waste                                      Project closing was
Municipal      collection & disposal.                                       extended three times.
Development.   *Upgrade Engineering &
Planning functions of
Municipality.
Ln. 2587-JO    *Improve shelter for low-     1985           Ongoing         Closing date extended
2nd Urban      income families in Amman                                     to 06/93. All major
Development.  region.                                                       project components are
*Encourage sound spatial                                    contracted.
patterns at appropriate
locations.
*Strengthen institutional
capacities to undertake
urbanization projects.



- 19 -
Related Bank Loans (continued)
Year of
Loan Title     Purpose                     Approval       Status         Comments
Ln. 2841-JO    *Improve living conditions in   1987       Ongoing        Pace of construction
National Urban  largest remaining squatters.                             work is slow.
Development.   *Develop rapid & cost-                                    Disbursement and
effective infrastructure and                              commitments are low.
social facilities.                                        Project is not expected
*Recovery of full cost of                                 to be completed by
infrastructure.                                           closing date.
*Strengthening capacities of
local institutions to design and
implement urban development
projects.
2. Project Timetable
Item                                      Planned             Revised             Actual
Date               Date                Date
Identification                            06/84               07/84               08/12/84
Preparation                               10/84               10/16/84            11/17/84
Appraisal Mission                         01/14/85              -                 01/14/85
Loan Negotiations                         07/85                 -                 07/15/85
Board Approval                            08/27/85              -                 08/27/85
Loan Signature                            09/19/85              -                 09/19/85
Loan Effectiveness                        01/20/86            03/19/86            05/22/86
05/19/86
Loan Closing                              06/30/91              -                 06/30/91
Loan Completion                            12/30/90                               12/30/91
Comments:
Terminal effectiveness date was extended twice due to delays in the ratification of loan documents by
Jordanian Parliament and subsequently delays in transmittal to the Bank of the signed subsidiary loan
agreements and ratified documents.



- 20 -
3. Loan Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ millions)
FY         FY         FY         FY         FY          FY         FY
1986       1987       1988       1989       1990        1991       1992
Appraisal Estimate                      1.50       4.50      10.00       13.60      14.60      15.00
Revised Estimate(')                     1.50       4.50      10.00       13.60      10.60      11.00
Actual                                  0.00       1.78       4.28       7.32       9.41        9.66       9.562
Actual as % of Estimate (%)             0.00      39.56      42.80      53.82       88.77      87.82      87.91
Date of final Disbursement 01/29/91(2)
Notes:
(I)  A cancellation of $4.0 milion effective as of 04/18/90.
A further SI.44 million was canceUed on 01/03/92 after S0.1 million from the Special
Account was refunded on 11/08/91.
Estimated vs. Actual Cumulative Disbursement
LOAN 2614-JO CVDB I I
Estimated vs. Actual Cumulatlve Dlgsb r.
16
15_
14
13
12
11
10
co 
4m      ~~7
U,
5
4
3
2
I
0
1986       1897       19t8        19B9       1990        1991       1992
Bnank Fiscal Year
r3  SAR Estimate    +  Revised Estimate   O  Actual Disbursement



- 21 -
4. Project Implementation
Appraisal
Indicator                                       Estimate                     Actual
Credit Line to CVDB                             US$14.9 million.             US$10.9 million
Purchase of cars and microcomputers for         3 cars and 5                 US$ 0.66 million
CVDB                                            microcomputer work
stations for US$0.1
million.
Technical Assistance                            Consists of: two staff-      Project Appraisal
years of Project             Specialist was financed
Appraisal Specialist         by funds from GTZ.
and three staff-years of
a senior Civil
Engineer.
Training for local councils and CVDB            CVDB to appoint a            A training specialist
personnel                                       qualified training           was appointed, and a
specialist, and prepare      training program
a detailed training          instituted.
program as well as
report on its training
activities on a yearly
basis.



- 22 -
5.  Status of Covenants
Deadline for
Covenant    Subject                              Compliance          Status
LA 2.02(b)  A special account to be opened and                       Comlied with.
maintained.
LA 3.03(a)  The borrower to ensure that CVDB's                       Being complied with.
margin on all resources not be less
than 2%.
PA          CVDB to carry out the project in                         1987 Cabinet of Ministers'
2.01        accordance with its Law and                              decision to have CVDB
Statement of Policy.                                    reschedule large amounts of
loans contrary to Statement of
Policy Sections 3.05(a) and
3.05(c).
PA          Each year CVDB and Bank review                           Technical Department
2.06(a)     staffing requirements of Technical                       adequately staffed.
Department.
PA          CVDB to employ two statisticians.    12/85               Complied with prior to
2.06(b)                                                              effectiveness.
PA          CVDB to employ a project appraisal    12/85              Compiled with. Project
2.06(c)     specialist and a civil engineer.                         appraisal specialist financed by
GTZ.
PA          CVDB to furnish semi-annual                              Complied with.
2.08(b)     progress reports.
PA          CVDB to employ training specialists,   12/85             Training specialist employed
2.13        prepare and implement training                           before effectiveness program.
program and report progress of such                     Being complied with.
implementation to Bank on annual
basis until the completion thereof.
PA          CVDB to maintain and retain                              Being complied with.
3.02(b)     appropriate SOE records until one
year after closing.
PA          CVDB to maintain debt/equity ratio of                    CVDB adequately capitalized.
3.03        4:1.
PA          CVDB not to incur debt if this results   Complied with.
3.04        in debt/equity greater than 4:1.



- 23 -
Status of Covenants (continued)
Deadline for
Covenant    Subject                             Compliance          Status
PA          CVDB to maintain a ratio of 1.5:1                       Ratio fell below required level
3.05(a)     between FY loan receipts & FY debt                     in FY88 after 1987 cabinet
payments.                                              instruction to reschedule loans
to municipalities. However,
covenant unlikely to be met in
near future since repayment
period for borrowings (mostly
IBRD) averages 12.0 years,
while for lending it averages
10.6 years.
PA          CVDB to calculate above ratio &                         Not being complied with,
3.05(b)     project for next 3 FYs at end of each                   although CVDB hired financial
FY.                                                    analyst to establish system.
PA          When ratio in 3.05(a) not met CVDB                      CVDB's financial viability not
3.05(c)     to consult with Borrower/Bank and                       in question, as it continues to
take necessary action.                                 generate profits and to add to
its reserves. Neither is its cash
flow in jeopardy: a combination
of lower commitments and
increased deposits has mitigated
the effect of the 1987 debt
rescheduling.
PA          CVDB to prepare & review financial                      Not being complied with. Bank
3.10        plan with Bank not later than 1 month                   consultant prepared a computer
after start of each FY.                                program in 04/88 to evaluate
effects of cabinet's loan
rescheduling. Program was
made available to CVDB for
their own use.



- 24 -
8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs (Staff Weeks)
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual (HQ + Field)
Through Appraisal                          7.9
Appraisal through Board Approval          30.5
Board Approval through Effectiveness       n.a.
Supervision                               55.9
Total                                     94.3
Sources: MIS; Staffweeks for Product 5JORPA033.



- 25 -
Use of Bank Resources (continued)
B. Missions
Stage of                                       Number of   Days in             Specialization           Performance         Types of
Project Cycle             Month/Year          Persons          Field(          Reference0               Rating Status(')  Problems(i
Through Appraisal    08/84                     3               35(l)           PLN,FIN,DIV              -
11/84               2               22              PLN,MUN/SPC    -
01/85               4               68              PLN,FIN,DEV/AD -
V,MUN/SPC
Appraisal through          -
Board Approval
Board Approval            09/85               3                42(l)           PLN,ECON,
through                                                                        MUN/SPC
Effectiveness
Supervision 1             06/86               2                14              PLN,FIN                  1                   NI
Supervision II            09/86               2                18              PLN,FIN                  1                   NI
Supervision III           12/86                2               ?               2 TRN/SPC
Supervision IV            04/87                1               8               PLN                      1                   NI
Supervision V             11/87               2                62(")           PLN,FIN/SPC              4                   F
Supervision VI            03/88               2                36              PLN,FIN/SPC              2                   F
Supervision VII           09/88               3                54              PLN,FIN,MUN/SP  2                            F
C
Supervision VIII          03/89               2                42              PLN,FIN                  1                   F
Supervision IX            06/89                1               3(1)            PROC                 '   1                   NI
Supervision X             02/90               2                46              PLN,FIN                  2                   F
Supervision XI            06/91                3               51              PLN,FIN,ECON             2                   NI
Notes:
(1)   Micsion combined supervision of dher ongoing projects, according to BTO reports.
(2)   Days in Field are Staff-Calandar-Day, according to Back-to-Office Reporls.
(3)   Specialization Referere:
PLN   - Architect/Urban Phnner                                 FIN   - Financial Analyst
DIV   - EMPUR Division Chief                                   MUNISPC    - Municipal/Urban Specialist
DEV/ADV- Development Advisor                                   EMPUR       - EMPUR Staff members
TRN/SPC- Training Specwlist (WB's Education Div)               PROC - Procurement Officer
ECON - Economist
14)   Performance rating status, according to 590 Forms:
I     - Problem Free                                           2    - Moderate problems
4     - ?4jor problems
(5)   Types of Problems, according to 590 Forms:
NI   - Not indiated
F     - Financial



