Documnt of
The World Bank
FoR oMciAL USE ONLY
Rkpot NO. P-4133-JO
,
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
ft ~~~~                     ~       0
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US S15.0 MT.-ION
TO THE
RASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FOR A
SECOND CITIES AND VILLAGES DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
July 29, 1985
Tbb docments hu a rsiced dieribtieo and may be sed by rendiemtsonly in the performance of
f thofi cial dadas It. mmbmay net .thewhe be disclomi within Weld Bet satbrlxaiom.I



RASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1984             My18
Currency Unit       Jordanian Dinar (JD)             JD
US$1.00                   D .384                   JD .405
JD 1.00                  US$2.60                   US$2.47
Exchange rate used in Appraisal Report: 3D I = US$2.50
-GOVERNMIT OF JORDAN FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CVDB            Cities and Villages Development Bank
EEC             European Economic Commission
EIB             European Investment Bank
HB              Housing Bank
IDB       =     Industrial Development Bank
MMRA"     =     Ministry of Municipal and Rural Affairs
SSC       =     Social Security Corporation
INDP      =     United Nations Development Program
USAID     =     United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
SECOND CITIES AND VILLAGES DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan.
Beneficiary:              The Cities and Villages Development Bank (CVDB).
Amount:                   US$15.0 million equivalent.
Terms:                    15 years, including 3 years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Onlending Terms:          The proposed loan would be onlent to CVDB under
the same terms as the Bank loan, but with the
interest rate to CVDB fixed at the rate in effect
at the time of loan signing. The Government
would bear the foreign exchange and the interest
rate fluctuation risks.
Project Description:      The objectives of the project are:  (i) to
support the Government's efforts to improve
living standards in Jordan's less developed
outer regions; (ii) to continue to facilitate the
execution of municipal and village development
plans by funding well-appraised projects;
(iii) to strengthen CVDB's institutional
capacity; and (iv) to support CVDB's role in
organizing financial training for local
government personnel. The project components
include a line of credit to CVDB, representing
75 percent of CVDB 's foreign exchange needs from
mid-1985 to end-1987; equipment and technical
assistance for CVDB; and training for local
government and CVDB personnel. Possible project
risks include difficulties by CVDB in attracting
and retaining qualified staff. The project,
however, includes features to minimize the risk.
Individual Free Limits:  US$60,000 and US$125,000, depending upon the type
of subproject.
I s document has a resuicted disuibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their official dudes Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Prolect Costs:              Foreign     Local      Total
~~~~-  -(US$ million)----
Line of Credit                    14.9        18.2       33.1
Equipment 1/                      0.1          0.0 *      0.1
Technical Assistance              0.4          0.2        0.6
Training                          0.1          0.2        0.3
Total                       15.5         18.6      34.1
*Estimated to be about $ 25,000
Financing Plan:
Bank                             15.0          0.0       15.0
Government                        0.5          0.4        0.9
CVDB                              0.0         18.2       18.2
Total                       15.5         18.6      34.1
Estimated Disbursements:                        Bank Fiscal Year
(US$ million) 
1986     1987     1988      1989     1990      1991
Annual                    1.5       3.0      5.5        3.6      1.0       0.4
Cumulative                1.5      4.5      10.0      13.6      14.6      15.0
Economic Rate of Return:             N.A.
Appraisal Report:                    No. 5623-JO, dated July 19, 1985.
Map Number:                           IBRD 14569R.
1/ Exempt from taxes and duties.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FOR A SECOND CITIES AND VILLAGES DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Bank
loan to the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan of US$15.0 million equivalent to help
finance a Second Cities and Villages Development Bank Project. The loan would
be for 15 years, including three years of grace, at the standard variable
interest rate.  The Government would onlend the Bank loan to the Cities and
Villages Development Bank (CVDB).  The terms of the onlent funds would be the
same as those for the Bank loan, except that the interest rate to CVDB would
be fixed at the interest rate in effect at the time of loan signing. The
Government would bear the foreign exchange and interest rate fluctuation risks.
PART I  -  THE ECONOMY 11
2.       A report entitled "Jordan Review of the Five-Year Plann" (No. 4129-JO,
dated May 1983) was distributed to the Executive Directors in June 1983.
An economic mission visited the country in May/June 1983; its findings have
been included in the present text. 2/ Country data sheets are attached as
Annex 1.
Recent Economic Developments
3.       Conscious of the country's limited natural resources, its relatively
narrow productive base and the sensitiveness of the economy to changes in
its oil-rich regional environment, the Government has pursued liberal,
outward-looking policies in trade, labor migration and foreign exchange.
This has enabled Jordan to alleviate the effects of a very high natural
population growth rate (3.4 percent) through massive emigration stimulated by
high salaries in the neighboring countries and through rapid expansion of
domestic production fueled by an exceptionally high investment rate and
rapidly growing export demand. At present, a large part of Jordan's total
workforce is employed abroad. In addition to sizable workers' remittances,
Jordan has benefited from large inflows of grant aid from neighboring
countries as well as from a rapid increase in regional demand for its
exports. During the period 1976-82, the yearly inflow of workers' remittances
and grants reached on average close to two-thirds of Jordan's GDP. The
abundant supply of these resources and a favorable entrepreneurial climate
enabled -Jordan to maintain both very high consumption and investment rates.
4.       As a result, the Jordanian economy expanded rapidly with an annual
average GDP growth rate of over 10 percent in real terms during the 1976-82
period; almost full employment was reached. The overall balance of payments
remained strong despite a large chronic deficit in merchandise trade.
1/ This section is substantially the same as Part I of the President's Report
for the Second Urban Development Project (P-4095-JO), dated May 22, 1985.
2/ References in the text which follows are to the East Bank of Jordan.



-2-
Although exports of goods and non-factor services (primarily agricultural
products, manufactured go ds, tourism and exports of the new commodities,
fertilizers and potash) grew at a rapid rate of about 16 percent in real terms
during 1976-82, its small base in relation to imports led to a continuous
deterioration of the resource gap. These trade deficits, however, were almost
fully covered by factor income and transfers from abroad. Governmen:-
guaranteed external borrowing remained therefore within reasonable limits and
borrowing on commercial terms was reduced to a modest level (para. 14).
5.       Beginning in 1982, however, the economic slowdown in the neighboring
countries has affected the Jordanian ecouomy in many ways, leading to a
slowdown of domestic economic activity and a reduction in the inflow of
external transfers. The overall economic growth rate slowed to about
4.2 percent (in real terms) in 1983, still a satisfactory performance
considering the unfavorable economic environment. Economic activity in 1984
further slowed to an estima.ed growth rate of about 3 percent, and is expected
to remain at that level throughout 1985.  The slowdown in economic activity
was due to a decrease in the growth of foreign aid by another 30 percent
between 1983 and 1985 and to slower growth in worker remittances and in
exports of manufactured goods and services to neighboring countries. The
effect of these factors was exacerbated by a marked decline in export prices
of raw and processed minerals.  Imports also declined, in line with the
sizable reduction in public and private investments. As a result, the current
account deficit for 1983 showed only a slight increase to $390 million. It
was mainly covered by the proceeds of a $225 million Eurodollar loan
contracted in early 1983. Jordan also drew on its reserves, which remained,
however, equal to three months of imports. The decline in merchandise
imports, continuing in 1984, combined with an increase in exports of goods to
contribute to an improvement in the balance of trade deficit, from nearly $2.4
billion in 1983 to about $2.0 billion in 1984. A slight reduction in officiil
transfers was more than offset by the decline in imports, and the current
account deficit improved to $229.3 million. Preliminary estimates for 1985
show imports increasing, but at a slower rate than exports, leading to a
further reduction in the current account deficit to about $190 million.
6.       With the decline in Government revenues from grants, public
investment has been reduced, and the Govern ent has further intensified
its domestic resource mobilization efforts through cuts in subsidies and
improved collection of direct and indirect taxes (about 90 percent of
recurrent expenditures is covered by domestic revenues).
7.       The main concerns of monetary policy have been mobilizing savings and
controlling domestic liquidity. Private savings have improved, but public
savings have continued to be negative because of the high level of defense
expenditures. To promote domestic savings, greater discretion is being
allowed the Central Bank in adjusting interest rates and banking commissions.
As a result of increases in deposit rates in 1983, savings deposits rose
faster than the money supply. A parallel situation materialized in 1984
though both savings deposits and the money supply grew at slower rates in that
year. Together with a marked decline in inflation to 3.9 percent in 1984,
these increases have resulted in interest rates becoming substantially
positive again in real terms.



3
Medium-Term Prospects
8.       Given the changed situation and outlook in the neighboring oil
producing countries, continuing GDP growth in the 9-11 percent range as
projected by the 1981-85 Plan would no longer appear feasible in the medium
term; a rate in the neighborhood of 5 percent per annum in real terms appears
more likely during the next Plan (1986-90). This projection assumes a
reduction in the exceptionally high level of investments achieved during the
early 1980s, which was mainly due to implementation of a number of major new
projects such as potash, fertilizer and a refinery, now at initial stages of
production. While the new, major natural resource-based industries have
*      provided some new employment opportunities in the short term, the economic
slowdown is likely to change the manpower situation in Jordan from one of
selective shortages to one of general excess supply requiring finding
employment for a rapidly increasing domestic workforce (para. 12).
9.       The industrial sector (including mining, manufacturing and
construction) is expected to lead the growth of GDP and exports, with the new
industries contributing more than one third towards incremental GDP during
1986-90. Together with an expansion of phosphate mining and cement
production, total industrial output would grow at an annual rate of about
7.5 percent per annum for the period 1986-90. Since the rapid expansion of
infrastructure and private housing during the boom years of the 1970s and
early 1980s has slowed down substantially, the construction industry is likely
to grow at a substantially lower rate (3 percent) during 1986-90. Thus,
industrial growth during the next plan period will have to rely increasingly
on development of more small and medium-scale higher technology manufacturing,
largely for exports. The projected 7.5 percent for industrial growth assumes
that adjustment of the industrial sector in this direction will be achieved,
inter alia through changes in protection policies and improvements in export
incentives.
10.      Curtailment in growth of public expenditures and the slowdown in
domestic and foreign demand for banking and transportation services are
expected to slow down growth of services to an average annual rate of a little
over 3 percent per annum for 1986-90. In particular, it is expected that the
transportation sector and the hotel industry, which at present are facing
large surplus capacity, will undergo a period of consolidation. In the trade
sector, efficiency gains from modernization would likely be offset by
increased pressure from higher unemployment to expand the i-ess efficient
informal sector of trade. In contrast to the expected slow growth performance
of traditional private services, the prospects are favorable to exploit
Jordan's potential in skilled labor and meet the demand for special services
in areas such as consulting, contracting, and maintenance. Agriculture is
projected to continue to grow by about 5 percent per annum.  Overall, the
sectoral growth rates would enable Jordan to maintain a GDP growth rate of
about 5 percent per annum for throughout the later 1980s-
11.      On the external balance side, the projections assume that exports of
goods and non-factor services would grow by an average rate of about 8 percent
per annum in real terms for 1985-90. Exports from the output of previous and



-4-
new industrial, natural resource-based projects to the world market would make
the largest contribution to. this growth performance. The export projection.:
for the later 1980s assume that adequate measures are taken to develop
Jordan's manufacturing exports. The external balance projections assume th-it
imports would increase less rapidly because of the slow overall economic
growth rate and the expected sizable reduction in the level of investments
after completion of the major industrial projects. Even though merchandise
exports are projected to approach a high rate of increase while imports would
grow at a significantly lower rate, the trade deficit could remain large at
about $1.9 billion in 1985. I-n relation to GDP, however, the resource gap is
expected to show a further decline from about 51 percent in 1984 to about 38
percent in 1987. Unlike the past, net workers' remittances and foreign
grants, which are likely to decline, may no-t be sufficient to meet the growing
trade deficit. Jordan therefore would have to rely more on external borrowing
(para. 15). In order to maintain its prudent build-up of externial debt,
Jordan will need to combine external borrowiag with increased efforts to
mobilize domestic resources, particularly ina the public sector.
Social Issues
12.      Due to the substantial migration of Jordanian workers to neighboring
countries and the rapid economic growth, the labor market situation has been
characterized until recently by selective manpower shortages. However,
according to recent manpower projections, supply of labor in Jordan in the
medium term is likely to show selective surpluses, particularly throughout
certain categories of skilled professionals. In 1983, it is estimated that
312,000 Jordaniianis were working abroad compared to a total domestic employment
of about 570.000. Domestic employment includes at present a relatively large
number of foreign workers currently estimated at about 130,000, half of whom
are uinskilled. A comprehensive manpower and training plan is needed to help
ensure that the education and training system is geared to meet both domestic
and external demands for manpuwer.
13.      The Government has emphasized social issues in the current Five-Year
Plan (1981-85). Although the social indicators are relatively favorable in
most sectors, social services are unevenly distributed across income groups
and between urban and rural areas. Housing remlains a problem despite the boom
in 1978-80, mainly bec-ause housing costs have far exceeded the means of the
lower income groups.
External Assistance
14.      With the large, chronic trade deficit offset by inflows of
remittances and foreign transfers, the current account of the balance of
payments was on average in equilibrium in the period 1975-81. Net workers'
remittances increased from about $160 million in 1975 to about $900 million in
1983 and 1984. Following the Baghdad Arab Simmit Conference in November 1978,
which pledged assistance of about $1.2 billion per year over a 10-year period,
net foreign grant aid rose from $400-500 million in 1977-78 to about
$1.3 billion in 1980 and 1981; it declined to some $0.8 billion in 1983 and to
$0.7 billion in 1984. In 1985 it is expected to fall to $0.6 billion. This



-5-
decline was the main reason for the current account deficits of $390 million
in 1983, and $230 million in 1984, both of which were financed largely by
external borrowing and partly by drawing on reserves. The external public
debt outstanding and disbursed reached $2.2 billion at the end of 1984 (about
52 percent of GNP). External debt service payments amounted to $319 million
in 1984 or 9.6 percent of total exports of goods and services.
15.      Jordan's impressive growth, pragmatic economic and social policies
and efficient economic management have helped to attract large amounts of
foreign assistance. The grant component of this foreign assistance is
projected to decline gradually in real terms over the next few years. The
projections on that basis indicate a need for average gross external borrowing
of about $0.9 billion over the 1985-1990 period, mostly in later years. While
bilateral and multilateral sources can be expected to provide the bulk of
external resources, Jordan is likely to resort increasingly to the financial
markets, and this would result in a hardening of loan terms. On these
assumptions, debt service as a percentage of exports of goods and services is
projected to reach 10.0 percent by 1990.  Given this outlook and the country's
record of prudent management, Jordan remains creditworthy for Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS l/
16.      Jordan has received 18 Bank loans totalling $452.3 million and 15 IDA
credits totalling $86.1 million (net of cancellations), of which all the
credits and two loans have been fully disbursed. Project implementation and
disbursement performance have been generally satisfactory. In recent years,
disbursements have amounted to about 50-60 percent of appraisal estimates.
IFC has made investments in Jordan with total commitments of
$94.2 million. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA
credits and IFC investments as of March 31, 1985.
17.      Under its last two development plans, Jordan has aimed at
restructuring its economy to achieve a wider manufacturing base, reduce its
dependence on external grants, and spread the benefits of development among
different regions. The Bank's strategy has been tailored to support those
objectives and in particular is designed to help the Governmer.t: (a) to
diversify tie country's economic base and promote exports; (b) to alleviate
manpower and infrastructure constraints in the productive sectors; and (c) to
encourage more balanced growth and distribution of social services among
regions and income groups, with particular emphasis on low-income groups.
1/ This section is substantially the same as the corresponding part of the
President's Report for the Second Urban Development Project (P-4095-JO),
dated May 22, 1985.



-6-
18.      Within this broad framework, past lending has emphasized support for
capital infrastructure and manpower development. Since 1962, Bank Group
lending has focussed on water supply and sewerage, power and energy
development, education and urban and municipal development. The Bank Group
has also lent for irrigation, agricultural and industrial credit,
transpbrtation, and tourism, and recently became involved in the health sector
with a loan for a Primary Health Care Project. In addition, the Bank Group
has financed technical assistance for developing and implementing a plan for
expanding phosphate rock mining. An engineering credit was made in FY75 to
help prepare a large project for potash production from the Dead Sea via solar
evaporation, for which a loan was approved in September 1978. These projects
have been designed with an emphasis on institution building to assist the
agencies involved to develou their capabilities to plan, prepare, and
implement projects on their own. In addition to the proposed project, future
lending would include projects for mining, transportation, manpower
development, water supply and sewerage, urban development, power and energy
development, and industry. IFC has provided loans and equity contributions
for a major fertilizer project and for projects in the construction materials
subsector. It has also assisted the capital market and leasing ventures.
19.      The Bank has recently helped the Government to review the energy,
water supply, health, and urban sectors, and the Bank's economic and sector
work will continue to focus on strengthening the macroeconomic and sector base
for our lending program. The Bank's economic work program aims to deepen and
broaden the well-established policy dialogue with the Government in three
priority areas: (i) development planning, with a focus on resource
mobilization and allocation; (ii) industrial and trade policies, including
technology transfer and export strategy/promotion and industrial subsector
studies; and (iii) regional development and equity and efficiency of
government revenues and social expenditures. These subjects are crucial
because the substantially tighter balance of payments situation expected for
the rest of the decade calls for increased efforts to step up domestic
resource mobilization, to stimulate manufactured exports and to optimize
resource allocation, while making particular efforts to reduce rural and urban
poverty.
20.      At the end of 1983, the actual Bank Group share in Jordan's total
external public debt was estimated at 12 percent, and its share in debt
service was 5 percent. In 1985, the Bank Group's shares in debt outstandi-,
and in debt service are expected to be about 14 and 8.5 percent respectively.
PART III - THE URBAN SECTOR
Background
21.      Jordan is a highly urbanized country.  Following three decades of
rapid population growth and massive immigration, about 70 percent of its
2.6 million population lives in urban areas of 5,000 people or more. By the
year 2000, Jordan's urban population is expected to have increased by some
2 million. Unemployment is an increasing problem, since the labor force is



-7-
rising at about 6 percent per annum while domestic and external Jdexn::d .or
Jordanian labor is weakening. Given Jordan's scarce natural resources,
limited arable land and water and small domestic market, the country's future
economic growth and employment must depend upon export-based manufactures and
services. In an era of expected slower economic growth, the development and
management of efficient and cost-effective services and infrastructure for
urban areas to support these activities, as well as to improve the welfare of
a rapidly increasing urban population, are crucial challenges facing Jordan.
22.      Jordan's population is highly concentrated.  Most of its urban
population lives within 30 kilometers of the capital, Amman, which itself
accounts for over 750,000 people and produces most of the country's services
and industrial output. While the Amman region is expected to accommodate most
population growth for the remainder of this century and to continue its role
as the main engine for Jordan's economic development, the Government is taking
active measures to stimulate growth in other areas. The proposed Second
Cities and Villages Development Bank (CVDB) Project would assist the
Covernment in achieving this goal by financial support and technical
assistance for the financial institution best situated to promote the
development of cities and villages outside Amman.
Institutional Framework
23.      The Ministry of Municipal and Rural Affairs (MMRA) is the major
authority in charge of the delivery of services to villages and municipalities
and is responsible for the preparation of their master plans, for project
design and execution, for budget review, and for channelling loan applications
to CVDB. The Directorate of Works and Engineering Services in MMRA is
responsible for buildings, roads, water, sanitary engineering, and rural
development; it plays a major role in the preparation of projects for CVDB
financing. Although this directorate is short of staff, especially of
qualified engineers, MMRA or the concerned local government engages
consultants as necessary, with satisfactory results.
24.      Several government corporations or authorities provide services or
coordinate local functions, including, most notably, CVDB, which lends to
local governments (para. 40); the Jordan Housing Corporation, which develops
housing for moderate-income and public-sector employees; the Housing Bank,
which finances housing, usually for moderate and upper-income groups; the
Water Authority of Jordan, which is responsible for sewerage works, water
production and distribution; and the Jordan Electric Power Company, which is
responsible for electricity distribution. Local governments have an essential
role to play, especially in transport, streets and roads, solid waste
management, land use planning, health c.ntrols, provision of markets, schools
and health centers and licensing functions and investments.
25.      Local government management, planning, and finance need to be further
reinforced to enable local councils to prepare and implement investment
programs to meet the needs of a rapidly growing urban population. Better



-8-
planning and coordination of public investments in different sectors at che
regional as well as city level will become increasingly important in avoiding
waste and encouraging efficient patterns of urban development. The proposed
project is designed to contribute to this goal.
Local and Municipal Finance
26.      Municipal and village councils derive revenues from the following
sources: national revenue sharing; land and building taxes; taxes and charges
directly collected by local authorities; profits, rents and interest; and
loans, grants and donations. The national revenue sharing allocation system
(commonly referred to as the fuel tax allotment) accounts for 17-80 percent of
the total revenue of individual municipalities. It provides local governments
with a share of customs duties, annual registration fees for drivers and
vehicles, taxes on petroleum products and fines for traffic and public health
offenses. The shares are distributed according to a set of rules based
largely on popalation and administrative status, which favors less developed
municipalities. Land and building taxes are imposed only in municipalities.
They are assessed and collected by the Ministry of Finance and distributed to
councils of origin. The basis of the tax is 10 percent of rental value. As a
result of a revaluation of all propertie; currently in progress, significant
increases in yields are expected in 1985 and 1986. Sources of taxes and dues
collected directly by local authorities include registration license fees for
commercial premises, garbage collection fees, building permit fees and charges
for road and pavement construction. Loans, grants and donations, which are
made mostly to the Amman Municipality, are an ad hoc and infrequent source of
revenue.
27.      Municipal budgets are prepared by the mayors, with the approval of
councils, and go to MMRA for approval. Because municipal and village
councils, while responsible for capital development, have limited
responsibility for provision of services, most municipal budgets show a
considerable margin for capital and non-recurrent expenditure after meeting
general expenses and debt service. Inflation and rapid urban growth have
underlined the need in recent years to maintain the buoyancy of the tax base
by frequently reviewing tariffs and assessments and improving collection
efforts. However, the underlying framework of local finance is sound and
should sustain further, additional capital development supported by the
proposed loan, provided CVDB maintains a careful review of this by means of
its aew solvency test (para. 43).
Local and Municipal Government
28.      Administratively, Jordan is divided into five governorates, which are
further subdivided into districts and subdistricts. Each level is headed by a
public official responsible through his superiors to the Minister of
Interior. Governors are responsible for internal security, coordination of
central government departments, supervision of the village councils and, under
the aegis of MMRA, of municipa. councils. During the last five years, the
number of local government bodies has increased rapidly. There are three



-9-
Estypes of local government:  municipal councils, village councils and common
service councils. There are currently 136 municipalities embracing three
quarters of the population, although three (Amman, Zarqa and Irbid) account
for about 60 percent of the total.  Municipal councils are presided over by
mayors and comp-:se 7-12 councillors who, in general, are elected for a
four-year term (some are still appointed by MMRA).  There are about 300
village councils, which are normally appointed by Governors, although informal
nomination of members by tribal groups is customary.  Executive responsibility
is vested in village heads, but virtually all decisions are subject to
approval by the Governor. Common service councils are mixtures of neighboring
municipalities and village councils that have combined to share a particular
service, such as slaughterhouses or waste disposal. Since their establishment
in 1983, they have grown rapidly and now number 54.
29.      InsufEicient qualified staff in local government is of concern to the
Government, although the situation is improving with the slackening of the
labor market. MMRA runs an ad hoc program of short training courses for local
government employees. Twenty courses were held at varied locations in 1984,
attended by 500 mayors, councillors and employees. These courses included
financial management, municipal engineering, surveying and planning control.
The Ministry recognizes the need for a more systematic provision of training
and has asked CVDB to take over the task of organizing the training effort
(para. 53).
The Financial Sector in Jordan
30.      The financial system of Jordan includes the Central Bank of Jordan,
16 commercial banks, a number of non-bank financial institutions, and six
specialized credit institutions. Commercial banks, which constitute a pivotal
part of the financial system, were very active in the 1979-81 period, with
total assets and liabilities rising on average 28 percent per year; their
activities have been slower since then, reflecting a slowdown in the overall
level of economic activity. Non-bank financial institutions comprise the
Pension Fund, the Social Security Corporation (SSC), and over 30 insurance
companies. The Pension Fund, which operates as a parastatal institutional
investor, has expanded rapidly; in the 1979-82 period, its assets more than
quadrupled. SSC began operations in 1980 to complement the operations of the
Pension Fund; at the end of 1984, its assets amounted to about JD 106 million,
compared with less than JD 5 million in 1980.
31.      The specialized credit institutions were established to assist in the
development of certain sectors, primarily through medium or long-term loans,
usually at concessional interest rates. They include the Housing Bank (HB),
the Jordan Housing Corporation, the Agricultural Credit Corporation, the
Industrial Development Bank (IDB), Jordan Cooperative Organization, and CVDB.
These institutions are wholly Government-owned except for IDB, which is only
one third Government owned, and HB, which is privately owned except for a
small minority ownership by several Arab governments. The loan resources of
these institutions consist primarily of their capital and reserves and Central
Bank borrowing, although HB accepts demand, time and savings deposits. Net
lending by specialized credit institutions rose by 15 percent to
JD 365 million in 1984, compared to an increase of 25 percent in 1983. HB
accounted for the major part of credit extended by specialized institutions.



- 10 -
Government Actions and Policies
32.      The Government has long been concerned with significant disparities
between regions in terms of economic activity, public services and other basic
facilities, and especially with the concentration of population and economic
activity in Amman. The current Five-Year Plan contains major electrification,
water supply and health care programs that address regional disparities, and
the Government provides resources from its tax revenues to local government
using a highly progressive scheme (para. 26). To identify development
strategies and investment projects, MMRA has undertaken regional studies for
Amman, Irbid, and Aqaba, and is in the process of preparing a study for
Karak. In order to improve the coordination needed to implement investment
projects resulting from such studies, the Ministry of Planning has recently
established a regional planning section. It also is now undertaking, with
assistance from USAID, a comprehensive survey of basic needs and
income-generating projects in each locality as an input for the next Five-Year
Plan (1986-90); as a consequence, the Plan is expected to have a much stronger
regional development emphasis than in the past.
33.      CVDB can play a significant role in achieving regional development
objectives without overly burdening government finances by helping
maunicipalities and village councils (i) to select and design cost-effective
projects that have a high investment priority, (ii) to provide resources for
priority projects, and (iii) to strengthen the financial management and
technical capabilities of local staff. Because funds for capital expenditures
are lent through CVDB, rather than given as grants, local governments will
continue to be prudent in their use.
Role of the Bank Group in the Urban Sector
34.      Bank Group assistance has been responsive to the problems created by
rapid urbanization and to the Government's desire to promote growth in all
parts of the country. Extensive economic and sector work related to urban
development in Jordan has been carried out, as well as project financing.
Recent studies include the Urban Sector Review, the Water Sector Report and a
regional development study. The Bank also plans to carry out a study on
municipal management, with special emphasis on resource mobilization and
taxation at the local level. Based on discussions of these reports, the
Bank's strategy in the sector includes assistance towards: improving main
urban service levels (water, sewerage, solid waste management, urban
transportation); increasing the supply of serviced land in locations and at
costs that reinforce sound spatial development patterns and are affordable to
relevant commercial and household groups; and strengthening the capacity of
local councils to plan, implement, and manage the functions for which they are
rezponsible.
35.      In support of this strategy, Bank lending follows a "three track"
approach, which focusses on the water supply and sewerage, shelter, and
muicipal subsectors. Seven water and sewerage projects have been undertaken
in urban areas; the most recent one, the Greater Amman Water Supply and
Sewerage Project (Loan 2483-JO for $30 million), was signed January 31, 1985.



- 11 -
The First Urban Development Project (Loan 1983-JO, $21 million), approved in
September 1980, and the Second Urban Development Project (Loan 2483-0-JO,
$28 million), approved on June 18, 1985, are addressing the need for
cost-effective, low-cost housing in the Amman region and for appropriate
educational, health, training and community facilities for people in the
lowest 40th percentile of the Amman region income distribution. The on-going
Amman Transport and Municipal Development Project (Loan 2334-JO, $30 million)
is assisting the Municipality of Amman to improve traffic conditions, to
upgrade the ability of municipal departments to plan and execute works
(including maintenance and operation functions), to upgrade solid waste
management, and to initiate systematic investment programming. The project
has experienced some initial delays, mostly caused by procurement problems.
However, overall progress is accelerating and is, on the whole, satisfactory.
Except for some early water supply and sewerage projects, no Project
Completion Reports have been undertaken in the urban sectnr, since the
projects are still under execution.
36.      Experience with Past Loans to CVDB.  The First CVDB Project
(Loan 1826-JO, $10 million) was made in 1980 with the objective of improving
and increasing the capacity of CVDB to help local governments to provide urban
services. Under this loan, CVDB evolved from an almost bankrupt disbursement
fund, controlled by MMRA, to an independent bank that is growing in
administrative and operational ability. The loan was fully committed in
June 1984. Estimated economic rates of return for the 20 revenue-earning
projects financed under the loan ranged between 10 and 32 percent and averaged
15 percent, well above the opportunity cost of capital of 10 percent. Because
of some initial delays caused by difficulties in recruiting suitable personnel
and in establishing appraisal procedures acceptable to the Bank for road
projects and to allow sufficient time to complete construction under some
subprojects, the closing date was extended to June 1986; project execution and
disbursements, however, are now proceeding satisfactorily. The proposed
project would build upon CVDB I and is designed to strengthen CVDB's
capability to help municipalities conceive and execute good projects,
especially in the less developed areas of Jordan.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
37.      The proposed project was identified in August 1984 and appraised in
January 1985. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. during July 15 - 18,
1985. The Jordanian delegation was led by Mr. M. S. Hourani, General Manager,
Cities and Villages Development Bank (CVDB). A Staff Appraisal Report (No.
5623-JO), dated July 19, 1985, is being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors. The main features of the loan and project are included
in the Loan and Project Summary and in Annex III. A map of Jordan is attached.
Project Objectives and Description
38.      The objectives of the Second CVDB Project are:  (i) to support an
institution that can improve the living standards of populations in the outer,



- 12 -
less developed regions without significantly burdening the Central
Government; (ii) to facilitate the execution of municipal and village
development plans by funding well-appraised infrastructure and revenue-earning
projects; (iii) to strengthen OVDB's instilutional capability and improve
further its policies and proceduies, especially those relating to project
appraisal; and (iv) to support CVDB's role in organizing financial training
for local government personnel and CVDB staff.
39.      The project includes the following components:  financial assistance
to CVDB: a line of credit for $14.9 million, representing 75 percent of
CVDB's foreign exchange needs from mid-1985 to end-1987; equipment for CVDB:
$100,000 to purchase microcomputers to rationalize data compilation and cars
to improve CVDB's outreach and site supervision capabilities; technical
assistance to CVDB: to reinforce its ability to appraise and supervise
projects; and training for local government and CVDB personnel.
Cities and Villages Development Bank
40.      The Institution.  CVDB was developed in 1979 with Bank assistance
(para. 36) as a public institution with semi-autonomous administrative and
financial status. Its role is to assist villages and municipalities in the
identification, preparation, implementation and follow-up of projects
designed: (i) to meet the basic needs of all segments of Jordan's population,
especially the less developed; (ii) to raise living standards by providing
improved infrastructure services; (iii) to create local employment
opportunities through the financing of productive projects; and (iv) to
improve income distribution by integrating the less developed areas into the
national development process. Towards this end, CVDB is empowered to grant
long-term loans to villages, municipalities and entities owned by them, such
as corporations, in the framework of regional and sectoral plans and in
accordance with Government priorities; it can also take equity participations
in their projects and guarantee loans and manage funds made available by other
sources to its borrowers. Funds collected on behalf of villages and
municipalities by the Central Gover_-aent are transferred to CVDB on a monthly
basis and serve as collateral for its loans.
41.      CVDB is administered by a board of nine directors comprising the
Minister of the Ministry of Municipal and Rural Affairs (MMRA) (Chairman),
CVDB's General Manager (Vice-Chairman), representatives from the MMRA and
Ministries of Planning, Public Works, and Finance, the Central Bank, and two
representatives from CVDB's borrowers. The chief executive officer, the
General Manager, is appointed by the Council of Ministers upon the
recommendation of the MMRA.  CVDB is organized along functional lines in five
departments: technical, financial, internal audit and organization,
administration and planning and statistics.
42.      CVDB staff numbers at present about 90.  Because the salaries, which
are set according to Jordanian civil service regulations, have not been
competitive with the private sector, attracting and retaining qualified staff
have been difficult. However, CVDB's Management has been able to increase
employee compensation by remunerating overtime. The recent decline in



- 13 -
employment possibilities in the neighboring Gulf countries, the slowdown in
the Jordanian economy and the rapid growth rate of the skilled labor force
have made salaries relatively more attractive and thus reduced the turnover
rate. This is expected to continue in the medium term and should enable CVDB
to build up and consolidate its personnel strength. To enhance personnel
quality and etrectiveness, CVDB has initiated measures to provide training.
To better organize this effort, CVDB has established a small training division
(para. 53). Since the strength of the Technical Department is essential for
the success of the proposed project, CVDB would review with the Bank the
staffing requirements of this department at the beginning of each fiscal year
(Project Agreement, Sectiot 2.06 (a)).
43.      In February 1985, bVDB drafted a new Policy Statement, in
consultation with the Bank, which covers the general goals of CVDB, its
management, and its loan, deposit, financial and outreach policies. It also
incorporates a new analytical solvency test to replace the old rule that
limited local council borrowing from CVDB to about 80 percent of the estimated
fuel tax allocation (para. 26). This rule underestimated the borrowing
capacity of large municipalities, for which the fuel tax allocation is only a
small portion of total revenues, and overestimated it for smaller communities,
for which it is the main source of revenue. The new solvency test requires
CVDB to scrutinize the borrowing capacity of the local authority for each
loan; it enables CVDB to produce consistent local council accounts and to
advise local councils on improvements in their financial management. The new
Policy Statement is complemented by Project Eligibility Criteria, also drafted
in cooperation with the Bank, which are general guidelines for the preparation
and appraisal of projects. The new Policy Statement and Eligibilicy Criteria
have now been ratified by CVDB's Board. Amendments to them would be subject
to prior Bank approval (Project Agreement, Section 2.11). Furthermore, to
streamline and rationalize CVDB's operations, Executive Regulations have been
adopted by CVDB's Board concerning the technical, financial, and the internal
audit and organization departments.
44.      Operations.  CVDB has an authorized share capital of about
JD 12 million ($30 million), held by the Government, the Central Bank and
local councils. Between 1981 and 1984, CVDB's 1-ong-term loan portfolio grew
at a compounded rate of about 41 percent per year, more than three times
faster than estimated at the time of the CVDB I appraisal. At the end of
1984, total outstanding long-term loans amounted to about $90 million.
Between 1980 and 1984, almost half of CVDB's projects were located in
villages, and the regional distribution of its loan portfolio proportionally
favored the less developed governorates of Ma'an, Karak and Irbid. Lending
has been concentrated in the neediest sectors: 53 percent for infrastructure
projects such as roads, schools, electricity networks, markets, workshops,
offices and waste disposal equipment. CVDB has also lent to local communities
for revenue-earning projects such as markets, trade centers and commercial
buildings. A small part of CVDB's lending is in the form of short-term loans
and overdrafts.



- 14 -
45.      Financial Performance and Resource Needs.  CVDB's financial
perEormance was satisfactory during 1981-84 and is p .ojected to continue to be
so for the 1985-88 period. At the end of 1984, CVDB's debt-equity ratio of
0.7:1 was well below the current statutory ceiling of 4.0:L stipulated in the
Policy Statement, which would be maintained under the project (Project
Agreement, Sections 3.03 and 3.04). Interest income increased by 54 percent
per year from 1981 to 1984; interest paid on term borrowings increased
slightly faster, by 55 percent per year. Administrative costs as a ratio of
average assets declined from 1.0 percent in 1982 to 0.7 percent in 1984, which
is satisfactory. The marginal cost of borrowing has been increasing in recent
years and was 9.8 percent in 1984. To protect CVDB against a negative
marginal spread, the Policy Statement stipulates a minimujm spread over total
resources beyond which CVDB will ask the Government permission to increase
onlending rates (para. 51). There are virtually no arrears on loan
repayments, which are deducted automatically from the deposits kept in escrow
by CVDB. However, in a number of cases municipalities have been overdrawn,
and CVDB has advanced them funds for debt-servicing. It is estimated that the
marginal collection rate is between 85 and 90 percent. Due mainly to the old,
overly strict solvency test that poorly estimated the borrowing capacity of
municipalities (para. 43), CVDB rescheduled loans worth JD 9.3 million at the
end of 1983 for 30 municipalities that had reached their statutory borrowing
ceilings. By reschedul ng their debt, these municipalities were able to
contract new loans with CVDB and use more of their actual borrowing capacity.
In 1984, the operation was repeated on a smaller scale, with sev:n borrowers
for loans worth JD 1.3 million. As a result of rescheduling, 69 percent of
CVDB's net worth was immobilized for about five years. The overall
improvement in local council financial management as a result of training and
better procedures and by the new solvency test for assessing the borrowing
capacity of municipalities (para. '3) should reduce the need for such
reschedulings.
46.      In 1985-1988, CVDB's loan portfolio is expected to increase from
JD 36.7 million to JD 45.1 million. Identified resources are expected to
cover requirements. The main sources of financing would be collection on
loans net of debt-service (44 percent), the proposed Bank loan (20 percent),
an increase in short-term liabilities (16 percent), cash-flow generation
(7 percent), and the balance shared between the first Bank loan, the Central
Bank of Jordan and recent loans from the Euro1)ean Investment Bank (EIB) and
the European Economic Commission (EEC). It has been agreed that CVDB would
update and review annually with the Bank a financial plan to enable it to
achieve agreed financial objectives (Project Agreement, Section 3.10). CVDB's
profits are expected to be half the level of the early 1980s, but will still
be satisfactory at above 2 percent oE average assets. To protect CVDB against
insolvency caused by a temporary mismatch of maturities, the Policy Statement
stipulates a minimum debt-service ratio in terms of principal at least equal
to 1.15:1. It has been agreed that this will be maintained under the project
(Project Agreement, Section 3.05).



- 15 -
Project Implementation
47.      Onlending Arrangements.  The proposed loan of $15 million would be
made to the Government for 15 years, including three years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate; it would be onlent to CVDB under a subsidiary
loan agreement satisfactory to the Bank, the execution of which would be a
condition of loan effectiveness (Loan Agreement, Sections 3.01 (b) and 5.01
(a)). The maturity and grace period of the onlent funds would be the same as
under the Bank loan; the interest rate would be fixed at the rate in effect at
the time of loan signing.   As under CVDB I, the foreign exchange risk would
be borne by the Government, since neither CVDB nor the ultimate
borrowers-villages and municipalities-can manage the uncertainty of parity
fluctuations. The Government would also bear the interest rate fluctuation
risk, as CVDB should not bear such a risk and the Government does not want
variable rates passed on to municipalities and villages (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.01 (b)). This arrangement is reasonable in view of the fact that
CVDB is lending to some of the poorest local authorities in Jordan, which in
most other countries would receive their funds as grants through budgetary
allocations.
48.      Financial Assistance to CVDB.  The proposed line of credit
($14.9 million) would be onlent by CVDB to municipalities, villages and commoq
service councils to finance eligible subprojects, i.e. those social,
infrastructure or revenue-earning subprojects described in CVDB's Policy
Statement and listed below, except land acquisition. It is estimated that the
proposed loan would finance about $33 million worth of commitments and about
120 subprojects during the period from mid-1985 to end-1987. In order to
ensure adequate Bank review and comment especially during the early stages of
loan commitment and to provide CVDB with a maximum amount of technical
assistance, CVDB would submit to the Bank for approval the first appraisal
report for each subproject category mentioned in the Policy Statement.
Thereafter, some subprojects, including those dealing with civil works and
solid waste collection equipment would be subject to a $60,000 free limit; all
other categories 1/ would have a $125,000 free limit (Loan Agreement,
Section 1.02 (c); Project Agreement, Section 2.02). It is estimated that
about 50 subprojects would be above the free limit.
49.      CVDB would utilize the appraisal form and the Eligibility Criteria 2/
agreed with the Bank in approving subprojects. CVDB's appraisal form includes
1/ Street and road segments, footpaths, sidewalks and stairs, school
buildings, local council buildings and public libraries, cemeteries,
health centers, local electricity distribution networks and street
lighting, and revenue-earning projects such as markets, cold stores,
commercial and trade centers, offices, workshops, slaughterhouses, and
garages.
2/ The Eligibility Criteria require the following information for each
sector: type of settlement which can apply for a loan, type of project,
technical restrictions, standards, general and specific financial
conditions, minimum size, and necessary documents to be provided by the
applicants.



- 16 -
inter alia a review of the overall finances o' the applying local councLl, the
solvency test and an economic and financial justification. Financial rates of
return would bo calculated for all revenu. tearning projects, anH4 CVDB's
Eligibility Criteria require that these be at least 12 percent. For other
subprojects, the requirement by CVDB of least-cost solutions and appropriate
cost recovery from immediate beneficiaries would ensure that subprojects are
economically justified.
50.      As under CVDB I, the proposed line of credit would finance the
foreign exchange component, or 50 percent of CVDB's total disbursements, for
acceptable subprojects.  This is equivalent to 45 percent of the total cost;
10 percent would be financed by the borrowing local authority and the
remaining 45 percent by CVDB. To ensure a fair allocation of CVDB's resources
among its large number of potential borrowers and to avoid a disproportionate
share of its portfolio being concentrated in a few, large projects, the Policy
Statement limits CVDB's total exposure in a single project to one percent of
its paid-up capital and general reserves (about $400,000 equivalent) and in a
single borrower to 10 percenc of the same base (about $4 million equivalent).
51.      Terms and interest rates of CVDB subloans would be differentiated as
follows: for infrastructure projects, 11 years, including one year of grace,
at 7.5 percent interest for municipalities, and 16 years, including one year
of grace, at 6 percent interest for villages; for revenue-earning subprojects,
the interest rate would be 8.5 percent for municipalities and villages, with a
12 and 14-year maturity, respectively, including two years of grace (Project
Agreement, Section 2.03 (b)). With domestic inflation currently at 5 percent
and expected to be 6 percent in 1986 and 7 percent in 1987 and thereafter,
CVDB's weighted interest rate should be positive in real terms over the
co.,muitment period of the loan. This interest rate structure compares
favorably with interest rates charged by other Jordanian institutio;; and is
reasonable in view of the fact that: many CVDB loans are for basic needs,
which in many countries are financed by government grants; the income of the
ultimate beneficiaries is low; the Central Government imposes statutory
limitations on the ability of local governments to tax; and, as loans to local
communities are virtually risk free because of collateral funds kept in escrow
(para. 40), CVDB's interest rate is net of the risk premium included in
commercial rates. It has been agreed that, if at any time CVDB's margin over
total resources is forecast to decrease below two percentage points, the
Government would allow CVDB to increase the minimum interest rates or take
other measures to ensure that CVDB maintains a minimum spread of two
percentage points above the average cost oE its resources (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.03).
52.      Technical Assistance to CVDB.  This component would reinforce the
ability of CVDB's Technical Department, which is responsible for appraising



- 17 -
and supervising projects, for assessing local councils' solvency, Ear loan
disbursem-nts and for repayment collectiotis. It would consist of two
staff-years of a project appraisal specialis' and three staff-years of a civil
engineer.  At the request of the JordAnian Gcvernment, this component, which
is estimated to cost $550,000, would be financel either from external grants
or from its ow.. resources. A project appraisal specialist is already being
financed for one year (renewable up to three) by a grant from the EEC; a
candidate for this post, recruited by the EEC, has joined CVDB. With regard
to the civil engineer, UNDP has indicated an interest in financing the full
salary or a salary supplement of a Jordanian senior engineer for CVDB possibly
in cooperation with the Arab Gulf Fund. The Government would finance the
technical assistance from its own funds if cofinancing is not available. CVDB
has agreed to employ by December 31, [985, the project appraisal specialist
for two years and civil engineer fo three years, with qualifications,
experience and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank (Project Agreement,
Section 2.06 (c)).
53.      Training Municipal and Village Council and CVDB Personnel.  CVDB
would be responsible for organizing training for project preparation,
follow-up and financial management for local council officials, the total cost
of which is about $100,000. For this, and for the training of CVDB personnel
in project appraisal, accounting, auditing and municipal finance, which is
estimated to cost $200,000, CVDB has established a small division to organize
training. Training would continue to be undertaken by existing Jordanian
institutions such as Jordan and Yarmouk Universities, the training institute
of the Industrial Development Bank and the Institute for Public Administration
and would include accounting, financial manageme:t, project identification and
appraisal. The MMRA would transfer to CVDB the funds that it would have spent
had it continued to organize the training of local officials. Appointment by
CVDB of a qualified training specialist to head its trtining division would be
a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan. CVDB would also prepare
training programs by December 31, 1985 and would submit reports on these
programs to the Bank at the end of each year (Project Agreement, Section 2.13;
Loan Agreement, Section 5.01 (b)).
Procurement and Disbursements
54.      The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed over a five-and-a-half-year
period, with full disbursement expected by December 31, 1990. The closing
date would be June 30, 1991. While this period is somewhat shorter than the
DFC disbursement profile for the EMENA Region, a shorter period is warranted
by Jordan's generally good project execution performance, past experience
under the first project, and the use of a revolving fund. In order to help
expedite disbursements, a revolving fund of $750,000 would be established by
the Government at CVDB (equivalent to an average of about three months of
disbursements) and replenished on the basis of standard documentation for
eligible reimbursable expenditures. In view of the large number of small
subloans, disbursements would be made periodically on a reimbursement basis,
covering a flat 50 percent of CVDB's total disbursements for eligible projects
against statements of expenditure for an aggregate value of not less than
$100,000 (Loan Agreement, Section 2.02 (b), Schedule 4; Project Agreement,
Section 3.02 (b)). The Bank's standard disbursement procedures would be used
for the equipment component, estimated at a total cost of $125,000, and would



- 18 -
be procured by obtaining quotations from at least three suppliers;
disbursements would cover 100 percent of foreign exchange costs or 80 percent
of local costs.
Accounts, Audit and Monitoring
55.      As under the first project, CVDB would continue to mairntain
procedures and records adequate to monitor the progress of the project, its
operations and financial condition. The accounts of CVDB are satisfactory.
Annual audits performed by SABA and Co., a local firm associated with Touche
Ross International, have been of good quality. CVDB's accounts would continue
to be audited annually by an experienced accounting firm acceptable to the
Bank, and audited accounts would be submitted to the Bank no later than five
months after the end of the year. CVDB would also send to the Bank semiannual
progress reports and financial accounts (Project Agreement, Sections 3.02).
In order to enhance CVDB's internal monitoring system, the Planning and
Statistics Department is being reorganized, and it has been agreed that it
would be strengthened by the appointment of two statisticians by December 31,
1985 (Project Agreement, Section 2.06 (b)).
Benefits and Risks
56.      The project is expected to help strengthen CVDB to enable it to
identify, prepare and appraise local council subprojects better. This would
be accomplished through training and implementation of the new Policy
Statement, Executive Regulations and appraisal and follow-up techniques. With
these institutional improvements in place, CVDB should play a greater role in
resource mobilization for local councils and would be an effective national
organization capable of reaching even the smallest communities throughout
Jordan.
57.      In the longer run, the project is also expected to contribute to
strengthening management at the local government level. By emphasizing
selection of subprojects by local councils, the project places responsibility
for investment planning and implementati -n at the local level. The technical
assistance program under the loan is designed to reinforce this emphasis. The
appraisal of local councils through the application of a more rigorous
financial analysis should also contribute to more realistic investment
planning and strengthen communities' capacity to manage resources better by
helping them to generate increased revenue and to invest it more efficiently.
58.      CVDB's outreach covers the whole country.  It, therefore, has the
possibility of financing projects in all regions of Jordan, outside Amman.
Although it lends to municipalities and villages, the ultimate beneficiaries
are the residents of the communities whose projects are financed by CVDB.
Inasmuch as projects cover a large number of subsectors, they may be expected
to affect the lives of residents in many ways. The project should help
improve the population's standard of living through better facilities and
infrastructure, which in turn should lead to greater productivity. About half
the subloans under the proposed loan would be made to villages throughout
Jordan, including some of the more neglected regions, and would have an impact
not only on the communities themselves but also on the surrounding rural
areas. The project would thus contribute to improving interregional income
distribution by creating new income and employment in the less developed areas



- 19 -
of Jordan and help integrate remote areas into the national development
process.
59.      CVDB has performed satisfactorily under the first project, and there
are no major risks associated with the proposed project, which builds upon
experience gained with the first. Nonetheless, given that CVDB's salary
structure is similar to that of the Jordanian civil service, CVDB has had
difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified staff to meet the challenges
implicit in its ambitious program. This, however, is being addressed by
incentives provided by CVDB inter alia in remunerating overtime work and
providing training opportunities for its staff. Assistance will also be
provided by the technical assistance included under :he project. Thus, the
risk is considered manageable.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHOR iTY
60.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan and
the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the Cities and
Villages Development Bank (CVDB), and the Report of the Committee provided for
in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are
being distributed separately.
61.      Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. The conditions of effectiveness are: (i) the execution of the
subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and CVDB; and
(ii) appointment of a training specialist (Loan Agreement, Sections 5.01 (a)
and (b)).
62.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Ban'.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
63.      I reconmend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
July 29, 1985



-20-                                               ANNM I
PAge 1 of 6
SOAR                                         (~~IUuC  133impM    DAT
R  fM    zo          ATEROS h i-
~u ~
L1Lb    197711 DIU*X&    1. AFRCA A MD RUT               IA. AMG    CAR
AMM  IMMRNa 2Q. 30
TOTAL                              97.'7                   97.7'
12.0        14.0       14.6
SW      Sfl CM)                         ..       39f.IC/   1690.0 ac         110.6                  2100.6
-     uu0MZlfm- cam=
(EWARA  OF OIL  nrJUVAM)          117.0       211.0       706.0            622.1                  3s.5
7WmAm AD VnL SMMC
FPMLAI.OU,ND-LTR (OfUDUM)    l65.0           229.0       3127.0
u1M  POVULATIO  (Z0O TOTAL)        42.7        50.3       5.9               4.2                    6.3
POPULAZIOS nWOic
POLTIOil  DAR 2000 CIUL)                                  6.2
POMULTIOU (KIELL)                             16.2
POPULATION  UM                                            2.0
mR  EQ. U.                       17.3        23.5        30.9             36.3                   35.7
a  BQ. UN. *ax. Lai             141.4       1".2        203.9            461.7                   92.4
POPULATION  ACE STRCTUR (3)
0-14 u                          44.4        43.6        46.1              43.6                  39.9
13-61 IRSl                       51.5        51.0        51.5             33.1                   36.0
65 AND AO                         4.1         3.1         2.6              3.3                    4.1
POPUL&anam Swi mA (CZ)
TOTAL                             3.1          3.0        2.6               2.6                   2.4
Util                              5.2         4.7         6.0               4.3                   3.6
CRUDE 31R32  WE (PRa TOUS)         47.4        47.6        44.6             40.4                   31.3
aUnm DEASI RATE (PM Tmo0s)         19.9        13.5        8.1              11.3                    8.1
G303SS 2PODUCTIP lAE                3.5         3.3        3.2               2.8                    2.0
PANXLT PLANIN
ACCrEORS.  LL       o)             .           ..         ..
USERS aC or MARK=  ..)                       22.0 Id    23.0 __            22.2        *0.3
mOOD AM 
DInX OF moon -. ma CAmm
(1969-71-100)                     220.0        79.0       70.0              97.3                  114.2
PM Corn SUmPTY or
CALRIES (C Or EEQUIRENTS)        93.0        93.0       102.0            1lO.8                  110.6
E1301       (SANS PR DAT)        61.0        35.0        64.0             70.1                   67.3
or WHCH AEDIL AND PUSE         15.0         15.0       16.0 If           L7.8                  34.1
CHILD (CACS 1-4) DEATH RATE        26.3        12.5        6.0              16.6                    5.7
LIFE EXPECT. AT DRIX (TFAS)        46.9        54.1       64.0              37.5                   64.7
XZAIA  HOET. RAZE (PS TUOUS)      135.5        97.5       64.6             101.5                   60.6
ACCESS TO SAEZ WAM (110)
TOML                             21.3          ..        30.0 le          59.7                   65.4
I2*                              48.6          ..         ..              64.5                   78.1
RURtAL                            2.1          ..         ..              38.4                   46.2
ACCESS TO  CIrA DISPOSAL
tE or POULAIN)
TOTAL.                             ..          ..        78.0 c             ..                   52.9
033*3                              ..          ..         ..         -       .                   67.0
RDUL                               ..          ..         ..                ..                   24.5
POPULATION PER 5mSICXAN          30.0        3710.0      1700.0           4365.1                 1917.7
Por. PER ODINC PrSO              1930.0 I    1480.0     1168.0            1831.1                  813.8
PmP. IER  S`AL NED
TOTAL                           560.0       1350.0     1060.0 lb         632.9                  367.2
n331                               ..       l2O.0      6eo.o T           545.5                  611.5
RUAl                               ..     5340.0          ..            2513.5                 2636.3
AOsSIIS II nOSPM LLln                ..        36.5       65.7 /f           26.2                   27.3
AVERAGE SmE oF  USEDOLO
TOTAL                             5.3         6.1         6.7 IC..
UlRi                              5.5          ..
RURAL                             5.1          ..
nvEuE NO. or PERsoNs/RO
TOTAL                              ..          ..        6.5 /c.1
. ~   ~     ~     u .,  BR.''.                                             '                 '*
~~~-RURAL.                                          ..          .. . ..
-              ACCESS TO ELECT. (Z Or SIELflGS)
TOTAL                             7.0          ..        66.0 /c          46.2
:C-A-                            39.2          ..       90.0 lET          77.7
RU-R-A'L-                         1.4          ..        20.0 Ic.1        16.1
:- , - - i :-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



-21-                                                           ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
:                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T A * L E 3A
JORDAI                 - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SE1T
JORDAN                              URRENCE GROUPS (WICXEHTZD AVERS) /a
MOST               CMOST RECENT ESTDIATE) lb
RECNT         NIDCLE INCOE          MIDDLE rKGIE
--  196   1970in/    hITIMATiLb   N. ARICA A MID EAST    LAT. AMERICA  CAR
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARYs  TOTAL                   77.0        72.0       103.0 Ic           88.3                  105.4
MALE                   94.0         79.0       105.0             102.5                  106.3
FEMLE                   59.0        65.0       100.0 c            73.6                  104.5
SECONHAT: TOTAL                   25.0        33.0        77.0 Ic           43.0                   43.2
-                                     MALZ                    36.0         41.0        79.D 7;ib         52.3                   42.3
FEMALE                 13.0         24.0       76.0 7W            33.0                   44.5
VOCATIONUL CZ OF SECONDARY)          2.7         3.0         6.1 IC           10.3                   33.6
PUPL-TEAOCIER RATIO
PRIMAY                            34.0        39.0        31.0 IC           30.3                   30.1
SSCONDARY                         20.0        23.0        21.0 7F           23.1                   16.8
ADULT LITERACY RATE (2)             32.4          ..        70.0              43.5                   79.5
COEsIwTICN
PASSENGER CARS/TKOUSAND POP          3.7         6.7        30.7              17.8                   46.0
IIDIO RECEIVERS/TUOUSAND POP        37.8       160.9       183.4             138.8                  225.6
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP             ..        20.0        58.5              46.1                  107.2
NEWSPAPER (DAILY CENERAL
uITESr) CIRCULATIoN
PER TUOUSAND POPULATION           13.3        24.4        31.3 /f           31.2                   63.5
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA      3.2         0.9         5.3 71            1.7                    2.8
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (TNOUS)          432.0        569.0      754.0
FMAlE (PERCENT)                    5.0         5.6         6.6              10.8                   23.2
AGRICULTWRE (PERCENT)             44.0        34.0        20.0              42.4                   31.5
ENDUSTRI (PERCENT)                26.0         9.0        20.0              27.9                   23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             25.5         24.7       24.1              26.2                   32.2
-ALE                              46.7         45.5       43.5              46.4                   49.3
FEMALE                             2.7         2.8         3.3               5.8                   15.2
ECONOMIC DEPENOENCY RATIO            1.9         2.0         2.0               1.8                    1.4
ISCM   MEUWWMT
PERCENTor OP  IVATE INCOME
RECEIVED ST
HIGHEST 5S oP OUSEHDS               ..           ..
RICST 202 OF HOUSEHO                ..LDS
LOWEST 20S OF HOUSEHOLDS            ..
LOWEST 402 OF HOUSEHOLDS            ..
POVZ2 TRST Ch OM!
ESTIMATED AdSOLUTE PVWERTY INCME
EVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..           ..      230.0 /f          274.8                  288.2
RURAL                               ..          ..       100.0 7F          177.2                  184.0
ESTIMATED RELATIVE PDVERTY :LXa
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URAN                                ..           ..      206.0 /f          402.6                  522.8
RURAL                               ..          ..       135.0  f-         284.9                  372.4
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY IIICOE LEVEL (2)
URBAN                               ..           ..       14.0 /I
RAL                                 ..          ..        17.0.
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N OT E S
/a  The group averages for each iodcator are populstion-weighted arithmetic mema. Coverage of countries a_oag the
indieator depends on availability of data and is -t unifoorm-
/b  Unless otherwise noted, Reta for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; flta for 1970 between 1969 and
1971; sad data for -inet Recant Estiate- betwee  1980 and 1982.
Ic  East BRak; /d 1972; /e 1976; /f 1977; it 1962; lb 1978; It 1979.
JUNE, 1984
:~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~- -, -
-   ' -S 
:~~~~~A



pp a.'Ad 31  - -     -    1.      q-a     Sq -.1-as  pp
,:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ef  ,-                                                           ,       av    11. :9."    ps  .9R              .13,
Vow.el s, -Ws5al -ans1s - ade e jaVeen.1s   J sa es-.ssql
55-pa"a" "-"` tlsa   (53.In p-               -T.l   -asa                             - s-ap     =
_-                     -LaW_sp  _   -                            -.5s)  "a 9... a a
a.       -;.. si ftadsl   - p*5  s -a 5S 5 v, nowP13.45 S.5 sase
-_ _jn.  aql sq  I5 _p.-s-           .qsa - : '=-a  51
1-  5 0   5q Aan.f 0585 51 -   sm.*.fl.e-   La-   .fl                                  . . -
-aalaZ     sn  -a-a 5-  ...se ss.1    -  wxoasi   Szvq. . an. -.q-
t.-      '    _,-' .      -   t-w a.           - (Ms 453.
p                  lPs-.  =        s.-..-... ........ P.P....-.....  w_ . t   -sa  ins-s-a-
WS  -~-  --Pn               *         __ _-  .M-1                                    ' a
-3-"= an p- ""Tna -33.mdeam                                .1-           "oese-~~~5q4   MMs.  i- s.. an . -a.s   se. s. os-
_p 1.1 pp GMa *T                                  J-= t1 I 1  .  p
-aa.  sajav P- agso.aw          n     -   .. 31
.a.wsasP*_- -a nsssa p. an-    a.lal    s--d - "ma -                          Polev-  -513  *. a        sq *a-  _   - 15   51 w ;   5la5a@
sas -QSa5. 355.1 fl355  355 .      I~ .  .   OS        rsaaa*                                                                                  SiN. w
*.   q3  55 - 1 -W 1 1    -J insCP. qi. I..
was ... - _ -i pplaal 15.51 n ........qap. ~  aa_ .  1-J *                              _ -.             am, u  .   l     -        _-    IS5
aqua_  d  55s  p p101    55 w.1_V ow   ss.al _l3.5~  15550,                      1.3.515.s      -j 5a..s3 .55 .q5l3 51  5*lNa 5s %l -1 _4-3, _.3*
*- 15l5  -    -- (asf  5a.  . 0-al  nan -       d f-t  lal Ax-- .                 so       . rso m       e- -la nd.- .a *asl -
1-   N a                                   sqsdpal-, lme .
_ 8- *- @t _ _ *_ e~~~~~~~~~r                           I--Z an             *1_---                                                            on, on,-q
- 55 sa.sa585536.5 u..m  w   - V.- 4Fv     p s2  p..d. LashIla-                  u., u   ova .s            'n       -aS xs f.-pp -   s{  -r   ss.
p- 1.nstO   A_3- C. w         w     wde 5l  .. -     55.5 .a.weae   5 Lw-a 015     -  seess S,u. _w  .u    _..a. _see _,
< a-_ _ tt 4_ _1~~~~~~~~~~~~ea                                                P- )-   Z-m- s-q naf t-, _ae  of N"" a--slav    -9W _J
_   -T   0555 _ 5 --4   -555-4 1*a . _ I 1 * t *                _p 0 v                -      -Med "M      an p.. _  (  J . -_ a a
a.oa  swqa.Plsa. aw. .s-as-u  s pta.          .Sel sal Sq - vi.s      Als.  03 501 a   -   -Z   o-as Mewla
-a So-ased7~:Z.       'Or     --             ifIJii -d or                   iZ 5,151.da 153.      J. Asdss  w, L  .  "  a-! .. Afis..
S  UlP Aq                                    -                                           -a. *s -a       Ju--*a -- s.d .s_    w, o  i inS 55 j* -.
_a..5..4 a, _.saasd *pp  a.seai ,-_o a.saa. -..a..d si at.   a.a..sd           ..J   .>  -  p.IsspPj    I J - out            s.d 1-i-a. 615an..
_asuu. a -areas - (P-s. - *_ -* s..o          51 *3.aFtr    ssad                *.wafl ass p 5da Ja_ _ .-   -. 1*55  p q._                   sa s
-     _ -A     ..a5d  "o-ft, P  -sss..sa JN -    'N1T     - A-
IlSP-  1.d.  a 1P--555                                                     t-Sa 1-   -n  1-y-M.Asqd - p-.5" a ftSi us-p..-            -
.        -a. -1s  *s s.an. -J                      _-- fs  _    W _*5-MW    -        , _  5a     _ _ _ .5_   _pu   la
v  -p-an  -S. aow                     -            .sa.    S"  rtoln, of-Ina ass?ds _, __                                 -      .a-- ,P
P~~~~~~~ _l _  _    tt  sms'.-A
5555.  1ssASwss  5.1 P-"u.  `-  i'n   *3.P 1633 3-                            'Iw5q8s1 51 =  MVi105d Mtaxsef  slf-a eit. .p.an.  '"Vp
'IT-,lsasd.sa sa-  wq. as.lsol."  -P- J as, _a- __ _  a-                *-   d as                        _  Ias-wa V .1.,--                         -
M ;F                apn_ -~ o_ne  -   _se d tl {__x-tn 
-  55   -l55  _    j~   1.  p5    IsT. *-S 411                               _  po:3.  -w l.sIss   j. I*.*.  as.w .  1 .lS
s. -ssss-a   .-a   .M. .5  -s            -      J(5554  .sa    uss.5sa,p
-    two P-                 aol Po          -     1555. exos4 Asd ._. .T.sees - _.q
=. -"&t _S as .        *a.I  aP aPl..a-d -           _q pp                           -I Anaq  on . jo     a-       *_lsq.sd  _..5V    - -  pa. aamx,
N._ 551  t5-as *51.*         5*55S5.  _.5  _55 - s                                 5** *S*51  _l *p.  *15P   -355(5-p                           S*
_t-5 _sq   -s-     -Ps                     *--J  -- -                -IP-    Wm"  sax J.         - s3 pp pat
_,_ ba's  isin  _ow. ._S              j _Va  1-                                 95    *-I'Otsaa.pa    *5j35X    _p _1  s15                    s
"a1 s.q.t usstos p    a.s -     "t q. w              - - I- Bawl             *3;"   =    = 35 s95l -    .l.    0-*.l                         P
a.. *-- .sw         15s. s-t _55.s        *-U5 U*-5S5lqD   s                                      *dY    -       C    * P 
_a  *l-s  -A--J  _Pa-               -J  ~   5          -* _-I                                     - _     -. .sao _'                              -
Pa   a  -p155     PC 5515--    -~ssasa . n - (appans   s  t                         s.s -d   a1P -p   l        - L      .  ..  C       ql3
_  > "_ ^ tA ^~~S. alura-d
.P-  --sm                  a-  ma, -A                             -.d..31 .0. mom~~~~~ p535    -- 5    .3la    W-i  j.sa3  .  qqa3a
,.,,,q  t s  s^,~~~~~ _    w _ ^ _ a                     ^s  ay .    su _     . _    ,s..a a_..      55ls.ssptsq  5
pan Selp"xas lesess" _13aa All-P-n -                 -fs .            _s                    -5 ssst.     - is  usw .  a.  ea-r .aa -P isq5-I *15-
t_ -_ t-a sustw. fl-lJy -  155 tl555a t54 .I   5P Pn 5        1                                                                           .sssad
-  s_  sql __- e-S *--5n  *533.51        .a.a-p... U.         1                   55555534 'SI    T    - 4a ..a5-4sA.-0w '... -1 * _-  l      va.
-   _I         55.1_ sp  e  -   s_                                                                                                       3h a  1sa.ssId a. *   ln  - _   1   w - aw-i : 3.s
a-wqs1i- -s.  s   -aaa.a -. --d m. . - --AIls 5.35       _d                                    za a055m al.s. '             1   _t
P *  "* * -      Ina5 ne st_   5   t  55.q  p.  a-s                                                                                            MT -I  q -  ts   sq     a .qt a . - sa  a   __
___ 3. s.q -l                                                                        1-4P    -a* t.  s.  qs P-    qi- n _-p s           sas t .r.
de-  .0                                                                us-d-bi..iiDePlIse .55in  lmd.ay  j  Pis nue5 oanO  la".wC  5.5-1
.s!=s 1.a    a.q lA.i. savesaxl map - od s1s 115355 aastos, ar                     =p  a  p4   Sd 555   a-  t -  (P.-os .5.) aa- 3311 
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-"S .1-Pa " peaan  _-A -
* _ ai 0-mi5-5                                                                 -up '  Z01 pa. *IL-0 l -gm?l tI    t-
_*ps -a  .14-sa  P _,La DMl - U."  os.z, p-s"W 1 x) s.o,a                            -Ple JaPs           s- -1 l 1-  Ton            54   -          5
"P. A. a1_WW_ sava, aslaed  L'1s5                                    -P  1. oeP .3.5 q3s 5 I        - I_  . sw-enss.s54 mi sa. 5      d0o.ss-s
p.s  -.ss   *.a..ln ..swa. TT=.as    ass,. 22;s53-n   ana, %llsa. --                                  *r      P PSN -3-  051 an Il.w.s.
s.5  a.15    ss3 -insd -__ -a  _P5                5a 5  3 s  ..mVlslaaai   -                                        .
-la  aP.lq   (a.s  5105  ..Pla  - I-.-    ..a Paa  ayl3t.5
1"1~~~~~~~~~~n t-Uh'l n p  - t_*} Ma*  lW 14n
tm. P   -   %.-a I .. W                lw u _ _     * _   t wAs_
_p _            '-  Ps             aP(- t_                                P                              a ,-  u-s f X-alma.ss lo -    s 5-4Pa
- (sllSspp 1-55  .1051 isays 5555531   (05deosas  S--IJj *wut                              *.a. Ia  u- j --o; vw               ..
so  u  ans  sma 55I  Sq. psasap stsw      .  pa. 55.54                                                                      sw   sl3iO
5    p5     s    ,3 1" 5555.5 st3.    1...- . .s  5 5 , - P, 33.5l _                                4 t                              - St.! *
*la.swla.5-9      5.5,5-  js    s-a3.p - -13 -aq.sssT..    ,t-qaazs ..   -1a,a 351 Ir-sa
_ s.at    _ns__...-...1a   lAb aS..6 _1 ,.31   eTo l t. ...q ..q asamosI ?s.I-sSsAnIs. Isq   s waoss  wa,_
5.3   ssasssw hwq.l s-s5 -  15551-s. s.sssS..p-1sd1l3se" e0 q.l saconne'd -j a..s.  sq si Agmron easx
;s.psss s.sq. a. p.a.ss~ '-sw-i pp *1- _*a.1 -- 15505          ;;5551.   51l '                                    sl.area.sassq  p5-IT - d'-Iq .1 _I=    - 1
A_nx-of w".l ia. o,l .o                            -  s_ass  -l     s. -s-.s
-a..'      -1Ps  -   IsIme aSs -Ai sl as ..5Is 033. n     s555              pp.  *liw-n 551 55 5fSsl5555a3.11-*ll5 5     WVs.  -,X5 nsp
5.  Intent5 Ltseral"  sqavense1   UP  alp..5 I--     sasls'                 ea.lmes, " .a qasqq. s.Ispds  5 ....I -5w-ss ssa.pas
110      51159555  ?wsa  -55.564a,1 Asawal P-Af1-s lam                                                        a 1- 1--      1a. top,S  xs,la.0 Pa,q.t.on
..a  Toq 5  55na   .  -PiPI~i5~.                                                Ulsa 51q1.4s.  5105 'po.. egaws"Wals5..         - pl - I J. ss 
_ p alsl         1 A   .  -   satift.  t     b   dp-5,,                                     sIa. -     ,_,, a, ,st, 3ia5 ". , _J- U1Ml1,
Z,  s   move A.  ant sason, -3PWWWWam -                         - Sssm sqs  55    p-141 5 ftsqi d51   Waa p.s  .s.sa.sa  asa
P     *:"a asx wA-"d.aalis-.  1s..  .qa A    .3Altoonajsst a     s-seato5sis seai-,sss    m*3.
a-ga   - Ea.ws                                                                                                                                                                     - 
-I*1 pp l- al  f   *s                                         - sa     zz        -         ;361.1ft053    1-p,
s~~  osiw-p as a.~~s.a) Laws..                     ad ss    533. lsp.a.w  qa.s  a.igw  b-sa. i  buanot    Rq.7n
.555.4 pTsinW.a-                  .saqs a." .owsm g     f-s  alss,o s: s-      ..wad(.a   .A :'
n0 sadowa.55 5.ames a.a   51 A.VousIslsaS  *15a.s Er;=s.. * p             'slitsa v  wp.   Avess   amist pp  se. pp,                                               . ;. .
Issasnsa.1-5-s ~soa p   s..a.nsow  s Sad.3555545             pO -a P-.q   0- 3*55 -5.5  4.v5as  vadeselssd. .- 1    5 --
lsi esasassss on o         Wmqa   sas- asule    assass a.    -ti-                       .11.   -A.--    0               --P
*..sadsal ?t.suus.ss Sse P."  assagallsP9                            u  361 pp *Aj  Iu  swls 
ow asbwsq on, 15..  - 5I - SpaPas  V  51- 51- Slsq p05                          now  Jsw,.s-asp5   ... As530   s-wdp-. -al.aa
.55155-  ssfl . .0  sos51 .Mas3 J. does5 . R =    PI5qlh  V                     looa.45  155se."ma,30*  Pa.lmed..                 431
.,.q p asp.. as.   ~ ~    ~       ~       Iti pp5NI 5pm.5       AIsqJ 
sa-spap a. . s-wssau isas" pa.i - i    ii  FWW_1r 55I--F                                                                    53p lost PM  m
*51115 1 s9   j   h   VannP551  5 -1,3ad ~         '*3.U 1.113 5.d -gaqsa ls,a p sAsJPlwq 51 (dameiisat. qasqss  p-
pp   ia.p-.^3   -151-i..)  AM3 31- - ('53. spad We5.*swsa  anon)sOs ssapSq Pp a. 06 1. a-ta"~    .                                  
pp sTjw  weresrs -men" I I 5ltd    P"~s  5epesls eggs s-Os, sat,
vpip.. Acoit.-di   31govisad su.stq.ws   sqsqsq.d  sss,.w- us Sq                                                                *sIsP m31P l 0       I K s 1os
3.35.55 djsnaww   sso.tqsa.n .5  sOijips  ssaassn sa"sseqs.                         Ibsoq  031  on" qm "am - pqsm onsiama                  al1twt
u.siowdaq pppt.i     VW pp pwas  asdppsw(owss-.                                  sasw panges Iassm W. sas-Isst ows'- s.d ja
ass 15150  Jo savn  a         wslF-         4saappo
VT        S  UtwUs, ""   usu.                w   Ista 1  .  sa..--.plqp  sq                      ssa.os *ad05
pp a.om I5owls.ad 55-a-   sssm 5          sa               'Isa-t as'-m .quoasaPM asso  Pona.ua.u,.   -s-u.iwuI
h.Selad a.ssqs - Sqan A PMs - .tqIV "I*I   1.3   p04
*1.1 Jussau  a. 133.0  0511.sr                                       agu...pso   paa   013ww0   ssa s-a.iSISi
sm,l p iss,ELa -"nsqs, sap- "W   oss"p. eso. PoppenP  !si a.aE Jam  sn  Al2 pp Ltam         POsql  p5-s"I  AIlm  P- sq" so) t       P smog" gm  
*1  q.      onssqin 'ss. sam   soup 6 anq  "M" II5 ow  PinP Issalluim       "   "eI Pow- p. u=   "Uweow.p  Iqaspt  own    U"s -a i  v .Isom
(Issupso   s   -~    I10  1s   tt    s-I   qWa1  .u5taqt 51  05P~  'p-wa .ssi.pa,spas    .                                       *uq
9   E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-ss-iyu4 -ass
9zOEsUaE



--  -  0                                           ~~~~~~~~~~- 23  -
ANNEX I
Pag  4of 6
-;                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JOIIDI I -tOlIC IllDICASOxS
Population   2.6 million (1984)                           A        o
GCNP per capita: US$ 1.710 (1983 !/,2/
- -Auoujnt                                                                                 Annual Growth Rates
Indicator                 (million USt at                Actual (at 1980 prices)                          Proiected (at 1930 prices)
current prices)
-                                     1984                1979    1980    1981    1982    1983 31  1984 3/  1985   1986    1987    1988    19S9
NATIONAL ACCOUIS
Cross domestic product        4,029                 7.8     8.3     6.4     7.1    4.2       3.0       3.0    5.0      5.0     5.0    5.0
Agriculture                289              -29.0    39.0    11.6      9.7    7.2       7.0       5.0    5.0     5.0      5.0     5.0
Induscry                 1,070                19.2   11.5    13.2    0.3    4.2        2.0       2.0    8.0      7.0     7.5      7.5
-              Services                 2.144                10.2    7.9    4.3       8.9    5.0       3.0       3.0    3.5      3.7     3.2     3.2
ConsuWtian                   4,651                 17.3   -,.6      6.4     3.8    3.7    -5.0        4.0     1.6     5.4     4.3     4.3
Cross Inveutunt               1,277                10.5   17.2   24.2       2.4   -5.7    -3.0       -2.3   -2.0   -1.3        2.6    2.6
Exports CGFS                  1.612                20.4   24.1   24.9       1.5   -9.1      10.0       8.0    9.8     7.0      7.0     7.0
Inporta of GlMS              3,511                26.4   -1.7    27.4   -0.8   -6.2    -5.8           3.0    3.1      4.4     4.5    4.5
Crosa National Product        4.257                 7.7     6.8    o.2      7.4    1.3       f.0       4.0    4.2      4.3    4.2      4.2
PRICES
cOP Deflator                                  82.5  100.0  116.5  123.7  131.7   136.8
Exchange Race                                  3.33    3.35    3.07    2.84    2.76     2.47
Share of GNP at Market Prices (2)                   Average Annual lncrease
(at current prices)                             (at constant prices)
1975     1980    1985                       1979-84     1984-89     198-90
Cross Dometic Product                                        96.0   100.8    98.2                            5.8         4.2         5.0
Agriculture                                              7.8      6.6      6.9                         14.4        5.4          5.0
Industry                                                21.8    26.7    26.6                           6.1         6.4          7.5
Services                                                59.7    57.9    53.2                           5.8         3.3          3.2
Consumption                                                 123.8    109.8   106.0                          0.9         3.9         4.2
Cross Investment                                             26.5    40.8    33.5                           6.4        -0_8    -   2.6
Exporcs of CNFS                                              35.5    47.9    47.2                           9.5          7.8         7.0
Imports of CNFS                                              90.1     97.2    88.6                           1.9        3.9         4.5
Gross National Product                                      100.0   100.0   100.0                           5.7         4.4         4.2
-           Iget Factor Income                                            4.1    -0.8       1.8                           -           -           -
Gross National Savings                                      -23.8     -9.8    -6.0                           -           -            -
As S of CNP
(at current prices)
1975         1980        1985
PUBLIC FIDAW
Domestic Seventies                      24.8         22.8        29.9
Current Expenditurea                   37.6          33.9        31.5
Budgetary b-sings                     -12.8        -10.0       -16.6
Capital Expenditures                   23.6          22.9        14.2
Foreign Financing                       36.8        12.7         14.5
of which foreign grants               30.0         20.5        11.2
1979-84      1984-89
*     Urn  INDICATORS
IECO                                   7.6         7_5
Marginal Gross National
Savings Rate                         0.8        -0.2
Import Elasticity (goods)             0.3          0.9
I/ East Bank only.
2/ Preliminary estimte bsed on the revised series of nationsI accounts to be discussed vith the Coverumnt, whicb excludes remittances
from long term resi' anus abroad chat are considered capital transfers.
3/ Preliminary estimte.
EIUAL CPIIC
July 1985
01855
:, _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
..-                              -.                    *             -                  
. ~ ~    ~     ~     ~      - -:     - ..                                        - .*-                           *-



- 24 -
ANNEX I
Pag r of 6
JORDAN - XUKAL TRAD
-Amoaunt                                           Annual Growth Ratem
lndictror                (million   F t                   Actual [at ION0  rices)                         Projected (at 19B0 prices)
current price)
19B4               1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984 2/   1985   1986   1987   19B8
WXKRNAL TLRAP
lerebendise exports 1/      690                6.7   22.5   22.9   31.1    2.1   -8.0    9.5           B.0    9.1    6.5    8.5
Primary                  370                5.5   16.1   26.2   18.5   -3.2    8.0   11.0           7.6    9.2    8.7    8.7
Manufactures             320                9.1   35.6   17.0   59.0    8.5   -8.1    4.0           6.5    9.0    8.3    8.3
MeIrhandise ijportc       2, E 5              -1.3   10.5    7.8   27.4   -1.0   -6.2   -6.1           1.5    4.4    4.7    4.5
Food                     499               25.8    8.9    7.1   31.6    6.4   -6.0   -2.0            2.0    3.2    4.8    4.5
Petrolem                 613             -13.2   30.3   42.3   19.3   22.0    1.1    4.0            2.0    3.2    4.3    4.0
Machiney and equipmnt  575                -3.5  -11.7   13.6   56.6  -13.0  -18.0   -8.5            0.5    0.8    1.1    1.0
Other                  1.13B              -9.8   27.5   -3.4   19.3    0.5    9.1   -8.1             1.5    2.8    4.7    4.5
PRICES                                                     (1975 - 100)                                 (1980- 100)
Export price index          -                 85.8   90.2  106.9  107.5  113.2   90.3   97.5         106.1  112.4  124.3  128.5
Import price index           -               114.8  133.5  150.4  113.6  119.4   94.2   91.6          9B.9  105.3  110.9  117.0
Terms of trade index        -                 74.7   67.6   71.1   94.6   94.8   95.9  106.4         107.3  106.7  112.1  109.8
Cmpoasition of Merchandise Trade (C)                    Averae Anual Crowth Raet.
(at current prices)                               (at c netent prices)
1975      1962      1987                             1979-84        1984-18
Exports 1/                                         100.0      100.0    100.0                                11.5           8.5
Primry                                           79.8       46.8     55.3                                 8.9           8.5
Manufactures                                     20.2       53.2      44.7                               14.5            8.5
maports                                            100.0      100.0    100.0                                 4.4           3.9
Food                                             22.2       16.7      18.3                                7.4           3.8
Petroleum                                        10.6       21.0     24.3.                               17.7           3.5
Mahinezy &no equipment                           31.6       28.0      23.7                                6. 1          0.9
Other                                            35.5       34.3      33.8                                3.5           3.6
Share of TotaL Exports (2                       Share of  tal Imports CZ)
DIRECTIO  OF TRADAE                                         1975        1963                               1975          1983
Developed market economies                                  17.6        4.9                                62.6         46.3
Developing market ec  a                                    70.2        82.0                               29.2         46.5
of which Arab countries                                   42.4       63.3                                19.8         48.6
Centrally planed  conamias                                  12.2        13.1                                6.2          7.3
1I  Ezcluding re-ezports
r/ preliary estciate.
ZIDAL CPfI-C
July 1985
0185S



_ 25 -
-ONZI I
Page 6 of 6
J0RDdU- BLANCE OF PAYINTS* ETRNAL CPITAL AND DOlT
(millions US$ at currnt prices)
Indicator                                                       Actual                                                         Projected
1977     1976     1979      1910     19Y1     1982     1983     1984         1 1985   1986      1987     1990
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of goods & services           1203      1437    119      2491     3205      3174     3047     3330        37az      4202     4655     6341
Of which; Merchandise f.o.b.          249      297       402      574       742      749      581      756         941      1026     1110      1555
Workers rmittances          470      520      b00       792     1042     1081     1112      l311        1369      1435     1477     1660
Impaorts of goods 4 serviesm          1714     2065      2B72     3452     4550     564     4251      4271        4571      5083     5604     7480
of which: Merchandise f.o. b.        1376      1497     1957     2393     3237      3229     3041     2779        2847      3012     3214     4034
Workers remittances            46       65        80      154      159      175      201       242         229      219       207      197
glet transfers 2/                      504      347      1046     1335     1321      1055      814      712          600      600      600      500
Current account balsnce                 -7    -280         -7      374      -26      -335     -390     -229        -189      -281     -349     -639
Privste direct investment               11       56        26       31       67       91        24       50        t1O        t1S      127      157
MLT loans (net)                        190       189      193      232      274      242       306      233           52      270      331      625
Official                               86       112      143      240      263       271      164      158          92       255      278      585
Private                               104       77        50        8       -9      -29       142       75         -an        15       53       39
Other cspital                          -21       278       20    -266      -398      -290      -76     -219         -S1         -        -        -
Chanes in reserves                    -173     -243      -232     -371       63      292       136      165          109    -107      -109     -143
International reserves                 740      983      1215     15S6     1503      1211     1075     1061         952      1059     1168     1558
Of which.  Cold                        81       81        82      208       196      194      200      200         200       200      200      200
Reserves as months of impurts            5.1       5.6      5.2      5.5      4.5      3.2       3.0      3.0          2.5      2.5      2.5      2.5
EXTEIMAL CAPITAL AND EBMT
Cross disburent                       214      223       250      306      407       374      331      383
Concessional Ioans                   94      119       151      133      12b      184       224      274
IDA                                9        6        13        9        3        4        -        -
Other                             85      113       138      124      123      180       224      274
Non-coocessions  loans              120      104        99      173      282      191        97      109
Official export credits            3        8         2       97      159       94        10       12
E88D                               -        -        4        22       19       11       33        39
Other _ltilateral                  -        -         7       14        6       30        15       16
Private                          117       96       86        40       93       56       49       42
External debt
Debt outstanding and
disbursed                           623      841      1048     1266     1481      1685     1966     2152
Official                         469      609       765      !93     1226     1464      1305     1429
Private                          154      232      283       273      254      221      661       723
Undisbursed debt                    559      825       863     1221      995      831       932      574
Debt service
Total service payments               38        58       96      133       182      193      278      319
Interest                          15       24       40        58       81       61      106       147
Payments as Z exports 1/              3.2      4.0       5.3      5.4      5.7      6.1       9.1      9.6
Average interest rate
on new loans (Z)                      6.0      6.3       5.3      6.8      5.3      6.0       7.0      7.0
Average maturity
of mev loan  (years)                 14.4      18.1     21.4     14.8     17.7    20.1       17.0     12.6
Average grace
of nev. loans (years)                 3.5      5.6       4.7      3.8      4.3      5.0      4.1       2.7
Ac 2 oE Debt Outstanding
at end of Most Recent Year (1983)
Maturity structure of debt outscanding
Maturities due witbin S years                                      39.0
Maturities due within 10 years                                     68.9
Interest stnruture of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                      b.0
- '    -   Data not aveilable.                                                                                                             EmN  CPII-C
Vj  Exports of goods and servicee including remittances.                                                                            JuLy 1985
2/ Excluding unrequited transfers by long ter  resident workers abroad.                                                             01BSS
3/  Preliminary estimte.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page I of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN JORDAN a/
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1985)
US$ Million-----
Amount
(less cancellations)
Number   Year      Borrower        Purpose            Bank     IDA   Undisbursed
Fifteen credits     Jordan
fully disbursed                                               86.1
Two loans fully
disbursed            "                               50.0
1781     1979                Education III            19.0                5.8
1826     1980                CVDB                     10.0                3.3
1893     1980                Urban Development        21.0               13.5
1986     1981                Power IV                 25.0                6.2
2068     1982                Education IV             25.0               19.5
2162     1982                Power V                  35.0               21.7
2213     1983                Water Supply and
Sewerage              17.0                16.9
2246     1983                Education V              18.8               18.6
2334     1983                Urban Transport          30.0               28.9
2371     1984                Energy Devt. I           30.0               28.9
2378     1984                Education VI             40.0               40.0
2425     1984                Eight Cities
Water Supply
and Sewerage           30.0                30.0
2463     1985                Multi-Mode
Transport              30.0                30.0
2483 c/  1985                Greater Amman
Water Supply
and Sewerage           30.0                30.0
2531 cl 1985          "      Primary Health Care      13.5                13.5
2587 c/  1985                Urban Development II    28.0                28.0
TOTAL                                                452.3     86.1      304.8
of which has been repaid        5.8       3.2
Total now held by Bank/IDA b| 446.5      82.9
a/  The status of the above projects is described in a separate report on all
Bank/IDA-financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
b/  Includes exchange rate adjustments.
c/ Not yet effective.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1985)
US$ Million- -
Year          Obligor           Type of Business        Loan    Equity    Total
1974     Jordan Ceramic Ind.
Co. Ltd.            Ceramic Tiles             1.6       0.2        1.8
19751    Jordan Fertilizer
78/81/82   Ind. Co.            Phosphatic Fertilizer  79.5 l/   8.7         88.2 1/
1979     Jordan Lime and
Silicate              Building Materials       2.5       0.7        3.2
1979     Jordan Securities    Money & Capital
Corp.                  Market                            0.7       0.7
1980     Jordan Leasing
Co. Ltd.             Leasing                            0.3       0.3
Total Commitments                             83.6 1/  10.6       94.2 1/
Less Commitments Repaid, Sold or
Cancelled                                     60.6 1/   0.7       61.3 1/
Total Commitments now held by IFC                  23.0       9.9       32.9
Total Undisbursed                                -        -          -
1/ Includes a $50.0 million loan managed by IFC on behalf of other
participants.



- 28 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
SECOND CITIES AND VILLAGES DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by agency to prepare the project:   5 months (August 1984
to January 1985)
Cb) Agency which prepared the project:               Cities and Villages
Development Bank (CVDB)
Cc)  Date of first presentation to the Bank:         August 12, 1984
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:         January 14, 1985
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:             July 18, 1985
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:                   December 1985
Section II:  Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
1. Special Conditions of Effectiveness:
(a)  Execution of subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and
CVDB (para. 47).
(b) Appointment of a training specialist to head the training division
(para. 53).
2. Other Special Conditions:
(a)  CVDB to discuss the staffing of its Technical Department with the
Bank annually (para. '42).
i  



-29-
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(ti) CVDB will1 not alter its Policy Statement or Eligibility Criteria
without Bank approval (para. 43).
        ~~(c)  CVDB to maintain indebtedness ceiling of 4:1 and debt-service ratio
of 1.15:1 (paras. 45 and 46).
(d) CVBD to maintain a varying interest rate structure for various types
of projects. If CVDB's margin over total resources is forecast to
Jeacrease. below two percentage points, the Government would allow CVDB
to increase the minimum interest rates or take other measures to
ensure that CVDB maintains a minimum spread of two percentage points
above the average cost of its resources (para. 51).
(e) CVDB to recruit a Project Appraisal Specialist and Senior Civil
Engineer and appoint two statisticians by December 31, 1985 (paras.
52 and 55).
(f) CVDB to prepare detailed training programs by December 31, 1985 and
submit reports on them (para. 53).
(g) CVDB to submit the first appraisal reports for each suibcategory of
subproject; tbereafter, free limits of $60,000 and $125,000 would
apply, depending upon the subproject (para. 48).
(h) CVDB to update ananually its financing plan for Bank review (para. 46).
'V
.1~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~-2 



IBRD 14569R
r3i'                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OCTOBER 1903
LEBANON  V2
S Y R IA N    A RA B
*                 ~~~~~~R EP U BL IC                                        \IR AO
<1~~~1~
-. r ~ ~ ~ ~ ~       ~       ~      ~
Al~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ a
S..
M~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~IR 14S .R
A~~~~~~.uA
22     3w                                           - '.                                                                        2
_/-~~~~~~~~        ~    ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ As                               U D5  I         A  R A  B  I-  A
*  ;  1^  /   Z  @>-s_t 3
q t:.vS                ~/      ,.i ,                                                 SA U DI          A  RA BI A|
(~~~~~~~
ISAE                              A TC                    - )    /
(K R              I                                         /J O  R D A N
At .'a> ju o *e ^                                 POPULATION  DISTRIBUTION
\  \      M<                                         /                       AND
M   A   A    N                          j          ADMINISTRATIVE DIVISIONS
A R A B * --- 5|2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SELETD URBAN CENTERSi ......... c
ARAB               /                                              .*-                                 .d..d ocwmd..oa p.p.owd
REPUBLIC   *            j,--
OF EGYPT |                                                                                                X /
/ i j=,  J        #                          PERSONS PER SOUARE KItOMETER-
./                              of ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10-IY99
200 - A99
IOAET.EItSO   20      6    0 eD   -- -- SUB-GOVERNOIATE EOUNDARIES
GOVERNORATE OUNDARIES
S A  U D I    A  R A  B I A            M. 1   OCCUPPIED TERRITORIES
3.tr



