Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
j/. SGY- J)
Report No. 5623-JO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
JORDAN
SECOND CITIES AND VILLAGES DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
July 19, 1985
Urban and Regional Development Projects
Europe, Middle East, and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties- Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        =  Jordan Dinar (JD)
JD 0.40        =  US$1.00
JD 1.00        =  US$2.50
JD 1.00        =  1,000 fils
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
Kilometer (km)                        =  0.62 mile
Square Kilometer (kmz)                =  0.386 mile
Hectare (ha)                          =  2.47 acres
Centimeter (cm)                       =  0.3937 inches
Meter (m)                             =  39.37 inches = 3.28 feet (ft)
Square Meter (WZ)                     =  10.8 square feet (ft2)
Cubic Meter (Mn3)                     =  264 US gallons
Liter (1)                             =  0.264 US gallons
Liter per capita per day (lpcd)       =  0.264 US gallons per capita per day
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACC    =   Agricultural Credit Corporation
CBJ    =    Central Bank of Jordan
CVDB   =    Cities and Villages Development Bank
EEC    =    European Economic Commission
EIB    =    European Investment Bank
HB     =    Housing Bank
IDA    =    International Development Association
IDB    =    Industrial Development Bank
-CO    =    Jordan Cooperative Organization
Ja{C    =   Jordan Housing Corporation
JVA    =   Jordan Valley Authority
MMRA   =   Ministry of Municipal and Rural Affairs
MOF    =   Ministry of Finance
MOP    =   Ministry of Planning
MPW    =   Ministry o: Public Works
MVLF   =   Municipal and Village Loan Fund
SSC    =   Social Security Corporation
SOE    =    Statement of Expenditure
UNRWA  =   United Nations Relief aId Works Agency for
Palestine Refugees in the Near East
WAJ    =   Water Authority of Jordan
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
This report reflects the findings of a mission to Jordan from January 19
to February 5, 1985, comprising Messrs. Annez (mission leader), Mera
(senior regional development advisor), Landeau (financial analyst) and
Kenneth Davey (municipal development consultant).



FOr OMCIL USE ONLY
JORDAN
SECOND CITIES AND VILLAGES DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY .........................._                            i
I. INTRODUCTION.                                                                       1
II. MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT.                                                             2
Background ._. .... 2
Institutional Framework ....................................    2
Local and Municipal Government .............................    3
Local and Municipal Finance ........ ........................              3
The Financial Sector in Jordan .............................    4
Government Actions and Policies . ...........................               5
Role of the Bank Group in the Urban Sector ...._                           5
III.  CVDB - THE INSTITUTION ..............................   6
A.  Objectives, Functions, Legal Framework and Ownership.                       6
Legal Framework ..............._                                         7
Ownership .................................... .......    7
B. Organization, Management and Staffing.                                       8
C. Policies and Procedures.                                                     9
D.  Operations and Finances ....................................   10
Long-term Loans ..........................................   10
Short-term Loans .........................................   10
Arrears .......................................... ........    11
Loan Rescheduling .................    11
Liabilities ................................. 12
Share Capital Increase and Debt-Equity Ratio ....            .........   13
New Financial Covenants ..................................   13
CVDB's Margin Over Total Resources .......................   13
Debt-Service Ratio .......................................    13
Recent Financial Performance .............................   14
Financial Projections and Resource Requirements .....           ......   14
I Thb d_on: has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performanc of 
tbek ofrsciad dutie& Is wntents nm  not otherwise be disckse without World Bank authoizadtion



- ii -
Table of Contents (cont'd)
Page
IV-  THE PROJECT ...................................................... 16
A.  Objectives and Scope ......................................    16
B.  Project Description ........................................   16
Main Project Components .16
Line of Credit .16
Equipment .18
Technical Assistance.                                              1B
Training of Municipal and Village Council
and CVDB Personnel .18
C. Financial Arrangements .19
D. CVDB Project Cycle .19
Identification and Preparation .19
Appraisal .19
Loan Committee and Board Approval .20
Supervision ..............................................   20
Follow-up ................................................   20
Monitoring ........................    20
Procurement ........................    21
CVDB Disbursement .21
E. IBRD Project Execution .21
Bank Review of Subprojects .21
Disbursement .21
Special Account .22
Disbursement Period ......................................   22
Audit .22
Monitoring ...............................................   23
Bank Supervision .........................................   23
V.    BENEFITS AND RISKS ...................-----..   23
VI. ASSURANCES A,sD RECOMMENDATION .25
C'nditions for Loan Effectiveness .25
Recommendation .............................................   26
ANNEXES
1.   Financial Tables ................................................  27
2. CVDB Organization Chart .36
3. General Poli'- Statement of CVDB .37
4. Loan Eligibility Criteria .58
6. Estimated 1)isbursement Schedule .76
7.   Project Files Listing ...........................................  77
MAP
IBRD 14569R - Jordan:  Population Distribution and Administrative Divisions



JORDAN
SECOND CITIES AND VILLAGES DEVELOPMEFT BANK PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMKARY
Borrower:                 The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan.
Beneficiary:              The Cities and Villages Development Bank (CVDB).
Amount:                   US$15 million equivalent.
Terms:                    15 years, including 3 years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Onlending Terms:          The proposed loan would be onlent to CVDB under the
same terms as the Bank loan, but with the interest
rate fixed at the rate in effect at the time of loan
signing. The Government would bear the foreign
exchange and the interest rate fluctuation risks.
Project Description:      The objectives of the project are: (i) to support the
Government's efforts to improve living standards in
Jordan's less developed outer regions; (ii) to
continue to facilitate the execution of municipal and
village development plans by funding well-appraised
projects; (iii) to strengthen CVDB's institutional
capacity; and (iv) to support CVDB's role in
organizing financial training for local government
personnel. The project components include a line of
credit to CVDB, representing 75 percent of CVDB's
foreign exchange needs from mid-1985 to end 1987;
equipment and technical assistance for CVDB; and
training for local government arnd CVDB personnel.
Possible project risks include difficulties by CVDB
in attracting and retaining qualified staff.
However, the project includes features to minimize
the risk.
Individual Free Limits:  US$60,000 and USt125,000, depending upon the type of
suboroject.



Estimate Project Costs:                        Foreign       Local       Total
(US$ million)-
Line of Credit                          14.90         18.21       33.11
Equipment''                              0.10          0.03        0.13
Technical Assistance                     0.40          0.15        0.55
Training                                 0.10          0.20        0.30
Total                                 15.50         185         3_4.0
Financing Plan:
Bank                                    15.00          0.00       15.00
Government                               0.50          0.35        0.85
CVDB                                     0.00         18.24       18.24
Total                                 15_                       _402
Estimated Disbursements:                              Bank Fiscal Year
(US$ million)…------
1986    1987    1988    1989    1990   1991
Annual                           1.5     3.0      5.5     3.6      1.0    0.4
Cummulative                      1.5     4.5    10.0    13.6    14.6   15.0
Economic Rate of Return:               N.A.
1/ Net of taxes and duties.



JORDAN
SECOND CITIES AND VILLAGES DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01     This report appraises the Cities and Villages Development Bank (CVDB)
for a proposed second loan of US$15.0 million. CVDB was created in 1980 to
provide loans to Municipalities and Village Councils for such projects as
water supply, school buildings, electricity distribution, health clinics and
commercial buildings. With the help of the first World Bank Loan of US$10.0
million (Loan 1826-JO), CVDB has evolved into an independent financial
institution which has gradually improved its management and capability to
appraise projects. Since 1980, CVDB has helped satisfy the basic needs of
less developed segments of the population and raise standards of living in
rural areas. From 1980 to 1984, 49Z in number and 27Z in value terms of
projects were located in villages (see also Table 1 in Annex 1). The regional
distribution of CVDB's loan portfolio also proportionally favored the outlying
Governorates.
1.02     The second project will continue to support a system of resource
allocation to local communities that is considered exemplary. Whereas in most
countries in the Region local infrastructure investments are decided and
financed by Central Governments, in Jordan local governments have sufficient
income, partly through a system of revenue sharing, to cover recurrent, debt
service, and capital expenditures. In countries where they are financed from
Central Government grants, investments are either seen as free goods for which
there is an insatiable demand or as imposed interventions that do not meet
local requirements. In Jordan, local authorities have become conscious of the
scarcity of investment resources. This has led them to choose projects
carefully and to collect revenues more diligently.
1.03     The system still needs improvement.  Local government financial
management is still weak, and investment projects are not always chosen or
designed properly.  While the first loan turned CVDB into a bank, the second
loan is designed to strengthen its municipal and village development
functions.  Besides providing CVDB with a US$14.9 million credit line, the new
project will include the reinforcement of CVDB's Technical Department with
expert advice, training and equipment as well as the reinforcement of the
Training Division in charge of financial training of local government and CVDB
personnel of these other components; only the equipment (total cost net of
taxes US3125,000) will be financed under the proposed loan.



- 2 -
II. MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT
Background
2.01.    Jordan is a highly urbanized country.  Following three decades of
rapid population growth and massive immigration, about 70Z of its 2.6 million
population lives in urban areas of 5,000 people or more. By the year 2000,
Jordan's urban population is expected to increase by some 2 million.
Unemployment is an increasing problem, since the labor force is rising at
about 6% per annum while domestic and external demand for Jordanian labor is
weakening. Given its scarcity of natural resources, limited arable land and
water and small domestic market, Jordan's future economic growth and
employment must depend upon export-based manufactures and services. In an era
of expected slower economic growth, the development and management of
efficient and cost-effective services and infrastructure for urban areas to
support these activities, as well as to improve the welfare of a rapidly
increasing urban population, are crucial challenges facing Jordan.
2.02     Jordan's population is highly concentrated.  Most of its urban
population lives within 30 kilometers of the capital, Amman, which itself
accounts for over 750,000 people and produces most of the country's services
and industrial output.  While the Amman region is expected to accommodate most
population growth for the remainder of this century and to continue its role
as the main engine for Jordan's economic development, the Government is taking
active measures to stimulate growth in other areas. The proposed Second
Cities and Villages Development Bank (CVDB [I) Project would assist the
Government in achieving this goal by financial support and technical
assistance for the financial institution best situated to promote the
development of cities and villages outside Amman.
Institutional Framework
2.03     The Ministry of Municipal and Rural Affairs (MMRA) is the major
authority in charge of the delivery of services to municipalities and villages
and is responsible for the preparation of municipal and village master plans,
for project design and implementation, for bud'get review, and for channelling
loan applications to CVDB. The Directorate of Works and Engineering Services
in MMRA is responsible for buildings, roads, water, sanitary engineering, and
rural development, and plays a major role in the preparation of projects for
CVDB financing. Because this directorate is short of staff, especially of
qualified engineers, MMRA or the concerned local government engages
consultants as necessary.
2.04     Several government corporations or authorities provide services or
coordinate local functions, including, most notably, CVDB, which lends to
local governments (para. 3.02); the Jordan Housing Corporation (JHC), which
develops housing for moderate income and public sector employees; the Housing
Bank (HB), which finances housing, especially for low and moderate income
groups; the Water Authority of Jordan (WAJ), which is responsible for water
production and distribution and sewerage works; and the Jordan Electric Power
Company, responsible for electricity distribution. Local governments have an
essential role to play, especially in transport, streets and roads, solid



- 3 -
waste management, land use planning, health controls, provision of markets, a
variety of licensing functions and investments in schools and health centers.
(For a review of the Service Delivery System see Annex 7, Project File 1.)
2.05     Local government management, planning, and finance need to be further
reinforced to enable local councils to prepare and implement investment
programs to meet the needs of a rapidly growing urban population. Better
planning and coordination of public investments in different sectors at the
regional as well as city level will become increasingly important in avoiding
waste and encouraging efficient patterns of urban development. The proposed
project is designed to contribute to this goal.
Local and Municipal Government
2.06     Administratively Jordan is divided into five governorates, which are
further subdivided into districts and subdistricts. Each level is headed by a
public official responsible through his superiors to the Minister of
Interior. Governors are responsible for internal security, coordination of
central government departments and supervision of the village councils and
unincorporated villages and, under the aegis of MMRA, of municipal councils.
During the last five years, the number of local government bodies has
increased rapidly. There are three types of local government: municipal
councils, village councils and common service councils.  There are currently
136 municipalities embracing three quarters of the population, although three
(Amman, Zarqa and Irbid) account for about 60 percent of the total. Municipal
councils are presided over by mayors and comprise 7-12 councillors who, in
general, are elected for four-year terms (some are still appointed by MMRA).
There are about 300 village councils which are normally appointed by
Governors, although informal nomination of members by tribal groups is
customary. Executive responsibility is vested in village heads, but virtually
all decisions are subject to approval by the Governor. Common service
councils are mixtures of neighboring municipalities and village councils that
have combined to share a particular service, such as slaughterhouses or waste
disposal. Since their establishment in 1983, they have grown rapidly and now
number 54.
2.07     Insufficient qualified staff in local government is of concern to the
Government, although the situation is improving with the slackening of the
labor market. MMRA runs an ad hoc program of short training courses for local
government employees. Twenty courses were held at varied locations in 1984,
attended by 500 mayors, councillors and employees. These courses included
financial management, municipal engineering, surveying and planning control.
The Ministry recognizes the need for a more systematic provision of training
and has asked CVDB to take over the task of organizing the training effort
(para. 4.10).
Local and Municipal Finance
2.08     Municipal and village councils derive revenues from six sources:
national revenue sharing; land and building taxes; taxes and charges directly
collected by local authorities; profits, rents and interest; and loans, grants
and donations. The national revenue sharing allotment (commonly referred to
as the fuel tax allotment) accounts for 17-80Z of the total revenue of



individual municipalities. It provides local government with a share of
customs duties, annual registration fees for drivers and vehicles, taxes on
petroleum products and fines for traffic and public health offenses. The
shares are distributed using a formula, based largely on population and
administrative status, which favors smaller, less developed municipalities.
Land and building taxes are imposed only in municipalities. They are assessed
and collected by the Ministry of Finance and distributed to councils of
origin. The basis of the tax is 10% of rental value. As a result of a
revaluation of all properties currently in progress, significant increases in
yields are expected in 1985 and 1986. Sources of taxes and dues collected
directly by local authorities include registration license fees for commercial
premises, garbage collection fees, building permit fees and charges for street
and pavement construction. Loans, grants and donations are an ad hoc and
infrequent source of revenue, which are made mostly to the Amman Municipality.
2.09     Municipal budgets are prepared by the mayors, with the approval of
councils, and go to MMRA for final approval. Because municipal and village
councils, while responsible for capital development, have limited
responsibility for provision of services, most municipal budgets show a
considerable margin for capital and non-recurrent expenditure after meeting
general expenses and debt service. Inflation and rapid urban growth have
underlined in recent years the need to maintain the buoyancy of t'.e tax base
by frequently reviewing tariffs and assessments and improving collection
efforts. However, the underlying framework of local finance is sound and
should sustain a further period of capital development supported by the
proposed loan. (For a review of Local Government Finance in Jordan, see Annex
7, Project File 2.)
The Financial Sector in Jordan
2.10     The financial system of Jordan includes the Central Bank of Jordan,
16 commercial banks (eight of which are branches of foreign banks), a number
of non-bank financial institutions, and six specialized credit institutions.
Commercial banks, which constitute a pivotal part of the financial system,
were very active in the 1979-81 period, with total assets and liabilities
rising on average 28% per year; their activities have been slower since then,
reflecting a slowdown in the overall level of economic activity. Non-bank
financial institutions comprise the Pension Fund, the Social Security
Corporation (SSC), and over 30 insurance companies. The Pension Fund, which
covers all government employees, has expanded rapidly; in the 1979-82 period,
its assets more than quadrupled. SSC began operations in 1980 to complement
the operations of the Pension Fund; at the end of 1984, its assets amounted to
about JD 106 million, compared with less than JD 5 million in 1980.
2.11     The specialized credit institutions were established to assist in the
development of certain sectors, primarily through medium or long-term loans,
usually at concessional interest rates. They include RB, JHC, the
Agricultural Credit Corporation (ACC), the Industrial Development Bank (IDB),
Jordan Cooperative Organization (JCO), and CVDB. These institutions are
wholly Government-owned except for IDB, which is only one t'hird Government
owned, and HB, which is privately owned, except for a small minority ownership
by several Arab governments. The loan resources of these institutions consist



primarily of their capital and reserves and Central Bank borrowing, although
HB accepts demand, time and savings deposits. Net lending by specialized
credit institutions rose by 15% in 1984 to JD 365 million, compared to 25% in
1983. HB accounted for the major part of credit extended by specialized
institutions (for a review of the five most important specialized institutions
in Jordan, see Annex 7, Project File 3.)
Government Actions and Policies
2.12     The Government has long been concerned with significant disparities
between regions in terms of economic activity, public services and other basic
facilities, and especially with the concentration of population and economic
activity in Amman. The current Five-Year Plan contains major electrification,
water supply and health care programs that address regional disparities, and
the Government provides resources from its tax revenues to local government
using a highly progressive scheme (see also Annex 7, Project File 2). To
identify development strategies and investment projects, MMRA has undertaken
regional studies for Amman, Irbid, and Aqaba, and is in the process of
preparing a study for Karak. In order to improve the coordination needed to
implement investment projects resulting from such studies, the Ministry of
Planning has recently established a regional planning section. It also is now
undertaking, with assistance from United States Agency for International
Development, a comprehensive survey of basic needs and profit-making projects
in each locality as an input for the next Five-Year Plan (1986-90). As a
consequence, the Plan is expected to have a much stronger regional development
emphasis than in the past.
2.13     CVDB can play a significant role in achieving regional development
objectives without overly burdening the Government finances by helping
municipalities and village councils (i) select and design cost-effective
projects that have a high investment priority, (ii) provide resources for
priority projects, and (iii) strengthen financial management and technical
capacity of local staff. Because funds for capital expenditures are lent
through CVDB, rather tnan given as grants, local governments will continue to
be prudent in their use.
Role of the Bank Group in the Urban Sector
2.14     Bank Group assistance has been responsive to the problems created by
rapid urbanization and to the Government's desire to promote growth in all
parts of the country. Extensive economic and sector work has been carried
out, as well as project financing related to urban development in Jordan.
Recent studies include the Urban Sector Review, the Water Sector Report and a
regional development study. The Bank also plans to carry out a study on
municipal management, with special emphasis on resource mobilization and
taxation at the local level. Based on discussions of these reports, the
Bank's strategy in the sector includes assistance towards improving main urban
service levels (water, sewerage, solid waste management, urban
transportation); increasing the supply of serviced land in locations and at
costs that reinforce sound spatial development patterns and are affordable to
relevant commercial and household groups; and strengthening the capacity of
local governments to plan, implement, and manage the functions for which they
are responsible.



- 6 -
2.15     In support of this strategy, Bank lending follows a "three track"
approach, which focuses on the water supply and sewerage, shelLer, and
municipal subsectors. Seven water and sewerage projects have been undertaken
in urban areas; the most recent one, the Greater Amman Water Supply and
Se.werage Project (Loan 2483-JO, $30 million) was signed January 31, 1985. The
First Urban Development Project (Loan 1983-JO, $21 million), approved in
September 1980, and the recently approved Second Urban Development Project
(Loan 2587-JO $28.0 million), are addressing the need for cost-effective,
low-cost housing in the Amman region and for appropriate educational, health,
training and community facilities for people in the lowest 40th percentile of
the Amman region income distribution.
2.16     Two loans have been made in the municipal development subsector.  The
ongoing Anuan Transport and Municipal Development Project (Loan 2334-JO, $30
million), is assisting the Municipality of Amman to improve traffic
conditions, to upgrade the ability of municipal departments to plan and
execute works (including maintenance and operation functions), to upgrade
solid waste management, and to initiate systematic investment programming.
The project has experienced some initial delays, mostly caused by procurement
problems; however, overall progress is now accelerating and is, on the whole,
satisfactory.
2.17     The First CVDB Project (Loan 1826-JO, $10 million) was made in 1980
with the objective of improving and increasing the capacity of local
governments to provide urban services. Under this loan, CVDB evolved from an
almost bankrupt disbursement fund, controlled by MMRA, to an independent bank
that is growing in administrative and operational ability. The loan was fully
committed in June 1984. Because of some initial delays caused by difficulties
in recruiting suitable personnel and in establishing appraisal procedures
acceptable to the Bank for street projects, and to allow sufficient time to
complete construction of some subprojects, the closing date was extended to
June 1986. However, project execution and disbursements are now proceeding
satisfactorily. The proposed project will build upon CVDB I and is designed
to strengthen CVDB's capability to help municipalities conceive and execute
good projects, especially in the less developed areas of Jordan.
III. CVDB - THE INSTITUTION
A. Obiectives, Functions, Legal Framework and Ownership
3.01     CVDB was esLablished to assist municipalities and villages in the
identification, preparation, implementation and operation of projects
designed: (i) to meet the basic human needs of even the less developed
segments of the population in the country; (ii) to raise the living standards
of rural and urban groups by providing improved infrastructure services;
(iii) to create local employment opportunities in all regions, except Amman
Municipality, even in the least developed, through the financing of productive
projects; and (iv) to improve income distribution by integrating the less
developed areas in the national development process. Besides assisting in
the preparation and financing of projects, CVDB, in the context of the
proposed project, will also provide local authorities with technical
assistance so that they can carry out their functions more efficiently and
economically.



3.02     To achieve these objectives, CVDB grants long-term loans to
municipalities and villages, takes equity participations in their projects and
guarantees loans and manages funds made available by other sources to its
borrowers. All of its activities are within the framework of approved
regional and sectoral plans and priorities established by the Government.
CVDB plays a promotional role in the field of productive, profit-making,
employment-generating projects, as its borrowers (with the exception of the
major municipalities) normally lack the expertise and entrepreneurial skills
to identify and conceive such projects- For public utility and social
infrastructure -ojects, municipalities and villages will continue to depend
upon the work pre- -ntly being undertaken by ministries and government agencies
for project prepara-ion and implementation_ The projects' technical
proposals, arrangements for implementation and subsequent operation and
maintenance, and the analyses of financial and economic viability will be
prepared either by ministries and agencies, or by persons or firms hired by
the local councils. CUDB will increasingly provide local councils with
technical assistance for the identification and preparation of projects. CVDB
will continue to perform the technical and financial appraisal of all projects
and has started to analyze carefully the solvency of all local councils
applying for loans (see para. 4.16). The quality of CVDB's appraisals is
improving as its staff gains maturity through training and experience.
3.03     In February 1985, MIRA gave CVDB the responsibility of organizing
financial management training for local council staff. In addition, CVDB has
played an important role in the formulation of reforms for local government
financial procedures and will, through its continued dialogue with local
councils, help them improve financial management.
Legal Framework
3.04     The CVDB Law of November 1979 established CVDB as a public
institution enjoying semi-autonomous administrative and financial status.
Eligible borrowers are municipalities, incorporated villages, and entities
such as corporations, owned by them. Common Services Councils, which are
neighboring municipalities and village councils that have combined to share a
particular service, are also eligible to borrow. Funds collected on behalf of
municipalities and villages by the Central Government such as national revenue
sharing allotment and land and building taxes (para. 2.08) are transferred to
CVDB on a monthly basis; a partion serves as collateral for the debt service
on its loans and any excess can be withdrawn by the local authorities. The
law also specifies the conditions under which local and foreign resources can
be raised by CVDB.
Ownership
3.05     The CVDB's authorized share capital of JD 12 million (US$30 million)
is divided into two classes of shares: those held by the Government and
Central Bank of Jordan (CBJ), which have voting powers but are not
remumerated, and those held by CVDB's borrowers and earn dividends. At the
formation of CVDB, paid-up share capital consisted only of Government-held
shares totalling about JD 5.6 million and representing its previous holding in
the Municipal and Village Loan Fund (MVLF). By 1984, the paid-up capital had
doubled to JD 11.3 million (US$28.3 million) and the structure had changed.



The Government owned 65%, CBJ 4%, and the local councils 31%. Further
increases in share capital do not appear necessary during the commitment
period of the proposed loan.
B. Organization, Management and Staffing
3.06     CVDB is administered by a Board of nine Directors comprising the
Minister of MMRA (Chairman), CVDB's General Manager (Vice-Chairman), and
representatives from Ministry of Planning (MOP), MMRA, Ministry of Public
Works (MPW), Ministry of Finance (MOF) and CBJ, and two representatives of
CVDB's borrowers. The Board's main authorities and functions are: (i) to
determine CVDB's overall policy; (ii) to prepare operational and staff
regulations; (iii) to approve loans and other financial assistance; (iv) to
appoint auditors; and (v) to recommend capital increases. In addition, the
Board may set up ad hoc committees of directors and staff members to which it
may delegate some of its powers. The Board meets once a week.
3.07     The CVDB's chief executive officer is the General Manager appointed
by a decree of the Council of Ministers upon the recomuendation of the
Minister of NMRA. He is responsible for implementing CVDB's general policy
and Board resolutions, and may exercise any prerogative authorized by the
Board and/or delegated by the Chairman.
3.08     CVDB is organized along functional lines in five Departments, each
headed by a Manager who reports to the General Manager. The Technical
Department is responsible for project appraisal and supervision, for assessing
local councils' solvency, for loan disbursements and repayment collections.
The Financial Department prepares and implements annual borrowing programs,
manages CVDB's short-term portfolio and local councils' deposits. The
Internal Audit and Organization Department is mainly responsible for
monitoring CVDB's progress in meeting its objectives and to ensure financial
probity. The Administration Department provides administrative, logistic and
personnel administration support.  The Planrir.g and Statistics Department is
responsible for recording and analyzing past activities of the Bank and for
forecasting. A complete organization chart of CVDB is found in Annex 2.
3.09     In order to streamline and codify its operations, CVDB's Board of
Dir-t=.s adopted on April 25, 1985 executive regulations specifying the
responsibilities and tasks of each section, division and senior staff position.
3.10     Currently CVDB has about 90 staff members: 65 employees and 25
ancillary personnel. Forty-three perceiit of the personnel has worked at CVDB
longer than three years. One-third of the employees has at least a bachelors
degree, another third has a post secondary degree. Most of the staff are
young and approximately half is female. Salaries are set according to
Jordanian civil service regulations and vary from JD 70 per month for a clerk
to JD 220 for a civil engineer.
3.11     In the past, these salaries have made it difficult to attract and
retain experienced technical staff. However. CVDB's General Manager has been
able to increase pay levels by remunerating overtime work. Recently the sharp
reduction of employment possibilities in Gulf countries, the mild downturn in
the Jordanian economy and the rapid growth rate of the skilled labor force
have made salaries relatively more attractive and reduced turnover. This is



- 9 -
expected to continue for the next few years and should enable CVDB to build
and consolidate its personnel strength. However, because the strength of the
Technical Department is essential for the success of the proposed project, it
was agreed during negotiations that CVDB prepare and review with the Bank an
analysis of its staffing requirements not later than one month after the end
of each of its fiscal years.
3.12     CVDB has made serious efforts in the past to provide training to its
staff. Two Department heads have had extensive training in project appraisal
abroad. Two-thirds of the technical staff have attended short courses in
project appraisal, management or technical subjects at the Institute of Public
Administration and at IDB's training institute. So far training has been
managed in an ad hoc manner by the head of the Administration Department. Now
that CVDB will be in charge of organizing training of local council personnel,
it has set up a Training Division which will also be responsible for training
CVDB personnel (para. 4.10).
3.13     The project appraisal expert and the senior civil engineer who are
part of the technical assistance component of the proposed project will
provide on the job training, mainly for Technical Department personnel (para
4.09).
C. Policies and Procedures
3.14     A new Policy Statement, satisfactory to the Bank (Annex 3). was
drafted in February 1985 and was adopted by CVDB's Board of Directors on May
9, 1985. The new Statement covers the general goals of CVDB, its management,
and its loan, deposits, financial and outreach policies.
3.15     CVDB has also prepared new Project Eligibility Criteria (Annex 4),
which are meant as general guidelines for the appraisal of projects. They
define technical restrictions, standards, general and specific financial
conditions, minimum size, and the documents to be provided with loan
applications. The eligibility criteria will be distributed to local councils
to serve as guidelines for project identification and preparation. The
criteria were ratified by CVDB's Board on May 2, 1985.
3.16     CVDB brought to negotiations an English version of the new General
Policy Statement, the Loan Eligibility Criteria and the Executive Regulations,
ratified by CVDB's Board of Directors. (The first two documents are found in
Annexes 3 and 4.) It was agreed during negotiations that CVDB will not alter
the General Policy Statement and the Loan Eligibility Criteria without
reaching agreement with the Bank.
3.17     The Policy Statement contains several covenants designed to ensure
prudent financial management. To ensure a fair allocation of CVDB's resources
among its large number of potential borrowers, and to avoid a disproportionate
share of its portfolio being concentrated in a few, large projects located in
the bigger and more developed municipalities, the Policy Statement limits
CVDB's total exposure in a single project to 12 of its paid-up capital and
general reserves (about US$400,000 equivalent at the beginning of 1985) and
its total exposure in a single borrower to 10% of the same base (about US$4
million equivalent).



- 10 -
D. Operations and Finances
Long-Term Loans
3.18     CVDB has grown much faster than expected when the First Bank Loan was
appraised.  Between 1981 and 1984, its long-term loan--  portfolio has
increased at the rate of 41.2% per annum, more than three times faster than
originally estimated. This performance was due to a higher than expected
demand for loans, to the Central Government's ability to provide CVDB with
sufficient financial resources, and to CVDB's ability to process loans
swiftly. At the end of 1984, outstanding long-term loans to municipalities,
villages and conmnon service councils amounted to JD 35.9 million (US$89.8
million).
3.19     Long-term lending reached a peak in 1982 (JD 14.7 million) and has
decreased since (to JD 7.7 million in L984). The slowdown is due to the
gradual completion of the land acquisition program promoted under the current
Five Year Plan, to the overall downturn in economic activities and to the fact
that many local councils had reached the statutory limits on borrowing that
CVDB used until April 1985 (para. 3.23). The projected level of approval of
long-term loans is expected to decrease a little more in 1985 possibly to JD
7.3 million, because the Jordanian economy is still slowing down. In 1986,
lending is expected to increase as local councils' incomes increase as a
result of the increase of Building and Land taxes (para. 2.08) and their
ability to borrow will be measured more accurately by the new solvency test
(para. 4.16). Terms and conditions for its long-term loans are described in
para. 4.04.
Short-term Loans
3.20     CVDB extends two kinds of short-term facilities to assist
municipalities in temporary financial difficulty:
(a) short-term loans at 7.5% repaid in twelve monthly installments;
twelve municipalities had borrowed JD 320,000 at the end of
1984; and
(b) overdrafts also over one year but repaid whenever the borrowing
municipality has cash inflows, and charged a penalty rate (i) of
one point over the highest rate paid by CVDB for its resources,
currently 8.75%, (ii) computed on the highest overdraft balance
during a month, and (iii) compounded every six munths. This
combination makes for an overall effective rate that can
potentially be several times the nominal rate on actual
balances. For example, during the first semester of 1984, Salt
Municipality had to pay an effective annual rate of 12.6% on an
average daily balance of JD 45,082, and Karak had to pay 15.25%
on an average daily balance of JD 23,088.
11 Maturities longer than one year.



- ii -
3.21     The revised General Policy Statement sets new limits to short-term
facilities: (a) overdraft balances cannot exceed the difference between
revenues estimated for the current year and debt service obligations to CVDB;
(b) any excess overdraft will be consolidated into short-term loans, which
cumulatively cannot exceed 50% of estimated national revenue sharing
allotment; and (c) the interest rate relationship is reversed with short-term
loans charged interest rates one percentage point higher than overdrafts.
Arrears
3.22     De jure there are no arrears on loan repayments because they are
automatically deducted from the deposits kept in escrow by CVDB. However,
some arrears do occur: because local councils have so far not been allowed to
accumulate reserves, random mismatches of revenues and debt-service payments
occur at the end of the year, CVDB is forced to grant occasional overdrafts.
Because revenues more than cover debt-service, most local councils are
technically in arrears only for a short time. The mission's proposal to allow
local councils to carry reserves now being discussed for implementation should
eliminate most temporary arrears in the future. Two municipalities, Salt and
Karak, have had more permanent arrears due to errors in financial planning.
The Government has taken special measures to rescue the finances of the two
cities and MMRA and CVDB will monitor their finances closely to avoid problems
in the future.
Loan Rescheduling
3.23     At the end of 1983, CVDB rescheduled loans of 30 municipalities worth
J1D 9.3 million and in 1984 loans of 7 additional municipalities worth JD 1-3
million. The reascn for this large debt consolidation was not that these
local councils were insolvent or unable to service their existing debt but
that they had reached their statutory borrowing limits. The old limit
stipulated that a local council was not allowed to borrow more from CVDB that
it could repay from 80% of its estimated national revenue sharing allotment,
(para. 2.08) regardless of the size of other revenues and of other
expenditures.  Only profit-raking projects were exempted from this ceiling.
While this rule was simple and easy to administer, it substantially
underestimated the borrowing and repayment capacity of large municipalities
for which the national revenue sharing allotment is only a small portion of
total revenues. By rescheduling their debt, these municipalities were able to
contract new loans with CVDB and use more of their actual borrowing capacity.
3.24     The rescheduling stretched CVDB's resource utilization and, if
repeated, could expose CUDB to undesirable maturity mismatches. Because
rescheduling was in the form of new ten-year loans, it had to be financed with
equity, the only financial instrument with a long enough maturity available to
CVDB. As a result of rescheduling, 69% of CVDB's net worth (paid up capital
plus reserves) were immobilized for an average of five years. The overall
portfolio structure was also changed since, in twelve months, 32% of the
portfolio was rescheduled, adding in the process one year to the average
portfolio maturity.  With the gradual strengthening of local courcils'
financial management under the proposed project and the new solvency test
(para. 4.16), it is unlikely that large-scale rescheduling will recur in the
future.



- 12 -
Liabilities
3.25     Borrowed resources account for 611 of total liabilities and equity.
At the end of the 1984, the major lenders were, by order of size:
Table I:  JORDAN:  MAJOR LENDERS TO CVDB
Maximum maturity
JD million      S          (in years)
Municipalities and Villages            9.09       37.1            1
CBJ                                    8.26      33.7             5
Time deposits                          4.15       16.9            1
IBRD-CVDB I                            2.07       8.4            12  /a
IDA /c                                 0.95       3.9            30  /a
EIB/EEC /d                             0.00       0.0           275
Total                             24.52     100.0           2.5 (Average)/b
/a Maturity left on loan.
/b Weighted average.
/c Two water supply loans in 1961 and 1983 to the Agricultural Credit
Corporation transferred to MVLF wnen it was created and subsequently to
CVDB.
/d The loans were contracted in 1984, but not yet disbursed (para. 3.28).
3.26     CVDB has borrowed mainly from local sources (881 of outstanding
borrowings at the end of 1984). On average, funds from domestic sources are
fairly short-term: 541 of total borrowings are short-term (less than one year)
and 34S are medium-term (up to 5 years). Municipality and Village deposits
can be considered either short-term because local councils can freely draw
them down to the minimum needed to cover debt repayments, or long-term because
part is de facto kept in escrow by CVDB to cover debt service. All CBJ loans
were granted to CVDB for five years and 92Z of the debt outstanding at the end
of 1984 requires balloon repayments concentrated between 1986 and 1988.
3.27     Time deposits by institutions such as insurance companies and the
Municipality of Amman have grown rapidly since CVDB started collecting them at
the beginning of 1984. Those deposits will only be rolled over at maturity if
CVDB is willing to continue to offer competitive interest rates, currently
8.75Z.
3.28     Foreign borrowings have not been an important or frequent source of
funds for CVDB: from IBRD in 1980 and from European Economic Commission (EEC)
and European Investment Bank (EIE) in 1984. Later loans carry very favorable
conditions (an average interest rate of about 4X and average repayment period
of twenty-five years), but they are too small (a total of JD 1,120,000 or
US$2,800,000) to affect the debt structure significantly by the time they are
fully disbursed.
3.29     The average maturity of borrowed resources, which at the end of 1984
financed 682 of outstanding loans, is one quarter of that of the loan
portfolio. The difference in maturities is much less if net worth is taken
into account. The proposed minimum debt-service ratio (para. 3.33) is
designed to protect CVDB against maturity mismatch risks.



- 13 -
Share Capital Increase and Debt-Equity Ratio
3.30     Because CVDB has in the past been able to generate large cash flows
(JD 1.1 million or 43X of total income in 1984), capital increases have not
been necessary. However, as required under the first Bank loan, CVDB has
increased its equity base to the point that it is now significantly
under-leveraged. Between 1981 and 1984, the paid-up capital was increased by
JD 3.5 million even though CVDB was comitted to increase it only by JD
600,000 over five years under the first Bank loan; by comparison, the
additional accumulated retained earnings amounted to JD 3.2 million. At the
end of 1984, the debt-equity ratio was only 0.7:1, well below the statutory
ceiling of 4.0:1 stipulated in the General Policy Statement. No further
capital increase is necessary in the medium-term and it was agreed during
negotiations that CVDB would maintain a maximum debt equity ratio of 4.0:1l'.
New Financial Covenants
3.31     Under CVDB I the main financial covenant was the stipulation of a
maximum debt-equity ratio. For the new loan two additional covenants have
been included to protect CVDB's profitability (para. 3.32) and the risk of
maturity mismatches (para. 3.33).
CVDB's Margin Over Total Resources
3.32     The marginal cost of borrowing has increased considerably lately.  It
doubled from 4.7Z in 1983 to 9.8Z in 1984, well above the 6.8Z marginal yield
on the loan portfolio. This higher marginal cost of borrowing should remain
for the foreseeable future, because CVDB will rely more on time deposits
costing around 8.75X and will contract a new Bank loan at around 9X_ It was
agreed during negotiations that, if at any time CVDB's margin over total
resources would be projected to diminish below 2 points, for the current
fiscal year and the following three, the Government would either allow CVDB to
increase its lending rates or take other measures to ensure CVDB's
profitability.
Debt-Service Ratio
3.33     On the basis of its loans outstanding at the end of 1984, CVDB would
not be able to meet its debt-service commitments in 1985 and 1986 because of
large time deposits maturing in 1985 and of large balloon payments on CBJ
loans due in 1986 (Annex 1, Table 7). However, it is likely that the time
deposits will be renewed during 1985. It is also expected that CBJ would
renew its loans as part of CVDB's financing plan for 1985-87. To protect CVDB
against insolvency caused by a temporary mismatch of maturities, agreement was
obtained during negotiations that CVDB will have a debt-service ratio in terms
of principal"' at least equal to 1.15:1 at the end of each current fiscal
year and projected for the three following years.
1/ Defined as: outstanding long-term borrowings over total net worth.
2/ Defined as: loan repayments (principal only) over borrowing repayments
(principal only).



- 14 -
Recent Financial Performance
3.34     CVDB's audited income statements and balance sheets for the years
1981 to 1983 and preliminary figures for 1984 are shown in Annex 1, Tables 2
and 3, and the relevant performance indicators are presented in Annex 1,
Table 8. Interest income received from the loan portfolio increased by 54%
p.a. from 1981 to 1984. As a confirmation of CVDB's maturity as a development
bank, other income (mainly interest on time deposits in banks) has contributed
steadily less to total income, down from 51% in 1981 to 14% in 1984. Total
income increased from JD 1.3 million in 1981 to JD 2.7 million (preliminary
figures) for 1984. Over the same period, expenses increased faster than total
income (by 35% p.a. versus 28%), mainly because interest paid on term
borrowings increased by 55% p.a. Administrative expenses (including
depreciation) barely increased (8.2% p.a.). This caused the administrative
costs ratio to de,..line from 1.0% of average assets in 1982 to 0.7% in 1984.
The administrative expense ratio may, however, increase in the medium-term as
measures are taken to increase staff and as CVDB moves to larger, better
equipped offices.
3.35     Preliminary results for 1984 confirm recent trends, i.e. higher cost
of borrowing compensated by lower administrative costs. In 1984, CVDB's cash
position increased to 9.2% of total assets because the large time deposits
collected that year (JD 4.1 million) could not be invested due to the slowdown
in disbursements. Nevertheless, CVDB has had a tendency to be over-invested
in cash and deposits in recent years, mainly because the average yield on
deposits is higher than that on loans, respectively 8.5% and 6.8% in 1984.
Financial Projections and Resource Requirements -
3-36     CVDB's projected lending on a commitment basis would amount to JD
33.1 million (US$82.8 million) for the period 1985-1988.  Because of the
normal lags between them, disbursements would be about 12% below commitments.
Over the period 1985-1988, CVDB's loan portfolio is expected to increase from
JD 36.7 million to JD 45.1 million. It is estimated that, over the period
from mid-1985 to end-1987 of the proposed Bank loan, about US$33.1 million
worth of commitments would be eligible for Bank financing. At the beginning
of 1985, there were JD 3.7 million of available resources, thus leaving JD
29.4 million in resource requirements. While resource requirements are lower
on a disbursement basis (JD 25.6 million), funding should be secured on a
commitment basis to avoid uncovered lending. Identified resources would cover
these requirements (see Table II below). The main sources would be: the
collection on loans net of debt-service (44%), the proposed Bank loan (20%),
the increase in short-term liabilities (mainly time deposits which are to be
rolled over at maturity: 16%) and the cash-flow generation (7%); the balance
would be shared between the first Bank loan, the recent EIB/EEC loans and CBJ
(assuming consolidation of previous loans).  It was agreed during negotiations
that CVDB will prepare and discuss with the Bank not later than one month
1/ CVDB's projected income statements, balance sheets, and fund flows are
shown in Tables 5, 6, and 7 of Annex 1; the main assumptions underlying
these projections are sumnarized at the end of Annex 1.



- 15 -
after the end of each of its fiscal years a financing plan, which would enable
CVDB to continue its operation and to achieve the financial objectives
referred to in paras. 3.30, 3.32 and 3.33.
3.37     Projected performance indicators are shown in Annex 1, Table 8.
CVDB's profits are expected to be halved from the early 1980's level, but will
still be satisfactory at above 22 of average assets. The downward pressure on
margins would result from a combination of the leveling-off of yields on the
loan portfolio and the sharply increasing cost of borrowed funds. Although
the spread !"on long-term debt would faLl to one point from 2.6 points in
1984, CVDB would still be able to function satisfactorily because its margin
on all resources A'would stay above two points.  However, if CBJ were not to
renew all of the JD 8.5 million that will mature before 1988, or if it were to
increase its interest rate above the current 3.5Z, CVDB's operating margin
would fall under the minimum two-points stipulated in its Statement of General
Policy. The projected debt-equity ratio would still be below 1:1 by 1988, and
the debt-service coverage ratio would be above the agreed minimum (1.15:1)
except in 1986 due to a non-recurring JD4.4 million balloon repayment to CBJ.
Table II: JORDAN  CVDB FINANCING PLAN 1985 1988
(in JD '000)
On a Commitment    On a Disbursement
Basis                 Basis
Projectea Lending                   33.106.8             29.303.7
Contracted or Identified Resources:
Resources available at end of 1984    - 3.725.0           3.725.0
Cash flow generation                 2.256.2              2.256.2
Loan Collection less Oebt Service   13.367.5             13,367.5
Long-term borrowings:
IBRD I                             1.398.7              1.398.7
IBRO II                            6.120.0              5.237.1
EIB/EEC                            1.126.1              1,126.1
Short-ternm liabilities
(excluding time deposits)       2.121.1               2.121.1
Total                           30.114.6             29.231.7
Resource Gap (-) or Surplus ()        992.2                -72.0
Resources to be mobilized:
(tentative list of sources)
Capital increase                      730.0                  0.0
CBJ                                   742.0               7.804.4
Time Deposits                      7.000.0                700 °°.
Total                            8.472.0             14.804.4
l/ Defined as (1) loan income over average loan portfolio less (ii) cost of
long-term debt over average long-term debt.
2/ Defined as (i) gross income over average assets less (ii) financial
expenses over average borrowings and equity.



- 16 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives and Scope
4.01     The objectives of the Second Cities and Villages Development Project
(CVDB II) are:
(i)   to support an institution that can improve the living standards
of populations in the outer, less developed regions without
significantly burdening the Central Government;
(ii)   to facilitate the execution of municipal and village development
plans by funding well-appraised infrastructure and revenue-
earning projects;
(iii)   to strengthen CVDB's institutional capability and improve further
its policies and procedures, especially those relating to project
appraisal; and
(iv)   to support CVDB's role in organizing financial training for local
government personnel and CVDB staff.
B. Project Description
Main Project Components
4.02     The proposed project has five components, of which only the first two
would require financing under the proposed loan. The components are: (i) a
US$14.9 million credit line to CVDB; (ii) the purchase of cars and
microcomputers for CVDB (US$0.1 million); (iii) technical assistance
consisting of two staff years of a Project Appraisal Specialist and three
staff years of a Senior Civil Engineer (US$0.5 million); and (iv) training for
local councils and CVDB personnel to be organized by CVDB (US$0.3 million).
Line of Credit
4.03     The Bank will finance subprojects identified and prepared by local
councils (para. 4.14) and appraised and supervised by CVDB (paras. 4.15 and
4.18). The study of local council infrastructure and basic needs currently
underway (para. 2.12) is helping local councils identify a pipeline of
priority projects. The Bank will finance any of the subproject categories
mentioned in CVDB's Policy Statement as long as they are technically,
economically, financially and socially justified. Eligible social
infrastructure subprojects are: streets and road segments, footpaths,
sidewalks and stairs, school buildings, local council buildings and public
libraries, cemeteries, health centers, civil works and solid waste collection
equipment, local electricity distribution networks and street lighting and
other public facilities. The eligible profit-making projects are vegetable
and other municipal markets, cold stores, commercial centers and stores,
offices, trade centers and workshops, slaughterhouses, and parking garages.



- 17 -
4.04     Subloans by CVDB would carry the following annual interest rates:
Municipalities                VilIages
Loans For:                        Interest   Maturity        Interest   Maturity
Infrastructure subprojects          7.5%       llY/a             6%         16Y /a
Profit-making subprojects           8.5%       12Y/b           8.5%         14Y /b
/a  includes 1 year grace period.
/b includes 2 years grace period.
Subloan interest rates, maturities and grace periods were agreed during
negotiations. The portion of CVDB's subloans to be financed from the proposed
Bank loan, based on the estimated weighted average direct and indirect foreign
exchange component of all CVDB's subloans, is estimated at about 53%. As with
the CVDB I Loan, the second loan would, for simplicity, finance 50% of CVDB's
total disbursements (land excluded) for acceptable subprojects. This amount
is equivalent to 45% of total subproject costs as 10% would be financed by the
borrowing local authority and the remaining 45% by CVDB from other sources.
4.05     With domestic inflation currently at 5% and expected to climb to 6%
in 1986 and to 7% thereafter, CVDB's interest rate structure compares
favorably with those charged by other institutions. Commercial banks, which
have JD 1.1 billion outstanding loans and advances, charge about 10.25% (8.75%
rate plus 1.5% for fees and charges). The specialized institutions which have
JD 0.4 billion in outstanding loans, charge rates which are approximately the
same or slightly lower than CVDB: 5% for JHC, 7% for ACC or similar projects,
IDB charges 6.75% for small-scale projects and 7 to 8.25% for larger projects,
JCO 6.5 to 8%, and HB 4.5 to 13% (average around 8.5%).
4.06     The present interest rate structure for CVDB loans is justified by
(i) the fact that many loans are given for the fulfillment of basic needs
which in many countries are financed by grants from the Central Government,
(ii) the statutory limitations the Central Government imposes on Local
Government's taxation ability, (iii) the low income level of the ultimate
beneficiaries and (iv) the fact that loans to local communities are virtually
risk free and that the interest rate is net of a risk premium normally
included in commercial rates.
4.07     The free limit for subproject submissions is US$125,000 for all
subprojects with the exception of public parks, sport facilities, recreation
areas, and civil works and solid waste equipment for which it will be
US$60,000. For subloans above the free limit, CVDB will submit a completed
appraisal report (para. 4.15) to the Bank and for those below the free limit,
a simple request supported by a completed Subproject Data Short Form. CVDB,
will keep a copy of all appraisals for Bank financed projects. These points
were agreed upon during negotiations. Since no aggregate free limit is
proposed it was agreed during negotiations that CVDB will submit to the Bank
at least the first appraisal report for each subproject category for which it
will seek Bank financing.



- 18 -
Equipment
4.08     The proposed loan will finance the foreign exchange cost (US$100,000)
of the purchase of 3 cars and 5 microcomputer work stations (total cost
US$125,000). The cars are needed to enable CVDB's Technical Department staff
to do more field visits and site supervision. The microcomputers will be used
to rationalize data compilation in the Technical and Financial Departments.
Technical Assistance
4.09     The purpose of this component is to reinforce the ability of CVDB's
Technical Department to appraise and supervise projects. It consists of: two
staff-years of a Project Appraisal Specialist and three staff-years of a
Senior Civil Engineer. At the request of the Jordanian Government, this
project component, which is estimated to cost approximately US$550,000, would
be financed not from the proposed loan but either from their own resources or
from external grants. Agreement has been reached with the European Economic
Commission (EEC) to finance the Project Appraisal Specialist for one year
(renewable up to three). A Project Appraisal Specialist joined CVDB in April
1985. In addition, UNDP has indicated that it may be interested in financing,
possibly together with the Arab Gulf Fund, a Jordanian Senior Civil Engineer
for CVDB. It was agreed during negotiations that CVDB will arrange to recruit
and retain a suitable Project Appraisal Specialist for two years and a Senior
Civil Engineer for three years by December 31, 1985, that the Government
intends to seek foreign technical assistance for these experts, and that in
the event this is not forthcoming, the Government would provide such funding
from its own resources.
4.10     Training of Municipal and Village Council and CVDB Personnel.  CVDB
has been formally charged with organizing much needed training in project
preparation, follow-up and financial management for local council officials,
the total cost of which is approximately US$100,000. CVDB will also continue
to train its own personnel in project appraisal, accounting, auditing and
municipal finance at a cost of about US$200,000. CVDB has established a
division to organize training and would continue to rely on existing Jordanian
institutions such as Jordan and Yarmauk Universities, the training institute
of the IDB and the Institute for Public Administration. MMRA would transfer
to CVDB the funds that it would have spent had it continued to organize the
training of local officials. It was agreed during negotiations that the
appointment of a qualified training specialist to head the Training Division
would be a condition of loan effectiveness. It was agreed during negotiations
that: (i) CVDB will prepare detailed training programs for local council and
for its own personnel, acceptable to the Bank, not later than December 31,
1985; (ii) CVDB will submit to the Bank, not later than one month after the
end of each fiscal year, a report on its training activities; and (iii) the
Government will finance the cost of both training programs in case other
sources of funds are not available.



-19-
C. Financial Arrangements
4.11     The proposed Bank loan will be made to the Government of Jordan and
onlent to CVDB. It was agreed during negotiations that the signature of a
subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and CVDI, satisfactory to the
Bank, is a condition of the effectiveness of the B&nk loan . Terms and
conditions will be those standard for Jordan: 15 years, including three years
of grace, with fixed amortization schedule of the principal. The interest
rate will be variable for the Government, but it will be fixed for CVDB (see
para. 4.13). The portion of the proposed loan earmarked for onlending to
CVDB's subprojects (US$14.9 million) will be used to cover 502 of CVDB's
subloans (see para. 4.03).
4.12     Since CVDB cannot manage the uncertainty of parity fluctuations, it
does not bear the exchange risk on its current foreign loans. The same
arrangement would apply under the proposed loan. Similarly, CVDB's borrowers
cannot manage the foreign exchange risk. To pass on a portion of the risk
through a flat premium was rejected by the authorities, since it would amount
to increasing interest rates which they currently deem adequate.
4.13     CVDB would have similar difficulty in passing on the interest rate
fluctuation risk of the Bank loan because the Government will not now allow it
to change its lending interest rates. In the short run, CVDB could absorb the
interest fluctuation risk since its margin on total resources1, is still
large (3.2 points in 1984). But it is steadily declining and projections put
it at 2.2 points in 1988 when 822 of the proposed loan would have been
disbursed. Hence, CVDB's ability to bear such risk would diminish as the
higher cost of marginal resources brings the margin down to the proposed
statutory two points minimum (para. 3.32). The willingness of the Government
to bear the foreign exchange and interest fluctuation risk was confirmed
during negotiations.
D. CVDB Project Cycle
Identification and Preparation
4.14     Identification of subprojects is the responsibility of local councils
and under the project they will be required to prepare feasibility studies or
surveys for all subprojects except land acquisition and streets. MMRA's
Directorate of Works and Engineering Services will be able to help with the
design of smaller projects (para. 2.03), as will CVDB's Technical Department
as it gradually improves under the project. Consultants will be retained for
the more complicated feasibility studies and surveys and for the design of the
larger projects.
Appraisal
4.15     CVDB appraises the technical, economic, financial and social
justification of all subprojects: financial profitability will be the main
criterion for profit-making projects; appropriate cost recovery for street and
roads, footpaths and sidewalk projects; and cost effectiveness for school and
land acquisition projects. A new appraisal format (see Annex 7, Project
1/ Defined as: (a) gross income/average assets minus (b) financial expenses/
average borrowings and equity (see Annex 1, Table 8).



- 20 -
File 4, "CVDB Appraisal Form") , to be utilized by CVDB and all its foreign
lenders, includes a review of the finances of the local council, a detailed
project description, information about project implementation and an economic
and financial justification. It contains estimated income and projected cash
flow, statements and projected balance sheets and a calculation of the
internal financial rate of return. It was agreed during negotiations that
CVDB would use the Appraisal Report format (Annex 7, Project File 4) and the
Loan Eligibility Criteria found in Annex 4 for each Bark-financed subproject.
4.16     Appraisal of local councils' finances is based on a solvency test
which starts by ensuring that the local authority's accounts balance.
Projections of revenues available for non-recurrent expenditures are then
calculated and compared to the sum of the debt burden on outstanding loans
plus planned capital expenditures from their own (non-loan) resources. The
result is an estimate of the local authority's capacity to secure new debt.
Only 75% of uncommitted, non-recurrent expenditures will be earmarked for down
payments and debt service of new loans. This test will help ensure that local
authorities could not incur debt incompatible with their resources, and will
be an occasion for CVDB to advise them on improvements in their financial
management.
Loan Committee and Board Approval
4.17     Before projects are submitted to CVDB's Board of Directors they are
reviewed by the Loan Committee which consists of the General Manager and the
Heads of all Departments (see para. 3.08). Frequently loans are sent back to
the staff for further analysis or refused at this stage. Once cleared by the
Loan Committee, loans are presented for approval to the Board of Directors.
Supervision
4.18     Construction supervision of all projects will continue to be mainly
entrusted to the appropriate technical agencies and ministries. However,
because in the past, supervision has been lax in a number of cases, CVDB will
require that local councils make special arrangements to ensure proper
supervision. The Policy Statement stipulates that CVDB will provide a minimum
of control, comprising review of final designs before tender, presence at bid
opening, inspection of the excavation and foundations, of the basic concrete
structures, and of the quality of finishing. CVDB itself will make spot
checks and one of its engineers will also be present at the final acceptance
inspection. CVDB's borrowers are requirea to submit regular reports on their
projects' status.
Follow-uP
4.19     CVDB has started to send its financial analysts out to local councils
to help them with the management of their profit-making projects after
completion. The main purpose is to ensure that project outputs are priced so
as to generate adequate returns.
Monitoring
4.20     In order to help his staff learn from past experience, CVDB's General
Manager has decided that subproject completion reports (SPCR) will be prepared
for all profit-making projects, not earlier than two years after final



- 21 -
acceptance of civil works and not later than two and a half years after that
date. The reports are submitted to CVDB's Board and to the concerned local
councils.
4.21     In order to enhance internal monitoring, CVDB's General Manager
intends to reorganize and strengthen the newly created Planning and Statistics
Department by reinforcing its staff and equipping it with a microcomputer. It
was agreed during negotiations that CVDB would strengthen this division and
appoint two statisticians to it by December 31, 1985.
Procurement
4.22     Under Government regulations, all tenders for projects undertaken by
municipalities or villages must be advertised at least three times in two
local newspapers. Under its loan agreements with borrowers. CVDB's prior
approval Gf the terms and conditions of tenders is required. A committee at
the municipality or village level reviews the bids that are received and
forwards its recommendations for approval to the MIRA if the contract exceeds
JD 5,000 (US$12,500 equivalent) or to the district governor if it is smaller.
Recommendations sent to the MMRA are reviewed by the Directorate of Works and
Engineering Services before being forwarded to the Minister for approval.
These procedures are satisfactory, especially in view of the typically small
size of projects which are not likely to interest foreign contractors. The
average cost of projects financed under CVDB 1 was around US$250,000, only 12
projects out of a total of 85 cost more than US$500,000 iand the largest was
estimated at US$1,100,000. The size distribution of projects is likely to be
similar under the proposed loan. Local competitive bidding procedures are
generally consistent with the need for economy and efficiency in the execution
of the project.
CVDB Disbursement
4.23     DisDursements are made on the basis of satisfactory evidence of
actual expenditures or, for civil works, on the basis of certificates
indicating progress made following a site visit. These procedures are
satisfactory. Disbursement under the proposed loan is discussed in p. ra. 4.25.
E. IBRD Project Execution
Bank Review of Subprojects
4.24     Based on the experience under the first loan and the tentative
subproject pipeline, it is anticipated that over the next several years CVDB
will process about 230 subprojects annually with an average subloan amount of
US$70,000. Under CVDB I the average the Bank financed subloan was around
US$250,000 and is likely to be about the same under CVDB II. About 120
subloans are expected to be financed by the Bank of which about 50 subloans
are expected to be above the free limit (para. 4.07) with appraisals reviewed
by the Bank.
Disbursement
4.25     Disbursements for subprojects will be made periodically on a
reimbursement basis, covering a flat 50Z of CVDB's total disbursements for



- 22 -
eligible projects (para. 4.03), against statements of expenditure (SOE) for an
aggregate value of not less than US$100,000 (with the exception of the last
one) submitted by CVDB. While the supporting documents will not be submitted
to the Bank, they will be retained by CVDB and be available for inspection by
the Bank. CVDB's disbursement officers are qualified and the disbursement
system has been functioning adequately under the first loan. CVDB has agreed
to make satisfactory arrangements with its auditors for the audit of
expenditures in line with Bank's requiremenis (para. 4.28). The Bank's
standard disbursement procedures will be usee for the equipment component.
Disbursement against expenses for equipment, all of which will be procured by
obtaining quotations from at least 3 suppliers, would amount to US$100,000 or
80Z of cost net of import taxes (US$125,000), and would be made against SOE of
US$10,000 or less. Contracts of more than $10,000 would require standard
documentation.
4.26     Special Account.  To avoid delays due to lengthy procedures for
moving project funds to CVDB and to municipalities and villages, a revolving
fund of US$750,000 will be established at CVDB. This amount corresponds to
about three months of average projected Bank refinancing. The fund will be
replenished against SOE (para. 4.25). The detailed arrangements were
discussed and agreed during negotiations.
4.27     Disbursement Period.  The proposed Bank loan will be committed over a
period of three years. The final date for submitting subprojects to the Bank
will be June 30, 1988. The estimated disbursement schedule (Annex 6) assumes
full disbursement by December 31, 1990. The closing date will be June 30,
1991. While this period is six months shorter than the DFC disbursement
profile for the EMENA region, a shorter period is warranted by Jordan's
generally good project execution performance and by the use of a revolving
fund. It should also be noted that under the CVDB I project disbursements
will take five and one half years, including the initial delay of more than
one year caused by difficulties in recruiting suitable personnel and in
establishing appraisal procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Audit
4.28     The annual audit is performed by a local firm, SABA and Co., which is
associated with Touche Ross International. In the past, their audit of CVDB
accounts has been of good quality and has been delivered on time, 6 months
after the end of the fiscal year. The 1983 audit gave an unqualified opinion
of CVDB's accounts. The appraisal mission discussed with SABA and Co. the
introduction of changes concerning the listing of rescheduled loans and of
short-term loans or overdrafts, the treatment of frozen assets in the West
Bank, and the elimination of the "contra accounts" that list off-balance sheet
commitments. It was also agreed that the 1984 audit will review a sample of
the JD 1.3 million disbursements made under the first loan through the SOE
procedure. Because CVDB saw an advantage in getting their audit report
earlier, the new General Policy Statement stipulates that the report should be
prepared and circulated to the major lenders within four months of the end of
the fiscal year. The auditors will be able to comply with this accelerated
schedule. It was agreed during negotiations that CVDB will retain external
auditors acceptable to the Bank and that their yearly report will be submitted
to the Bank not later than five months after the end of the same fiscal year.



- 23 -
Monitoring
4.29     The Bank will monitor the progress of the proposed project with the
help of a series of documents produced by CVDB and by supervision missions
(para. 4.31). CVDB will produce semi-annual progress reports and financial
accounts in a format acceptable to the Bank. It was agreed during
negotiations that CVDB will send those reports to the Bank not later than one
month after the end of its fiscal semester.
4.30     CVDB has been asked to start preparing a draft project completion
report for the first Bank loan as required by covenant 2-09(b) of the Project
Agreement for CVDB I. It was agreed during negotiations that CVDB will
produce a draft PCR for the second project within six months of the closing
date of the loan.
Bank Supervision
4.31     Bank supervision of the project will require up to 70 man-weeks over
the five year period of implementation. Super-vision efforts by Bank staff and
consultants will be concentrated in the first two years to facilitate a good
start and timely execution. Supervision teams will variously include an
engineer or architect/planner, a financial analyst and/or a municipal finance
specialist.
VY BENEFITS AND RISKS
5.01     The major project benefit is the strengthening of CVDB to play a more
effective role in municipal and village development. In the short run, CVDB
will be strengthened internally to enable it to identify, prepare and appraise
local council subprojects better, both in terms of human resources and
rationalization of internal practices and procedures. This will be
accomplished through staff training and implementation of the new policy
statement, executive regulatioas and appraisal and follow-up techniques. With
these institutional improvements in place, CVDB will play a greater role in
resource mobilization for local councils and be an effective national
organization capable of reaching even the smallest communities throughout
Jordan.
5.02     In the longer run, the project is expected to contribute to
strengthening management at the local government level. By emphasizing
selection of subprojects by local councils, the project places responsibility
for investment planning and implementation at the local level, where it
belongs. The technical assistance program under the loan is designed to
reinforce this emphasis. The appraisal of local councils through the
application of more rigorous financial analysis (para. 4-16) will also
contribute to more realistic investment planning and will encourage
strengthening of communities' capacity to manage resources better by helping
them to generate increased revenue and invest it more efficiently. This will
be a gradual process but will contribute considerably to the improvement of
local finances and the strengthening of institution building in local
government.



- 24 -
5.03     CVDB's outreach covers the whole country, and it therefore has the
possibility of financing projects in all regions of Jordan, outside Amman.
Although it lends to municipalities and villages, the ultimate beneficiaries
are the residents of those communities whose projects are financed by CVDB.
Inasmuch as projects cover a large number of subsectors, they may be expected
to touch on the lives of residents in many ways. It is clear that a major
benefit of the project lies in the improvement in the population's standard of
living through better facilities and infrastructure, which should in turn lead
to greater productivity. The project will thus contribute to improving
inter-regional income distribution by creating new income and employment in
the less developed areas of Jordan and help integrate remote areas with the
national development process.
5.04     Almost iialf of subloans under CVDB I were made to villages
(population 2,500 or less) throughout Jordan, and a similar distribution may
be reasonably hypothesized under the proposed loan. The project will thus
reach some of the more neglected regions, and will impact not only on the
communities themselves but also the surrounding rural areas. No attempt has
been made to quantify the poverty impact in the absence of reliable regional
income distribution data, but the project will undoubtedly benefit some of the
poorest segments of the Jordanian population.
5.05     Because timing of subprojects in the pipeline is unknown and many
subprojects are as yet not identified, it is impossible to calculate the
economic rate of return on subprojects or on the project as a whole. However,
it has been possible to estimate the economic rate of return for the 20
profit-making projects financed under CVDB I, which are similar to those that
would be financed under the proposed loan. They vary between 10.0% and 31.7%
and average 15.0%. The sample was large and representative enough to safely
assume that similar subprojects in future years would yield comparable
returns, well above the opportunity cost of capital (10%). Financial rates of
return will be calculated for all profit-making projects. CVDB's eligibility
criteria require that the rate be at least 12%.  For other subprojects. such
as streets, schools, etc., benefits cannot be easily quantified and the
economic rate of return cannot be properly calculated. Instead, insistence by
CVDB on least cost solutions and maximum cost recovery from immediate
beneficiaries would ensure that subprojects would be justified.
5.06     CVDB performed satisfactorily under the first project and there are
no major risks associated with the proposed project as it builds upon
experience gained with the first. Nonetheless, if salaries, which are similar
to that of the Jordanian civil service, would not increase sufficiently in the
future and would become uncompetitive, CVDB would not be able to attract and
retain qualified staff to meet the challenges implicit in its ambitious
program. This mav lead to delays in improving standards in preparation,
appraisal and follow-up of projects. This risk is minimized, however, in that
there are strong technical assistance and training programs and the General
Manager is making every effort to increase staff compensation when it is
warranted.



- 25 -
VI. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01     Conditions for loan effectiveness are:
(i)    that CVDB appoint a qualified training specialist to head its
newly created Training Division (para. 4.10); and
(ii)    the signature of a subsidiary loan agreement between the
Government and CVDB. satisfactory to the Bank (para 4.11).
6.02     Assurances were obtained at negotiations that:
(i)    CVDB prepare and discuss with the Bank an analysis of the staff
requirements of its Technical Department not later than one
month after the end of each of its fiscal years (para. 3.11).
(ii)    CVDB will not alter the General Policy Statement and the Loan
Eligibility Criteria after negotiations without reaching
agreement with the Bank (para. 3.16);
(iii)    CVDB will maintain a maxinum debt-equity ratio of 4.0:1 (para.
3.30);
(iv)    if at any time CVDB's margin over total resources would be
projected to diminish below 2 points, for the current fiscal
year and the following three, the Government will either allow
CVDB to increase its lending rates or take other measures to
ensure CVDB's profitability (para. 3.32);
(v)    CVDB will have a debt-service ratio in terms of principal at
least equal to 1.15:1 at the end of the current fiscal year and
projected over the three following years (para. 3.33);
(vi)    CVDB will prepare and discuss with the Bank not later than one
month after the end of each of its fiscal years, a financing plan
which will enable CVDB to continue its operations and to achieve
the financial objectives referred to in para. 6.03 (iii),
(iv) and (v).
(vii)    CVDB use subloan interest rates, maturities and grace periods
mentioned in para. 4.04;
(viii)   CVDB will use a free limit for subproject submissions of
US$125,000 for all subprojects with the exception of public
parks, sport facilities, recreation areas and civil works and
solid waste equipment for which it will be US$60,000. For
subloans above the free limit, CVDB will submit a completed
appraisal report (Annex 7, Project File 4) to the Bank and for
those below the free limit, a simple request supported by a
completed Subproject Data Short Form to be agreed upon at
negotiations (para. 4.07);



- 26 -
(ix)    CVDB will submit to the Bank at least the first appraisal report
for each subproject category for which it will seek Bank
financing (para. 4.07);
(x)    (a) CVDB will arrange to recruit and retain a suitable Project
Appraisal Specialist for two years and a Senior Civil Engineer
for three years by December 31, 1985, (b) that the Government
intends to seek foreign technical assistance for these experts,
and (c) that in the event this is not forthcoming, the
Government would provide such funding from its own resources
(para. 4.09);
(xi)    (a) CVDB will prepare detailed training programs for local
council and for its own personnel, acceptable to the Bank, not
later than December 31, 1985, (b) that CVDB will submit to the
Bank, not later than one month after the end of each fiscal
year, a report on its training activities, and (c) that the
Government will finance the cost of both training programs in
case other sources of funds are not available (para. 4.10);
(xii)    the Government will bear both the foreign exchange and the
interest fluctuation risk of the loan (para. 4.13);
(xiii)   that CVDB will use the Appraisal Report format (Annex 7, Project
File 4) and the Loan Eligibility Criteria found in Annex 4 for
each Bank financed subproject (para. 4.15);
(xiv)    CVDB will strengthen its Planning and Statistics Department and
appoint two statisticians to it by December 31. 1985
(para. 4.21);
(xv)    the arrangements for the use of the special revolving fund
account are acceptable to the Bank (para. 4.26);
(xvi)    CVDB will retain auditors acceptable to the Bank and that their
yearly report be submitted to the Bank not later than five
months after the end of the same fiscal year (para. 4.28);
(xvii)    CVDB will submit to the Bank semi-annual progress reports and
financial accounts, in a format acceptable to the Bank, not
later than one month after the end of its fiscal semester (para.
4.29); and
(xviii)    CVDB will produce a draft PCR for the proposed project within
six months of the closing date of the loan (para. 4.30).
6.04     Recommendation.  Subject to reaching agreement on the above points,
the project is suitable for a US$15.0 million Bank loan on standard terms
(15 years with 3 years of grace).



-27 -                                         ANNU 
06-Noy-OS                                   aTTn  -  VILLAUS           vsme n    r LOAN U236_tO                  Page 1 of 9
nrsmTrminm or teats apuwEn in '-poo
iso                 tout               19a12           -   na                           19ag0-L&
mt iR OF            mu.ca Of           mWR OF              miR. or             miER  OF rtlcR OF
PROifCT'S  ATMr   P5UF          TM    EM M             T   19.CTS    AMtM  PeNjja         AMOUNT  PRnoEC7S  gaga
SB  EuRBJER    NINICIPALmES          IS3    6.e46         197  10.682        216   12.107        168    7.602        330   4.566         840   41.003
VILLAGE CIMCILS        156   2.449        I1S    2.807        144   2.595         158   2.044         164    3.173        *17   14.86
TOTAL                                 36   8.49s         392   13.429        3S    14.72         326   31.446        274    7.739      1.657   55.571
BT SECTOR      ELECTRCrITr             14     234          9      136         12       sO         11       62         48      237         94       749
SOCoLS                 132   2.495         75s   I.75          94    2.179         48      777         19      192        368     7.4n
WATER 6 SEWERAGE        19     734          6      435          4      8n           6       99          0        0         35    2.156
ROADS & STREETS        90    3.135        134   4.248         134   5.919         148   5.69s         117   4.048         615   23.045
LAUD AclUISITIG         0        0        112   5.371          68    2.964         57    1831          45    1.324        3S7    15.354
OTWERS                 S      1,49?7       S6    .514          55    2.672         64   2.9a2          45    1,938        271    11,063
TOTAL                  06   8.495         392   33.489        359   34.792        326   31.446        274    7.739      3.657   15.871
BY GOVERNORATE swam                   74    2.797         3s   5.07           66    4.951         MA    2.703         51    1.470         MA    16.923
3ALOA                  14      363          12     35s         16       04         NA      420         12      iss         A      2.077
IRED                   172   4.160        239   6.792         204   6.001          NA   s.5S9         370   4.5s6          MA    27.378
MARDA                  33      777         53    1.034         5    2.011          -A      767         27    1.006         MA     5.595
"A"N                    a      393          a      321         1s      935         NA    1.697         34      542         KA     3.893
TOTAL                  306   e.495        392   13.459        359   14.702         NA  1i.446         274    7s9           MA    ss.871
MSUICIPALITIES         492      713       s5t        792       6es       US        szt      66X        40S      ssx        sit       ut
VILUAGE COUNCILS       SIS      29S        sot      212        40S      iiS        41S      342        602      413        492       272
TOTAL                  100%    1OOt       1002    1002        lo00     100s       100      1002e      I        t= loot    ions      100
ELECTRICM               S        32          2       IS         32       12         32       is        lat  1    32f 6t                32
samoLs                 *nS      29m        Is%      isn        26a      is%        iSt       7S         7t      2a         inS       1ta
WATER   SEW# AGE        62       92         2S       It         it       6a         2a       is         02       cm         2S         42
moAwS a STREETS        291      372        342      332        372      402        432      so0        431      s7x        37         432
LAND ACOUSrTXON         cm       02        291      4St        173      202        172      162        162      17i        222        272
OThERS                  172     222        142      IIS        1St      lS2        202      261        162      25S        16t        202
TOTAL                  I5o=    lO0        l00      l00        I02       1002      1002      002       1002     ix looo               3002
AlO                    24X     332        202      37          Ut      342 SIA             242        192      19S SA                302
-a(                     st       4a         St       ZS         4X       ss        MA        42         42       n2        MA          42
rRBD                   s62      492        612      sot        s72      412        NA       512        62S      59s        MA         492
AR                       2 l     9n        142      0S         16       142        NA        7S        302      131        NA         102
.mA                     3S       SX         2n       Z          42       as        MA       1SS         St       72        NA         7n
TOTAL                  1002    l00        100-     3002       100C     3 l0o0      NA      3002       100l    100          NA        1002
CsATA A AlTS tRASED O  1979 ,OPULATMl I
AMMAN (ExCL.CAPITAL)          S.zI                9.33                9.22                5.04                2.74                 31.54
BALGA                         2.40                2.21                S.31                z.77                1.02                 13.71
IRID                          6.83               13.3S                9.8S                9.62                7.49                44.93
KADAK                         6.16                3.20               IS.95                6.08                7.98                 44.37
HAAN                           5.31               4.28               12.47               22.63                7.22                 51.90
TOTAL                         5.67                9.00                9.81                7.64                S.16                 37.28
1979 PoPIJLATS tP0001
SlGA CEXCL. CAPrTAL)        536.7
MaLCA                       IS1.S
IRBUD                       609.3
KRAKA                        126.1
MAIN                        1750
TOTAL (CECL. CAPITAL)      1.498.6



-28
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 9
JORDAN - CITIES AND VILLAGES DEVELOMENT BANK
Table 2: AUDITED INCOME STATEMENTS
(JD' 000)
INCOME                                1981       1982        1983       1984
(preliminary)
Interest from loans                 630.6    1,340.1    1,780.5    2,301.3
Interest from deposits              593.3       608.8       394.4      355.0
Other income                          51.5       61.0       101.3       22.0
Total Income                  1,275.4    2,009.9    2,276.2    2,678.3
EXPENSES
Interest paid                       208.3       366.3       590.0      769.0
Salaries                             128.4      153.7       165.9      163.0
Administrative expenses /a            90.3      111.4       128.3      114.0
Total Expenses                  426.0       631.4      884.2    1,046.0
Net Income                           849.4    1,378.5    1,392.0    1,632.3
Dividends to Municipalities           54.6      337.5       387.7      500.0 /b
Retained Earnings                    793.9    1,041.0    1,004.3    1,132.3
/a Including depreciation on fixed assets.
/b Unofficial indication communicated to the mission.



:g-                                 AEX1
Page 3 of 9
JORDA  - CITIES AND VILLAGES DEVELOPINW  SANK
Table 3: AUDITKD BALANCE SHEETS
(1D'OCO)
1981      1982      1983       1984
(preliminary)
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash                                    8,449.3   4,542.7   3,102.4   3,725.0
Short-term Loans and Overdrafts            51.2     268.7      540.6     320.0
Current ftturities of Loans             3,855.2   5,589.5   5,593.1   4,148.8
Accrued Interest                          365.8     800.8   1,059.6      860.3
Other Current Assets                        9.4      136.8     184.5     254.0
Total Current Assets                 12,730.9  11,338.5  10,480.2   9,308.1
Lons-term Loans                          12,745.1  23,071.4  31,415.1  35,895.0
Less Loans Maturing within One Year    3,855.2   5,589.5   5.593.1   4,148.8
Total Loan Portfolio                  8,889.9  17,481t.9  25,822.0  31,746.2
Fixed Assets (net)                          170.3      172.2     169.0     197.0
TOTAL ASSETS                         ZL.2".J   29.0Q2-6  36. 471.2  41.251.3
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities
Short-term Borrowings                       0.0       0.0      439.4       0.0
Time Deposits                               0.0       0.0        0.0   4,146.0
Municipalities' Deposits               10,206.8   9,377.2  11,001.5   9,088.0
Current Maturities of Borrowings        1,075.3   1,202.8      989.6     943.7
Other Current Liabilities                 172.3     525.7      621.9     751.5
Total Current Liabilities            11,454.4  11,105.7  13,052.4  14,929.2
Long-Term Borrowings
Central Dank of Jordan                  1,277.1   5,364.0   8,436.0   8,258.0
World Bank I                                0.0      62.0      733.5   2, 70.0
IDA                                       880.0     927.8      938.9     953.0
Less Borrowings Maturing within
One year                             1,075.3   1,202.8      989.6     943.7
Total Long-term Debt                  1,081.8   5,151.0   9,118.8  10,337.3
Equity
Paid-up Capital                         7,770.4  10,210.4  10,770.4  11,270.0
General Reserves                        1,484.5   2.525.5   3,529.6   4,714.8
Total Net Worth                       9,254.9  12,735.9  14,300.0  15,984.8
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND
EQUITY                             21 791.1   2BJ922.6            41.25 1.3



-30 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 9
JORDAN - CITIES AND VILLAGES DEVELOPMENT BANK
Table 4: PROJECTED LENDING ACTIVITY 1985-1988
(JD'OO0)
1984     1985      1986     1987      1988
(Actual)
APPROVAIS
Land Acquisition                   1324.2   1000.0   1000.0   1000.0   1000.0
Profit-generating                   796.0    800.0    880.0    968.0   1064.8
Roads                              4048.1   3000.0   3300.0   3630.0   3993.0
Schools                             192.2   1000.0   1100.0   1210.0   1331.0
Electricity                         236.5    250.0    250.0    250.0    250.0
Others                             1142.0   1256.2   1381.8   1520.0   1672.0
Total Approvals                  7739.0   7306.2   7911.8   8578.0   9310.8
COMMITMENTS
Municipalities
Land Acquisition                  996.5    571.1    598.0    619.0    648.5
Profit-generating                 675.5    449.1    524.0    596.6    687.5
Others                           2262.8   3095.1   3592.3   4074.2   4679.3
Total Municipalities             3934.8   4115.3   4714.3   5289.8   6015.3
Village Councils
Land Acquisition                  406.1    428.9    402.0    381.0    351.5
Profit-generating                  10.0    350.9    356.0    371.&    377.3
Others                           2833.1   2411.1   2439.5   2535.8   2566.7
Total Village Councils           3239.1   3191.9   3197.5   3288.2   3295.5
Total Commitments                7173.9   7306.2   7911.8   8578.0   9310.8
DISBURSEMENTS
Municipalities
Profit-generating                1496.9    400.0    554.6    508.5    585.7
Land Acquisition                 1230.5    571.1    598.0    619.0    648.5
Roads                            2775.7   1230.8   1890.1   2155.4   2475.9
Schools                           736.7    204.3    441.6    647.0    752.5
Electricity                        78.4    128.0    146.6    153.2    159.9
Others                            951.7    340.8    750.3    868.4    993.9
Total Municipalities             7269.9   2875.0   4381.2   4951.5   5616.5
Village Councils
Profit-generating                   0.0    114.2    215.6    357.1    366.4
Land Acquisition                 441.5    428.9    402.0    381.0    351.5
Roads                            1668.7    965.9   1325.1   1359.5   1390.6
Schools                           249.9    169.6    330.8    440.2    455.2
Electricity                       284.9    164.3    103.2      96.8      90.1
Others                              n.0    279.4    550.2    562.2    579.7
Total Village Councils           2645.0   2122.3   2926.9   3196.8   3233.5
Total Disbursements             9914.9   4997.2   7308.1   8148.3   8850.0



-31 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 9
JORDAN - CITIES AND VILLAGES DEVELOPMENT BANK
Table 5: PROJECTED INCOME STATEMENTS
(in JD'OOO)
1984     1985      1986     1987      1988
(Preliminary)
INCOME
Interest on Loans                     2301.3   2343.1   2607.4   2937.0   3270.3
Interest from Deposits                 355.0    320.4    464.3    348.1    406.7
Other Income                            22.0      26.4     31.7      38.0     45.6
Total Income                      2678.3   2689.9   3103.3   3323.1   3722.6
EXPENSES
Interest on Borrowings                 384.0    685.4    800.1    882.3   1030.7
Interest on Deposits                   385.0    741.8    797.3    882.0    989.6
Salaries                               163.0    187.5    215.6    247.9    285.1
Administrative Expenses /a             114.0    162.5    226.8    298.0    377.1
Total Expenses                    1046.0   1777.2   2039.8   2310.2   2682.5
Net Income                            1632.3    912.7   1063.5   1012.9   1040.1
Dividends to Municipalities            500.0    500.0    500.0    500.0    500.0
Retained Earnings                     1132.3    412.7    563.5    512.9    540.1
/a Including depreciation on fixed assets.



-32 -
ANNRX I
Page 6 of 9
JORDAN - CITIES AND VILLAGES DEVELOPMENT BANK
Table 6: PROJECTED BALANCE SHEETS 1985-1988
(in JD'OOO)
1981      1985       1986     1987       1988
(preliminary)
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash and Time Deposits             3,725.0   5,398.3   4,048.2  4,728.9   5,323.2
Overdraft & Short-term Loans         320.0     500.0      750.0  1,000.0   1,250.0
Accrued Interest                     860.3   1,249.3   1,338.7  1,436.1   1,533.8
Loans Maturing within one year   4,148.8   4,678.9   5,282.7  5,975.1   6,726.6
Otber Current Assets                 254.0     279.4      307.3    338.1      371.9
Total Current Assets            9,308.1  12,105.9  11,726.9 13,478.2  15,205.5
Outstanding Loans                   35,895.0  36,743.4  39,372.7 42,238.3  45,113.2
Less Current Maturities             4.148.8   4,678.9   5,282.7  5,975.1   6,726.6
Net Loan Portfolio             31,746.2  32,064.5  34,090.0 36,263.2  38,386.6
Fixed Assets                           233.0   1,107.5   1,169.5  1,179.5   1,184.5
Less Accumulated Depreciation           36.0      84.1      143.2    202.7      263.0
Net Fixed Assets                  197.0   1,023.4   1,026.3    976.8        221.5
T    RSFIS                ~~~~~41.251.3  45.193-8  46.843.2 50.718.2   .;t
LIABILITIES                                                  -
Current Liabilities
Short-term Borrowings                 0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
Municipalities' Deposits          9,088.0   9,542.4  10,019.5 10,520.5  11,046.5
Time Deposits                     4,146.0   4,500.0   5,000.0  6,000.0   7,000.0
Dividend Due to Municipalities      500.0      500.0      500.0    500.0      500.0
Other Current Liabilities           251.5      337.6      340.9    378.7      414.2
Current Maturities
of Borrowings                     943.7   4,665.7   1,482.8  2,538.9        608.4
Total Current Liabilities      14,929.2  19,545.7  17,343.2 19,938.1  19,569.1
Long-term Borrowings
CBJ                               8,258.0   8,102.8   7,715.6  8,028.4   7,804.4
IDA                                 953.0      912.7     872.4    832.1       791.8
IBiD I                            2,070.0   3,468.7   3,190.2  2,911.7   2,633.2
IBRD II                               0.0      306.0   1,117.5  2,964.0   5,237.1
EIB                                   0.0      703.8      703.8    686.6     650.1
EEC                                   0.0      422.3     422.3    422.3      422.3
Total                          11,281.0  13,916.3  14,021.8 15,845.1  17,538.9
Less Current Maturities               943.7   4,665.7   1,482.8  2,538.9  - 608.4
Total Long-term Liabilities   10,337.3   9,250.6  12,539.0 13,306.2  16,930.5
Paid-up Capital                    11,270.0  11,270.0  11,270.0 11,270.0  11,270.0
General Reserves                    4,714.8   5,127.5   5,691.0  6,203.9   6,744.0
Total Net Worth                15,984.8  16,397.5  16,961.0 17,473.9  18,014.0
TOALS LIABLITIESm & EUITl         ~41.251.3  45.193.8  46L.432i 50.71:.2  54,513-S



- 33 -
ANNEX 1
Page 7 of 9
JORDAN - CITIES AND VILLAGES DEVELOPMENT BANK
Table 7: PROJECTED SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS 1985-1988
(in JD'OOO)
1984     1985     1986      1987     1988
(preliminary)
SOURCES
Retained Earnings                     1,132.3    412.7    563.5    512.9    540.1
Depreciation of Fixed Assets              9.9     48.1      59.0     59.5     60.3
Long-term Borrowings
CBJ                                 -178.0   -155.2   -387.2    312.8   -224.0
IBRD I/IDA                         2,289.5  1,358.4   -318.8   -318.8   -318.8
IBRD II                                0.0    306.0    811.5  1,846.5  2,273.1
EIB/EEC                                0.0  1,126.1       0.0    -17.2    -36.5
Capital Increase                       499.6       0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0
Short-term Sources
Municipalities' Deposits          -1,913.5    454.4    477.1    501.0    526.0
Time Deposits                      4,146.0    354.0    500.0  1,000.0  1,000.0
Other Short-term Liabilities         129.6      86.1      3.3      37.8     35.4
Short-term Borrowings               -439.4       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
TOMTL RESOURCES                  5         J.22D4  ,7Q8L4  3           3iJ2JA
USES
Loans                                4,479.9    848.4  2,629.3  2,865.6  2,874.9
Fixed Assets (gross)                     37.9    874.5     62.0      10.0      5.0
Short-term Loans                      -220.6    180.0    250.0    250.0    2.iO.0
Other Current Assets                  -383.9    389.0      89.4      97.4     z17.8
Cash                                    622.6  1,673.3 -1,350.1    680.7    594.3
Resource Needs                            0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
Resource Surplus                      1,140.1     24.4     27.9      30.7     33.6



- 34 -
ANNEX 1
Page 8 of 9
JORDAN - CITIES AND VILLAGES DEVELOPMENT BANK
Table 8: ACTUAL AND PROJECTED PERFORMANCE INDrCATORS
(1982-1988)
1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988
(-----Actual -)  (---Projected---)
Operational Indicators
Gross Income/Average Total Assets /a (1)   7.9    7.0    6.9    6.2    6.7    6.8    7.1
Administrative Costs/Average Assets          1.0    0.9    0.7    0.7    0.8    1.0    1.1
Financial expenses4k/Average Borrowings
and Equity (2)                             3.1    3.1    3.7    4.5    4.6    4.7    4.9
Loan Income/Average Loan Portfolio (3)       7.5    6.5    6.8    6.4    6.7    7.1    7.3
Cost of LT Debt/Average LT Debt (4)          3.9    3.9    4.2    5.4    5.7    5.9    6.2
Spread on LT Debt (3)-(4)                    3.6    2.6    2.6    1.0    1.0    1.1    1.1
Margin on all Resources (1)-(2)              4.8    3.9    3.2    1.7    2.1    2.1    2.2
Profitablity Indicators
Net Income/Average Assets                    5.4    4.3    4.2    2.1    2.3    2.1    2.0
Net Income/Average Equity                   12.5   10.3   10.9    5.6    6.4    5.9    5.9
Financial Structure Indicators
Debt/Equity Ratio                            0.5    0.7    0.7    0.6    0.7    0.8    0.9
Debt Service Coverage Ratio
(principal only)                          3.6    4.7    5.7    4.4/c  1.0    3.6    2.4
/a The ratios are expressed in percentage, except for the debt-equity and debt-service
coverage ratios that are compared to 1.
/b Including dividends.
/c 0.8 if time deposits mobilized in 1984 are included.



- 33 -
ANNEX 1
Page 9 of 9
Maior Assumptions used for the Financial Proiections
L.       Approvals are assumed to decline by 6? in 1985 (because of the use of
the old statutory borrowing limits through April 1985) and are assumed to
increase at a moderate rate (about 8? p.a.) thereafter (because of the
increase in borrowing capacity caused by increased revenues and the use of a
more realistic solvency test).
2.       Loans' approvals are as discussed with CVDB staff.  Ninety-five
percent of approvals are committed in the first year, 5? the following year.
Disbursement profiles are as follows:
Type of Proiect            Year 1      Year 2     Year 3
Profit-making                 20         40         40
Road                          70         30
School                        30         40         30
Electricity                   70         30
Other                         40         60
3.       Interest on lo.n:  6.8? on average 1984 portfolio; as per revised
Statement of General Policy for new loans. Interest from deposits: 8.6Z on
beginning of the year balance. Other income to grow at 20X from 1984 level.
4.       Interest on borrowings:  CBJ 3.5X; IDA 0.75Z; IBRD I 8.5?; IBRD II
9.29? or 0.75X conmitment fee; EIB 8.7? or 1Z commmimdent fee; EEC 1Z.
Interest on deposits by municipalities: 4? on beginning of the year balance.
Salaries to grow at 5l p.a. (hiring and cost of liviig combined).
Administrative expenses to grow at 0L p.a., except for depreciation on fixed
assets. Dividends to municipalities set at 35? of net income or JD 0.5
million mLinimm.
5.       Overdraft and short-term ioans projected at JD 0.5 million in 1985,
growing by JD 0.25 million annually thereafter. Accrued interest equal to
3.4? of outstanding loan portfolio. Other current assets to grow at 10? p.a.
over 1984 level. Additions to fixed assets include: headquarters (JD 0.8
million) and cars (JD 15,000) in 1985; and micro-computers (3D 52,500) in 1986.
6.       Municipalities' deposits to grow by 5% p.a. over the 1984 level.
Time deposits collected by CVDB to increase by JD 0.5 million from 1986 on.
Other current liabilities include accrued interest (2% of outstanding
long-term debts), accrued salaries (two weeks of payroll) and a small
Government grant for building schools. The balance of IBRD I, EIB and EEC
loans to be disbursed in 1985; the proposed Second Bank Loan to CVDB according
to estimated disbursement schedule (Annex 8). CBJ to consolidate old balloon
loans at maturity: JL 0.5 million in 1985, JD 4 million in 1986; JD 1.5
million in 1987, and JD 2 million in 1988.



*-
ts~~~~~~~~~
g~~~If
a.;  S  ;  A~~~~~~I
- t :'Hi
g~~~~~I
- ~ ~ ~  



- 37 -
AlNM 3
Page 1 of 21
CITIES AND VILLAGES DEVELOPMENT BANK
GENERAL POLICY STATEMENT



-38 -                     ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 21
GENERAL POLICY OF CITIES AND VILLAGES DEVELOPMENT BANK
INTRODUCTION
General
1- The Cities and Villages Development Bank (CVDB) was established in 1979
according to Temporary Law No. 38 as an official public institution,
financially and administratively independent. Headquarters are to be
located in Amman but CVDB has the right to open branches and to appoint
agents anywhere in the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan.
2. General Goals of the Bank:
(a) to finance social infrastructure and profit-making projects of
Municipal and Village Councils (Local Councils) and to supervise and
follow-up the implementation of these projects;
(b) to receive and manage the deposits of Local Councils, of the public
institutions, and of other parties upon approval of the Central Bank
of Jordan;
(c) to provide Local Councils with technical assistance to identify well
conceived priority projects, and to evaluate their technical,
economic and financial feasibility;
(d) to provide Local Councils with guarantees needed to obtain non-CVDB
loans and to manage these loans;
(e) to participate with equity in profit-making projects of Local
Councils.
Management
3. CVDB is managed by a Board of nine Directors chaired by His Excellency The
Minister of Municipal, Rural and Environmental Affairs (MMRA). The Deputy
Chairman of the Board is the CVDB's General Manager and the Board members
represent the Ministries of Finance, Planning, Public Works, and of
Municipal, Rural and Environmental Affairs and the Central Bank of
Jordan. Two additional members represent Local Councils.
.r.eetings of the Board are considered to have a quorum when a minimum of
six -'embers are present, and when either the Chairman or the Deputy
Chairman are present.
The Generai Manager manages CVDB according to CVDB's law and according to
regulation approved by the Board of Directors.



- 39 -                     ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 21
The Board of Directors may delegate some of its functions to ad hoc
committees comprised of members of the Board and, if necessary, CVDB staff.
LOAN POLICY
Loan Operation Procedures
4. The following steps must be completed:
(a) The Mayor or the Head of the Village Council must, according to the
Municipalities Law of 1955, first submit requests for CVDB loans to
MMRA for approval. After approval M4MRA sends the requests on to
CVDB. The requests must contain, besides the minutes of the Local
Council's decision on the request, all documents such as plans,
feasibility studies, market surveys, etc. needed to justify the
investment project for which the loan is sought.
(b) Loan requests are carefully appraised by CVDB staff. The loans
appraisal are reviewed by CVDB's Loan Committee which consists of the
General Manager and all Heads of Departments. Once loans are cleared
by the Loan Committee they are presented for approval to the Board of
Directors. Loans below JD 15,000 can be approved by an ad hoc
committee of the Board of Directors consisting of the Chairman and
the Deputy Chairman of the Board of Directors.
5. Loan Agreement
(a) After the approval of the Board of Directors an Agreement is signed
between CVDB and the Local Council. A copy of such Agreement is
attached in Annex A. The Agreement stipulates the conditions of
execution of the project for which the loan has been granted, the
conditions of the loan such as maturity, interest rate, grace period,
etc., the Project Description and supporting documents.
(b) The Loan Agreement is signed for the borrower by the Mayor of a
Municipality or by his representative, or by the Head of a Village
Council or his representative. For Village Councils the person
signirg the Agreement must submit to CVDB the minutes of the decision
of the Local Council empowering him or her to represent it.
(c) The Loan Agreement is signed for CVDB by the General Manager.



-40-                       ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 21
6. Proiects EliRible for CVDB Loans
(a) Social Sector Proiects
- Streets and road segments
- Footpaths and sidewalks
- School buildings
- Public parks, sport facilities and recreation areas
- Electricity projects
- Civil works equipment
- Solid waste collection equipment
- Local Council buildings and public libraries
- cemeteries
- street lighting
- Health centers
- Other social infrastructure projects
- Land acquisition for above mentioned projects
(b) Profit-Making Proiects
- Vegetable and other Municipal Markets (retail and wholesale)
- Cold stores
- Commercial centers and stores
- Offices
- Trade centers and workshops
- Slaughter houses
- Parking garages
- Recreation areas (profit-making)
- Other profit-making projects
- Land acquisition for above mentioned projects.
7. Loan Eligibility Criteria
Each proposed loan will be checked against the appropriate eligibility
criteria. Such criteria, approved by the Board of Directors, are issued
to Local Councils upon request.



- 41 -               ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 21
8.  Loan Conditions: Rates of Interest and Loan Maturity and Grace Period
Municipalities
Maturity
including
Interest           Grace              Grace
Rate             Period             Period
Social projects except
sidewalks, footpaths and
stairs                               7.5%              11                  1
Sidewalks, footpaths
and stairs                           7.5%               6                  1
Profit-making projects              8.5%               12                  2
Village Councils
Maturity
including
Interest           Grace              Grace
Rate             Period             Period
Social projects except
sidewalks, footpaths and
stairs                            6%                 16                 1
Sidewalks, footpaths
and stairs                      7.5%                  6                 1
Profit-making projects          8.5%                 14                 2
*   Loan conditions are subject to yearly review by the Board of Directors.



- 42 -                     ANNEX3
Page 6 of 21
9. Grace Period
This period is defined as the period during which the borrower may delay
repayment of loan principal. The grace period applicable to various types
of loans are shown in para. 8 of the document. The grace period is
counted from the date of signature of the Loan Agreement. During the
grace period the Local Council shall pay interest, computed daily on the
outstanding loan balance. Payments of principal are due on the
anniversary of the beginning of the grace period.
At the option of the Local Council payments of principal may start in the
third or fourth quarter of the calendar year provided it falls within six
months of the anniversary of the beginning of the grace period.
10. Project Descriptions
Loan application should include all plans, written description, item lists
and cost estimates necessary to unequivocally define the proposed
project. The documents describing the project will become part of the
Loan Agreement. CVDB will only disburse loan proceeds for items included
in the project description.
11. Limits on Loan Amounts
(a) Loans minima are JD 5,000 for Municipalities and JD 3,000 for Village
Councils or the limits mentioned in the appropriate "Loan Eligibility
Criteria" whichever is lowest.
(b) The maximum loan amount for any single project will not exceed 3Z of
CVDB's net worth (paid-up capital and reserves).
(c) The total amount of CVDB loans outstanding to any Local Council shall
not exceed 10 of CVDB's net worth (paid-up capital and reserves).
12. Local Authorities Contribution to CVDB Financed Projects
Local Councils will be requested to bear, from their own resources, at
least 102 of the cost of profit-making projects financed by CVDB.
13. Use of Loan Proceeds
Local Council will be allowed to use loan proceeds only for the items
included in the Project Description included in the Loan Agreement.
Requests for disbursements for items not included in the Project



- 43 -                   ANNEX 3
Page 7 of 21
Description or items in excess of the number mentioned in the Project
Description will be refused. If the local authority was notified by CVDB
in writing to respect the agreed project description, and if the local
authority insists on modifying or increasing the project substantially
without CVDB's agreement, further disbursements will be halted and all
previous disbursements will become immediately due and payable to CVDB by
the Local Council.
14. Loan Increases
Loan increases of up to 25% of original loan amount used to be granted in
the past to nearly all local authorities which requested them. This
policy has now been discontinued. As of now any loan requested by a Local
Council to complete a project for which funds were borrowed from CVDB or
from other sources will be evaluated on its own merits. Cost increases
caused by modifications of the project not sanctioned by CVDB or other
lenders will not be financed by CVDB. Only cost increases caused by
unanticipated increases in building quantities (such as those caused by
unavoidable modifications of foundation designs) or by unanticipated unit
cost increases will be considered by CVDB.
15. Loan Residuals
After the project is completed and all disbursements have been made
residual loan amounts will be cancelled. Residual amounts cannot be used
by local authorities for items not mentioned in the Project Description
included in the Loan Agreement, and CVDB will not disburse against
expenses for extra-project items.
Residual loan amounts will be cancelled by a decision of the General
Manager if either of the following two conditions are satisfied:
(a) a letter is received from the Local Council requesting the
cancellation of the loan residual;
(b) the Technical Department advises the General Manager that project
disbursements have been completed and that a loan residual remains.
If the amount to be cancelled is 10% or more than the amount mentioned in
the Loan Agreement, then the said amount, as well as the scheduled
principal repayments, will be adjusted.   Local Councils will be notified
in writing of the adjustment.
If the amount to be cancelled is less than 10% of the amount mentioned in
the Loan Agreement, then the said amount will not be changed. The last
payment(s) mentioned in the schedule of payments will be adjusted to
reflect the loan amount cancelled.



- 44 -                  ANNEX 3
Page 8 of 21
16. Local Council Financial Solvency Test
For each new loan, CVDB will analyze the applying Local Council's finances
to ensure that the Council will be able to repay the new debt incurred.
In order to do this, CVDB will make a conservative estimate of resources
available to service debt in the future.
Projections of future net revenues will be based on the latest actual
figures and calculated as:
TOTAL REVENUE
Minus Opening Balance
minus Loan Revenue
minus Guarantee Deposits (Amanat) to be passed on by the
Council to other institutions.
Equals: NET REVENUE
Estimates of future net revenue will be calculated using conservative
growth rates.
Resources available to service new debt will be calculated as:
NET REVENUE
minus Recurrent Expenses
minus Debt service payments (Principal and Interest)
minus Capital Investment from own iesources
Equals: Resources available to service new debt.
Future recurrent expenses should be calculated using realistic estimates
of growth rates.
Future debt service payments should be calculated using actual repayment
schedules of all outstanding loans. Future capital investment from own
resources should be provided by the applying Local Council.
CVDB will not grant more new loans to any Local Council than can be repaid
in any year from 75X of "Resources available to service new debt"
(calculated as shown above).
17. Cancellation of Loan Approvals
Loans approved by the Board of Directors may be cancelled by the General
Manager if the borrower fails to sign a Loan Agreement within three months
*of the date of notification of the loan approval. The borrower shall be
invited twice in writing, one and two months after Approval Date, to sign
an Agreement and shall be notified in writing of the Approval Cancellation.



- 45 -                      ANNEX 3
Page 9 of 21
18. Cancellation of Loan Agreements
Loans for which an Agreement was signed may be cancelled by the General
Manager if the borrower fails to make any disbursement within one year of
the date of Agreement signature. The borrower shall be invited twice in
writing to speed up project implementation, approximately six and nine
months after Agreement signature and shall be notified in writing of the
Agreement Cancellation.
19. Loan Rescheduling
Rescheduling of Local Council debt will only be permitted by the Board of
Directors upon recommendation by the General Manager. In his report to
the Board, the General Manager will explain the special circumstances
requiring the rescheduling. This report should include realistic
forecasts of Local Council's finances.
Rescheduling will be considered upon written request from a Mayor or Head
of Local Council accompanied with the minutes of the Local Council's
decision supporting the request.
The maximum amount of rescheduled loans is equal to the sum of outstanding
balances for eligible loans. Principal and interest payments due at the
end of the financial year during which the rescheduling is performed
cannot be reschedu! :d.
Loans for schools and those refinanced by outside lenders, loans for
profit-making projects, short term loans and overdrafts, cannot be
rescheduled.
The interest rate on rescheduled loans is 1% above the current interest
rate on loans for infrastructure projects. Rescheduling loan maturities
will be decided by the Board of Directors upon recommendations of the
General Manager but will not exceed 10 years.
The Terms and Conditions of the rescheduling will be confined in an
Agreement approved by the Board of Directors and signed for the borrower
by the Mayor or Head of Village Council, or their representative,
empowered by the Local Council and for CVDB by the General Manager.
20. Short Term Loans
Local Councils can be granted Short Term Loans for a period of not more
than one year.
Such loans are requested in writing by the Mayor or the Head of Village
Council together with minutes of the Local Council's decision authorizing
the request.



- 46 -                     ANNEX 3
Page 10 of 21
The maximum amount of Short Term Loans outstanding will be proposed to the
Board of Directors by the General Manager and will be based on a careful
evaluation of the financial situation of the requesting Council. The sum
of all outstanding Short Term Loans and overdrafts should not exceed 50X
of the sum of current year estimates of the following revenues:
fuel taxes i', building and land taxes, profit and interest paid by CVDB
and debt service contribution by the Ministry of Education for school
loans.
Short Term Loans should consolidate all balances of overdrafts outstanding
to the Local Council.
The Short Term Loan Agreement, of which standard form is attached in Annex
B, will contain covenants which oblige the Local Counc:il to improve its
financial situation.
Short Term Loans carry an interest rate of one percentage point above the
rate of interest on overdrafts. Interest and principal will be repaid in
twelve equal installments starting at the end of the uronth following that
of the first withdrawal.
21. Guarantees for Local Councils
(a)  No local authority, except for the Municipality of Amman may procure
any loan from whatever source except after securing the Board's
approval.
(b) The mayor or the head of the village council must submit requests for
non-CVDB loans to MMRA for approval. After approval MMRA sends the
requests on to CVDB. The requests must contain, besides the minutes
of local council's decision on the requests, all documents needed to
justify the investment project for which the loan is sought.
(c) Loan requests are carefully appraised by CVDB staff. The loan
appraisals are reviewed by CVDB's loan committee. Once loans are
cleared they are presented for approval to the Board of Directors.
(d) Proceeds of loans must be deposited with CVDB to be used only for the
items included in the project description.
DEPOSIT POLICY
22. Current Accounts
Fuel tax, building and land tax, profits and interests paid out by CVDB
are deposited in the current accounts of Local Councils. Councils may
1/ "Fuel taxes" consists of a 2% tax on imported goods, licence fees on
transport vehicles, traffic fines and fuel taxes.



47 -                     ANNEX 3
Page 11 of 21
also deposit monies from other sources in their current account. CVDB
pays simple interest on current accounts every six months, computed
monthly on the lowest balance at the rate of interest of 4X.
CVDB withdraws automatically on due date all payments of principal and
interest due on loans granted by CVDB and on those guaranteed by CVDB.
CVDB will also withdraw any Local Council's contribution to CVDB's share
capital subscription on due date.
If the current account balance is insufficient to make above mentioned
payments CVDB will automatically overdraw the current account.
Local Councils may apply in writing to CVDB to withdraw cash from their
current account. Such cash withdrawals will be approved as a matter of
course by CVDB if the cumulative balance of cash withdrawals does not
exceed the difference between estimated sum of fuel tax, building, land
tax and interest and profit (paid by CVDB) and debt service contribution
by the Ministry of Education for school loans, and the estimated total
debt service for the current year. Any cash withdrawal request that would
.bring the cumulative balance of such withdrawals above the mentioned
difference between estimated revenues and debt service obligation will be
dealt with under the provisions for Short Term Loans.
CVDB charges the current accounts simple interest on overdrafts every six
months, computed monthly on the highest balance at a rate one percentage
point above the highest rate CVDB pays on its borrowings.
23. Time Deposits
Local Councils, other public institutions and other parties, with the
agreement of the Central Bank of Jordan, apply to CVDB to open a Time
Deposit account. The Board of Directors approves in each case the
conditions of Time Deposits.
24. Borrowing Policy
CVDB may borrow on the domestic financial market and abroad upon approval
of its Board of Directors, and the Cabinet of Ministers. CVDB may issue
bonds on the local financial market with the approval of the Central Bank.
However, CVDB shall not borrow from local and foreign sources more than
four times its paid-up capital and retained earnings.
FINANCIAL POLICY
General
25. CVDB will aim at earning a stable positive spread between the return on
its average outstanding loan portfolio and the cost of its average
borrowed resources and net worth. If the spread were to fall below two
percentage points, CVUDB would either increase its lending interest rates



- 48 -                      ANNEX 3
Page 12 of 21
or would request a contribution from the Government to compensate for the
revenue short-fall until its lending rates would be increased. Any change
in CVDB's lending interest rates should be reflected in an amendment to
this Policy Statement.
Prudent financial management will dictate that the ratio of principal
repayment by borrowers and principal due to lenders (principal
debt-service ratio) should exceed 1.15:1 over the next three projection
years. A drop below this level for more than one year would call for
corrective measures, such as rescheduling of debts and/or rediscounting of
a portion of the loan portfolio.
26. Financial Projections
The Board of Directors will review and approve the Business Plan to be
presented by the General Manager during the fourth quarter of each fiscal
year. The Business Plan will incorporate projected levels of activity,
revenues and expenses. To allow the Board of Directors to decide on the
most realistic alternative the plan will include alternative activity
projections for the planning period (at least two years), and an analysis
of alternative scenarios' impact on CVDB's balance sheets and income
statement.
27. Reporting Requirements
The General Manager will provide the Board of Directors and, at their
request, the major lenders quarterly operating reports. These reports
will include the appropriate narrative, statistical information and
financial statements describing the activities of the bank. They will
also explain deviations from the current Business Plan.
28. Audit
CVDB will provide its major lenders independently audited annual financial
statements within four months of the end of the fiscal year. The auditors
will also provide a detailed management letter covering accounting
systems, compliances with internal policies and external regulations and
any relevant matters that will deem materially affecting the welfare of
CVDB.
29. Outreach Policy
To promote the development of Municipalities and Village Councils in
Jordan CVDB will:
(a) help Municipalities and Village Councils identify worthwhile projects;
(b) help Municipalities and Village Councils in the preparation of
projects. In this CVDB will advise local authorities on how to
conduct market surveys and estimation of needs or how to commission
feasibility studies. CVDB will also review with them preliminary
designs and financial plans of projects.



-49 -                        ANIEX 3
Page 13 of 21
(c) help Municipalities and Village Councils controlling the quality and
thoroughness of technical site supervision. For this purpose CVDB
will send its enginePrs to control at least:
-    final designs
-    bid opening procedures
-    the quality of excavations and foundations of project buildings
-    the quality of the basic concrete structure of project buildings
-    the quality of LI.tish of project buildings
-    the final acceptance procedure
(d)  help Municipalities and Village Cou=nils with the follow-up of the
project after final completion. CVDB wiill help them price project
outputs so that they cover capital and recurrent costs;
(e)  review together with the local authorities the performance of
profit-making projects after two years of operation and present a
report on findings to CVDB's Board and to the local authorities.
OTHER
30. Internal Organization
CVDB will aim at developing an effective and balanced internal
organization conducive to the attainment of its objectives.
The General Manager will ensure that the activities of CVDB are carried
out in a responsible and professional manner. To that effect, CVDB will
recruit and develop a qualified staff. They will be given appropriate
compensation, benefits and training.
31. Revision of Policy Statement
Any r"dification to this statement should be reviewed and approved by the
Board of Directors upon the recommendation of the General Manager. As may
be required by specific loan agreements, each lender will be given an
adequate opportunity to study and comment on the proposal.
32. Training
CVDi is responsible for organizing general training of its own personnel
and training in the field of municipal finance and project management for
Mayors, Heads of Village Councils, Local Council members ana Local Council
staff.



- 50 -                  ANNEX 3
Page 14 of 21
CVDB GENERAL POLICY STATEMENT
APPENDIX A
LOAN AGREEMENT



- 51 -                  ANNEX 3
Page 15 of 21
TRANSLATION
CITIES AND VILLAGES DEVELOPMENT BANK
AGREEMENT
BETWEEN: 1ST PARTY:   CITIES AND VILLAGES DEVELOPMENT BANK.
2ND PARTY:   MUNICIPALITY/VILLAGE/COUNCIL OF//
WHEREAS the second party has requested the first party to grant him a
loan to be utilized for the following objectives (referred to hereinafter as
the project) and undertakes to implement the project in accordance with the
drawings, specifications, conditions and terms attached to this agreement
which is considered part and parcel thereof, and whereas the first party has
agreed to grant the second party a loan amounting to JD            to be expended
on the aforesaid objectives, therefore and in consideration of the first party
accepting to grant the said loan, the second party agrees to comply with the
following conditions and be bound therewith.
1. The second party shall undertake not to borrow from any local or foreign
source except with the prior written approval of the first party who may
not agree to such borrowing if he considers the financial situation of the
second party does not enable him to carry new financial obligations.
2. The second party shall undertake before contracting with any engineering
firm or consultant engineers for the preparation of the studies and
designs and the supervision of the execution of the project to obtain the
prior written approval of the first party concerning the other contracting
party and the agreement to be concluded therewith.
3. The second party shall not place andy tender financed by the aforesaid
loan before obtaining the written approval of the first party on the terms
of the tender and the first party may delegate a representative to take
part in the comittee concerned with opening or scrutinizing the offers
but with no right to vote.
4.  (a)  The sum of the loan may not exceed JD                 to be paid in
installments and on dates deemed appropriate by the first party in
the light of the progress of the work and its requirements.
(b)  In cases where it appears that the amounts will not be sufficient for
the completion of the project fo which the loan has been granted, the
second party undertakes to bear all additional expenses necessary for
the completion of the project.



- 52 -                    ANNEX 3
Page 16 of 21
5. The receipt signed by the second party or the voucher in accordance with
which the sum of the loan or any pat thereof was paid, or the cheque
issued by the first party and drawn on any of the local banks and paid to
the second party or the bank - note for the said sum or any part thereof
shall be conclusive evidence for the receipt thereof.
6. The first party shall charge on the loan paid to the second party interest
at the rate of _         per annum calculated from date of payment until
the date of settlement.
7. (a) The second party u-.dertakes to repay the loan and the interest
in          equal installments as follows:
Ist
2nd
3rd
4th
5th
6th
7th
8th
9th
10th
11th
12th
13th
14th
15th
(b) The date of maturity of the first installment and the interest shall
be fixed from the end of             after the conclusion of this
agreement for projects that do not require imports from outside
jordan and            for projects that require such imports.
8. The second party may pay any installment or installments or interest
before the date of maturity.
9. The second party shall provide the first party, on his request any
information relating to:
(a) What has been spent on account of the loan during a month;
(b) general expenses until the end of the month;
(c) progress of the work and the phases it reached and what is
expected to be performed during the following month.
10. The first party may audit the account of the loan granted to the second
party at any time deemed suitable and the second party shall permit the



- 53 -ANNEX3
Page 17 of 21
representative of the first party to have access to the books, registers
and documents belonging to the second party in whatsoever is connected
with the loan and the project.
11. Tke first party or his representative shall have the right to check on the
project at any time and shall be afforded all necessary facilities.
12. The second party shall ensure in favor of the first party and until full
settlement of the loan an annual insurance policy for the constructions
and equipment related to the project for which the loan was granted or any
party thereof as required by the first party with an insurance company
approved by the first party. The amount of the insurance shall be equal
to the amount of the loan or the balance still due.
13. The second party may not sell or passing to others the project for which
the loan was granted or any party thereof without the prior written
approval of the first party.



- 54 -                ANNEX 3
Page 18 of 21
CVDB GENERAL POLICY STATEMENT
APPENDIX B
SHORT TERM LOAN AGREEMENT



55                      ANNEX3
Page 19 of 21
TRANSLATION
CITIES AND VILLAGES DEVELOPMENT BANK
NAME OF DEBTOR:
ADDRESS:
UNDERTAKING A CURRENT DEBTORS ACCOUNT
TO: CITIES AND VILLAGES DEVELOPMENT BANK - AMMAN
In consideration of granting us financial credit in the form of
current account or other Bank facilities up to the amount of JD          for a
renewable period of one year payable on demand, we undertake and agree to the
following terms:-
1. For the purposes of this undertaking, the word "Bank" shall be construed
to include the Cities and Villages Development Bank.
2.  We shall have the right to draw from this credit within specific
arrangements to be ratified by the Bank in Amman.
3. The inlterest on the drawn amounts in accordance with this credit becomes
due from us from time to time as per the account books of the bank and
shall be charged at the rate of  _    per annum and to be debited to our
account monthly (or on dates allowable by the laws of the Country) with a
compound interest to be added to the amount drawn in accordance with this
credit and shall be considered as part of the drawn amount together with
all commissions and other Bank expenses customary in Bank transactions.
The Bank may raise the rate of the yearly interest on the amounts becoming
due per their account books if they notify us of same in accordance with a
letter provided the interest so raised shall be effective from the date of
mailing the said letter to us.
4. We undertake to pay to the Bank all monies due from us together with the
interest, expenses and commissions in accordance with the Bank books and
registers at any time you may request.
5.  The Bank shall enter the amounts so paid on account of this credit on the
day following the day of payment and if the following said day is a
holiday, the payment shall be entered on the day that follows the holiday.
6. The Bank shall have the right to appropriate any amount, papers or
documents that are subject to endorsement or any bond belonging to us that
reach the Bank or becomes under its disposal and shall enter same as
amounts paid by us in the settlement of the account due from us or that
becomes due from time to time in accordance with the Bank books.



-56 -                     ANNEX 3
Page 20 of 21
7. We hereby agree that if you do not receive our approval of the statement
of account sent to us once a month at our address registered in your
books, within fifteen days from date of mailing it to us, the said account
shall be considered as finally approved and we will have no right to
object to it as our failure to answer shall be construed as an admission
of the correctness of the account, provided that it shall be out duty, if
the statement of account is not received by us within fifteen days from
the set date for its mailing, to request that it be sent to us during
another week, and failing to do so, we will forfeit the right to complain
for not receiving the said statement of account.
8. We admit and agree that the Bank books and accounts constitute conclusive
evidence of the amounts due or shall become due on this credit and declare
that the accounts of the Bank are considered final and correct in relation
to us, and that we shall not have the right to object to it and we forgo
in advance any legal right that may permit us to ask for checking the Bank
accounts by the court or to ask for the production of its accounts and
books to the court.
9. We also admit and agree that any period of grace of prolongation of the
period of credit or payment thereof that may be granted to us by the Bank
will have no bearing on the obligations placed on us by virtue of this
credit, nor will it mean any relinquishment in any way.
10. The Bank may at any time cancel or revoke this credit absolute discretion
and will without any prior notice to us and without having to show cause
necessitating such an action and that it may ask for the settlement of all
monies due with interest, expenses and commissions imposed thereon by
virtue of clause four above.
11. If and when this credit becomes due in accordance with clauses 4 and 10
above and if we fail to settle all monies due with interest. commissions
and expenses accruing on this credit as shown in the Bank books we
undertake to pay legal interest at the rate of        Z (or at the rate
allowable by the laws of the country) on all amounts due from us starting
from date it becomes due until full settlement waving the right for notice
or protest.
12. Any claim or notice to be addressed to us by the Bank in connection with
any matter concerning this credit shall be considered as duly served on us
if it is sent to us by registered mail on the last address known to you.
13. The debtor authorizes the Bank to credit himself with amounts due to it
out of the securities deposited in the Bank each month after withholding
securities requested to meet the various obligations.
14. In case of having recourse to courts in connection with this credit or for
any dispute or claim arising out of it, we do consent that the court of
Amnzun or any other court to be designated by the Bank shall be the



- 57 -                   ANNEX 3
Page 21 of 21
competent court to adjudicate upon any dispute or claim arising out of this
undertaking and we forgo in advance our right to object to the jurisdiction
and competence of the court we have agreed upon in advance or the court to be
designated by the Bank.
15. If recourse to the courts does not take place as stated in Clause 14
above, we undertake to pay to the Bank all fees and expenses incurred by
the Bank in addition to lawyer fees to be assessed as agreed in advance at
the rate of 10 of the amount claimed.
This day            Month           Year
2nd Party                       1st Party



- 58 -                         ANNEX 4
Page L of 18
CITIES AND VILLAGES DEVELOPMENT BANK
LOAN ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA
Draft
January 30, 1985



-59 -                            ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 18
LAND ACQUISITION
Eligibility Criteria
1. Type of Settlement: Any municipality or area governed by a village
council at the time of submission of the loan application or a group of
such municipalities and/or village councils.
2. Type of Projects: Acquisition of land.
3. Technical Restrictions: CVDB will finance the acquisition of land if the
applying local government has submitted sufficient proof that it plans to
use the land to be purchased for an acceptable iiivestment project, that
the size of the land is close to that needed for the planned investment,
that it has considered alternative plots of land that would meet the
requirements of the project and that it has chosen the land with the
lowest price.
4. Standards: None.
5. General Financial Conditions: The municipality or village council should
pass CVDB's "General Solvency Test."
6. Specific Financial Conditions: None.
7. Minimum Size: None.
8. Documents to be submitted with the loan application:
(a) Letter of endorsement by Minister of Municipal and Rural Affairs;
(b) Minutes of Local Council's decision on purchase of land signed by all
council members;
(c) Cadastral plan(s) showing zone and plot numbers of each plot to be
bought;
(d) Table for each plot to be bought with zone/plot number and names and
addresses of owner(s);
(e) Site plan of proposed use of land with indication of land use zoning
and setback and other restrictions, if any; and
(f) Cost estimates prepared by Governorate level Department of MMRA.



-60-                          ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 18
SCHOOLS
Eligibility Criteria
1. Type of Settlement: Any municipality or area governed by a village
council at the time of submission of the loan application or group of such
municipalities and/or village councils.
2. Type of Project: Building new primary, preparatory comprehensive or
secondary schools, extending them or substantially rebuilding them.
3. Technical Restrictions: CVDB will only finance new schools or extension
if classroom capacity is insufficient in a settlement:
-    if (2 shifts) daily pupil per classroom ratio is larger than 40 in
primary, 50 in preparatory and 60 in secondary schools, or if
classroom capacity is sufficient in a settlement and
-    if rented facilities are considered unsatisfactory by the Ministry of
Education or if the yearly cost of rented facilities is more than 6%
of the cost of constructing a new school of the same classroom
capacity. CVDB will consider financing reconstruction of educational
facilities on a case by case basis, but only if reconstruction costs
are less or equal to 80% of a new building of the same classroom
capacity, and
-    if the local government has purchased all land needed for the project.
4. Standards: In accordance with specifications set for this purpose by the
Ministry of Education.
5. General Financial Conditions: The municipality or village council should
pass CVDB's "General Solvency Test."
6. Specific Financial Conditions: The Ministry of Education must agree to
finance 50% of the cost of educational facilities.
7. Documents to be provided by applicants:
(a) Letter of endorsement by Minister of Municipal and Rural Affairs;
(b) Letter of approval by Minister of Education;
(c) Minutes of Local Council decision concerning proposed school(s)
signed by all council members;



- 61 -                           ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 18
(d) Site plan showing proposed building, surrounding buiilding and streets
(2nn/mn);
(e) Architectural plans and sections (2cm/m);
(f) Soil test results;
(g) Cost estimates prepared by Governorate level Department of MMRA;
(h) Letter for Local Council specifying by whom the project construction
will be supervised;
(i) Report of local authority justifying project either on the grounds of
crowded existing facilities or on the basis of excessive rental cost;
and
(j) Letter from the Local Council indicating size, location, and
ownership of land on which school(s) is to be built.
OFFICES
Eligibility Criteria
1. Type of Settlement: Any municipality or area governed by a village
council at the time of submission of the loan application.
2. TYpe of Project: Construction of new offices as separate buildings or
extension of existing buildings.
3. Technical Restrictions: CVDB will finance the construction of offices if:
-    a careful survey shows that in the settlement where the offices are
planned the vacancy rate of offices is less than 10X;
-    and if local government has submitted a plausible list of potential
tenants with proof of their ability to pay proposed rents;
-    and if no other office buildings are being built which would absorb
excess demand for office space;
-    and if local government can guarantee to transfer all the project
income directly to CVDB;
-    and if the local government has purchased all land needed for the
project;
-    and if the financial rate of return of the office project, based on
realistic estimates of costs and rental income, is larger than 12%.



- 62 -ANN   4
Page 5 of 18
4. Standards: Public spaces and unrentable areas should be kept below 20S of
total building area. Expensive wall, ceiling and floor finishes should be
avoided. Office buildings of 150 m2 or more should include central
heating systems and sufficient electrical systems.
5. General Financial Conditions: The municipality or village council should
pass CVDB's "General Solvency Test."
6. Specific Financial Conditions: Rent contracts should be written to at
least cover capital and recurrent costs of the building.
7.  Minimum Size:  100 m2.
8. Documents to be submitted with the loan applications:
(a) Letter of endorsement by Minister of Municipal and Rural Affairs;
(b) Minutes of Local Council decision concerning proposed office building
signed by all council members;
(c) Site plan showing proposed building, surrounding building and streets
(2mm/m);
(d)  Architectural plans and sections (2cm/m);
(e) Soil test results;
(f) Cost estimates prepared by Governorate level, Department of MMRA;
(g) Letter from Local Council specifying by whom the project construction
will be supervised;
(h) An economic feasibility study.
BUS AND TAXI. STATIONS
Eligibility Criteria
1. Type of Settlement: Any municipality or area governed by a village
council at the time of submission of the loan application or group of such
municipalities and/or village councils.



- 63 -                           ANNEX 4
Page 6 of 18
2. Type of Project: Construction of new bus and taxi stations and/or
extensions or renewal of existing facilities.
3. Technical Restrictions: CVDB will only finance the construction of a bus
or taxi s-;a'ion if:
-    the settlement does not already have such a facility;
-    and if a carefully conducted survey proves that bus and taxi traffic
is sufficient to require a separate station;
-    and that the current arrangement of bus stops and taxi stations or
parkings causes excessive congestion and/or pollution;
-    and if the proposed station is located in such a way as to avoid
genel-ating unnecessary traffic and traffic mode changes (Example: a
bus and taxi station located too far from the settlement centre may
force all passengers travelling by bus to travel to and from the
center by taxi rather than on foot.);
-    and if the design of the station satisfies all safety requirements;
-    and if the station is dimensioned to accommodate a traffic load not
greater than the current weekly peak load plus the increase in this
load for the next five years;
-    and if the local government has purchased all land needed for the
project;
-    and if the financial rate of return of the station, based on
realistic estimates of costs and benefits, is larger than 122.
4.  Standards:  Building and covered areas should be kept to a minimum.
Toilet facilities should be provided for each station with more than four
bus bays. Cafeteria facilities should only be added if the area
surrounding the station does not have such facilities and is unlikely to
provide them. Size and access of bus bays should be designed wherever
possible to avoid buses and taxis backing up into traffic or in areas
where pedestrians are likely to pass. Where necessary, barriers should be
used to segregate pedestrians and vehicles.
5. General Financial Conditions: The municipality or village council should
pass CVDB's "General Solvency Test."
6. Specific Financial Conditions: Bus and taxi fees and cafeteria rents
should be set high enough to cover both capital and recurrent costs of the
station. Separate subsidiary accounts should be kept by local government
to record expenditures and revenues of the station.
7. Minimum Size: None.



64-ANNEX 4
Page 7 of 18
8. Documents to be submitted with the loan applications:
(a)  Letter of endorsement by Minister of Municipal and Rural Affairs;
(b)  Minutes of Local Council decision concerning proposed bus and taxi
station signed by all council members;
(c)  Site plan showing proposed building, surrounding building and streets
(2mm/in);
(d)  Architectural plans and sections (acm/m);
(e)  Soil test results;
(f)  Cost estimates prepared by Governorate level, Department of MMRA;
(g)  Letter from Local Council specifying by whom the project construction
will be supervised;
Ch)  An ecor.mic feasibility study.
STREETS AND ROADS
Eligibility Criteria
1. Type of Settlement: Any municipality or area governed by a village
council at the time of submission of the loan application.
2.  Type of Project:  Paving local streets inside municipal or village council
limits, paving through road segments for which the municipality or the
village council is responsible and paving sidewalks for eligible streets
and through roads.
3. Technical Restrictions: Paving streets and through road segments will
only be financed by CVDB if:
-    the rights of wav have been determined and all taecessary land is
acquired;
-    and if the new paied area directly connects with the pavel street and
road network of the settlement;
-    and if at least 20% of the frontage of each street to be paved
consists of properties on which buildings exist or are being



-65-                               ANNEX 4
Page 8 of 18
constructed, or if construction of buildings has been assured to tie
municipality or village council by licences backed by substantial
financial guarantees for at least 30Z of the frontage of each street.
4.  S.andards:  Local streets should not be paved wider than six meters,
without median strip, even at intersections. The pavement width should be
six meters, even if the right of way is larger than six meters.
5. General Financial Conditions: The municipality or village council should
pass CVDB's "General Solvency Test."
6_ Specific Financial Conditions: Municipalities and village councils must
be prepared to commit themselves in a Covenant of the Loan Agreement to
recover up to 50% of street and road paving costs and up to 100% of
sidewalk costs, from each beneficiary in proportion to his frontage. Cost
recovery should be achieved within at most three years of completion of
works_ When possible, municipalities and village councils should be
encouraged to obtain advance payment from beneficiaries.
7. Minimum Size:  Total length of street and road segments must be at least 1
km_
8. Documents to be submitted with the loan application:
(a) Letter of endorsement by Minister of Municipal and Rural Affairs;
(b) Minutes of Local Council decision concerning proposed streets and
roads signed by all council members;
(c) Site plan showing proposed streets, sidewalks and road segments and
plots on which either buildings exist, buildings are under
construction or the construction of buildings is guaranteed by
deposits (amanat) (scale: 1/2,500);
(d) Cost estimates prepared by Governorate level, Department of MMRA;
(e) Letter from local council specifying by whom the project construction
will be supervised.
TRADE CENTERS AND WORKSHOPS
Eligibility Criteria
1. Type of Settlement: Any municipality or area governed by a village
council at the time of submission of the loan application.
2. Tvpe of Project: Construction of groups of workshops and/or small
industry sites to be rented to local artisans.



-66 -                        ANNEX 4
Page 9 of 18
3. Technical Restrictions: CVDB will finance the construction of workshops
if:
-    the vacancy rate of workshops in the settlement does not exceed 10%;
-    and if the local government has decided to remove artisans using
powered machinery ta a common area outside the city center;
-    and if the union of artisans (or the chamber of commerce) has agreed
collectively to pay rents for the new workshops that would be high
enough to cover capital and recurrent expenses;
-    and if the local government has purchased all necessary land for the
project;
-    and if the financial rate of return of the workshops/trade ctcnters,
based on realistic estimates of costs and rental income, is larger
than 12%.
4. Standards: Individual workshops should not be larger than 60 m2 and not
higher than 4.50 m (inside dimensions). Expensive finishing materials
should be avoided. Sufficient electric installations should be provided.
One flush toilet will be provided in each workshop.
5. General Financial Conditions: The municipality or village council should
pass CVDB's "General Solvency Test."
6. Specific Financial Conditions: Rent contracts for the workshops should be
written to at least cover capital and recurrent costs and should include a
rent escalation clause to keep rents at least on par with the general
price level.
7. Minimum Size: Five workshops.
8. Documents to be submitted with the loan application:
(a) Letter of endorsement by Minister of Municipal and Rural Affairs;
(b) Minutes of Local Council decision concerning proposed workshops/trade
center signed by all council members;
(c) Site plan showing proposed building, surrounding buildings and
streets (scale 2mm/m);
(d) Architectural plans and sections (2cm/m);
(e) Soil test results;
(f) Cost estimates prepared by Governorate level, Department of MMRA;



- 67 -
ANNEX 4
Page 10 of 18
(g) Letter from Local Council specifying by whom the project construction
will be supervised;
(h) An economic feasibility study.
VEGETABLE AND OTHER MUNICIPAL MARKETS (RETAIL AND WHOLESALE)
Eligibility Criteria
1.  Tvpe of Settlement:  Any municipality or area governed by a village
council at the time of submission of the loan application or any group of
such municipalities and/or village councils.
2. Type of Proiect: Construction of new vegetable markets with individual
closeable stalls and/or extension or renewal of existing market.
3. Technical Restrictions: CVDB will only finance the construction of a
vegetable market if:
-    the settlement does not have any vegetable market;
-    and if a carefully conducted survey has estimated the number of
stalls required, their size and the likely rents to be charged
for them;
-    and if the settlement already has a market and if a careful
survey has estimated the number of additional stalls ;.equired;
-    and if a building cost estimate has been made based on a
preliminary design;
-    and if all information has been provided by the local
authorities to perform a careful economic and financial
evaluation of the proposed market and if this evaluation has
shown that the proposed market is economically and financially
justified. Extension of existing markets by 20% or more must be
justified by a demand survey similar to those conducted for new
markets. Extension of less than 20% will be justified by a list
of applicants and/or rental contracts for the planned additional
stalls. Renewal should be justified only on grounds of health
improvement or maintenance cost reduction;
and if the local government has purchased all land needed for the
project;



-68-                           ANNEX 4
Page 11 of 18
-    and if the financial rate of return of the vegetable market, based on
realistic estimates of costs and benefits, is larger than 12X.
4. Standards: The design and specification of the market building should
reduce construction costs to a minimum.
Use of expensive cantilevers, covered passage-ways and other formalistic
architectural additions should be avoided. Covering of walls and floors
with decorative stone will not be allowed. Both design and specifications
should ensure easy cleaning and maintenance.
For retail markets, individual stalls should not exceed 18 m2 and not be
higher than 4.50 m (inside dimensions) and parking space should not exceed
160 Mu per stall. One toilet should be provided for each six stalls and
should be located in a convenient centrally located area.
For wholesale markets, individual stalls should not exceed 60 mz and not
be higher than 5 m (inside dimensions) and parking spaces should not
exceed 240 m2 per stall. One toilet should be provided in each stall.
Renewals and extensions should also satisfy the above quantity and quality
standards.
5. General Financial Conditions: The municipality or village council should
pass CVDB's "General Solvency Test."
6. Specific Financial Conditions: Vegetable market fees and rents should be
set high enough to cover both capital and recurrent cost of the
facilities. Separate subsidiary accounts should be kept by the local
government to record expenditures and incomes for the market services.
7. Minimum Size: None.
8. Documents to be submitted with the loan application:
(a) Letter of endorsement by Minister of Municipal and Rural Affairs;
(b) Minutes of Local Council decision concerning proposed vegetable
market signed by all council members;
(c) Site plan showing proposed building, surrounding buildings and
streets (2mm/m);
(d) Architectural plans and sections (2cm/m);
(e) Soil test results;
(f) Cost estimates prepared by Governorate level, Department of MMRA;
(g) Letter from Local Council specifying by whom the project construction
will be supervised;



-O6   -                          ANNEX 4
Page 12 of 18
(h) An economic feasibility study.
(i) Letter from the Local Council indicating size, location, and
ownership of land on which the proposed markets are to be built.
PARKING GARAGES
Eligibility Criteria
1.  Type of Settlement:  Any municipality.
2.  Type of Project:  Construction of parking garages.
3.  Technical Restrictions:  CVDB will finance the construction of parking
garages if:
-    a carefully conducted feasibility study prepared by an independent
economic consultant for the municipality proves that a garage is
needed and would be profitable;
-    and if the local government has purchased all land necessary for the
project;
-    and if the financial rate of return of the parking garage, based on
realistic estimate of costs and benefits, is larger than 12Z.
4. Standards:  The efficiency of space utilization in the garage should be
-a imized.  Gross area per car parking place should not exceed 27 m2.
5.  General Financial Conditions:  The municipality should pass CVDB's
"General Solvency Test."
6.  Specific Financial Conditions:  Parking rates should be set so that
revenues would at least cover capital and recurrent expenditures during
the third year of operation. The municipality should be required to keep
a separate subsidiary account to keep track of the parking garage's
revenue and expenses. If the garage is used for part of the time by
municipal employees, their parking charges should be debited from the
municipality's salaries and benefits account and credited to the parking
garage account.
7.  Minimum Size:  20 car parking places.
8. Documents to be submitted with the loan aUplication:
(a) Letter of endorsement by Minister of Municipal and Rural Affairs;



-70-                           ANNEX 4
Page 13 of 18
(b) Minutes of Local Council decision concerning proposed parking garage
signed by all council members;
(c) Site plan showing proposed building, surrounding buildings and
streets (2mm/m);
(d) Architectural plans and sections (2cm/m);
(e) Soil test results;
(f) Cost estimates prepared by Governorate level, Department of MMRA;
(g) Letter from Local Council specifying by whom the project construction
will be supervised;
(h) Feasibility study on proposed project comissioned by local authority;
{i) Letter from the Local Council indicating size, location, and
ownership of land on which the proposed parking garage is to be built.
SOLID WASTE COLLECTION EQUIPMENT
Eligibility Criteria
1. Type of Settlement: Any municipality or area governed by a village
council at the time of submission of the loan application or group of such
municipalities and/or village councils.
2. Type of Project: Purchasing solid waste compactor, bin or drum trucks,
night soil collection vehicles, street sweeping vehicles, containers, and
compost treatment plants;
3. Technical Restrictions: CVDB will finance:
-    a solid waste collection vehicle, only if it can be justified by a
sufficient quantity of solid waste uncollected or collected by open
trucks (calculations should be based on not more than 0.5
kg/day/person not properly served);
-    a night soil collection vehicle, only if it can be justified by a
sufficient number of septic or holding tanks that need to be served
by the proposed vehicle; and
-    a compost plant, only if a feasibility study proves that the
population it will serve would generate compostable solid waste to
operate the plant.
4. Standards: None.



- 71 -                       ANNEX4
Page 14 of 18
5. General Financial Conditions: The municipality or village council should
pass CVDB's "General Solvency Test."
6. Specific Financial Conditions: Garbage and night soil collection fees
should be raised gradually to cover the full cost of garbage and night
soil collection and street cleaning. Separate subsidiary accounts should
be kept by the local government to record expenditure, income and arrears
for these services.
7. Minimum Size: One solid waste or night soil collection truck, or 10
containers or one compost plant.
8. Documents to be submitted with the loan application:
(a) Letter of endorsement by Minister of Municipal and Rural Affairs;
(b) Minutes of Local Council decision concerning proposed solid waste
collection equipment signed by all council members;
(c) Detailed technical specifications for proposed equipment;
(d) Cost estimates prepared by Governorate level, Department of MMRA;
(e) Feasibility study justifying need for proposed equipment.
PUBLIC PARKS, SPORT FACILITIES AND RECREATION AREAS
Eligibility Criteria
1. Type of Settlement: Any municipality or area governed by a village
council at the time of submission of the loan application or group of such
municipalities andlor village councils.
2. Type of Project: Establishment or improvement of public parks, sport
facilities and recreation areas.
3. Technical Restrictions: CVDB will only finance such projects if:
-    the local authority can justify the proposed investment, based on
unmet social and health requirements of its population;
-    and if such facilities will be accessible to all inhabitants of the
local community on foot or by public transportation;
-    and if the facility has been carefully studied and designed and
represents the least cost solution meeting requirements;
-    and if the local authority has the means to properly maintain and
operate the facilities.



-72 -                          ANNEX 4
Page 15 of 18
-    and if the local authority has purchased all land needed for the
project.
4. Standards: None.
5. General Financial Conditions: The municipality or village council should
pass CVDB's "General Solvency Test."
6. Specific Financial Conditions: The local authority should try to recover
as much as possible the cost of facilities from users. This can be done
by charging entry fees or by auctioning off the right to exploit food and
drink facilities.
7. Minimum Size: None.
8. Documents to be submitted with the loan aDplication:
(a)  Letter of endorsement by Minister of Municipal and Rural Affairs;
(b)  Minutes of Local Council decision concerning proposed facilities
signed by all council members;
(c)  Site plan showing proposed facilities, surrounding buildings and
streets (2mm/m);
(d)  Architectural plans and section and landscaping plans (5mm/m);
(e)  Cost estimates prepared by Governorate level, Department of MMRA;
(f)  Letter from Local Council specifying by whom the project construction
will be supervised;
(g)  Letter from the Local Council indicating size, location, and
ownership of land on which the proposed facilities are to be built;
(h)  An economic feasiblity study.
SLAUGHTERHOUSES
Eligibility Criteria
1. Type of Settlement:  Any municipality or area governed by a village
council at the time of submission of the loan application or group of such
municipalities and/or village councils.
2. Tvpe of Proiect: Construction of slaughterhouses.



- 73 -                        ANNEX 4
Page 16 of 18
3.  Technical Restrictions:  CVDB will only finance such projects if:
-    the proposed slaughterhouse is justified by properly prepared
estimations of the number of animals now slaughtered in unsanitary
conditions;
-    and if the proposed abattoir is designed so as to minimize investment
and operation costs;
-    and if the proposed facilities will be served by clean piped water
and proper sewer evacuation;
-    and if the local authority has the means to operate the proposed
facilities;
-    and if the local authority has purchased all land needed for the
project.
4. Standards: None.
5. General Financial Conditions: The municipality or village council should
pass CVDB's "General Solvency Test."
6. Specific Financial Conditions: The local authority should agree to charge
users of the slaughterhouse fees that would cover as much as possible of
the capital and operation costs of the facilities.
7. Minimum Size: 15 m2.
8. Documents to be submitted with the loan application:
(a) Letter of endorsement by Minister of Municipal and Rural Affairs;
(b) Minutes of Local Council decision concerning proposed facilities
signed by all council members (including decision to recover part of
cost of facilities);
(c) Site plan showing proposed facilities, surrounding buildings and
streets (2mm/m);
(d) Architectural plans and section (2cm/m);
(e) Cost estimates prepared by Governorate level, Department of MMRA;
(f) Letter from Local Council specifying by whom the project construction
will be supervised;
(g) Letter from the Local Council indicating size, location, and
ownership of land on which the proposed slaughter house is to be
built.
(h) An economic feasibility study.



74 -                         ANNEX 4
Page 17 of 18
CIVIL WORKS EQUIPMENT
Elixibility Criteria
1. Type of Settlement: Any municipality or group of village councils.
2. Type of Project: Purchase of civil works equipment such as front loaders,
bulldozers, scrapers, etc...
3. Technical Restrictions: CVDB will finance the purchase of civil works
equipment if:
-    the local authority is able to justify at least 70% capacity
utilization (based on a 40-hour week);
-    and if the local authority has drawn up performance specifications to
be used for the procurement of the proposed equipment that is
acceptable to the Ministry of Municipal and Rural Affairs.
4. Standards: None.
5. General Financial Conditions: The municipality or village council should
pass CVDB's "General Solvency Test."
6.  Specific Financial Conlitions;  None.
7. Minimum Size: None.
8. Documents to be submitted with the loan application:
(a) Letter of endorsement by Minister of Municipal and Rural Affairs;
(b) Minutes of Local Council decision concerning proposed civil works
equipment signed by all council members;
(c) Detailed technical specifications for the proposed equipment;
(d) Cost estimates prepared by Governorate level, Department of MMRA;
(e) Feasibility study justifying need for the proposed equipment.
FOOTPATHS, SIDEWALKS AND STAIRS
Eligibilitv Criteria
1. Tvpe of Settlement: Any municipality or area governed by a village
council at the time of submission of the loan application or group of such
municipalities and/or village councils.



-75 -                            ANNEX 4
Page 18 of 18
2. Type of Proiect: Paving of footpaths, sidewalks and stairs.
3. Technical Restrictions: CVDB will finance:
-    sidewalks: if they are built alongside already paved roads, if the
local authority pledges to recover 1001 of this cost from
beneficiaries in three years or less, and if all land has been
acquired for the project;
-    footpaths and stairs:  if they connect dwelling and other buildings
to paved streets or other footpaths, if the local authority pledges
to recover 100X of their cost from beneficiaries in three years or
less and if all land has been acquired for the project.
4.  Standards:  Sidewalks should not be paved wider than 2.50 meter, even if
the right of way is wider. Footpaths and stairs should not be paved wider
than 1.50 meter even if the right of way is wider. At intersections
between footpaths and streets bollards should be installed to prevent
vehicles from using footpaths.
5. General Financial Conditions: The municipality or village council should
pass CVDB's "General Solvency Test."
6. Specific Financial Conditions: Municipalities and village councils must
be prepared to cosmit themselves in a covenant of the Loan Agreement to
recover 1001 of paving sidewalks, footpaths and stairs from each
beneficiary in proportion to his frontage. Cost recovery should be
achieved within at most three years of completion of works. When
possible, municipalities and village councils should be encouraged to
obtain advance payment from benefiriaries.
7.  Minimum Size:  None (except minimum Ican amounts mentioned in CVDB's
Policy Statement).
8. Documents to be submitted with the loan application:
(a) Letter of endorsement by Minister of Municipal and Rural Affairs;
(b) Minutes of Local Council decision concerning proposed footpaths,
sidewalks and stairs signed by all council members;
(c)  Site plan showing proposed footpaths, sidewalks and stairs (scale:
1/2,500);
(d) Cost estimates prepared by Governorate level, Department of MMRA;
(e) Letter from Local Council specifying by whom the project construction
will be supervised.



-76 -                         ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 1
JORDAN
CITIES AND VILLAGES DEVELOPMENT BANK
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
Disbursement    Cumulative
during period   Disbursement   Cwmulative
IBRD FY                CY              (US$ million)   (US$ million)  Percentage
1986
Second Semester  1985                   0.75             0.75            5.0
First Semester   1986                   0.75             1.50           10.0
1987
Second Semester  1986                   1.20             2.70           18.0
First Semester   1987                   1.80             4.50           30.0
1988
Second Semester  1987                   2.50              7.00          46.7
First Semester   1988                   3.00            10.00           66.7
1989
Second Semester  1988                   2.10             12.10          80.7
First Semester   1989                   1.50            13.60           90.7
1990
Second Semester  1989                   0.60            14.20           94.7
First Semester   1990                   0.40            14.60           97.3
1991
Second Semester  1990                   0.40             15.00         100.0



-77 -                          AINEX 6
Page 1 of 1
JORDAN
CITIES AND VILLAGES DEVELOPMENT BANK
Project Files Listing
1.   Service Delivery System
2. Local Goverunent Finance in Jordan
3.   Review of the Five Most Important Specialized Financial
Institutions in Jordan
4.   CVDB Appraisal Form



IBRD 14569R
LEBANON                                                                    OCtOBER 1911
S Y R I A N      A R A B                      o-\
-         REPUBLI~~~~~~~C 'loA,
..  _==   t:_    ! Z                 ~~~~~~~~~R E P U B L IC                         \I R A Q
MEDITERRANIEAN.      :-
*  SEA 
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
SeA  /  H             -         | ~~~~~~~~R  B  I  D                                    <
A K
I             M.a ,                            /Ae'a   POPULATION DISTRIBUTION
/ )'                               ,/                                           AND
/            P~~~~MA AA   N                   /ADMINISTRATIVE DI VISIONS
.- xr R_
/  r-N - - - '       A  M  M  A  N_-NTE I
ARAB                 <+                                    \             5-  A UA0
REPUBLIC                                                                               3W ,
OF  EGYPT                                                                        kja#1Q /
.                                    PERSONS PER SOUARE KCLOMKTER,
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 - _ r-9
45\  I                                C,LOFTERSG  20  40O   s   '0oo         J SUB.OvERNORATE SONDARIES
-o .0 Me'eOVERNORtATE POULOD    ARIES
-  ~    SAUDI    A             R A B  IA                                 %        CCuED TERI-ORIES
O F        PT||/                                                     3*3aoo



