Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
O5/. XA9A?F - qFReport No. 8036-AFR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BANQUE OUEST AFRICAINE DE DEVELOPPEMENT (BOAD)
THIRD REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DECEMBER 27, 1989
Industry and Energy Division
Occidental and Central Africa Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may he used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwiise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit             =              CFA Franc a/
US$1.0                                   CFAF 300
CFAF 1 million                           US$3,333
SDR 1.0                                  US$1.250
US$l.O                    =              0.800 SDR
FISCAL YEAR (BOAD)
October 1 - September 30
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ADB                  -    African Development Bank
AIRFD                -    Association des Institutions Regionales et
Sous-R4gionales d. Financement de
Developpement en Afrique de l'Ouest
AMSCO                -    Africa Management Services Company
APDF                 -    Africa Project Development Facility
BCEAO                -    Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de
l'Ouest
BOAD                 -    Banque Ouest Africaine de Developpement
CEAO                 -    Communaute Economique de l'Afrique de
l'Ouest
DFI                  -    Develonment Finance Institution
ECOWAS               -    Economic Community of West African States
EIB                  -    European Investment Bank
FAGACE               -    Fonds Africain de Garantie et de Cooperation
Economique
FEGECE               -    Fonds d'Entraide et de Garantie des Emprunts
du Conseil de l'Entente
FOSIDEC              -    Fonds de Solidarite et d'Intervention pour
le Developpement de la Communaute (CEAO)
FSA                  -    Fonds de Solidarite Africain
SAF                  -    Special African Facility
UMOA                 -    Union Monetaire Ouest Africaine
UNDP                 -    United Nations Development Program
UNIDO                -    United Nations Industrial Development
Organization
a/ The CFA Franc (CFAF) is linked to the French Franc (FF) at a fixed
parity of FF 1 to CFAF 50. The French Franc is currently floating.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BOAD
THIRD REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT/LOAN AND PROJECX SUMMARY .................................. (iii)-(v)
I.    THE ENVIRONMENT ................................................   1
A.    The Economic Setting ......................................   1
1.   Socio-Economic Structure and Performance ..............   1
2.   Sectoral Characteristics ..............................   3
3.   Structural Adjustment Reforms .........................   6
4.  Regional Cooperation ..................................   9
B.    The Financial Sector ......................................  10
1.  The Monetary Union ....................................  10
2.   The Banking System ....................................  11
3.  Financial and Banking Sector Reforms ..2...                                12
II.   BANQUE OUEST AFRICAINE DE DEVELOPPEMENT ........................  13
A.    Historical Background .....................................  13
B.    Ownership and Organization ................................  14
C.    Policies and Procedures ...................................  15
D.    Operational Performance ...................................  20
E.    Financial Condition and Resources .........................  21
F.    Overall Assessment of BOAD's Institutional Capacity .......  23
G.    Prospects .................................................  24
H.    Resource Position and Requirements ........................  25
I.    Development Strategy ......................................  26
III. THE PROJECT ....................................................  29
A.    Recommendations and Justification .........................  29
B.    Project Description .......................................  30
C.    Lending Terms and Conditions ..............................  30
D. Onlending Arrangements .31
E. Technical Assistance .32
F. Project Cost and Financing .33
G. Auditing and Reporting .34
H. Benefits and Risks .34
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED AT NEGOTIATIONS .35
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission consisting of
Messrs. T.N. Dinh and R. Glaeser which visited Lome in May/June 1989. The
report was processed by Ms. Luchmun and Ms. Gordon.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its coatents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
ANNEXES
1.       Socio-Economic Indicators of UMOA and Member Countries
2.       Equity Ownership of BOAD
3.       OrganiLation Chart
4.       Summary of Operations
5-A.     Summary Balance Sheets (FY83 - 3:31/89)
5-B.     Summary Income Statements (FY 1983 - 3/31/89)
5-C.     Status of External Resources
5-D.     Ratios of Financial Performance (FY84-88)
6.       Portfolio Arrears
7.       Actual and Projected Resource Position (FY1989-1992)
8.       Statement of Development Strategy, 1989-92
9-A.     Projected Summary Balance Sheets (FY89 - FY92)
9-B.     Projected Summary Income Statements (FY89 - FY92)
9-C.     Projected Ratios of Financial Performance (FY89-92)
9-D.     Principal Assumptions Underlying Financial Projections
10.       Estimated Disbursement Schedule
11.       Documents in Project File
MAP       IBRD 21814



- iii -
BOAD
THIRD REGIONAL DEvELOPHENT PROJECT
CREDITOLOAN AND PROJECT SOMARY
Borrower:                   Banque Ouest Africaine de Developpement (BOAD)
Beneficiaries:              Private and public sector enterprises and other project
entities, both regional and national, in the seven
member countries of BOAD.
Credit/Loan Amount:         IDA credit of SDR 32 million'(US$40 million equivalent);
IBRD loan of US$15 million.
Terms:                      IDA funds:  standard, with 40 years maturity.  IBRD
funds: 20 years including 5 years of grace at the
standard variable interest rate.
Proiect Description:        The project will consist of a composite IDA/IBRD line of
credit for onlending by BOAD to viable investment
projects in its member countries. The IDA compcnent
will be onlent in the IDA-eligible countries, namely
Benin, Burkina Faso, Mali, Niger, Senegal and Togo. The
IBRD component will be onlent in Cote d'Ivoire.
Subprojects are expected to range in size from US$3-10
million, and subloans from US$1-4 million. A technical
assistance component of US$1 million, included in the
IDA credit amount, is made available to BOAD for
financing consultant services and economic, sector and
project feasibility studies.
Onlending Terms:            Interest rates applicable to BOAD's overall lending
operations including Bpnk Group-financed subprojects,
will be based on the following two-window structure.
(a) a commercial window through which BOAD will charge
prevailing UMOA commercial banking rates, presently up
to 16Z p.a., for commercially-oriented, revenue-earning
operations, including all private sector projects; and
(b) a special lending window through which BOAD will
charge an interest rate set at a level sufficient to
cover its full cost, currently estimated at 8.8Z p.a.,
for non-commercial, development-oriented investments
undertaken by public sector entities.  Borrowings from
this special lending window will further benefit from a
subsidization of 2.40Z p.a. provided by the member
countries through their contributions to the Interest
Subsidization Fund. The exchange risk (limited to
fluctuations between the French Franc and other foreign
currencies, on account of the fixed parity between the
CFA Franc and the French Franc) will continue to be
assumed by BOAD, against a guarantee fee of 2.452 p.a.
already incorporated in lending rates.



- iv -
Benefits:                   The project would help BOAD, which is already a sound
and creditworthy institution, consolidate and further
develop its institutional strength, notably in enhancing
its developmental impact, enlarging its role in regional
integration, rationalizing its interest rate structure,
and strengthening its portfolio management system. The
studies on the prospects for establishing new banking
institutions based on cooperative and mutualist
principles, and on developing the leasing business, can
be expected to yield significant potential benefits in
terms of deepening the UMOA financial sector as well as
BOAD's role in that sector. The catalytic effect of
Bank Group lending would also facilitate BOAD's future
resource mobilization efforts, including its first
attempt at foreign commercial borrowing. Furthermore,
through BOAD as a sound and effective intermediary, the
project will channel IDA/Bank funds to viable
investments in the seven resource-poor UMOA countries,
thus helping to generate a supply response needed to
support the ongoing structural adjustment reforms in
these countries.
Risks:                      No particular risks are envisioned, except possible
macroeconomic and financial difficulties of some UMOA
countries, which could adversely affect the quality of
BOAD's loan portfolio.  However, this risk appears no
greater than for the Bank Group's own lending to the
same countries, and is mitigated by BOAD's close project
supervision work and arrangements for further
strengthening its portfolio management.
Estimated Cost:                           -------US$ million equivalent-----
Local        Foreign          Total
Subproject Financing                    170.0          370.0           540.0
Technical Assistance                      0.5            1.5             2.0
Total cost/Financing required           170.5          371.5           542.0
Financing Plan:                           --------US$ million equivalent-----
Local         Foreign          Total
IDA                                                      40.0            40.0
IBRD                                                     15.0            15.0
Subborrowers                             82.0            40.0           122.0
BOAD (Own Resources + Borrowings)        88.5           119.5           208.0
Other Financing Agencies                                157.0           157.0
Total                                   170.5           371.5           542.0



Estimated Disbursements:       __             FY  (US$ million)
1990 1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996 11997
Annual                         2     6    10    13    10       8      4     2
Cumulative                     2     8    18    31    41    49    53    55
Rates of Return:             Economic and financial rates of return of at least 12?
are required for all subprojects.



BOAD
THIRD REGIONKAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. THE ENVIRONMENT
A. The Economic Setting
1. Socio-Economic Structure and Performance
1.01      The Banque Ouest Africaiiie de Developpement (BOAD, West African
Development Bank) is the regional development bank of the Union Monetaire
Ouest Africaine (UMOA, West African Monetary Union) which comprises seven
francophone Sub-Saharan states: Benin. Burkina Faso, COte d'Ivoire, Mali,
Niger, Senegal and Togo. The total population of the UMOA was 48.5 million
in 1987, with individual populations ranging from 11.1 million in COte
d'Ivoire to 3.2 million in Togo (see Table 1.1). Five of the seven
countries, Niger, Benin, Burkina Faso, Mali and Togo, are among the poorest
countries in the world, with 1987 per capita incomes ranging from US$190 to
US$310. Senegal (US$520) is somewhat better off, and COte d'Ivoire
(US$740) is well ahead of the others.   Six UMOA members are IDA-eligible
countries, with the exception of COte d'Ivoire, which is IBRD-eligible.
Despite obvious differences in economic structure and performance, the UMOA
countries share a number of comon socio-economic constraints that they
have been trying to overcome through structural adjustment and regional
cooperation.
Table 1.1: POPULATION AND GNP, UMOA MEMBERS
Population                       GNP Per Capita
Average Annual                    Average Annual
Growth               1987         Growth
(Millions)    1980-87 (Z)        (US Dollars)   1965-87 (Z)
Benin               4.3           3.2                310             0.2
Burkina Faso        8.3           2.6                190             1.6
COte d'Ivoire      11.1            4.2               740             1.2
Mali                7.8            2.4                210
Niger               6.8            3.0               260            -2.2
Senegal             7.0           2.9                520            -0.6
Togo                3.2           3.4                290             0.0
Source: World Development Report 1989.



-2-
1.02     As evidenced in Table 1.1 above and Table 1.2 below, the economic
structure of the URMOA countries varies considerably, and the performance of
these countries has been uneven. The seven countries rely heavily on
agriculture for domestic production, export earnings, and employment; even
in the most industrialized members of the Union, industry (including mining
and construction) represents less than one-third of GDP, and manufacturing
less than one-fifth, but the range is wide. Mineral production is
important in Togo and Niger, and to a lesser extent in Senegal, but is not
significant in other countries.
Table 1.2: STRUCTURE OF PRODUCTION, 1965 AND 1987
(Z of GDP)
Benin    Bur. Faso  C8t. d'Iv.    Mali   igNr    Ssnegsl     Togo
9g65 1987  196 1987  196511997  1965 1987  1965 1987  1986 7la   196J 1987
Agric.     59  48   53 g8   47 8         66  64    6084    26  22  46  29
Industry    6  14   20  26   19  26    9  12    3  24   18  27  21  18
(Manutact.) ..  (4)  (..) (16)  (11) (16)  (6) (6)  (2) (9)  (14) (17) (10)  (7)
Servlcee   88  89   27  88   88  89   26  36   29  42   66  62  84  64
Source: World Development Report 1989
1.03     As shown in Table 1.2, the UMOA countries have also experienced
uneven rates and patterns of development. The following paragraphs briefly
describe their overall growth experience during the past decade, while the
subsequent sections summarize recent developments in their balance of
payments and public finance and in various sectors of their economies. 1/
1.04     COte d'Ivoire is the world's largest producer of cocoa and the
third largest producer of coffee. It has had a growth of per capita income
averaging 1.2Z per annum during the 1965-87 period, which resulted in a
1987 GNP per capita of US$740, one of the highest in Sub-Saharan Africa.
Recently, a substantial drop in commodity export prices, a decline in
international demand for coffee and a sharp depreciation of the US dollar
caused a major decline in per capita income (6.0? in 1987) and rising
budgetary and balance of payments deficits.
1.05     ToQo's economy was stagnant with a zero percent growth of per
capita GNP during 1965-87, and 1987 GNP per capita was only US$290.
Principal factors of a recent economic deterioration include declining
international prices of all major export commodities, a sharp fall in
phosphate sales, high debt service payments and extrabudgetary spending.
1.06     Niger, with a 1987 per capita of US$260 suffered a substantial
decline of per capita income (-2.2? p.a. on average during 1965-87) mainly
as a result of repeated severe droughts and a sharp decline of uranium
1/ Fuller descriptions of UMOA members' recent performance can be
found in the Country Briefs (as of May 15, 1989), Vol.I, (SECM 89-
691 of June 2, 1989).



-3-
prices, sales and revenues. However, fueled by rapid expansion of the
uranium sector, the economy achieved an average annual growth of over 9Z
during the 1976-1978 period with the rate of growth declining somewhat in
1979-80 and considerable setbacks later on.
1.07     Benin, after experiencing a period of political instability and
economic decline during its first years of independence, achieved a modest
per capita growth of 0,2Z p.a. of GDP over the 1965-1987 period. Its GNP
per capita stood at US$310 in 1987.
1.08     Senegal's economy suffered in the 1970s and 1980s from sharp
fluctuations in export volumes, partly due to severe droughts and prices of
groundnuts, its main crop, as well as from declining phosphate revenues.
As a result, Senegal's per capita GNP declined by 0.6? p.a. during 1965-87,
to US$520 ir 1987.
1.09     Burkina Faso is one of the poorest countries in the world with a
GNP capita income of $190 in 1987. Declining cotton prices and the effects
of repeated severe droughts seriously affected recent economic performance.
Nevertheless, Burkina managed to achieve an average per capita GNP growth
rate of 1.3X p.a. from 1965-87 primarily thanks to substantial workers'
remittances and aid inflows and periods of rapid growth oL cotton
production.
1.10     Mali, which rejoined UMOA in 1985, is also one of the poorest LDCs
in the world with a per capita GNP of $210 in 1987. Despite a highly
variable climate with severe droughts, Mali's GNP per capita growth
averaged 1.1? p.a. during 1965-86, mainly due to increased agricultural
(cereal) production during periods of improved weather conditions.
2. Sectoral Characteristics
1.11     Agriculture.  The UMOA countries exhibit diverse geographical and
climatic conditions, ranging from tropical with dense forests and upland
savanna (particularly in southern COte d'Ivoire, Togo and Benin) to desert
and semi-arid conditions, especially in Senegal, Burkina Faso, Mali and
Niger, all of which suffered extensively from the Sahelian droughts.
(Niger, with about half the total area of UMOA, is 80? desert or semi-
desert). In all of the seven countries, agriculture still provides income
for the bulk (70-80?) of the population. The rural sector contributes 22-
49? of GDP and in five of the seven countries, provides about 801 of export
earnings. (The other two countries--Niger and Togo--have relatively large
exports of minerals.) Three products--coffee, cocoa and groundnuts--make
up approximately 50Z of UMOA's merchandise export earnings. Subsistence
production supports a large part of the rural population, with the main
crops being maize, millet, sorghum and paddy. Although generally self-
sufficient in food when rains are adequate, a number of countries have
suffered food deficits as a result of drought. Plantation agriculture has
been developed to some extent in Cute d'Ivoire, but most investment in the
sector has been directed to small holders and rural infrastructure.
1.12     Agriculture will continue to be the major source of livelihood for
the people of UMOA for many years to come. The major constraints to growth



-4-
in the agricultural sector are the general reliance on rainfall in an area
where a dry climate and periodic droughts are a normal part of life; poor
soils which are deteriorating in some cases due to overcultivation;
reliance on traditional farming methods with little use of new high
yielding varieties or modern inputs; weak support services; lack of
effective technical packages for the region; and high costs of transport.
In some cases, government policies that held producer prices below their
market levels also contributed to the sector's poor performance. In the
Sahel countries, growing desertification has become a serious problem.
1.13     The poor performance of the agricultural sector, which has been
unable to keep pace with population growth, and its importance as a major
source of livelihood for the people have been acknowledged by the
Governments in their development plans, which accord highest priority to
this sector. The major objectives of these development plans are (i) food
security and self-sufficiency, to be obtained by growth and diversification
of food production, price policies, and intensification of livestock
production; (ii) greater independence from uncertain rainfall through
improved management of water resources; and (iii) greater participation by
the rural population in the management of its own activities through the
development of cooperative systems.
1.14     Industrv.  The contribution of the industrial (including mining)
sector to GDP ranges from 132 in Benin and Mali to 222 in Senegal, but
manufacturing alone accounts for considerably less (see Table 1.2). COte
d'Ivoire, with a manufacturing share in GDP of 162, supplies about half of
industrial turnover in UMOA, and Senegal represents another third. Mineral
resources are being exploited in Niger (uranium), Cote d'Ivoire (petroleum)
and Senegal and Togo (phosphates), and others are known to exist, though
not exploited. The sector is characterized by the predominance of a few
large firms, often publicly or foreign-owned, and a largely informal
domestic private sector. As mentioned earlier, public enterprises are
generally inefficient and unprofitable and constitute a severe drain on
government financial resources; many of them are undergoing privatization
or liquidation.
1.15     Manufacturing is dominated by processing of primary products,
primarily for export, and import substitution, mainly of basic consumer
goods (food, drinks, textiles, as well as petrochemicals). It is heavily
dependent on outside capital, intermediate inputs, expertise and markets,
and is concentrated in a few urban areas. Few linkages exist within or
among industrial subsectors. Small and medium sized enterprises and
artisans, while important for employment, are not well integrated into the
rest of the industrial sector, nor are they well developed considering
their potential for producing goods for markets too small to justify larger
scale production.
1.16     Although the industrial sector has grown in most of the UMOA
countries in recent years, it suffers in varying degrees in all of them
from a number of constraints which severely limit its expansion. Domestic
markets are small, a result of small populations, low incomes, and high
costs of transportation, but industries are often highly protected and
unable to compete in external markets. The sector's dependence upon



-5-
processing primary products subjects it to extreme fluctuations in both
quantity (owing to weather conditions) and prices (owing to international
pricing). Pervasive ihortages of managers and tral.ned workers rasult in
hiring of expensive expatriates, and unskilled labor is relatively
expensive and less productive compared to other developing countries.
Other costs, including energy, technology, and transport are also high.
Small scale and artisan enterprises suffer from a lack of technical,
financial and managerial know-how, an inability to adept the nature of
their output to demand or to market it effectively, and from shortages of
working capital.
1.17     Although the Governments of the UHOA countries differ in their
approaches to industrialization, they pursue a number of common objectives:
(i) to gradually shift industrial growth from public investment to the
private sector, particularly small und medium scale enterprises, by way of
incentives and technical assistance; (ii) to increase the degree of local
processing of primary commodities; (iii) to increase the share of nationals
in management and ownership of enterprises; (iv) to decentralize industry
so as to provide employment outside of the main towns and increase the
geographical dispersion of the benefits of growth; (v) to encourage
technical, economic and geographic integration through forward and backwarl
linkages, greater interdependence among large, medium and small
enterprises, and greater regional cooperation; and (vi) to assist artisans
and small and medium scale enterprises through the provision of investment
and working capital and extension services.
1.18     Transportation.  The general tranisport policy objectives shared by
the UMOA countries are to improve the maintenance of existing
infrastructure, to expand intra-regional road and rail links, and to
improve port facilities to serve both the coastal and landlocked ccuntries.
Transportation networks inherited from the colonial past concentrate on
penetration of the interior, with very little in the way of lateral
connections.  As a result, the interior Sahelian states (Burkina Faso, Mali
and Niger) are, except for relatively infrequent air services, effectively
linked to the world by road and rail to the ports of neighboring countries.
This system, designed for the export of primary commodities and in turn the
import of consumer goods from abroad, discourages the development of a
regional market for locally produced goods, particularly in the interior
states. An interconnected east-west transport link would reduce this
problem, but is difficult to justify economically.
1.19     Telecommunications.  The UMOA states are members of UAPT, Union
Africaine de Telecommunications (Pan African Telecommunications Union).
Ties among UMOA members and Mauritania are particularly close, and some
attempts have been made to coordinate national telecommunications
development plans. As a result of this and as a consequence of the
PANAPTEL program, in the eight countries international connections have
expanded in step with national networks in recent years, laying the basis
for improved regional cooperation and integration. However, despite these
efforts, inadequate access to, and low quality of telephone and telegraph
services remain a serious problem within individual TJMOA countries and
between them. Domestic links are over-burdened and international
connections with neighboring states are still at an early stage of
I



- 6 -
development. Telecommunications services still cater mainly to public and
professional users in urban areas.
1.20     Good telecommunication services are indispensable to the effective
management of industrial enterprises, as well as for the development of
agriculture and commerce. In addition, they are a vital element in
economic cooperation and integration among countries and to the expansion
and diversification of external trade. Therefore the UMOA countries share
a common goal of expanding and improving their telecommunications networks,
both nationally and internationally.
1.21     Energy.  Energy consumption is fairly low in UMOA countries, a
reflection of their relatively low level of development. For the Union as
a whole, only a small portion of energy needs is supplied by commercial
sources of energy, while the bulk is covered by wood and agricultural by-
products. The heavy dependence on wood has led to extensive de-forestation
and an acceleration of the process of desertification. Meanwhile,
gradually increasing reliance on imported petroleum products has
contributed to the balance of payments problems discussed above, also
because the cost of importing petroleum to UMOA countries is substantially
higher than world averages due to the inefficiency of local refineries and
to the small size of national markets, coupled with the lack of cooperation
among neighboring countries to rationalize procurement and distribution
systems. In addition, the landlocked members of UMOA are further penalized
by the prohibitive cost of overland transportation and by their dependence
on coastal neighbors for transshipment of imports.
1.22     Most of the UMOA countries have instituted planning of energy
resources to ameliorate these problems. Their plans include major hydro-
electric projects in several member countries, development of natural gas
reserves, extension of electrification into rural areas, exploitation of
renewable energy resources (solar, wind and biomass), and exploration for
fossil fuels and offshore oil resources in the coastal countries. Improved
regional cooperation to optimize the use of local natural resources
(hydropower and natural gas in particular) is also being contemplated:
existing power interconnections (Ghana-Togo-Benin; Nigeria-Niger; Ghana-
Cote d'Ivoire) are to be expanded with the ultimate goal of interlinking
all of West Africa's grids. Furthermore, consideration is being given to
the possibility of exporting, by pipeline, surplus Nigerian natural gas to
the coastal countries to the West, and to rationalizing on a regional basis
the systems for procuring, storing, refining crude oil and distributing
pettoleum products, with the goal of reducing by up to 202 the area's oil
imports bill.
3. Structural Adlustment Reforms
1.23     Overview.  Despite obvious differences in economic structure and
performance, the UMOA countries share a number of common constraints,
including limited natural endowment and resource availability including
human capital, dependence on a limited number of primary commodities
(agriculture and minerals) for income and export earnings, consequent high
vulnerability to fluctuations in the weather and in international prices,



7-
inadequate control of public spending, small domestic markets and long
distances between population centers.
1.24     Balance of Payments.  All of the UMOA countries experienced
growing balance of payments deficits during the 1980s due, in part, to
slowing world demand for primary commodities, declining export prices and a
resulting deterioration in the terms of trade. For instance, between 1980
and 1988, the merchandise terms of trade fell by 372 in C8te d'Ivoire and
342 in Mali. The current account balances deteriorated from small
surpluses or deficits in 1970 to large deficits in the 1980s. Commercial
borrowing from abroad rose sharply, pushing the ratio of public debt
service to exports of goods and services to record levels. The 1987/1988
debt service ratios reached 40? in Benin (up from 2.5Z in 1980), 202 in
Burkina Faso (vs. 4.5? in 1980), 45? in Cote d'Ivoire (vs. 26Z), 10? in
Mali (vs. 3.6?), 422 in Niger (vs. 19Z), and 30? in Togo (vs. 8? in 1980).
1.25     Public Finance.  The state of public finance varies among UMOA
members, but in recent years all have experienced increasing difficulties.
Deficits have grown as a result of falling revenues, rapidly expanding
expenditures, or both. In the 19708, in some cases, the cycle started with
rapidly expanding revenues (from phosphates in Togo, uranium in Niger, and
coffee and cocoa in C6te d'Ivoire), which were used to expand public
investment to levels that were not sustainable when commodity prices fell.
During the expansionary period, numerous public enterprises were created,
many of which are unprofitable and constitute a severe drain on public
resources. Falling commodity prices hit all of the countries, reducing
revenues and at the same time creating pressure to reduce taxes and
increase current expenditures to help the poorest segments of the
population cope with the falling prices. Finally, lack of budgetary
control and rising wage payments have also contributed to increases in
current expenditures. The expanding deficits were financed in large part
by increased foreign borrowing resulting in rapid increases in the
Governments' debt service burdens. Debt rescheduling became necessary in
several countries including Togo, Senegal and C6te d'Ivoire. Fiscal
deficits as a percentage of GDP in 1987/1988 reached 8.7? in Benin, 1.22 in
Burkina, 12.42 in C8te d'Ivoire, 14.92 in Mali, 4.9? in Niger, 4.5? in
Senegal and 5.3Z in Togo. All countries are now making efforts to control
expenditures, improve fiscal management (including that of public
enterprises), and improve planning in the context of structural reform
programs as indicated below (paras 1.27-1.33).
1.26     Structural Adiustment Process.  Reflecting severe long-term
development constraints combined with socio-economic imbalances and
distortions, Governments of the UMOA countries realized the need for
structural adjustment to regain economic equilibrium and to stimulate
growth. They therefore embarked on concerted efforts to address serious
balance of payments and public finance issues outlined above, to adjust
economic and financial policies and redirect development strategies in
collaboration with the Bank and the Fund.
1.27     In Benin, an IDA structural adjustment credit and at IMF SAF have
been approved in 1989. The reform programs include the restructuring of



-8-
the banking system in addition to comprehensive macroeconomic policy
changes.
1.28     Burkina's ongoing efforts to promote greater efficiency and growth
through economic reform are leading to a first policy based IDA operation
currently under preparation with a view to improving public sector resource
management and private sector incentives. These macroeconomic reforms will
be reinforced at the sector level with possible sector adjustment
operations in agriculture and transportation.
1.29     During the 1980s, the Bank has supported the Government of COte
d'Ivoire's macroeconomic reforms with three successive structural
adjustment loans. The adjustment process encountered major difficulties in
1987. partly due to a decline in world prices of cocoa that led to severe
debt servicing problems. The Government is currently discussing a
macroeconomic reform program with the Bank and IMF and sector adjustment
operations in energy, agriculture, water supply and sewerage, and human
resource development are under preparation.
1.30     The pressing nature of Mali's economic problems have made
macroeconomic adjustment a central aim of the Government's development
strategy. An IDA Public Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit and an IMP
Stand-by and SAP program ha.e been approved in 1988/89 and discussions are
now underway on the formulation of a medium term structural adjustment
program which could be supported by a first SAL.
1.31     Niger's short and medium term development strategy is aimed at
continuing the process of economic stabilization and structural adjustment
initiated in 1984. An IDA Structural Adjustment Credit, together with SAF
credits, a Public Enterprise Sectoral Adjustment Program and a Public
Enterprise Institutional Development Project, were among the first steps in
the ongoing reform process to be reinforced by a second SAL and sectoral
adjustment operations in human resource development and transport currently
under preparation.
1.32     Senegal's medium and long term structural adjustment program has
been supported by three IDA Structural Adjustment Credits and an IMF
Structural Adjustment Facility. Further Government reform efforts in the
adjustment process would be supported by a series of adjustment operations
under consideration (SAL IV and SECALs in several sectors including
financial sector, agriculture, transport, and human resource development).
1.33     Togo initiated several adjustment programs in the 1980s assisted
by three Structural Adjustment Credits together with IMF Stand-by and SAF
operations. As a complement to the ongoing reform process and the third
SAL, sector-wide programs in agriculture, infrastructure, power, education
and health are under preparation.



4. Regional Cooperation
1.34     Many of the problems common to the UMOA countries could best be
addressed on a regional rather than a national basis. A regional approach
can economize on scarce resources (both physical and human) and provide the
larger markets necessary for expansion of production, economies of scale,
and increased linkages. However, while the financial cooperation
established within the UMOA has been highly successful (Section 1.2),
regional cooperation in other fields has been uneven among the existing
regional organizations. The oldest (besides UMOA) is the Conseil de
l'Entente, established in 1966 and comprising Benin, COte d'Ivoire, Niger,
Togo and Burkina Faso. The Conseil is basically a consultative group which
also acts as a cornduit for bilateral funds and technical assistance to
national agriculture and small-scale enterprise projects. Another
organization is the Communaut6 Economique de l'Afrique de l'Ouest (CEAO),
which includes COte d'lvoire, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Benin and
Burkina Faso. (Togo has an observer status.) CEAO operates as a free
trade area for agricultural products and raw materials and as a
preferential trading area for approved industrial products, with a regional
cooperation tax (TCR) replacing import duties and encouraging trade among
member states. In order to ensure that benefits of the regional grouping
flow to all members, especially the least developed ones (Mali, Mauritania,
Niger and Burkina Faso), the CEAO has established a fund (FOSIDEC) to
provide financial services and guarantees to development lenders in both
public and private sectors for projects in member states. In addition,
CELtO has the long-term objective of creating a customs union with extensive
harmonization of fiscal policies between member states, though no concrete
achievements in this direction have been recorded. In 1976 all anglophone
and francophone states of the region joined to establish the Economic
Community of West African States (ECOWAS), with the eventual goal of
creating a free trade zone.
1.35     Despite the efforts of these organizations, regional cooperation
and integration of directly productive activities has proceeded very
slowly. Long common borders facilitate unrecorded trade and migration
flows from the poorer to the richer countries. According to preliminary
estimates only some 13Z of exports from UMOA countries go to other UMOA
members, and only about 72 of imports come from the region itself. These
figures reflect the predominance in production of primary commodities,
while imports tend more to consumer and intermediate goods not produced in
UMOA.  They also indicate the scope for increased trade among UMOA members
in search of larger markets for their manufactured output.
1.36     National development is, and will continue to be, the focus of
development efforts among UMOA members. Nevertheless, there is a growing
awareness that a simple national orientation is insufficient to meet
efficiently all the objectives of development. Within the UMOA context the
benefits of coordinated monetary policy have fostered the desire for
regional approaches to certain development investments, and practical
benefits to cooperation have been demonstrated. Therefore, BOAD, in line
with its statutory obligations, has been focussing on possibilities for
promoting increased regional cooperation and integration (paras 2.16-
2.17/2.29).



- 10 -
B. The Financial Sector
1. The Monetary Union
1.37     Background.  Established by a treaty signed in 1962 and revised in
1973, the Union Monetaire Quest Africaine (UMOA, West African Monetary
Union) comprises seven countries (Benin, COte d'3-roire, Niger, Senegal,
Togo, Mali and Burkina Faso) who share ti) a common currency, the Franc de
la Communaute Financiere Africaine (CFA Franc) which is freely convertible
into French Francs at a fixed rate of CFAF 50 for FF 1; (ii) a common
Central Bank, the Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest (BCEAO)
with supra-national responsibility for monetary and credit policies; and
(iii) a common development bank, the Banque Ouest Africaine de
Develcppement (BOAD) which would be the implementing agency for the
proposed project.
1.38     Institutional Structure.  The supreme authority of UMOA is the
Chiefs of State Conference which acts on questions related to membership
(admission, withdrawal and exclusion). The Council of Ministers which
comprises two ministers for each state, is responsible for the management
of the UMOA, and in particular defines monetary and credit policies and has
overall supervisory authority over the activities of the Central Bank
(BCEAO) and the Development Bank (BOAD).
1.39     Credit Policy.  The overall monetary and credit policies of the
Union are designed by thb Board of Directors of BCEAO and implemented at
the country level by National Credit Committees. To carry out its
policies, BCEAO uses several monetary instruments. First, each country is
given an annual indicative target for credit expansion and an absolute
ceiling for Central Bank refinancing. Within those limits, banks are
expected to mop up liquidities on the union-wide interbank market, called
money market, before seeking access to Central Bank rediscount of up to ten
years. To control credit expansion, all bank loan applications above a
certain amount--which varies between CFAF 70 million and CFAF 100 million
among member countries--require Central Bank prior approval, whether the
credit will be later rediscounted or not. Finally, BCEAO has decided to
apply a sectoral policy in favor of priority productive sectors by
establishing lending coefficients by sector, although these have remained
largely indicative. (This selective credit policy has been discontinued
following the reforms referred to in para. 1.46.)
1.40     Interest Rates.  Interest rates in the Union are regulated by
BCEAO. A preferential interest rate applied to credits to priority
borrowers including Government, small-scale enterprises, short-term crop
financing, and housing. All other loans were charged a "normal" rate. The
interest rate structure was adjusted upwards in recent years to reflect
international market conditions. Up to October 1989, the preferential
rediscount rate was set at 9Z p.a., with the allowed banking margin of 3Z
p.a., while the normal rediscount rate was lQZ with an allowed banking
margin of 5Z p.a., resulting in banking interest rates in the range of 12Z-
15? p.a., which applied whether the credit was rediscounted by the BCEAO or



- 11 -
was financed from other sources. On October 2, 1989, BCEAO eliminated the
preferential rediscount rate and created a uniform rediscount rate, which
was set at 10.52 p.a. and subsequently increased to 11 p.a. on October 27,
1989. Banking margins have also been unified at a maximum of 5 percentage
points. The money market rate regulated by BCEAO is set at a level of
0.25-0.50 percentage point below the rediscount rate. Interests paid on
deposits are also regulated by BCEAO. At present, interest on small
deposits (CFAF 2.0 million or less) ranges from 82 to 92 while interest
paid on larger deposits catt be freely negotiated and is currently as high
as 14Z. As part of a comprehensive reform program under formulation by
BCEAO, interest rates are being gradually liberalized to reflect the market
(para 1.46).
1.41     Benefits of UMOA Membership.  After over thirty years of
experience, the UMOA can be credited with facilitating trade between its
members and with countries outside the Union (due to the convertibility of
the CFAF), with helping to maintain a relatively stable currency and ease
balance of payment constraints, and with attracting external investments.
On the other hand, the fixed parity of the CFA Franc in relation to the
French Franc limits the freedom of UMOA countries regarding monetary,
fiscal, trade and exchange rates policies. The prevailing over-valuation
of the CFA Franc also adversely affects the competitiveness and export
performance of UMOA products.
1.42     Inflation.  During 1980-87, the estimated annual rate of inflation
averaged between 4.1 and 4.42 p.a. in Burkina, Mali, Niger, and COte
d'Ivoire, while it reached 6.62 in Togo, 8.2Z in Benin and 9.1Z in Senegal.
The average rate of inflation in the UMOA countries can be expected to
remain in the range of 4 to 92 for the next few years.
2. The Banking System
1.43     Until the establishment of the Union, the banking system in the
UMOA countries comprised mainly branches of French commercial banks
catering essentially to the needs of external trade and the expatriate
population. Since then, the banking system has developed and diversified
rapidly although to varying degrees according to the economic growth of the
different countries. Banking institutions, established under national
regulations and with national participation, have replaced branches of
foreign banks. At the same time, banking regulations have been
progressively harmonized in the member states under the auspices of the
Central Bank. Finally, under the 1975 reform of BCEAO, the distinction
between commercial banks and development banks was abolished and the
commercial banks can now finance medium and long term credits while
development banks are allowed to engage in commercial banking activities.
The development of the banking system in various 'MOA countries remains
uneven. The Benin, Burkina Faso, and Malian systems are the least
developed, whereas in COte d'Ivoire there are 28 financial institutions,
including 3 development banks (of which two are being slated for
liquidation). Except in Benin where the banking system is entirely
Government-owned since 1975 (but in the process of being privatized), the
percentage of Government ownership in banks varies greatly among the UMOA
countries, although the development banks are usually majority or wholly



- 12 -
Government-owned. Except for COte d'Ivoire, there are few specialized
financial institutions such as housing banks, leasing and vehicle financing
companies.
1.44     Total credits to the economy within the UMOA have increased only
marginally in recent years, on an outstanding basis, from CFAF 2,020
billion in 1986 to CFAF 2,145 billion in 1988. COte d'Ivoire accounted for
56Z of the total credits in 1988, followed by Senegal with 202. Although
the distribution varies from country to country, short term credits
represented about two-thirds of the total in 1988. Short term crop credits
amounted to CFAF 370 billion or 17.22 of total credits.
1.45     Since the past few years, the UMOA banking system has been facing
severe financial difficulties, particularly in Senegal, Benin, Mali, Niger,
and, to a lesser extent, in COte d'Ivoire. In these countries, virtually
all state-owned development banks have become technically insolvent, and
many commercial banks jointly owned by the state and foreign banks have
also experienced varying degrees of illiquidity. This banking crisis is
reflected in the accumulation of high portfolio arrears estimated to
represent approximately one-third of total banking credits outstanding. It
is attributable to several factors, including weak banking management,
ineffective banking control by the authorities, excessive financing of
unprofitable public enterprises, high government arrears vis-&-vis private
sector contractors, and, in COte d'Ivoire and Senegal, financing of
agricultural crops (mainly cocoa, coffee, groundnuts) at domestic pr'ces in
excess of declining international prices. The Bank is actively working
both with the BCEAO on a Union-wide basis and with individual countries
(Benin, Senegal, COte d'Ivoire, Niger) towards reforming their financial
sectors and restructuring distressed banks.
3. Financial and Banking Sector Reforms
1.46     Since August 1989, the Central Bank, BCEAO, has been formulating a
comprehensive program to reform financial and banking policies and
regulations on a Union-wide basis. This program, prepared in association
with the Bank and the Fund, focuses upon the following four main areas:
(a) Reforms of the instruments of monetary policy aiming generally at
replacing administrative/direct controls such as specific credit
ceilings and sectoral targets with indirect instruments such as
interest rates and, ultimately, reserve requirements.
Specifically, the program envisages the abolition of sectoral
credit targets, the gradual liberalization of interest rates and
banking margins, and the expansion and liberalization of the money
market;
(b) Reforms of the Central Bank refinancing system, including the
gradual replacement of the rediscount facility by the money
market; the abolition of the preferential rediscount rate
accompanied by the setting of a unified rediscount rate at a level
above the money market rate (para. 1.40); and most importantly,
the rationalization of the system of agricultural crop credits;



- 13 -
(c) Strengthening of banking control by the authorities, with the
revamping of the existing Bank Control Commissions at the national
level, and their subsequent replacement by a supra-national
"Banking Commission" endowed with the requisite authority and
technical resources for banking oversight; the establishment and
stricter enforcement of banking prudential ratios; and
(d) Promotion of domestic savings in the Union, through the gradual
liberalization of banking operations including deposit rates, the
encouragement of mutualist credit associations, the development of
the financial and capital market, and eventually a deposit
insurance scheme.
II. BANQUE OUEST AFRICAINE DE DEVELOPPEMENT
A. Historical Background
2.01     The establishment of a regional development bank was decided by
the UMOA countries in late 1973.  BOAD's broad mandate is to promote the
economic development of its member countries with ar emphasis on its
poorer, landlocked members, as well as regional economic integration among
Union members and also with neighboring non-member countries. BOAD is
empowered to discharge this mandate by making term loans, taking equity
participations, granting guarantees, and conducting economic, sector and
project feasibility studies. Except for social infrastructure (education,
health), BOAD may finance investment projects in all productive sectors
(e.g. agriculture, industry, energy) and infrastructure, (e.g. transport
and communications), provided their economic rate of return is
satisfactory. Since it began operations in 1976, BOAD has achieved a
substantial operational record and has built up its considerable expertise
and experience as a development finance institution, as well as a strong
financial position including a sound loan portfolio.
2.02     The Bank has maintained a close and productive relationship with
BOAD, which has encompassed two lines of credit apart from technical
assistance 'toward building up BOAD's institutional strength it its
formative years. The first, an IDA Credit of US$3 million approved in
1981, financed technical assistance as well as the cost of 18 economic,
sector and feasibility studies primarily for regional projects. Some of
these studies have already resulted in regional operations financed by BOAD
while others are under consideration. Project implementation in general
has been good. (A PCR is under preparation). The second, a composite
IDA/IBRD line of credit (SDR 13 million and US$6.1 million respectively),
effective in 1983, has been fully committed to 10 subprojects and
technical assistance expenditures. Most of the subprojects have been
approved only recently and are, therefore, still in an early stage of
implementation. In general progress in implementing this line of credit
thus far has been satisfactory.



- 14 -
2.03     In 1987, upon the completion of its first decade of operation,
BOAD commissioned a Bank-supported "Retrospective and Prospective Study'
carried out by international consultants under the guidance of a steering
committee composed of independent personalities, with a view to evaluating
its past performance and making recommendations for its future. This study
concluded that BOAD had a sound organization, rigorous management and a
competent staff, systematic policies and procedures, a strong financial
position and portfolio. In regard to BOAD's future, the study made a
number of general suggestions, e.g. on BOAD's role in regional integration
and its internal organization (e.g. creation of a retrospective evaluation
system; greater decentralization in decision-making), which are being taken
into account by BOAD's management in formulating the institution's future
directions.
B. Ownership and Organization
2.04    Share Capital.  BOAD has an authorized share capital of CFAF 140.0
billion of which CFAF 121.7 billion has been subscribed, CFAF 33.3 billion
has been called and CFAF 14.8 billion has been paid-in as of December 1988.
Shareholders include the seven UMOA members, their common Central Bank
(Class A shareholders) and non-member countries and institutions, e.g.
Belgium, France, Germany, the African Development Bank and the European
Investment Bank (Class B shareholders). The subscribed but not yet paid-in
portion of CFAF 86.1 billion serves as guarantee for BOAD's borrowings.
Details of BOAD's share capital and ownership are given in Annex 2.
2.05     Organization and Management.  BOAD's Board of Directors is chaired
by the President (non-voting member) and consists of one representative and
one alternate from each member state, the Governor of the BCEAO and five
directors representing the Class B shareholders (Belgium, France, Germany,
the ADB and the EIB). The Board is responsible to the UMOA Council of
Ministers which appoints its President for a six-year renewable term.
While the Council of Ministers provides overall policy guidance and
oversight, the Board of Directors is entrusted with broad decision-making
authority including the responsibility for approving all loans and
investments. BOAD's President since 1982 has been Mr. Baba-Moussa, whose
current term was renewed in 1988 and who continues to provide the
institution with strong leadership and sound management. Under its
Presidency, BOAD's organization comprises five departments (Annex 3): Loan
and Equity Participations Department; Research and Programming; Budget,
Personnel and Training; Financial Operations and Accounting; and General
Administration. In addition, there are three units directly reporting to
the President: Internal Audit; Retrospective Evaluation; and Systems,
Procedures, and Computerization. The Retrospective Evaluation Unit, a
recent addition, is in the process of being set up. Project appraisal and
supervision are carried out by the Loan and Equity Participations
Department. Senior managers--all of whom are UMOA nationals--are
competent, experienced and motivated. Internal controls have been reviewed
by external auditors and found satisfactory. Organized through various
committees, internal communication is very good though somewhat formal.
Overall, BOAD is a well-organized and sound institution.



- 15-
2.06     Staffinz and Training.  As of June 30, 1989, BOAD had a total
staff of 156 comprising 7 executives (including the President and the Vice
President), 53 professionals, 93 support staff and 3 expatriate technical
assistants financed by France and Belgium (Annex 3, page 2).
Professionals, coming from all UMOA member countries, consist of 27
economists, financial analysts and statisticians, 15 engineers and computer
specialists, and 16 lawyers, accountants and generalists. The professional
staff are qualified and motivated. Most of them were recruited and trained
through a three-year young professional program.  BOAD's training program
comprises in-service training for all staff and external assignments for
young graduates and other selected staff. Training is systematic and
extensive. Staff training since inception included 54 internal sem4.nars
and participation at 81 external seminars, totalling 1,750 "participant-
days. BOAD's organizational chart and staffing are presented in Annex 3.
C. Policies and Procedures
2.07     Operational Policies and Procedures.  BOAD's operating policies
and procedures are comprehensive and systematically codified in a series of
operational guidelines and in an Internal Regulation Manual. Project
appraisal methodology, for instance, is laid out in an overall manual as
well as in a series of sector-specific guidelines (e.g. agriculture,
transportation, telecommunications). Project economic analysis is thorough
and includes the calculation of economic rates of return. A supervision
manual outlines procedures for project follow-up and for the preparation of
project completion reports. The General Policy Statement is satisfactory.
Among other points, it specifies that BOAD's concentration on the Union's
least developed members will be reflected in financing a higher proportion
of the costs of projects in these countries and a greater emphasis on
infrastructure and rural development operations. The maximum proportion of
any project that BOAD can finance ranges from 40Z to 90Z of total project
cost, based both on the sector and on the borrowing country's economic
capacity. The maximum exposure in any single project is 10X of BOAD's
unimpaired capital, grants and reserves (currently about CFAF 40 billion).
The aggregate limit for all equity participations is 25Z of BOAD's paid-in
capital, and the individual limit for each equity participation is 25X of
the firm's equity or 52 of BOAD's paid-in capital. Currently, BOAD's upper
limit for project finance is set at CFAF 3.0 billion. BOAD loes not
normally consider direct financial assistance for less than CFAF 500
million, since small projects are expected to be financed by national
development finance institutions. BOAD intends, however, to reduce the
above-mentioned threshold and/or to apply it flexibly, particularly in
light of its current objective of increasing the proportion of its lending
to private sector projects, which are generally of smaller size than public
sector projects. Aware of the distressed condition of most DFIs operating
in the UMOA, but also of the need to assist in their rehabilitation, BOAD
is confining its assistance, in the form of both equity participations and
lines of credit, to those DFIs for which there is a sound restructuring
plan acceptable to the BCEAO and the national authorities as well as to
BOAD itself. Finally, as a regional development bank, BOAD endeavors to



- 16 -
give greater priority to *regional" projects in relation to "national"
projects. Such regional projects are defined as those whose ownership
involves or whose benefits accrue to at least two States, of which at least
one would be a UMOA country. To that end, BOAD has been pursuing close
links with sister agencies involved in regional cooperation, including
FOSIDEC, ECOWAS Fund, APDF and AMSCO, with some of whom it has entered into
formal cooperation agreements. It has also devoted a significant
proportion of its study program to regional cooperation and integration
(para 2.17).
2.08     Procurement.  BOAD's procedures for the purchase of goods and
services under its loans are codified in satisfactory guidelines.
International competitive bidding (3pen to all UN countries and
Switzerland, excluding countries with which the OAU has decided to cancel
diplomatic, economic and/or commercial relations) is the norm while limited
tendering and comparative shopping are confined to specific and justifiable
cases. Consultants to BOAD, who have up to now been used extensively to
help prepare projects and feasibility studies, are chosen following
appropriate guidelines which require comparison of alternative proposals
and selection on the basis of previous experience, quality of proposal and
general competence. These procedures have proven satisfactory. However,
as under the two previous Bank projects, during negotiations BOAD's
agreement has been obtained to apply procurement on World Bank funds to
World Bank member countries, Switzerland, Taiwan, and China and to apply
World Bank guidelines with respect to any exclusion of countries (para
3.14).
2.09     Interest Rates.  BOAD's General Policy Statement explicitly
requires it to charge interest rates sufficient to fully cover the cost or
its operations and to constitute adequate provisions for portfolio risks.
In line with this principle, the lending rates applied by BOAD are based on
a computation that takes into account the following three variables: the
cost of its borrowings; its administrative cost; and a fee set at a level
estimated sufficient to cover the exchange risk, which BOAD assumes on its
foreign borrowings. That formula was agreed with the Bank in the context
of the previous operation appraised in 1982.  The "reference rate" deriving
from this computation is reviewed periodically and revised by BOAD as
necessary. Based on actual data up to FY88, BOAD has arrived at the
following current reference rate:
Cost of Borrowings . . . . . . . . . 4.25Z
Administrative Cost. . . . . . . . . 2.10Z
Exchange Risk Cover 2/ . . . . . . . 2.452
Total (reference rate) . . . . . . . 8.80Z
In applying this average reference rate, BOAD differentiates between two
categories of lending: the subsidized and non-subsidized ones. Subsidized
21     In view of the fixed parity between the CFA Franc and the French
Franc, the exchange risk to BOAD is limited to fluctuations between
the French Franc and other foreign currencies included in BOAD's
outstanding liabilities.



- 17 -
sectors (e.g. rural development, basic infrastructure, national DFIs),
presently accounting for roughly one-third of total lending, are charged a
lower interest rate of 7.4Z p.a. by BOAD, and benefit additionally from an
'Interest Subsidization Fund" to which the member countries make annual
contributions (through part of their share of BCEAO's income), at a current
subsidization rate of 2.4Z p.a., which brings the final rate to borrowers
in this category to 5.0  p.a.  Non-subsidized sectors (e.g. energy,
industry, modern infrastructure, and other productive activities),
presently representing about two-thirds of total lending are charged by
BOAD an interest rate of 9-10? p.a., which is marginally in excess of the
reference rate and slightly positive in real terms in relation both to
recent and projected inflation rate (para 1.42).
2.10     BOAD's current lending rates, although sufficient to recover the
cost of its operations, are on the low side compared with prevailing
domestic market rates in the UMOA countries, which range from 13-16X p.a.
for the commercial banks and for both short- and long-term credits, on the
basis of BCEAO's current rediscount rate of 112 p.a. (para 1.40). The
overall adequacy of BOAD's lending rates, however, should be judged in the
particular context in which BOAD operates, and taking into account both the
developmental orientation of its lending and the largely offsetting and
neutral nature of its interest uubsidization. First, as a regional
development bank, BOAD is mandated by its charter to finance priority
investments (e.g. rural development, infrastructure) which, their economic
benefits notwithstanding, do not generally operate on a commercial basis
and thus are not financially able to borrow on commercial terms. In
financing such investments, SOAD, in a sense, operates outside the
commercial stream, not unlike the Bank and IDA themselves. Second, the
cost of subsidization (except for the cross-subsidization referred to in
pira 2.11, and to be abolished) is not borne by BOAD which recovers full
cost on its overall lending, but by the national governments through their
contributions to the Interest Subsidization Fund (para 2.09) with the
objective of promoting investments in specified priority sectors. Third,
the benefits of subsidization accrue entirely to national governments to
the exclusion of enterprise operators, thus representing essentially an
offsetting arrangement and entailing no distortionary effects on the
market.
2.11     The above considerations notwithstanding, there is a need for BOAD
to rationalize its interest rate structure, with a view to applying market
rates, in particular to those projects operating on a commercial basis
including all private sector projects, in line with the policy reforms
underway by the BCEAO aiming, inter alia, at abolishing preferential
interest rates including BCEAO's preferential rediscount rate (para 1.46).
The cross-subsidization (among borrowers) implicit in BOAD's existing
practice of splitting its reference rate (8.8?) between a lower rate (7.4Z)
for some economic activities (e.g. rural development; basic infrastructure)
and a higher rate (9-10Z) for other activities (e.g. industry; energy) is
inappropriate and should be eliminated. In regard to non-commercial
priority investments undertaken by national governments or other public
sector entities, the continuation of subsidization would be acceptable
provided that BOAD recovers full cost on its lending to such projects and
i           so long as the cost of subsidies will continue to be borne explicitly and
l



-  .1.8
exclusively by the member countries themselves. Based on these principles,
agreement has been reached with BOAD on a new interest rate structure along
the following lines:
(a)    The first (commercial) window of the two-window system will
be used by BOAD to finance all commercially-oriented,
revenue-earning projects. These will include by definition
all private sector projects, but also those public sector
enterprises that operate on a commercial basis, and are
profit-oriented. In terms of economic sectors, such
enterprises are generally expected to be found in industry,
but possibly also some revenue-earning public utilities such
as energy and telecommunications. The lending rates to be
applied by BOAD for these projects will be in line with
prevailing UMOA commercisl banking rates (defined as either
BCEAO's normal rediscount rate or its money market interest
rate plus the usual lending margin), which are currently up
to 162 p.a. (This compares with BOAD's present non-
subsidized rates of 9-102).
(b)    The second, (special lending) window, will finance pr.ority
investments and enterprises operating on a non-commercial
basis. By definition, these projects are to be found in the
public sector to the exclusion of the private sector, and
mainly in such sectors as rural development and basic
infrastructure. For projects in this category, BOAD will
apply a lending rate set at a level sufficient to cover its
full cost, currently 8.82 p.a. (instead of the present
marked-down level of 7.4Z.) Borrowings through this window
will continue to benefit from the existing Interest
Subsidization Fund, at the current level of 2.42 p.a., or
such other appropriate level as to be set at the discretion
of BOAD's member countries depending on their financial
capacity and/or the relative importance that they attach to
promoting priority development investments of a non-
commercial nature. Since subsidization is limited to non-
commercially-oriented investments, its benefits will accrue
exclusively to national governments directly or public sector
project entities.
2.12     In the special case of lending by BOAD tc national DFIs (which
will be limited in future to those having an appropriate restructuring or
rehabilitation plan), BOAD will require the borrowing DFIs to onlend BOAD
funds to subborrowers at a final interest rate in line with prevailing UMOA
banking rates, currently up to 16X p.a., while allowing them a lending
margin of between 3-52 p.a. This arrangement would result in BOAD's
lending rates to DFIs ranging from 11-13Z p.a., substantially in excess of
BOAD's full cost recovery level of 8.82 and much above its present
subsidized lending rate of 52 p.a. to DFIs. It would represent an
important first step in getting these DFIs to adopt a more market-oriented
approach to resource mobilization.



2.13     The proposal outlined above is expected to significantly
rationalize BOAD's interest rate structure. It would apply not only to
Bank Group-financed subprojects but to BOAD's overall lending operations.
The proposed classification of lending operations into the "commercial' and
"special lending' categories based on the commercial nature of the
borrowing enterprise, appears more appropriate than the existing
classification based essentially on the economic sector. The new structure
would result in aligning the greater part of BOAD's lending with the UMOA
market rates; based on BOAD's projected lending program, it is estimated
that between one-half and two-thirds of BOAD's future lending will be
through the commercial window, for which an interest rate of about 16? p.a.
would be substantially positive in real terms. It would also significantly
enhance BOAD's profitability through an increased lending margin, thus
improving its capacity for borrowing commercial resources and for making
portfolio provisions. The establishment of the commercial window would
also be consistent with BOAD's developmental objective of increasing the
share of the private sector in its future lending. At the same time, the
special lending window will enable BOAD to continue providing needed low-
cost term finance to a number of development projects deemed of high
priority by its member countries, while recovering its full cost, the cost
of subsidization being borne by the national governments themselves. As
with the existing practice, BOAD will continue to assume the exchange risk,
which is confined to that of the French Franc in relation to other foreign
currencies comprising BOAD's liablities, and for which BOAD is getting an
adequate fee (2.45Z p.a.) already included in its lending rates. 3/
2.14     Once revised along the preceding lines, BOAD's interest rates will
need to be kept under constant review, in particular to take into account
the future evolution of interest rates in the UMOA zone as a result of the
policy reforms underway by the BCEAO, including the eventual introduction
of variable interest rates in the banking system. It has been therefore
agreed that the interest rate structure be annually reviewed jointly by
BOAD and the Bank Group, in order to determine the need for any appropriate
adjustments. It has also been agreed that, as part of the proposed
operation, an initial and comprehensive review of BOAD's interest rates be
undertaken by specialized consultants, which would, inter alia, assess the
continuing adequacy of BOAD's coverage of the exchange risk, the continuing
rationale for charging below-market interest rates to non-commercial
priority investments under the special lending window, and the practicality
and/or desirability of introducing variable lending rates in future in lieu
of the existing fixed rates. This review should start by June 30. 1990,
and its recommendations jointly reviewed by BOAD and the Bank Grcup with a
view to determining appropriate follow-up actions.
3/     The existing fee level of 2.451 p.a. is adequate on the basis of
BOAD's analysis of past data on exchange rate fluctuations between
the French Franc and other foreign currencies in BOAD's liabilities.
Furthermore, BOAD has considerable financial capacity, on account of
its strong capital base, with its net worth of about CFAF 34 billion
exceedinig almost three-fold its outstanding external liabilities of
about CFAF 13 billion, of which about 75 percent are denominated in
non-French Franc currencies.



-20-
2.15     Allocation of Lending.  BOAD sets indicative lending targets over
the next few years for each major economic sector, for instance rural
development and basic infrastructure 26X; modern infrastructure, energy and
communications 322; industry and other productive activities 34z;
development finance institutions 82. In keeping with its conmon ownership
by seven member countries, it also sets lending targets by country, ranging
from 122 for COte d'Ivoire to 162 for Mali. BOAD also has set an initial
indicative lending target of 402 for regional projects--defined as those
involving and/or benefitting at least two States, of which at least one
would be a UHOA member country--as distinct from national projects, but has
to date fallen substantially short of such a target in spite of its best
efforts (see para 2.17), on account of the relative scarcity of regional
projects suitable for financing.
D. Operational Performance
2.16     Loan and Investment Onerations.  Since starting operations in
1976, BOAD has gradually if somewhat cautiously built up its lending
activity. In the fiscal year ended September 30, 1988, BOAD approved 11
operations totalling CPAF 13.6 billion (US$45 million). For the current
fiscal year ending September 30, 1989, BOAD is expected to approve 14 loans
and investments totalling CPWA 17.4 billion, an increase of 28Z. On a
cumulative basis, net approvals since BOAD's inception up to March 31,
1989, amounted to CPAF 102.5 billion for 119 operations. The average loan
size was CPWA 0.96 billion (US$2.8 million). By amount, equity
participations (in national DFIs) accounted only for about 22 of BOAD's
financing. Cumulative disbursements as of March 31, 1989, amounted to
CPAF 49.8 billion, or about one-half of net approvals. On account of the
relative newness of its lending, BOAD's net resource transfer to all its
member countries remains largely positive and is expected to remain so over
the next several years. BOAD's outstanding portfolio amounted to CFAF 35.0
billion. BOAD's operations are shown in Annex 4.
2.17     Characteristics of Financing and Economic Imvact.  With an
outstanding loan portfolio of about CFAF 35 billion, BOAD remains a
relatively modest source of term finance in the UMOA zone, reflecting its
past policy of prudent business growth. Of cumulative net approvals of
CFAF 102.5 billion (para 2.15), about 202 or CPAF 20.3 billion represented
regional projects, on account of the relative scarcity of such projects
available for financing. Loan approvals for private sector projects
amounted to about CPAF 11 billion or 112 of the total, reflecting the
preponderant role of the public sector in the main economic activities
(e.g. rural development, infrastructure) assisted by BOAD. By sector,
rural development accounted for CFAF 42.1 billion or 42Z of total loan
approvals; basic infrastructure 42; energy, communications and other
modern infrastructure 332; industry 172; and lines of credit to national
DFIs the balance of 9Z. Based on ex-ante data contained in BOAD's
appraisal reports, its net loan approvals of about CFAF 100 billion are
estimated to generate approximately CFAF 371 billion of total investments.
Of this amount, CFAF 203 billion equivalent represented external



- 21 -
cofinancing from a variety of international and bilateral sources
(including suppliers credits) which BOAD was instrumental in helping
mobilize. As part of its promotional activity, BOAD is presently
endeavoring to bring to fruition some innovative project ideas originating
from its own staff. These include a project to set up a cold storage chain
(for fishery and other local foodstuff) involving several member countries
(Benin, Burkina, Niger, Togo); another project cal'ing for a network of
mobile (motorized) units for the processing of local fruits and vegetables,
also involving a majority of member countries; and an integrated leather
project wit}. a prospective Union-wide scope. BOAD's role in the above-
mentioned project initiatives encompasses the full project cycle, starting
with a feasibility study, to designing the project, identifying project
sponsors/investors, and ultimately itself financing these projects. These
are the type of investment projects which deserve to be encouraged in the
UMOA context, on account of their contributions to regional economic
cooperation through their trananational scope, their expected significant
employment impact and their utilization of local natural resources (e.g.
fishery, vegetables and fruits, leather).
2.18     Studies.  Apart from its financing activity, BOAD has been active
in carrying out economic, sectoral and project feasibility studies. To
date it has undertaken, at a total cost of CFAF 3.5 billion, 104 studies
including 17 general economic/sectoral studies and 87 project feasibility
studies. Of the latter, 21 have so far resulted in the formulation of
investment projects, with an unquantified number of others being expected
over time to lead to additional projects. In keeping with its role of
promoting regional integration, BOAD has directed over one-half of its
study program toward studies of a regional character. It has recently
completed a major study on the "harmonization of development planning in
the UMOA countriesn, which was reviewed and approved by the national
authorities who have entrusted BOAD with the responsibility for
coordinating its implementation. Among other things, this study calls for
the explicit programming/budgeting of regional investment projects within
national development plans, the standardization in the format and timeframe
of the above plans, and the establishment of an inter-country coordination
committee. It is in the process of carrying out, jointly with the BCEAO,
another major study on domestic savings mobilization in the UMOA region.
Among other benefits, BOAD's study program has contributed significantly to
developing its staff's expertise in economic, sector and project analyses.
In the past, BOAD has financed project feasibility studies on a non-
reimbursable basis, as part of its promotional activities. It intends in
future to fund such studies on a more commercial basis, by requiring
reimbursement at a 3Z p.a. interest rate. In line with existing practice,
when a project becomes bankable, the cost of its feasibility study is
incorporated in the project's cost and to be recovered in full.
E. Financial Condition and Resources
2.19     Financial Position and Performance.  BOAD's financial condition
remains very sound, characterized by a strong equity base, a high level of
liquidity, low indebtedness, a portfolio with moderate arrears, and a



- 22 -
satisfactory earnings record partly attributable to various financial
contributions from member countries. As of March 31, 1989, its outstanding
indebtedness was CFAF 13.4 billion against a net worth of CFAF 35.9
billion, representing a debt/equity ratio of about 1:3. BOAD thus remains
largely an over-capitalized, under-leveraged financial institution, with
considerable capacity for further borrowings, as well as for absorbing the
possible impact of unexpected portfolio losses. In addition, it is managing
various Funds (e.g. those for studies, for interest rate subsidization and
for equity participation) amounting to CFAF 17.9 billion, to which member
countries are making contributions amounting to CFAF 1.4 billion annually.
Its liquidity, taking into account the managed funds, amounted to CFAF 24.2
billion, virtually entirely deposited with the BCEAO, equivalent to about
two-thirds of its outstanding loan portfolio. Its net profits have
averaged slightly above CFAF 2 billion annually over the last four years,
or about 62 of equity, which is satisfactory for a development finance
institution that is not primarily profit-oriented.  BOAD's financial
statements are shown in Annex 5.
2.20     Portfolio Condition.  Arrears on BOAD's loan portfolio, although
increasing of late, remain moderate at CFAF 1.14 billion (for both
principal and interests) as of July 31, 1989, or about 3? of the
outstanding portfolio (Annex 6). These arrears are largely concentrated in
two member countries, namely Benin and Burkina, which are presently facing
financial difficulties. As a matter of policy and with the objective of
maximizing loan recoveries, BOAD normally does not reschedule loan
maturities, except occasionally and where justified on project grounds, for
an adjustment in an initial loan amortization schedule to take into account
delays in the project's start-up. BOAD's relatively good portfolio
performance is attributable to its thorough appraisal and its systematic
supervision work, and partly to its vigilant efforts at getting country
governments, whose guarantee is required for most loans, to honor their
guarantee when a loan installment falls due (about 88Z of all loans are
either made to member States or guaranteed by them). BOAD achieved a loan
collection ratio of 10O? during FY1986/87 and of 95? during FY1987/88.
Such efforts are facilitated by the fact (para 2.16) that BOAD remains a
significantly positive source of net resource transfer vis-a-vis its member
countries, who therefore are amenable to settling arrears to avoid a
suspension of disbursements.
2.21     BOAD supervises the implementation of its projects closely through
regular supervision missions (1-4 missions per year depending on project
status) and specific follow-up actions as specified in a detailed 'Manuel
de supervision des projets finances" (October 1984). It also prepares
project completion reports (PCRs) and recently established a special (not
yet operational) unit--attached to the Presidency--in charge of ex-post
analysis of operations. A BOAD manual for the preparation of PCRs was
issued in January 1989. However, BOAD has not yet instituted a
comprehensive and systematic overall portfolio review, nor do all project
completion reports so far contain a full analysis of economic effects
including comparison of ex-post vs. ex-ante rates of return. A first
attempt at a more systematic portfolio review and project impact analysis
was made in the context of the 10-year 'Retrospective and Prospective
Study' in 1987 (para 2.03) and during appraisal of the proposed operation



- 23 _
in May/June 1989. The 20 projects reviewed by outside consultants in 1987
(representing about half of completed or nearly completed projects) had a
weighted average rating ratio of 6.4 on a scale from 10 (best) to 1
(worst). Five of the 20 operations had 'sub-par" coefficients under 5,
whereas the majority of projects were ranked between 6 and 9. The economic
impact analysis of 15 completed operations conducted by BOAD in 1989 based
largely on completed PCRs yielded an average rating of 8.6 on the same
scale, with only 2 operations ranked 6.
2.22     To enhance the quality of BOAD's supervision activities with a
view to improving portfolio management including collection of arrears, and
to ensure an appropriate mechanism for the determination of provisions,
BOAD should in future carry out periodic and comprehensive portfolio
reviews, at least once a year. Agreement from BOAD has therefore been
reached at negotiations that such reviews will be held on an annual basis.
The first review will be carried out in such a time as to allow BOAD to
determine appropriate follow-up actions including (a) an appropriate level
of portfolio provisions for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1990; and
(b) measures to further strengthen BOAD's portfolio management system and
project supervision work.
F. Overall Assessment of BOAD's Institutional Capacity
2.23     Since the previous Bank appraisal in 1982 for the second line of
credit, BOAD has managed not only to maintain its institutional strength,
but to significantly improve it both from an operational and a financial
standpoint. This in itself is a commendable achievement in the face of the
general disarray facing a large number of DFIs in Africa and elsewhere.
Although quantitatively BOAD remains a relatively modest source of term
finance in the UMOA zone with an outstanding loan portfolio amounting to
some CYAP 35 billion, the qualitative contributions of its lending are
appreciable in terms of its systematic work in identifying, promoting,
appraising and supervising projects financed by it. As noted in para 2.17,
it is actively promoting a number of innovative projects whose
contributions to regional economic integration are expected to be
significant. BOAD possesses a strong management, a competent staff, a
well-structured organization, systematic policies and procedures, and
considerable experience in development financing acquired over a decade of
operation. Its financial condition is sound, as reflected in its capital
structure as well as its loan portfolio and its profitability is expected
to be further strengthened with the proposed rationalization of its
interest rate system. BOAD's management is intent not only on
consolidating its existing institutional strength, but also on further
enlarging BOAD's role within the UMOA's economy (paras 2.29-2.30). BOAD is
therefore a suitable intermediary for channelling IDA/IBRD funds to
development-oriented investments in the UMOA zone.



- 24 -
G. Prospects
2.24     Proiect Pipeline.  BOAD's current project pipeline consists of 94
projects with an aggregate cost of CFAF 352 billion and potentially
requiring BOAD's financing amounting to CFAF 83 billion. (The cost of a
number of projects remains unquantified, thus understating the overall
pipeline amount). Of these projects, 34 are in the private sector
representing an aggregate cost of CFAF 60 billion and BOAD's potential
financing of CFAF 23 billion; the balance of 60 projects are in the public
sector, representing an aggregate cost of CFAF 292 billion and BOAD's
potential financing of CFAF 60 billion.  Private sector projects thus
accounted for about 30? of the total pipeline in terms of BOAD's potential
financing, only marginally below BOAD's target of 35Z notionally allocated
to the private sector in its future lending (para 2.25). Fourteen projects
in the pipeline are of a regional scope, virtually all of them in the
public sector. The pipeline is well diversified on a sectoral basis and,
taking into account its indicative nature, is generally of good quality.
As indicated elsewhere, BOAD's project preparation work and investment
decisions follow established economic and financial criteria. Moreover,
BOAD updates its project pipeline annually based on the findings of its
project identification missions to each member country as well as regular
informal consultations with bilateral and multilateral (co-)financing
agencies.
2.25     Operational Proiections.  BOAD's lending is forecast, on a
commitment basis, to increase from about CFAF 17.4 billion (estimated) in
the fiscal year ending September 30, 1989 (FY89), to CFAF 23 billion in
FY90, CFAF 27 billion in FY91, and CFAF 32 billion in FY92, representing an
annual growth rate of approximately 12? in nominal terms. Such a forecast
growth rate is moderate, and is well within both the demand for BOAD's
financing and its project processing capacity. By main sectors, rural
development and basic infrastructure are expected to account for 26? of
total lending; loans to DYIs and national agencies involved in SME
promotion 8X; energy, communications, transport and other infrastructure
32?; and industry and other private sector activities, the balance of 34z.
The latter reflects BOAD's policy objective for the next few years of
substantially increasing the proportion of its lending to the private
sector, which accounted for only 11? in the past. Such a quantum jump in
projected private sector lending appears attainable on the basis of private
sector projects existing in BOAD's pipeline (para 2.24). Equity
participations, which in the past represented only about 2? of total
financing, are forecast to increase significantly to CFAF 1.5 billion
annually or about 5? of lending, and to be financed separately from a newly
established Equity Participation Fund financed exclusively from member
countries' share of BCZAO income.
2.26     Proiected Financial Condition.  BOAD's forecast balance sheets and
income statements are shown in Annex 9. Total assets (excluding callable
but not paid-in capital) are projected to increase moderately from
CFAF 67.7 billion at end FY88 to CFAF 100.6 billion at end FY92, an annual
growth rate of about 12Z. The loan portfolio is forecast to increase from
CFAF 35.0 billion to CFAF 66.7 billion, a more rapid growth rate of nearly



- 25 -
202 p.a. The equity participation portfolio is expected to expand from
CFAF 1 billion to CFAF 5.4 billion. Outstanding borrowings are projected
to nearly triple, from CPAF 13.4 billion at end FY89 to CPAF 36.3 billion
at end FY92. Equity capital is forecast to increase moderately from
CFAF 35.9 billion to CFAF 42.6 billion. Net income is expected to decline
slightly from CFAF 2.0 billion is FY88 to CFAF 1.4 billion in FY92, partly
reflecting BOAD's expectations of higher portfolio provisions totalling
some CFAF 1 billion over the FY89-92 period, and partly in anticipation of
a rise in operating expenses from CFAF 1.8 billion to CFA? 2.8 billion.
The above-mentioned net income, representing a return of 1.22 on average
assets and 2.82 on average equity for FY92, is considered acceptable for a
primarily non-profit oriented regional development institution such as
BOAD. Liquidity is expected to remain satisfactory, with liquid furds of
CFAF 16.2 billion in FY92, covering almost one-half of long-term borrowings
and in the virtual absence of short-term liabilities. The debt/equity
ratio is forecast to rise gradually from 0.35:1 to 0.85sl in FY92, still
reflecting a very low level of indebtedness. As projected, BOAD's
financial condition is expected to remain sound.
H. Resource Position and ReQuirements
2.27     Resource Position.  BOAD's resource position as of June 30, 1989,
is shown in the table in Annex 7. Cumulative resources as of that date
amounted to CFAF 108 billion, of which 49.3 billion or slightly less than
one-half consisted of its own funds in CFAF currency, and the balance of
CFAF 58.7 billion represented external borrowings in various currencies.
As of the same date, cumulative loan commitments (net of cancellation)
amounted to CFAF 88.0 billion, leaving a balance of CPAP 4.6 billion
available for further commitments. (The available balance, however, is
considerably larger on a disbursement basis). To date, BOAD has felt no
need to resort to domestic borrowings on account of its available CFAF
resources, consisting mainly of its paid-in capital (CFAF 14.8 billion)
supplemented by the various Funds (CPFA 17.9 billion) capitalized by member
countries and managed by BOAD, and interna Iy generated resources
(CFAF 26.6 billion) from loan collections a..d retained earnings. Its
extercual resources of CFA? 58.7 billion have been mobilized exclusively
from official sources including some bilateral export credit agencies.
Main official lenders to BOAD include the ADB (about CFAF 11.6 billion
equivalent), IDA/IBRD (CFA? 8.4 billion equivalent), EIB (CFA? 6.0
billion), France (CFA? 9.9 billion), Germany (CFA? 2.8 billion) and Belgium
(CFA? 3.2 billion). As indicated in para 2.28, BOAD intends to diversify
its sources of funds by tapping the international capital market.
2.28     Resource Requirements and Borrowing Program.  To meet its forecast
program of loan commitments estimated at CFAF 86 billion for the three-year
period up to September 30, 1992 (para 2.25), BOAD expects to have available
domestic currency resources amounting to CFA? 32 billion on a net basis
(after debt repayments and net of fixed assets), to be generated mainly
from loan collections and equity capital increase. Taking into account the
resource balance of CFAF 4.6 billion equivalent presently available, this
will leave a resource gap of CFA? 53.7 billion (or about US$175 million



- 26 -
equivalent) which BOAD will have to cover with external borrowings. Apart
from IDA/IBRD (US$55 million), BOAD is expected to be able to raise
additional borrowings from its traditional lenders (e.g. ADB. EIB,
bilateral sources) and possible new sources (e.g. Nordic Investment Bank)
in amounts sufficient to cover its remaining resource gap of about US$120
million equivalent. More importantly, BOAD is actively planning, in
consultation with the Bank, to make its first approach to the international
capital market for borrowing over th next two years about US$20 million on
commercial terms, with the objective of diversifying its resources and
gradually reducing its dependence on official funding (para 2.30 - 3(f)).
I. Develonment Strategy
2.29     BOAD is mindful of the significant changes taking place in the
UUMOA environment in the 1980s, during which virtually every member state
has undergone or is about to undergo structural adjustment in their
national economies (paras 1.23-1.33). Amongst other things, the new policy
of retrenchment of the public sector coupled with the increasingly severe
budgetary difficulties of national governments, has already limited the
number of large-scale public sector projects suitable for financing.
Conversely, the new emphasis on the private sector as the principal engine
of economic growth, together with the privatization of parastatals in many
member countries, is expected to lead to increased private sector
investments, both domestic and foreign. The national banking systems in
UMOA are generally in disarray, in particular the state-controlled
development banks, warranting the search for a new type of grass-roots
banking institutions based on cooperative and mutualist principles, that
would be more decentralized and closer to local communities. At the Union
level, the Central Bank is initiating reforms that would, inter alia,
gradually liberalize financial and credit policies including notably
interest rates (para 1.46).
2.30     In consultation with the Bank, BOAD has formulated and adopted a
Statement of Development Strategy (Annex 8) for the three-year period
ld9/92, outlining a number of specific developmental objectives aimed
generally at adapting its operations to the evolving economic environment
and enhancing their economic impact, in particular in the area of regional
economic cooperation. These objectives include, inter alia, the following:
1.     Resource Allocation
(a) In terms of resource allocation, BOAD intends to
significantly increase the share of its financing of the
private sector, to about 352 of its total financing, in line
with the pclicy orientation of its member countries of
enlarging the role of the private sector in their national
economies. Yn order to strengthen its relationship with the
private sector, BOAD is envisaging the establishment within
its organizatiotz of a Private Sector Promotion Unit (Cellule
de Promotion du Secteur Priv4) either as a free-standing
light structure; or alternatively by broadening the scope of



- 27 -
activities of the Industrial Promotion Unit (Cellule de
Promotion Industrielle) that is being set up in collaboration
with UNIDO/UNDP;
(b) BOAD will give full consideration to the environmental impact
of projects assisted by it. it will strengthen its technical
expertise for assessing environmental issues in project
analysis, through staff training, the use of ad hoc
consultants and other means. It will formulate appropriate
guidelines governing the environmental aspects of its
operations (para 3.08).
2.     Regional Integration
(c)  With a view to increasing its assistance to regional
projects, BOAD will establish a closer and more systematic
relationship with international organizations and those
involved in the regional economic integration of the UMOA
countries, including IFC, ADB, EIB, ECOWAS FUND, APDF,
FOSIDEC, AMSCO and the World Bank. In particular, it will
further strengthen its cooperation with African financing
institutions grouped together with BOAD in the "Association
of Regional and Sub-Regional Development Finance Institutions
in West Africa" (AIRFD) i.e. ADB, ECOWAS Fund, the Mutual Aid
and Loan Guarantee Fund of the Entente Council (FEGECE), the
African Solidarity Fund (FSA), the African Fund for Guarantee
and Economic Cooperations (FAGACE), and the Solidarity and
Intervention Fund for the Development of the Economic
Community of West Africa (FOSIDEC). Joint operational
missions and periodic meetings devoted to exchange of
experience and information on regional project pipelines and
studies programs should enhance BOAD's prospects for
increased regional operations and co-financing.
(d) BOAD will pursue and intensify its recent initiatives to
identify and promote specific project ideas with a potential
for regional economic integration, for example the
establishment of a region-wide cold storage industry; a
network of mobile units for processing vegetables and fruits;
and a Union-wide integrated leather industry. New project
initiatives to be pursued over the next few years may include
an animal feed project, a laboratory with a regional scope
for quality control of agricultural exports, in addition to
regional initiatives related to mutualist banks and the
leasing business indicated in sub-paragraph 4 below.
(e) In several other areas BOAD will seek to increase its efforts
in regional cooperation and integration. First, in line with
BOAD's intention to increasingly direct its operational
activities towards the private sector and to establish a
Private Sector/Industrial Promotion Unit (sub-paragraph la),
it will strengthen its promotional activities for regional
projects, e.g. in the search for technical partners and



- 28 -
potential investors for joint ventures for operations with
(forward and backward) linkages across national borders.
Second, the Equity Participation Fund of CFAF 6.5 billion
established :n 1988 (one of BOAD's managed funds financed
exclusively from member countries, share of BCEAO income) is
also intended to provide additional funding for regional
projects, in particular operations where private sector
financing is to be supplemented by additional (risk) capital.
Third, through the proposed establishment of inter-country
committees (para 2.18) and small resident missions, BOAD
intends to sensitize member States and their planning
agencies to the need to (re)emphasize investment plaining on
a regional basis by making specific efforts in identifying
and preparing regional prospects including an assessment of
the overall impact of individual operations on both member
countries and the region as a whole. Fourth, with a view to
progressively increasing the current proportion of regional
projects within BOAD's operations from presently about 20Z to
the initial indicative lending target of 402 (para 2.15),
BOAD will continue to devote a substantial portion of its
project, sector, and policy studies program to regional
operations and issues to complement recent initiatives (para
2.18).
3.     Resource Mobilization
(f) In regard to resource mobilization, a major objective being
pursued by BOAD is to further diversify its resources and
gradually reduce its dependence on official sources of
funding. To that end, BOAD is planning its first approach to
the international capital market with a view to raising an
aggregate amount of up to US$80 million on commercial terms,
during the next five years, of which about US$20 million
during the FY90-91 period;
4.     Financial and BankinR Sector
(g) BOAD envisages initiating a study to determine (i) the
prospects and modalities for the creation in the UMOA zone,
of banking institutions of a cooperative and mutualist type
("banques populairesu) that would operate in close contact
with the local communities, and (ii) BOAD's own potential
role in promoting and assisting the emergence of such new
banks. This study should start by June 1990 and its
conclusions reviewed with the Bank Group with a view to
determining appropriate follow-up actions;
(h) BOAD plans to carry out a study to assess the potential and
modalities for further developing the leasing industry in the
UMOA zone. Such a study will review the legislative,
regulatory, administrative, institutional, fiscal and
financial requirements for the development of that industry,
as well as BOAD's potential contributions toward promoting



- 29 -
this financial activity. The conclusions of this study,
which is to start by June 1990, will be reviewed with the
Bank Group to determine appropriate follow-up actions by
BOAD.
5.     Consulting Industry
(i) BOAD intends to carry out a review aimed at determining the
desirability and feasibility of taking the lead in
establishing a consulting company. The latter, which may be
set up as a joint venture between BOAD and suitable
international partners, would operate at the regional level
and provide specialized consulting services meeting
international standards. It would focus its coverage on
selected areas in need of specialized expertise, including
restructuring of financial institutions, corporate
restructuring and specialized engineering and technological
services.
2.31     During negotiations, BOAD's Declaration of Development Strategy
has been reviewed and confirmation has been obtained of its adoption by
BOAD's management.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Recommendations and Justification
3.01     From its inception, BOAD has benefitted from the active support of
the World Bank Group. In particular, the Bank seconded to BOAD in its
initial formative years several staff members in advisory and executive
positions to help develop policies and procedures, train staff and appraise
the first projects. These institution-building efforts were followed by
Bank Group financial support encompassing two lines of credit (para 2.02).
The second, a composite IDA/IBRD credit line (SDR 13 million and US$6.1
million respectively), approved in FY83, has been fully committed in 1988
to 10 subprojects and technical assistance expenditures. Since the Bank's
last appraisal in 1982, BOAD has continued to further build up its
institutional strength. With its present sound organization, extensive
operational capacity and strong financial condition, BOAD is qualified to
act as a financial intermediary for allocating Bank Group resources to
investment projects in its member countries. Specific arrangements
inc'luded in the proposed project, such as the rationalization of BOAD's
interest rate system and the introduction of a comprehensive portfolio
review, are expected to further strengthen the institution. Investment
projects financed by BOAD are generally of a size ranging from US$1-
10 million, too small for direct Bank Group lending in a cost-effective
manner, but too large for financing by national DFIs, most of which anyway
are presently in disarray and thus restricted in their capacity for
financing new investments. The thrust of BOAD's activities, namely the



- 30 -
furthering of economic integration of the UMOA countries, is congruent with
the Bank Group's own objectives in that part of Africa. The macroeconomic
policy environment of the UMOA zone, in which BOAD operates, is moving in
the right direction, with all seven member countries undergoing structural
adjustment with Bank Group support (paras 1.23-1.33). On a Union-wide
basis, the Central Bank, in consultation with the Bank Group and the IMF,
is formulating a comprehensive program of reforms with a view to gradually
liberalizing the financial sector and improving the efficiency of resource
mobilization and allocation. BOAD is prepared to respond to such an
evolution in formulating its Development Strategy for the years ahead
(para 2.30).  In light of the foregoing, the continued support by the Bank
Group of BOAD as a financial intermediary is justified on the grounds of
BOAD's institutional capacitv as well as of its macroeconomic environment.
A composite Bank Group lending operation of US$55 million (US$40 million
IDA; US$15 mil'lion IBRD) is recommended, the main features of which are
described below.
B. Proiect Description
3.02     The project will consist of a combination of an IDA credit (US$40
million equivalent; SDR 32 million) and an IBRD loan (US$15 million
equivalent) for onlending by BOAD to viable investment projects, including
a technical assistance component (US$1 million equivalent) from the IDA
credit. The IDA credit will be onlent to subprojects in IDA-eligible
member countries, namely Benin, Burkina Faso, Mali, Niger, Senegal and
Togo. The IBRD loan will be onlent to subprojects in IBRD-eligible COte
d'Ivoire. The technical assistance component would be used by BOAD to
finance consultant services and economic, sectoral and project feasibility
studies.
C. LendinR Terms and Conditions
3.03     The IDA credit of US$40 million equivalent would be made to BOAD
on terms applicable to its IDA-eligible member countries, namely 40 years
including 10 years of grace. The IBRD loan of US$15 million would be made
on terms applicable to IBRD-eligible COte d'Ivoire, namely 20 years
including 5 years of grace. As with the 2 previous IDA credits to BOAD
(No. 969-WAF; No. 1331-WAF), no parallel guarantee by the UMOA member
countries will be required for the proposed IDA credit. IDA's Articles of
Agreement allow it (at its discretion) to lend directly to a regional
institution without a parallel government guarantee. BOAD has successively
increased its share capital to include CFA 112 billion in callable capital
and has amended its statutes to prohibit borrowing in excess of its
capital. This has the effect of providing an implicit guarantee by all
UMOA member countries, which is considered sufficient and no additional
guarantee is necessary. On the other hand, on account of the specific
requirements under the IBRD Articles of Agreement, Cote d'Ivoire will
provide a guarantee covering the full amount of the proposed IBRD loan of



- 31 -
US$15 million, the proceeds of which will be used by BOAD exclusively for
Cote d'Ivoire.
D. Onlending Arrangements
3.04     Eligibility Criteria for Subproiects.  The line of credit (both
the IDA and IBRD components) will be onlent by BOAD to regional as well as
national projects, in both the public and private sector. In keeping with
its broad statutory mandate as a regional development bank, BOAD aims at
financing as large a number of regional projects as will be available,
subject to their meeting all the usual viability criteria.  This
developmental objective, however, should be pursued by BOAD on a best
efforts basis, without the imposition of rigid quantitative targets under
the proposed credit line. BOAD's Development Strategy calls for an
increase in its lending to private sector projects, to 35? of it total
financing in the years ahead (para 2.30(a)), an indicative target which
also need not be stipulated for the line of credit. In line with the
sectoral orientation of BOAD's financing (para 2.01), the credit line can
finance subprojects in all productive sectors (e.g. agriculture, industry,
energy) and infrastructure (e.g. transport and communications) to the
exclusion of the social sectors in accordance within BOAD's statutes and
General Policy Statement. Apart from fixed assets, the permanent working
capital requirements of subprojects will also be eligible for financing.
3.05     Interest Rates.  The new interest rate structure, as outlined in
paras 2.10-2.14, would apply to Bank Group-financed subprojects as well as
to BOAD's overall lending operations.  It provides for:  (a) a commercial
window for lending to commercially-oriented, revenue-earning operations,
including all private sector projects, at the prevailing UMOA commercial
banking rates, currently up to 162 p.a.; and (b) a special lending window
for non-commercial, priority investments undertaken by public sector
entities, for which BOAD will charge an interest rate of 8.82 representing
full cost recovery, and which would further benefit from subsidies,
presently set at 2.4Z p.a., from the Interest Subsidization Fund made up of
contributions from BOAD's member countries.
3.06     Foreign Exchange Risk.  Under the previous IDA credit/Bank loan,
it was agreed that BOAD assumed the exchange risk on all its foreign
borrowings, for the coverage of which it charged on all its loans a
guarantee fee set at a level of presently 2.45? p.a. It has been agreed
that the same arrangement would apply under the proposed operation, and
that its adequacy be annually jointly reviewed with the Bank. As indicated
in paras 2.09 and 2.13, on account of the fixed parity between the CFA
Pranc and the French Franc, the exchange risk incurred by BOAD is limited
to fluctuations of the French Franc vis-&-vis other currencies included in
BOAD's outstanding foreign '.iabilities, for which a fee level of 2.45? p.a.
is considered sufficient based on past statistical data.
3.07     Economic and Financial Analysis of Subproiects.  BOAD's subproject
appraisals will include the calculation of economic and financial rates of
return, both of which would have to be at least 12Z.



- 32 -
3.08     Environmental Evaluation.  Each subloan appraisal will include an
analysis of the subproject's expected environmental impact. At
negotiations, agreement has been obtained that BOAD will (a) take
appropriate measures to strengthen its staff capacity for assessing
ecological and environmental issues in project analysis; and (b) formulate
and apply satisfactory guidelines governing the ecological and
environmental aspects of its operations (para 2.30. l-(b)).
3.09     Subloan Ceiling and Free Limit.  To ensure that the proceeds of
the line of credit be spread over a relatively large number of subprojects,
a ceiling of US$4 million would be set on individual subloans. In view of
the satisfactory standard of BOAD's appraisal (para 2.07), a free limit of
US$2 million would be set for individual subloans, subject to an aggregate
free limit of 50Z of the overall amount of the composite line of credit.
3.10     Accrual of IDA Benefits.  To ensure that the concessional benefits
of IDA funds accrue to the six IDA-eligible member countries, the interest
income received by BOAD on the IDA component of the credit line (US$39
million equivalent), after deduction of a lending spread (3.25Z p.a.) and a
foreign exchange risk guarantee fee (adjustable annually, but presently
2.452 p.a.), would be credited to a Special Account. The latter would be
used by BOAD exclusively to finance promotional or developmental
expenditures (e.g. technical assistance, project preparation) benefitting
its IDA-eligible member countries. The proposea arrangement is consistent
with that agreed under the previous IDA credit. As of September 1988,
CFAF 146 million (about US$0.49 million equivalent) have been credited to
the Special Account under the Bank Group's second project. BOAD is
planning to commit these funds for developmental activities as agreed under
the previous operation.
E. Technical Assistance
3.11     The technical assistance component of US$1 million from the IDA
credit would be used by BOAD to finance short-term, ad hoc, specialized
consultant services: (a) to supplement its in-house staff capacity in
project preparation and appraisal and supervision, notably in engineering
and in the evaluation of environmental aspects, and (b) to undertake
economic, sectoral and project feasibility studies. Studies being
contemplated by BOAD and which may be financed under this component,
include (i) a study toward the establishment and operation of new banking
institutions of a cooperative and mutualist type; (ii) a study on the
prospects and modalities for developing the leasing business in the UMOA
zone (para 2.29); and (iii) a study to determine the feasibility of the
establishment of a consulting firm. It has been agreed that these studies
would start not later than June 30, 1990. In light of BOAD's extensive
experience in and sound procedures for consultant recruitment, there would
be a free limit of US$50,000 for individual consultant contracts, subject
to an aggregate free limit of US$500,000.



- 33 -
F. Proiect Cost and Financing
3.12     BOAD't financing program (both loans and investments) for the 3-
year period up to September 30, 1992, is projected at US$270 million
equivalent (CFAF 82 billion) on a commitment basis. Based on the financing
pattern of BOAD's past operations (para 2.17), it can be assumed that
BOAD's future financing will cover approximately one-half of the total cost
of subprojects. The project cost in terms of total investments therefore
would be US$560 million, or US$562 million including technical assistance
of US$2 million. This project cost would be financed as follows:
----US$ million-----------
Local            Foreign           Total
Estimated Cost
Subproject Financing          170.0              370.0            540.0
Technical Assistance            0.5                1.5              2.0
Total          170.5              371.5            542.0
Financing Plan
By BOAD                        88.5              174.5            263.0
Of which:
BOAD Own Resources           (88.5)               -              (88.5)
IDA/IBRD                                        (55.0)           (55.0)
Other External Sources         -               (119.5)          (119.5)
Subborrowers                   82.0               40.0            122.0
Cofinanciers                    _                157.0            157.0
Total          170.5              371.5            542.0
The proposed IDA credit/IBRD loan of US$55 million would finance over 202
of BOAD's projected lending program and about 102 of total project cost.
3.13     Disbursements.  Disbursements would be made against:  (a) the full
amount of the approved subloans, subject to a maximum of 802 of the cost of
subprojects for the IDA credit and 702 for the IBRD loan; and (b) 902 of
technical assistance expenditures. The IDA credit/IBRD loan would be
disbursed over a period of 8 years. The final date for submission of
subprojects under the line of credit would be December 31, 1993, and the
Closing Date would be set at December 31, 1996. The estimated disbursement
schedule, based on previous experience with BOAD, is shown in Annex 10 and
swumarized below.



- 34 -
Estimated Disbursements
(USS million)
FY             90       91      92       93      94       95      96       97
Annual           2       6       10      13      10        8       4        2
Cumulative       2       8      18       31      41       49      53       55
3.14      Procurement.  As discussed in para 2.08, BOAD's procurement
procedures are well defined and are in general in conformity with Bank and
IDA guidelines. International competitive bidding is the norm and other
bidding procedures are limited to specific and justifiable cases. As to
consultants, they are chosen following a comparison of alternative
proposals on the basis of prior experience, quality of proposal and general
competence. These procedures have proven satisfactory and would be
continued under the proposed project. However as mentioned in para 2.08,
BOAD has agreed at negotiations, in conformity with previous Bank projects,
to apply procurement on World Bank funds to World Bank member countries,
Switzerland, Taiwan and China, and to apply World Bank guidelines with
respect to any exclusion of countries.
G. Auditina and ReportinR
3.15      Under its present practice, BOAD's accounts are audited annually
by the Central Bank (BCEAO) as well as by a local (intra-UMOA) accounting
firm, antd bi-annually by an international auditing company. These audit.ng
arrangements are satisfactory and will be continued under the project. As
in the past, BOAD will prepare for submission to the Bank semi-annual
progress reports covering both the implementation of the project (including
its project pipeline, status of subprojects under preparation and of
subloans) and BOAD's institutional aspects (including its financial and
operational performance and portfolio condition).
H. Benefits and Risks
3.16      The project will enable the Bank Group to continue to support
and help further strengthen BOAD as a sound and effective financial
intermediary to channel resources to viable investments in the seven
resource-poor UMOA countries. By lending to a regional institution whose
geographic scope covers seven countries, the Bank Group would also achieve
some economies of scale compared with lending individually to national DFIs
in each member country, apart from the fact that most of these DFIs are
presently in disarray and thus unable to effectively perform their



- 35 -
financial intermediation role. Subprojects to be financed under the line
of credit would be of a size, ranging from some US$1-4 million in terms of
subloan accounts, that would be too small for cost-effective direct
financing by the Bank Group. The technical assistance component, and more
generally continuing Bank Group support, would help BOAD achieve further
institutional improvements.  The Studies on "banques populaires" and on the
leasing industry, including the leading role which BOAD could play in
fostering their development within the UMOA region, can yield potential
significant benefits in terms of deepening UMOA's financial and banking
system, as well as broadening BOAD's role within that system.  Finally, the
catalytic effect of Bank Group lending is expected to facilitate BOAD's
efforts at mobilizing additional external resources including its first
attempt at foreign commercial borrowing. No particular risk is envisioned,
except macroeconomic and financial difficulties of some UMOA countries,
which could adversely affect the condition of BOAD's portfolio. This risk,
however, is not greater thar. for the Bank Group's own lending in the same
countries, and is mitigated by the structural adjustment reforms underway
in these countries as well as BOAD's supervision work reinforced by its
closeness to the terrain.
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED AT NEGOTIATIONS
4.01      During negotiations, agreement has been obtained on the
following points;
(i)   Lending terms and conditions to BOAD of the IDA credit
and the IBRD loan (para 3.03);
(ii)   Terms and conditions for onlending the line of credit to
subprojects, including the economic and financial
analysis of subprojects (para 3.07), assessment of the
ecological and environumental aspects (para 3.08), sub-
loan ceiling and free limit (para 3.09), and the accrual
of the concessional benefits of IDA funds (para 3.10);
(iii)   The technical assistance component (para 3.11);
(iv)   The new interest rate structure to be applied by BOAD to its
overall lending operations, and its annual joint review with the
Bank Group (paras 2.14 and 3.05);
(v)   The annual review of BOAD's interest rate structure (para 2.14).
(vi)   The annual review of ti.e adequacy of BOAD's coverage of the
exchange risk (para 3.06);
(vii)   Initiation of a study on the appropriate modalities for setting up
in the UMOA region of new banking institutions based on mutualist
and cooperative principles, by June 1990 (para 2.30 - 4(g));
(viii)   Initiation of a study on the prospects for developing the leasing
industry in the UMOA region, by June 1990 (para 2.30 - 4(h));
(ix)   Initiation of a study by June 1990 to determine the feasibility of
establishing a consulting company (para 2.30 - 5(i));
(x)   Formulation by BOAD of satisfactory gu4delines governing the
ecological and environmental aspects of its operations (para 2.30
- 1(b));



- 36 -
(xi)   Conduct of annual comprehensive portfolio reviews with a first
such review to determine an appropriate level of portfolio
provisions for FY1989/90 (para 2.22);
(xii)   Procurement arrangements (para 3.14).
4.02     Furthermore, during negotiations, BOAD's Statement of Development
Strategy was reviewed and agreed, and BOAD has adopted it.
4.03     With the above terms and conditions, the proposed project would be
suitable for an IDA credit of US$40 million equivalent and an IBRD loan of
US$15 million.



BOAD
Third Regional Development Project
SOCIO-ECONOMIC INDICATORS OF UkOA AND MENDER CUUNTRIES
Burkina       Cate
Units            Bonin        Foeo       D'!voire        Moli       Niger        Seneal        Togo         UMOA
1.   Area/Population
1.1  Are                              'MI km2           116         274           822        1,246        1,267          197           57         3,473
1.2  Population (1987)               million              4.3         8.3          11.1           7.8         6.8          7.e          8.2          48.6
1.3  Population Growth               U P.o.
.1965-96                                            2.7          2.1          4.2           2.1          2.7         2.6           B.O
.198 -87                                            3.2          2.6          4.2           2.4          3.6         2.9           3.4          (3-e)
1.4  Urban population:               U
total population
.1965                                             11            6           28            13            7          33            11
.1967                                              89            8           44            19          1i           87            24
2. GDP
2.1  CPO (1967)                        8 billion          1.6         1.7           7.7          2.9          2.2         4.7           1.2          21.1
2.2  CN  per capita (1987)             *               816          19f           741          210          2S          625           29S           436
2.8  Averog  annual growth
rate of GN/capito
(1966-87)                                           0 *.2        1.6          1.2          ..          -2.2        -4.6            9.0          ..
2.4  Share of CDP (1967)               U
.Agriculture                                       46          g8           3a             54          34           22            29           (36)
.Induotry                                          14          26            26            12          24           27            18           (19)
.S.rvicee                                          39          36            39            35          42           62            64           (48)
2.6  Share of GOP (1967)               U
.Crose domestic investment                         14          24            13            16           9           is            17
.Gros dometic savings                               4            1           19             *           6                          S
2.6  Averag  annual growth
rate of gross domestic
investmnt (1988-87)              X                -12.7         2.0         -14.2           4.2       -15.9          1.1          -6.4
8.   Balance of Payments
3.1 Export of goods and NFS
as a percontage of GOP
(1987)                           x                 16          17            34            17          19           26            31
3.2  Rosource balance as a
percentage of COP (1967)         1                -16         -28             6           -17          -6           -7           -12
3.3  Average annual growth of
merchandloo exports trade
(1986-87)                        3                 -9.1         4.9           8.4          6.6         -4.6          6.7         -3.6          .. 
8.4  Terms of Trade (1967)            1986=190          se           74           96            86                       #             84                  oc 5 
a.5  Gross international                                             7                                                   9 
r s rv s in monthe of
import coverage (1967)           months             6.2         4.4           6.1           0.6         6.4          6.1           7.3          .
... .Cont'd.



BOAD
Third Regional Biolopment Proloct
SOCIO-ECONOMIC INDICATORS OF UM  AND MEMER COXNTRIES (Cont'd.)
Burkina        Cat.
units           Bonn         Faso       D'Ivolr        Malil      Ni            n   I         o          UMlO
4.   "vo*r_met Budget
4.1 Overall balanc as a
percentag  of 4W  (1967)            1                         1.6                     -1.9         -4.4                      -65.
4.2 Total current reenes as
a percentage of SW  (1907)      11                           1. 3                      16.1                      .31.
4.8  FIsal rvenue (l9S6)             Be CFAF          U           S9          446           e6          S6           106          76          961
6.  Inflotion/Mionstary Development
6.1 Avere  annual rate of
Inflation                       x
. 19ff011                                          7.4         6.2         9.5                       7 7.5       6.5         6.9
.19106-7                                           6.2         4.4         4.4           4.2         4.1         9.1         6.6
6.2  Averag  outstnding monetary
holdinge as a perentage of
CDP (198?)                      X                 20.4        28.1        31.8          22.6         18.1        28.6        44.6
6.   Indebtedness/Aid Flo* 
6.1  Total external debt (1907)      8 billion          1.1         6.9        18.6           2.0         1.7         8.7          1.2         22.6
6.2 Debt ervice (total public
and private debt) as a
percentage of exports of
goods and services (1907)       x                 16.9                    40.8          28.8        46.9        22.8        14.2
6.8 External public borrowing
(1987 comitments)              8 million          76          74         499            6          131         448          48        1,326
6.4  Per capita net disbureents
of ODA from 1 1 sources
(1067)                         O                  31.5        84.1        22.6          46.9        61.2         02.4       86.6
6.5  Net disbursements of ODA
from alI source as a
percentage of OP (1907)         X                  6.1        16.2         2.5          16.6        16.1        18.6        19..
7.  Social Sector
7.1 Life expectancy at birth
(1907)                         Years              so          47          62            47          45          46          53           (49)
7.2  Population per physician       'so
(1984)                          inhabitants       16.9        67.2        ..            25.4        88.0        18.5         6.7         ..
7.8  Infant mortality (1907)         Per In lIve    l1           188          90           169         186         126          94            ..
births
7.4  Total school enrollment as                                                                                                                        -
%age of age group (1986)        X                 86          85          78            22          29          56         162            *-   o
7.6 Primery  ducation of females
as a age of miss (19SB)         3                 Uo          59          70            59          56          68          62            ..
Source: BOAD, I8RD (World Developeent Report) and mission entimtee



BOAD
Third Roalonal Development Proiect
E9UITY OWNERSHIP
(CFAF million)
Subscribed
Shareholders               Subscribed               Called                Paid in              To be paid in              Uncalled
Class A
Benin                         8,W                   1,85'                  8O                    1,0t0                     8,160
Burkina Fa                    8,FaoU                1,8SO                   SW                   1,0W6                     6,158
C^te d'Ivoire                 8,008                 1,850                   Bee                  1,O50                     6,150
Mali                         8,WW                   1,8511                  773                  1,077                     6,16W
Niger                         8,0W                  1,851                  888                  1,05O                     8,158
Senegal                       8,W0                  1,860                   SW                   1,O0S                     6,150
Togo                         8,809                  1,865                  8S0                   1,O50                     6,160
BCEAD                        6,800                 12,950                 5,689                  7,350                    43,065
Total Class A              112,000                 265soe                10.842                 1S.108                   8s1O8
Class B
France                       2,008                  2,80o                 2,8o
Germany                       1,88a                 1'm                   1,888                    --                         --
EIB                             6SW                   see                   5W                     --                         --
ADB                          2,80                    s5e                    588                    --                      1,588
Belgium                      1,68                     88                   8ON                     --                        See
Total Class B                9.70                   7.400                 4.00                  3.400                      2.300
Grand Total                 121.7W                  33.380                14.842                18.088                     88.400
Authorized Capital
not subscribed              18,308
Authorized Capital          140,08W
SOURCE: BOAD                                                                                                                                    3
wp5O\gI so...: mjg\boadaar\annex2



BOAD
Third Regional Development Project
OFGANIZATION CHART
A.S. BABA-MOUSSA
Pr6sident
Dhi mon de        
lI'nbormnfqun,   surfu dc            d.wufb
In s t1mes S
OEP    NEPARTEMENT                                           [ EPARTEMIENT            DEPARTEMENT           DEPARTEMENT
dn AfatJiin Gnirales                 des Pret t                  de la ReCierche et do  doe Oprans Finaft-  Su det du Perbonred
Pertlcotpetn                 la Progrmmatlon     CIAMoet comptbme       Ota deIa Formation
(DAG)                            (OPP)                          (DqP                 (D OFIC)              (DOS P F)
N. TCbURO                             OUNOUVI                     S. AD01ETO             t KANDA              . YAMEOG
MAg~~~ CHA IA'                                                                                                                        X .j 
SoHc: B 3OAD                                                                      2 
Lo                                                                      Lo
Source:   BOAD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0



GOAD
Third RMional Ueelopmnt ProJect
COMPOSITION OF HIGHER LEVEL STAFF /
Accountants/
Dcp rtnto          Financial Analysts      Economi;s    Eriginers         Lawyrs      Administrators       computer Spcialists        Total
OPP                      is                   1              8                                                                        19
DOPF                      2                   1                                              4                                         7
DOFIC                     a                   1                                              a                                         7
DAG                       2                                                 a                5                                        1l
DRP                       4                   2              a                               1                                        1*
DIISP                                                                                        1                      3                  4             4S
Presidncy                 1                                                                                                            1
TOTAL                    22                   5             11             a                14                      3                 s6
I  Excluding the President and Vice President.  BOAD currently has 3 external technical aseistnce staff:  2 Engineer.
(1 from Francs, In DPP and 1 from Belgium, In DRP); ard 1 computer specialist (in DI8SP, from Blgium).
SOURCE: BOAD
wp5O\gIa.aor:ujg%boind.r\ann.x8.pg2 
0
^   <   *"  a   @  |E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r,



- 42 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 2
BOAD
Third Regional Development Project
SUMMARY OF OPERATIONS FY77-88 a/
(million of CFAF)
Equity
Participations                Loans
Number    Amount   Number    Amount   Percent
1.  By Category
- Regional projects                                   21      17,099          18
- National projects                                   83      77,568          82
Total                                              104      94,667        100
2.  By Sector
- Rural Development                                   37      38,750          41
- Basic Infrastructure                                  6      6,650           7
- DFI lines of credits and
loans to promotion offices                          12       5,614          6
- Energy and Communications                           32      29,338         31
- Other directly productive
operations                                       17      14,495         15
Total                                              104      94,667        100
3.  By Country
- Benin                                               20      19,939          21
- Burkina Faso                     2         700      21      17,422         18
- COte d'Ivoire                                       12      11,259          12
- Mali                                                 2       1,229           1
- Niger                                               15      14,175         15
- Senegal                          2         105      24      20,480         22
- Togo                             2         410      10      10,163         11
Total                            6      1,215      104      94,667        100
4.  By FY
- 76/77                            2          65       5       1,996           2
- 77/78                                                9       5,486           6
- 78/79                                       40       7       2,594           3
- 79/80                            1        200        8       4,654           5
- 80/81                            1        100         9      5,708           6
- 81/82                                                 6      5,526           5
- 82/83                                               10       7,666           8
- 83/84                                                 7      5,664           6
- 84/85                                               10       8,813           9
- 85/86                                               13      15,793         17
- 86/87                                               11      18,004         19
- 87/88                            2        810         9     12,783         14
Total                            6      1,215      104      94,667        100
- 88/89 (approved up to June 30, 1989)                              9    13,283
- 88/89 (scheduled for approval,                        5      7,352
July 11 - Sept. 30, 1989)
a/ Net of cancellations.
Source: BOAD



BOAD
Third Regional Development Project
FINANCING PArTERN OF OPERATIONS FY77 - MARCH 1989
(Million CFAF)
Self-financing/
Total           BOAD                             Local private
Project Cost     Financing       Co-financing         Resources          Governments
Projects in
private sector              33,045         10,992            11,965              10,088                  --
Regional projects            76,610         20,230            46,495               9,477                 408
National projects in
the public sector          261,468         69,246           144,453              23,331              24,438
TOTAL             371,123        100,468           202,913             42,896               24,846
Source:  BOAD
wp5O\g 1 *r: mjg\boadar\annex4.pg2                                                                               0



BOAD
Third Regional Dovelopment Project
SUMMARY BALANCE SHEETS (FY83-31/8189)
(CFAF billion)
1982/83    1983/84    1984/85    1986/88    1986/87    1987/88    8/31189
ASSETS
Liquidity                   8.0        13.9       16.9       22.9       2S60       26.1        24.2
Loan portfolio             16.0        20.6       22.7       23.5       26.4        31.0       3650
Equity participations       0.3         0.3        0.3        0.3        0.4        0.3         9.6
Fixed assets                2.9         4.3        4.0        3.9        4.1         3.9        3.8
Other assets                9.8         0.9        1.2        1.1        2.1         3.2        4.2
Sub-total (net assets)      28.0        89.1       44.1       59.8        67.0       64.6       67.7
Callable capital !/
A transfers from UMOA
Member Countries          61.6        88.2       66.9       64.3      105.0       113.6      112.1
Total assets                89.6       107.3      111.9      115.1      182.0       178.1      179.8                         1
LIABILITIES
Paid-in capital             7.6         9.6       11.3       13.6       14.2        14.8       16.2
Re srves                    2.9         5.9        7.2        9.2        10.9        6.4        8.4
Profits                     0.8         1.4        2.1        2.4        2.1        2.0         1.4
Transfers from UMOA
Member Countries           8.0         9.7        9.2        9.1       10.6       10.5        1096
General provisions          0.2         0 9.2      0.3        0.3        0.3        0.4        0.4
Equity                      17.5        26.7       80.1       84.8       38.1       34.1        85.9
Borrowings                  4.9         6.8        6.2        8.0        8.7       13.0       13.4
Managed/special funds       5.6         6.6        7.8        8.1       10.9       16.7        17.9
Other liabilities           9.0         0.1        0.0        9.1        0.2        0.7        0.5
Sub-total (net liabilitios) 28.0        39.1       44.1       59.8       67.0       64.6       67.7
Callable capital x/
A transfers from UMOA
Membr Countries           61.6        68.2       66.9       64.3      195.9      118.6      112.1
Total liabilities           89.6       107.8      111.0      116.1      162.9      178.1       179.8
p/ Callable capital = subscribed capital not paid in.
Source: BOAD
vpSO\g l *-r m g\boadsr\annex5a



BOAD
Third Regional De-velopment Proliect
SUMMARY INCOME STATEMENTS (FY 1988 - 3/31/80)
(CFAF million)
1982/83    1983/84    1984185    1985/86    1986/87    1987/88    3/31/89
1. INCOME
Income on loans          1,352      1,687      2,114       2,235     2,377       2,720      1,679
Income on
investments               968      1,293      1,699       2,208     2,126      2,065         947
TOTAL INCOME             2.318      2. 80      3.813       4.443     4.603       4.78S      2.626
2. EXPENSES
Financial expense          252        337        399         477       566         735        377
Operating expenses       1,049      1,105      1,264       1,431     1,695       1,811        777
(- of which personnel)   (660)       (590)      (652)       (780)     (906)       (985)       (-)
(- of which other
operating expense)    (489)       (515)      (802)       (671)      (790)      (826)   t--)
TOTAL EXPENSES           1.301      1,442      1.653       1.908     2.261       2.548      1.164
3. CASH FLOW (1-2)          1,017      1,538      2,160       2,636     2,242       2,239      1,472
Depreciation               267        252        291         288       294         338        162
4. OPERATING RESULTS
(BEFORE PROVISIONS)       750       1,286      1,869       2,267     1,948      1,901      1,310
Provisions                 e6          58         37           7        18          97
S. OPERATING RESULTS
(AFTER PROVISIONS)        e85       1,228      1,832       2,280     1,930      1,804       1,310
Other Inco                  85        135        267         183       179        269         1U3
6. NET PROFIT                 770      1.383      2.089       2.443     2.109      2,083       1.413
Source:  BOAD
wpS0\gI a"r mjq\boadar\ann*%5b



- 46 -
ANNEX 5-C
BOAD
Third Regional Development Proiect
STATUS OF EXTERNAL RESOURCES
(CFAF million)
Non-
reimbursable
Grant/
Technical
Source                 Equity    Borrowins       Assistance        Total
1. Bilateral
Belgium             1,600        3,232            596           5,428
Canada                 --        2,696             --           2,696
France              2,000        9,876             86          11,962
Germany             1,000        2,793            240           4,033
India                  --        3,192             --           3,192
Japan                  --        4,760             --           4,760
Netherlands            --           --            143             143
Scandinavian
Countries              --        3,192             --           3,192
Subtotal         4,600        29,741          1,065         35.406
2. :+a!.il ate ra I
ADB/ADF             2 000       11,622             --          13,62"
EDF                    --           --             35              35
EIB                   500        5,937             --           6,437
IBRDIIDA               --        8,335            146          8,481
UNDP                   --           --            425             425
Subtotal         2,500        25,894            606         29.000
GRAND TOTAL      7,100        55,635          1.671         64,406
Source: BOAD
Wp50\g9 I  ar: .jg boad*ar\annrx5c



- 47 -
ANNEX 5-D
BOAD
Third Regional Development Proiect
RATIOS OF FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE (FY84-88)
1983/84   1984/85   1985/86   1986/87   1987/88
1. Percentage of Average
Net Assets: a/
a) gross income              8.9       9.2       9.4        8.4       7.9
b) financial expenses        1.0       1.0       1.0        1.0       1.2
c) operating expenses        3.3       3.0       3.0        3.2       3.0
d) profit                    3.7       4.4       4.8        3.6       3.0
2. Profit as a percentage
of average equity            4.6       6.1       6.5        5.1       5.3
3. Debt/Equity Ratio            0.22      0.21       0.23      0.23      0.38
a/ Net assets means total assets minus callable capital
(i.e. subscribed capital not paid in)
Source: BOAD
p8O\9I e*r. mj g\bovd**r\*nn*x5d



- 48 -
ANNEX 6
BOAD
Third Regional Development Project
PORTFOLIO ARREARS
(Million CFAF)
Total
Maturity Dates                   as of
10/31/87   4/30/88   10/31/88          July 89
1. Portfolio Arrears
- Loans outstanding (Bn CFAF)         25.37       26.97       31.40           34.79
- Arrears (million CFAF)             102         440         593            1135
(of which principal)               (87)       (231)       (287)           (605)
(of which interest)                (15)       (209)      (306)            (530)
As a percentage of total
loans outstanding (Z)                0.4         1.6         1.9             3.3
- Principal affected by
arrears (Bn CFAF)                    0.81        5.00        7.64            7.64
As a percentage of total
loans outstanding (Z)                3.2        18.5        24.3            24.3
2. BY Country (Million CFAF)
- Benin                              102         285         300             689
- Burkina Faso                         -         148         272             420
- Cote d'Ivoire                        -           -           -               -
- Niger                                -     -                 - 
- Senegal                              -           -          15              15
- Togo                                 -           5           6              11
TOTAL                              102         440         593            1135
Source: BOAD
wpSO\g *smr:Jx\boadar\annox6



- 49 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 2
BOAD
Third Regional Development Proiect
ACTUAL AND PROJECTED RESOURCE POSITION (FY1989: 1992)
(CFAF billion)
A - POSITION AS OF JUNE 30, 1989
I - CUMULATIVE RESOURCES                                   107,936
- Own funds (net of fixed investments) 49,224 a/
- Borrowings                             58,712
II - CUMULATIVE COMMITMENTS (NET OF CANCELLATIONS)          103.320
III - FUNDS AVAILABLE FOR FURTHER COMMITMENTS                  4,616
B - PROJECTED SOURCES AND USES OF FUNDS DURING FY89-92
I - FUNDS                                                   31.950
- Funds available on 6/30/89              4,616
- Internally generated funds
during 7/1/89-9/30/92                  27,334 a/
II - FORECAST COMMITMENTS DURING 7/1/89-9/30/92             85,665
III - RESOURCE GAP (BORROWING NEEDS)                         53,715
a/ See attached table
Source: BOAD
wpSO\g I *r:mjg\boadsar\ennex7.pgI



- 50 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 2
BOAD
Third Regional Development Proiect
COMPOSITION OF DOMESTIC RESOURCES
(CFAF billion)
Situation as
of 6/30/89            7/1/89-9130/92
Capital                                    15,973                   9,890
Transfer payments from UMOA
Member Countries                          17,920                   1,847
a            Loan collection                            14,506                  22,743
Cash flow a/                               12,078                   5,514
Premium on capital increase                   769                      --
Sub-total                 61,246                  39,994
Fixed assets                                5,793                   1,713
Repayment of borrowings                     6,229                  10,947
Sub-totAl                 12,022                  12,660
Resource position (net of fixed
assets and repayment of borrowings)       49,224                  27,334
a/ Cash flow = net profit + depreciation + provisions
Source: BOAD
wpSO\g I maar zmg\boadxr\annex7. pg2



51 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 4
BOAD
Third Regional Line of Credit
STATEMENT OF DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY, 1988/89-1992/93
(Unofficial Translation from French Text)
The mandate and principal orientations of BOAD are defined in
its Statutes and in the "Declaration de Politique G4n4rale' approved by the
Council of the Heads of State of the Union MonAtaire Ouest Africaine
(UMOA).
Within the framework of these broad guidelines, BOAD sets for
itself operational objectives with a five-year time frame in the form of
"Operational and Financial Projections" that are periodically reviewed, and
annually adjusted at the beginning of each fiscal year.
1.   Framework of the Strategv
BOAD is mindful of the significant changes taking place in the
UMOA environment in the 1980s, during which virtually every member state
has undergone or is about to undergo structural adjustment in its national
economy. Amongst other things, the new policy of retrenchment of the
public sector coupled with the increasingly severe budgetary difficulties
of national governments has already limited the number of large-scale
public sector projects suitable for financing. Conversely, the new
emphasis on the private sector as the principal engine of economic growth,
together with the privatization of parastatals in many member countries, is
expected to lead to increased private sector investments, both domestic and
foreign.
Within the above-mentioned framework, and in conformity with the
broad orientations set out in its basic texts, BOAD's development strategy
aims at actions that:
(a) support the structural adjustment programs under implementation
in the member states;
(b) help sustain the economic growth of, and the net positive flow
of term finance toward productive investments in, the member
states;
(c) contribute to the coordination and harmonization of financing in
the respective national economies.
The above-mentioned considerations underlie BOAD's development
strategy for the next several years, as outlined below.



-52 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 4
2.   Resource Allocation and Operational Obiectives
(a) In terms of resource allocation, BOAD intends to significantly
increase the share of its financing of the private sector, to
about 352 of its total financing, in line with the policy
orientation of its member countries of enlarging the role of the
private sector in their national economies. In order to
strengthen its relationship with the private sector, BOAD is
envisaging the establishment within its organization of a
Private Sector Promotion Unit (Cellule de Promotion du Secteur
Prive) either as a free-standing light structure or
alternatively, by broadening the scope of activities of the
Industrial Promotion Unit (Cellule de Promotion Industrielle)
that is being set up in collaboration with UNIDO/UNDP. To that
end, BOAD has set up in 1988 an Equity Participation Fund (CFAF
6.5 billion) to provide additional funding for regional
projects, notably those for which there is a need to complement
private sector capital with additional venture (risk) capital.
In line with the above objective, BOAD will strengthen its
capacity for undertaking promotional activities, for instance by
seeking the collaboration of technical partners and potential
investors with a view to launching joint ventures, notably for
transnational operations.
(b) BOAD will give full consideration to the environmental impact of
projects assisted by it. It will strengthen its technical
expertise for assessing environmental issues in project
analysis, through staff training, and the use of ad hoc
consultants and other means. It will formulate appropriate
guidelines governing the environmental aspects of its
operations.
(c) With regard to the banking sector, apart from its participation
in the rehabilitation of selected distressed banks, BOAD
envisages:
- initiating a study to determine the prospects and modalities
for the creation in the UMOA zone of banking institutions of a
cooperative and mutualist type, that would operate in a
decentralized manner and in close association with local
communities;
- carrying out a study to assess the potential and modalities for
further developing the leasing industry in the UMOA zone.
These studies will examine the legislative, administrative,
institutional and financial issues involved in these two
activities, as well as BOAD's prospective role in promoting
them.



- 53 -
ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 4
(d) BOAD's future assistance to development finance institutions
(DFIs) will be limited to those having a sound financial
condition and/or those presenting an appropriate rehabilitation
program.
(e) BOAD intends to carry out a review aimed at determining the
desirability and feasibility of taking the lead in establishing
a consulting company. The latter, which may be set up as a
joint venture between BOAD and suitable international partners,
would operate at the regional level and provide specialized
consulting services meeting international standards. It would
focus its coverage on selected areas of specialized expertise,
including restructuring of financial institutions, corporate
restructuring and specialized engineering and technological
services.
3.   Resource Mobilization
In regard to resource mobilization, a major objective being
pursued by BOAD is to further diversify its resources and gradually reduce
its dependence on official sources of funding. To that end, BOAD is
planning its first approach to the international capital market with a view
to raising an aggregate amount of up to US$80 million on commercial terms,
during the next five years, of which about US$20 million during the 1990-91
period.
4.   Regional Integration
(a) With a view to increasing its assistance to regional projects,
BOAD will establish a closer and more systematic relationship
with international organizations and those involved in the
regional economic integration of the UMOA countries, including
IFC, ADB, EIB, ECOWAS Fund, APDF, FOSIDEC, AMSCO and the World
Bank. In particular, it will further strengthen its cooperation
with African financing institutions grouped together with BOAD
in the "Association of Regional and Sub-Regional Development
Finance Institutions in West Africa" (AIRFD), i.e. ADB, ECOWAS
Fund, the Mutual Aid and Loan Guarantee Fund of the Entente
Council (FEGECE), the African Solidarity Fund (FSA), the African
Fund for Guarantees and Economic Cooperation (FAGACE), and the
Solidarity and Intervention Fund for the Development of the
Economic Community of West Africa (FOSIDEC). Joint operational
missions and periodic meetings devoted to exchange of experience
and information on regional project pipelines and studies
programs should enhance BOAD's prospects for increased regional
operations and co-financing.
(b) BOAD will pursue and intensify its recent initiatives to
identify and promote specific project ideas with a potential for
regional economic integration, for example the establishment of
a region-wide cold storage industry; a network of mobile units
for proce.sing vegetables and fruits; and a Union-wide



- 54 -
ANNEX 8
Page 4 of 4
integrated leather industry. New project initiatives to be
pursued over the next few years may include an animal feed
project, and a laboratory with a regional scope for quality
control of agricultural exports.
BOAD envisages, through national committees of UMOA states to be
established in the near future, to sensitize member countries and their
planning agencies to the need for emphasizing the regional dimension in
investment planning, notably by assessing the impact of each prospective
investment on the UMOA region as a whole. Proposed regional projects
should also be examined from the standpoint of their impact on the supply
response, in the context of ongoing structural adjustment programs in the
UMOA countries. With the objective of gradually increasing the share--
currently of 20X--of regional projects in BOAD's overall lending, BOAD will
continue to direct a major proportion of its studies program (economic,
sector, project feasibility studies) to regional operations and issues.
* *** *
Drawing lessons from its twelve years of operation, BOAD intends
to adapt its strategic orientations in order to better respond to its
evolving economic environment. The framework for its activities in the
immediate future will be the structural adjustment programs of its member
countries. Within these programs, BOAD will focus its own efforts on
productive investments with a capacity for sustaining economic growth in
the countries, with particular emphasis on private sector investments,
innovative projects, and those contributing to strengthened industrial and
trade relations between member states. Taking into account budgetary
constraints of member countries, BOAD will intensify its resource
mobilization efforts in order to contribute to the flow of resources toward
the UMOA zone.
wp8O\tnd:sig\b*ad\*annx8



- 55-
ANNEX 9-A
BOAD
Third Resional Developmnt Prolect
PROJECTED SUMMARY BALANCE SHEETS (FY99 - FY92)
(CFAF b IlIIIon)
Projected
1988/89    1989/90    1990/91    1991192
ASSETS
Liquidity                           26.4       28.9       20.8       16.2
Loan portfolio                      88.5       48.9       66.9       66.7
Equity participation                 1.1        2.4        8.9        5.4
Fixed assets                         4.0        4.2        4.2        4.1
Other assets                         4.0        6.6        6.9        8.2
Sub-total (not aseets)               74.0       82.8       91.7      100.6
Callable capital a/
and trensfors from UMOA
Member Countries                  114.4      112.8      111.1      109.2
Total assets                        188.4      196.6      202.8      209.8
LIABILITIES
Paid-in capital                     16.7       16.7       16.8       16.8
Reserves                             8.4       10.1       11.7       18.1
Profits                              1.8        1.6        1.4        1.4
Transfers from UMOA
Momber Countries                   11.0       11.1       11.0       11.0
Ceneral provisions                   0.8        0.8        1.1        1.8
Equity                               37.6       89.8       41.0       42.6
Borrowings                          17.8       28.6       29.7       86.8
Managed/special funds               18.2       19.1       19.9       20.4
Other liabilities                    0.6        0.6        1.1       1.8
Sub-total (not liabilities)          74.0       82.8       91.7      100.6
Callable capital s/
and transfers from UMOA
Member Countries                   114.4      112.8      111.1      109.2
Total liabilitioe                   188.4      196.6      202.8      209.8
|/ Callable capitol = subscribed capital not paid in.
Source: BOAD
vp5Og\91avr'mjg\baadar\*nn. .9



- 56 -
Annex 9-B
BOAD
Third Regional Dev-elommnt ProJect
PROJECTED SUMMARY INCOME STATEMENTS (FY89 - FY92)
(CFAF  IlIIIon)
Proj ected
1988/89         1989/90    1990/91    1991/92
1. INCOME
Income on loans                      8,478      4,116       4,958      5,885
Income on deposits                   1,928     1809        1,700      1,464
TOTAL INCOME                         5.699      5.984       e.658      7.889
2. EXPENSES
Financial expenses                   1,086      1,560       2,120      2,620
Operating expense                    2,196      2,888       2,596      2,822
(- of which personnel)              (1,268)    (1,859)    (1,468)    (1,585)
(- of which other op. expenses)       (988)    (1,029)    (1,128)    (1,237)
TOTAL EXPENSES                       A.284     8a-6N        4.716      5.442
8. CASH FLOW (1-2)                      2,115      2,016       1,942      1,897
Depreciation                           818        a46         380        483
4. OPERATING RESULTS
(BEFORE PROVISIONS)                  1,802      1,676      1,662       1,464
Provisions                             1a3        218         2"6        278
5. OPERATING RESULTS
(AFTER PROVISIONS)                   1,619      1,462      1,296       1,191
Other income                           181        181         181        181
6. NET PROFIT                           '.800      16e88       1.477      1.872
Source: BOAD
wp5O\ I a*"r1 ; \bawdsr\annex9b



- 57 -
ANNEX 9-C
BOAD
Third Regional Development Proiect
PROJECTED RATIOS OF FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE (FY89-92)
1988/89   1989/90   1990/91   1991/92
1. Percentage of Average
Net Assets: a/
a) gross income                    7.8        7.6      7.6        7.6
b) financial expenses              1.6        2.0      2.4        2.7
c) operating costs                 3.2        3.0      3.0        2.9
d) profit                          2.3        1.9      1.5        1.2
2. Profit as a percentage
of average equity                  4.3        3.7      3.2        2.8
3. Debt/Equity Ratio                  0.47       0.60     0.72       0.85
a/ Net assets means total assets minus callable capital
(i.e. subscribed capital not paid in)
Source: BOAD
sp80\gl*os r:mjg\bo.d  r\annex9c



- 58 -
ANNEX 9-D
BOAD
Third Regional Development Project
FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS (FYS8-92) - PRINCIPAL ASSUMPTIONS
1. Operations (Approvals) (in billion CPAF):
1987/88   88/89   89/ W   9e/91   91/92   Total
1.1  Loans                       12.8     19.0      2.8    27.0    82.0    118.8
1.2  Equity participations        0.8      i.e      1.6     1.6     1.7      6.6
1.3  Guarntees                    0.6      0.6     0.6      0.5     0.6       2.6
1.4  Studies                      0.9      0.7     0.8      0.9     1.1      4.2
2. Average Financing Schem
- 30X from equity
- 70X from borrowed funds
8. Disburrsemnts
- Loans: average disbursement period: approx. 6 years
(plus approx. 1.6 years between approval and first disbursement)
- Participation: 601 each during and after FY of approval
4. Loan Terms (Future Lending)
- Maturity: 18-16 years
- Grace period: S-6 years
S. Income
- Interest on lending 1/:  10X   (industry and other directly productive activities)
91   (infrastructure, enorgy)
7.41 (rural development, basic Infrastructure;
ncl. 2.4X interest subsidy)
- Dividends: equity participations are assumed to generate no dividends
- Interest on iiquidity investments: 7.9X (1987/68)
7.265 (1988/89-91/92)
8. Provisions for Losses
- Past Loans:    1X for loans to Governments
81 for all other loans
- Future Loans:  2X on average
7. Operating Cost
- 8X p.s. average lncreoss for personnel cost
- 6-10O p.a. average Increase for other operating cost
8. Cost of Borrowing
- Cost of borrowing is based on estimates of BOAD's prospective borrowing program.
9. Depreciation
- BOAD Headquarters: 26 years
- HQ Equipment:       8 - 10 years in accordance with the expected life of
the equipment
- Other Assets:       Average 5 yeors
1/ Lending rates will be adjusted In accordance with the new Interest rate
structure (up to 16% p.s. for commercially-oriented projects and 8.81 pa.
for non-commercial priority Investments).
Source: BOAD
upSO\g I *ae.r: j\bosder\annox9d



-59 -
ANNEX 10
BOAD
Third Regional Development Project
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
(US$ million)
IBRDIIDA Semesters              By Semester              Cumulative
1990
II                    2.0                       2.0
1991           I                    2.5                       4.5
II                    3.5                       8.0
1992           I                    4.5                      12.5
II                    5.5                      18.0
1993           I                    6.0                      24.0
II                    7.0                      31.0
1994           I                    5.5                      36.5
II                    4.5                      41.0
1995           I                    4.5                      45.5
II                    3.5                      49.0
1996           I                    2.5                      51.5
II                    1.5                      53.0
1997           I                    1.5                      54.5
II                    0.5                      55.0
.p50\d i nh: mj g\hoadsar\anneo.10



-60 -
ANNEX 11
BOAD
Third Regional Development Project
DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILE
BOAD:                      Evolution des 10 annees d'activite de la BOAD
et de prospective (rapport principal et annexe
7/1987)
BOAD:                      Perspectives financieres actualisees (exercist
1987/88 a 1991/92), 12/1988
BOAD:                      Etude sur l'harmonisation des plans de
developpement des pays de l'UMOA et programme
commun d'actions, 6/1988
BOAD:                      Rapport d'activite - several years
BOAD:                      Declaration de Politique Generale pour la Banque
Ouest Africaine de Developpement (BOAD)
Kodjo AFANTCHAWO:             ,port du commissaire controleur sur les
(Cabinet EFOGERC           comptes de l'exercise 1988-89
AUDIT - TOGO)
BCEAO:                     Rapport de verification des comptes de la BOAD
(30/IX/89); 11/89
HELIOS (Arthur Young       Rapport d'audit au 30/IX/88; 6/89
International):
Source: World Bank
wpSO\gIaoese;mjg\boadsar\annexl1



20'                                      10'                                                                                10             LIBYA
FORMER
SPANISH                                                                     A L G  E R I A
SAHARA
20
Nouakchott
69      ~M A U R I T A N I A               |M A L I 
t                     |           --            ,                 , I          ~~~~~~~~~~N I G E R
Dakar                  t                                                   
GAMBIA
GUINEA    t '-    u
20B                            GUIN[A                             - BU KINA ASO                                            UMOA MEMBER
Cotnakrs                                                                                              t  COUNTRIES
ER2                                                                 i                                ) z  ( &IUOA Member (ountrie.
Freetown    LEO)NE                              E                                 i
__   ~~~~~  ~National C:apiilak
- ; ; i   z >           ,          H          1 t    s S      s  J                J 2             z                        Rivers
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Z     Monrovia *>          t      (l      N >     t (  GHANA           }~~~~  _*  L.                     -      International Boundaries
3                       v                        ~,v. IBE                                         Lorn, Co't  omC nou
Accra
. . .......... <~~~~~~~ >w ~Abidjan
0 .o g 2 ilO   4B0      4AO0 KllNO (  )    WS
t:0  0n                                                                 _____________o  ,   .   .   .
20 .   __                                                                                                                   __ __ __l__ __ __ ___I_



