Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 18076
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANQUE OUEST AFRIOCAINE DE DEVELOPPEMENT
l'BOAD)
THIRD REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 2089-WAF; Loan 3161-WAF)
Juine 25, 1998
Private Sector Finance Group
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit: CFA franc (CFAF)
Calendar Year 1990 (July)                   Calendar Year 1998 (May)
US$ 1 = CFAF 286                     US$ 1 = CFAF 596
SDR 1 = US$ 1.323                    SDR 1 = US$ 1.250
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric system
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB            -      African Development Bank
ADF            -      African Development Fund;
ABEDA          -      Arab Bank for the Economic Development in Africa
BCEAO         -       Central Bank of the West African States
BDEAC          -      Central African States Development Bank
IDB            -      Islamic Development Bank
BOAD           -      West African Development Bank
CFD           -       Caisse Francaise de Developpement
DFI           -       Development Finance Institution
EADB           -      East African Development Bank
EIB            -      European Investment Bank
ECOWAS         -      Economic Community of West African States
EDF            -      European Development Fund
FIL           -       Financial Intermediary Loan
GARI           -      West African Guarantee Fund
GTZ           -       German Technical Cooperation
KfW            -      Kreditanstalt fir Wiederaufbau
SOE           -       Statement Of Expenditure
UEMOA         -       West African Economic and Monetary Union
UMOA          -       West African Monetary Union
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
October I - September 30, until 1994
October 1 - December 31, in 1995
January I - December 31, from 1996
Vice President        :      Jean-Louis Sarbib
Director                     Theodore Ahlers
Sector Manager        :      Thomas Allen
Task Manager                 Olivier Lambert



FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
TABLE COF CONTENTS
1. PREFACE
2. EVALUATION SUMMARY .............................................................. i
3. PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ............................................................ 1
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION  .............................................................. 1
B. ASSESSMENT AND ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES .............................................................                                           3
C. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION.                                                                  ............................................................. 7
D. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT .............................................................. 7
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY ..............................................................                                                            8
1. Subprojectsfinanced ............................................................. 8
2. BOAD  as an institution .............................................................                                                        8
F. BANK PERFORMANCE .............................................................                                                                  10
G. BORROWERPERFORMANCE .............................................................                                                               10
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME .............................................................                                                             11
I. FUrURE OPERATION .............................................................                                                                  1 1
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED .............................................................. 12
4. PART II - STATISTICAL ANNEXES ..............................................................                                                    13
5. PART III- PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ........................ 19
I. INTRODUCTION .............................................................. 20
II. LE PROJETBOAD  III DE LA BANQUE MONDIALE ..............................................................                                       20
III. LA MISE EN OEUVRE DU PROJET .............................................................. 21
IV. EVALUATION DES PERFORMANCES DE LA BOAD .............................................................                                          26
V. EVALUATION DES PERFORMANCES DE LA BANQUE MONDIALE ..........................................                                                   27
VI. IMPACTS INSTITUTIONNEL, ECONOMIQUE ET FINANCIER ..........................................                                                    27
VII. LES LECONS A TIRER .................................9..........  29
APPENDIX A: ICR MISsIoN AIDE-MEMOIRE ..........................................                                                                   33
1. LE PROJET BOAD III: RAPPELS ..........................................                                                                      33
1I. EXECUTION DU PROJET BOAD III ...........................................                                                                  35
III. CONCLUSIONS ET LE(;ONS ............................................ 37
IV. CALENDRIER, DILIGENCES ET POIJRSUITE DE L'ETUDE STRATEGIQUE ....................... 39
APPENDIX  B: ECONOMIC INDICATORS OF UEMOA  COUNTRIES ............................................................. 41
APPENDIX  C: BOAD's TOTAL PROJECT ACTIVITY .................................................................                                      42
APPENDIX D: CHARACTERISTICS OF REFINANCED SUBPROJECTS AND LIST OF STUDIES ........................... 43
APPENDIX  E: STATUS OF SUBPROJECTS ................................................................                                               44
APPENDIX  F: DESCRIPTION AND RATING OF SUBPROJECTS ................................................................  45
APPENDIX  G: EQUITY OWNERSHIP OF BOAD  - 1997 ................................................................                                     55
APPENDIX  H:  SIMPLIFIED BALANCE SHEETS (199 1-1997) ................................................................                              56
APPENDIX I: SUMMARY INCOME STATEMENTS (1991 - 1997) ..........................................                                                    57
APPENDIX J: BOAD FINANCIAL INDICATORS AND RATIOS ..........................................                                                        58
APPENDIX K: PORTFOLIO ARREARS .......................................... 59
APPENDIX L: BOAD'S RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES, FINANCIAL SITUATION AND PORTFOLIO .................. 60
APPENDIX M: STATUS OF EXTERNAL RESOURCES ..................................                                                                        65
APPENDIX N: COMPOSITION OF HIGHER LEVTEL STAFF AND ORGANIZATIONAL CHART ............................... 66
Map of The West African Economic And Monetary Union
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



BANQUE OUEST AFRICAIN]E DE DEVELOPPEMENT (BOAD)
THIRD REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 2089-WAF; Loan 3161-WAF)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
1. PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Third Regional
Development Project to Ban que Ouest Africaine de Developpement (BOAD) for which
Credit 2089-WAF in the amount of US$40 million equivalent and Loan 3161-WAF in the
amount of US$15 million were approved on February 1, 1990, and became effective on
April 27, 1990 and September 28, 1990, respectively. The Credit and the Loan closed on
December 31, 1997, after a one-year extension. At Credit/Loan closing, US$36.4 million
equivalent was disbursed under Cr. 2089-WAF and US$13.2 million was disbursed under
Ln. 3161-VAF; US$8.56 million equivalent and US$1.77 million respectively was
canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Olivier Lambert and Amy Champion, Private Sector
Finance Group, Africa Region. Mmes. Femandes, Fye, Hilgers and Mr. Bathia also
contributed to this document. It was reviewed by Ann Rennie, Lead Specialist, and
Jerome Chevallier, Manager, Operations Support, Africa Region. The Borrower provided
its analysis that is included as Part III of this ICR.
Preparation of this ICR started during the Bank's final supervision of November
1997 and the completion mission of March 1998. It was based on materials in the Project
file, including the Staff Appraisal Report dated January 2, 1990, the Development Credit
Agreement and Loan Agreement, supenrision reports, progress reviews and monitoring
reports by the Borrower. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by
supplying the views reflected in the final mission's aide-memoire (Appendix A), preparing
its own evaluation of the project's implementation and initial preparation, and providing
comments on the draft ICR.



BANQUE OUEST AFRICAINE DE DEVELOPPEMENT (BOAD)
THIRD REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 2089-WAF; Loan 3161-WAF)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
2. EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.    The present operation was the third project in favor of the Banque Ouest Afrncaine
de Developpement (BOAD), following the Second Regional Development Project (Ln.
2242-WAF/Cr. 1331-WAF), which closed on March 29, 1991, and the Regional
Development Credit (Cr. 969-WAF),, which closed on December 31, 1987.
2.    Project Objectives and Description. As stated in the President's report, the
major objective of the project was to enable the Bank Group, through BOAD as an
intermediary, to contribute to the provision of investment finance to a broad spectrum of
viable investment projects in the seven resource-poor countries of Union Mon6taire Ouest
Africaine (UMOA), thus helping to strengthen the supply response needed to support
structural adjustment reforms which were underway in these countries. Another objective
was to achieve further institutional growth particularly in enhancing the development
impact of its operations. Specifically, this called for (a) an intensification in the promotion
of regional integration projects, (b) a shift in favor of private sector investment, (c)
measures to address environmental issues, (d) initiation of a study of grass root banking,
(e) initiation of a study of the leasing industry, (f) attempt to tap into capital markets.
3.    The project consisted of: (a) an IDA component that included a line of credit
(US$39 million equivalent) to finance subprojects in Benin, Burkina Faso, Mali, Niger,
Senegal and Togo and a technical assistance subcomponent (US$1 million) to finance
economic and project feasibility studies and consultant services; and (b) an IBRD
component in the form of a line of credit (US$15 million) to finance subprojects in C6te
d'Ivoire. The objectives were not modified during project implementation.
4.    Implementation, Experience and Results. The objective of providing resources
to a broad spectrum of viable investnments projects was achieved. The IDA line of credit
financed 13 subprojects for a total of US$36.4 million equivalent and the IBRD line of
credit financed four subprojects for a total of US$13.2 million. About one third of these
projects may not achieve their objectives. BOAD contributed to private sector
development through direct lending (28 percent of total amount disbursed) and three
actions in the financial sector. First, BOAD resorted to the local regional capital market
to raise CFAF 24 billion in three issues in 1993, 1995, and 1997. Second, BOAD in



partnership with donors and commercial banks established a venture capital company
(CAURIS Investissement), and a regional guarantee fund (GARI) for private investments,
both of which became operational in late 1995. Third, BOAD was instrumental in
creating an adequate fiscal environment for the leasing industry in the member countries.
5.    Supporting the institutional development of BOAD is assumed reached because
BOAD has a sound financial situation, as evidenced by its capital adequacy ratio of 38
percent and its profitability. Under its two-tiered interest rate policy, BOAD has
established two windows one for the public sector and another for the commercial sector.
But, beyond the financial sector, the Project has had less success in supporting the
regional approach as no regional project' was completed during the period under review.
6.    Although the overall program cost was in line with anticipated costs, project
implementation took longer than initially expected. Commitments were made beyond
1993 and 60 percent of disbursements occurred during 1996 and 1997. The loan/credit
closing date was extended by one year to December 31, 1997. A key factor behind the
slow start was the macroeconomic environment prevailing at that time in BOAD's
member countries. The external adjustment (in January 1994 the CFA Franc was
devalued by 50 percent vis-a-vis the French franc) restored the competitiveness of those
countries. As a result, new investments became profitable and bankable projects were
presented both in the public and private sectors.
7.    Based on three criteria (financial situation, contribution to project design, access to
resources), BOAD is not yet sustainable, but on the path to sustainability. BOAD has a
sound financial situation. However, only about 50 percent of the subprojects benefited
from a valuable technical input from BOAD. Finally, BOAD has only limited access to
fund, as it cannot independently fund all of its lines of business by itself
8.    BOAD's  performance  during  project  implementation  was  satisfactory.
Disbursement requests were reviewed by the Bank and proved satisfactory. Procurement
documents are reviewed systematically by BOAD.
9.    Bank performance has been unsatisfactory. Initially, at appraisal, the Bank had
recognized that the CFAF was overvalued vis-a-vis the FRF. This project was prepared
before lessons were drawn from BOAD I and II projects. The SAR is not clear about the
objectives of the project, specifically with respect to institutional strengthening. The Bank
was not well organized to handle this project.
10.   Overall, the outcome of the project is rated marginally satisfactory based on the
assumed weight of the different objectives. The major benefits proposed have been
realized.
It must be noted that BOAD and IDA did not share the same definition of a regional project (see
paragraph 21).
.i.



11.   Summary of Findings, Fuiture Operations and Key Lessons Learned. There
are two major findings. First, since financial intermediary lending is as efficient as the
institution itself, the Bank should insist that the institution has a clear strategy and
adequately measures its own impact. Second, in the context of policy framework
coordination, the Bank team in charge of the proposed project should include sector
specialists, in addition to financial sector specialists.
12.   Fundamental changes have occurred both at the global and at the sub-regional
levels. In this new context, BOiW has to review fundamentally its role. BOAD is
currently engaged in developing its strategy for future operations in a business-as-usual
mode, when the whole environment is undergoing radical changes. Until BOAD
formulates a clear strategic vision addressing those changes, while ensuring that key
principles, such as (i) selectively building on comparative advantage, (ii) complementing
but not competing with the private sector, and (iii) financial transparency while ensuring
accountability, are respected, it will be difficult for IDA to justify additional funding
support.
iii



BANQUE OUEST AFRICAINE DE DEVELOPPEMENT (BOAD)
THIRD REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 2089-WAF; Loan 3161-WAF)
IMPLEMENTAT][ON COMPLETION REPORT
3. PART I - PROJECT-IMPLEMENTATION
ASSESSMENT
Project Identitv
Name                :     Third Regional Development Project
Credit/Loan Number        2089-WAF / 3161 -WAF
RVP Unit                  Africa Region
Regional            :      3anque Ouest-Africaine de Developpement
Sector                    All sectors, except social infrastructure
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
1.    On November 14 1973, the West African States ratified a Treaty creating the West
African Monetary Union (UMOA). The by-laws of the Central Bank of the West African
States (BCEAO) and an Agreement establishing the Banque Ouest Africaine de
Developpement (BOAD) were annexed to that Treaty. BOAD was established as a
regional financial institution, whose broad mandate was to promote economic integration
and balanced development among the member states. In January 1994, in parallel to the
devaluation of the CFA Franc (CFAF) vis-a-vis the French Franc (FRF) by 50 percent,
that Treaty was complemented by another Treaty establishing the West African Economic
and Monetary Union (UEMOA). Presently, UEMOA includes Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote
d'Ivoire, Niger, Mali, Senegal, Togo and Guinea Bissau, which joined the Union in May
1997.
2.    The present operation, approved in February 1990 was the third in favor of BOAD
and was in the chain of almost continuous assistance, both technical and financial,
provided by the Bank to BOAD. When BOAD started operations in 1976, three Bank
1



staff members were made available to BOAD to help it in its formative years. An advance
Project Preparation facility was extended in 1979 to help finance feasibility and
engineering studies of potentially successful regional development sub-projects. Two
IDA/IBRD blend operations2 were approved in 1983 and 1990 to finance such projects.
3.    The Third Regional Development Project was thus a follow-up to the two earlier
projects. It was justified on the basis that the thrust of the BOAD's objective of furthering
economic integration of UEMOA countries was congruent with the Bank Group's own
objectives in that part of Africa, and because of BOAD's institutional capacity as an
efficient financial intermediary. The SAR for the Project concluded "BOAD is... a
suitable intermediary for channeling IDA/IBRD funds to development-oriented
investments in the UMOA zone".
4.    As stated in the President's report, the major objective of the project was to enable
the Bank Group, through BOAD as an intermediary, to contribute to the provision of
investment finance to a broad spectrum of viable investment projects in the seven
resource-poor countries of Union Monetaire Ouest Africaine (UMOA), thus helping to
strengthen the supply response needed to support structural adjustment reforms which
were underway in these countries. Another objective was to achieve further institutional
growth particularly in enhancing the development impact of its operations. Specifically,
this called for (a) an intensification in the promotion of regional integration projects, (b) a
shift in favor of private sector investment, (c) measures to address environmental issues,
(d) initiation of a study of grass root banking, (e) initiation of a study of the leasing
industry, (f) attempt to tap into capital markets. The objectives were not modified during
project implementation.
5.    The project consisted of: (a) an IDA component that included a line of credit
(US$39 million equivalent) to finance subprojects in Benin, Burkina Faso, Mali, Niger,
Senegal and Togo and a technical assistance subcomponent (US$1 million) to finance
economic and project feasibility studies and consultant services; and (b) an IBRD
component in the form of a line of credit (US$15 million) to finance subprojects in C8te
d'Ivoire.
6.    As part of project preparation, BOAD formulated a Statement of Development
Strategy, 1989/92. Under that strategy BOAD was to pursue, inter-alia, the following
objectives:
*  Significantly increase the share of its financing of the private sector, to about 35
percent of its total financing;
*  Give full consideration to the environmental aspects of projects;
2  Until January 1994, Cote d'Ivoire was IBRD eligible, while all other UEMOA countries were IDA
eligible.
2



* Promote projects with a potential for regional economic integration, with the objective
of doubling the proportion of regional projects from the 20 percent to a lending target
of 40 percent;
*  Further diversify its funding sources to reduce its dependence on official sources of
funding, and to tap international capital markets; and
*  Initiate studies with a view to deepening the financial and banking sector of the
UMOA zone.
7.    The line of credit was extended under the following conditions. Subloans would
not exceed US$4 million. There was a free limit of US$2 million for individual subloans
subject to an aggregate free limit of 50 percent of the overall amount of the composite line
of credit. As an indicative target 35 percent of total lending was to benefit the private
sector. BOAD was to apply a new interest rate structure comprising a market rate for
lending to commercially-oriented projects, and a special (lower) rate, but still sufficient to
cover BOAD's full costs, for non-commercial, priority investments by public sector
entities. BOAD agreed to assume the: exchange risk on all its foreign borrowings, which
under the fixed parity between the CFAF and FRF was expected to be limited to the
fluctuations of FRF vis-a-vis other currencies included in BOAD's foreign liabilities.
BOAD was required to include the calculation of economic and financial rates of return,
both of which had to be at least 12 percent, and an analysis of the expected environmental
impact, in all its subproject appraisals. Finally, BOAD was required to credit to a Special
Account the net concessional benefits of the IDA funds to be used by BOAD exclusively
to finance promotional and development expenditures benefiting its IDA-eligible member
countries. As concerns the TA component, the funds were to be utilized to finance short-
term adhoc consultant services to supplement BOAD's in-house staff capacity and to
undertake economic, sectoral, and project feasibility studies.
B. ASSESSMENT AND ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
8.    BOAD's development strategy did not provide a clear vision. It was a list of
actions without specific performance indicators, with the exception of the objectives for
private sector investment (to reach 35 percent of total lending during project period) and
regional projects (40 percent of lending). The project objectives were vague, without a
clear sense of priorities.  No attempt was made to define indicators for assessing
institutional growth. More importantlly, the line of credit was extended at a time when the
common currency of the sub-region was clearly misaligned, which created an unfavorable
environment for private sector develolpment.
9.    The assessment of this project is proposed under two headings: implementation of
loan conditions, and implementation of the Development Strategy.
3



1. Implementation of loan conditions.
10.   BOAD onlent the equivalent of US$49.6 million for 17 subprojects in six countries
within the individual ceiling of US$4 million (ranging between a low of US$0.72 and 4.0
million). Further, of this amount a total of US$14 million, or 28 percent compared to the
indicative target of 35 percent, went to projects in the private sector. The estimated ex
ante rate of return for all sub-projects was 12 percent or greater.
11.   Based on a technical study financed by the TA component of the Project, BOAD
also introduced in 1991 the two-tiered interest rate structure which was further refined in
the light of another similar study focusing on the implementation of the new interest rate
policy. Under this policy BOAD has established two windows one for the public sector
and another for the commercial sector. For the public sector the applied rate of interest is
based on the equilibrium rate (5.5 percent in 1997) that covers BOAD's full costs; for the
commercial window, the interest rate is based on BOAD's average cost of borrowed funds
to be onlent through that window (6 percent in 1997). While the latter is not the market
rate of interest envisaged in the SAR, the implication of the policy is that as BOAD
increasingly relies on market borrowing, the commercial window rate would tend towards
the market rate.
12.   BOAD charges a fee to cover the exchange risk relating to the fluctuations in the
FRF rate. As of December 31 1997, the foreign exchange risk provision account showed
a credit balance of CFAF 8.4 billion, that is about 14 percent of foreign exchange
denominated liabilities. The exchange losses resulting from the 1994 devaluation of the
CFAF vis-a-vis the FRF were, however, absorbed by member countries in the form of
special grants to BOAD.
13.   A Special Account was created to credit the difference between the interest
income received by BOAD on the IDA component after the deduction of the lending
spread (3.25 percent) and an annually adjusted foreign exchange risk fee. During project
implementation, CFAF 2.1 billion were credited to this account. These funds financed
seven studies and nine seminars and fora; but BOAD used it essentially to fund its
contribution to the operational budget of the UEMOA Commission (approximately CFAF
500 million). As of December 31 1997, the Special Account balance was CFAF 1.4
billion.
14.   Finally, as required under the agreement, BOAD conducted various studies,
including on mutualistic financial institutions (Banques populaires), and on developing the
leasing business in the UEMOA region (which concluded that there was a market for the
leasing business), and a study on the feasibility of the port of Cotonou. The technical
assistance component (US$1 million equivalent) thus financed four studies for a total
amount of US$617,140 equivalent. BOAD did not use all the funds because some grant
money was available from other sources.
15.   Thus, it can be concluded that all formal requirements, including indicative targets
were, by and large, fulfilled.
4



2. Implementation of the Developnment Strategy.
16.   BOAD's development strategy would appear to have had three broad objectives:
first, to contribute to the provision of investment finance to a broad spectrum of viable
investment projects, to the development of the private productive sector and of the
financial sector; second, to further its institutional development; and third, to support the
regional approach, by financing regional projects and undertaking economic and sectoral
studies of regional interest.
17.   The objective of providing resources to a broad spectrum of viable investment
projects in the resource poor countries of the zone and to contribute to the development
of the private sector was achieved. The IDA line of credit refinanced 13 subprojects for a
total of US$36.4 million equivalent. Thiree subprojects focused on rural development: two
irrigation projects (one in Burkina Faso and one in southern Mali) and one feeder road
project also in southern Mali. Seven of the subprojects were in the infrastructure sector
and included road projects, supply of port equipment, and development of the telephone
network. There were also two subprojects in the energy sector in Senegal, including the
rehabilitation of a power generator and distribution of electricity. In the private sector
there was one leasing project. The IBRD component of the line of credit refinanced four
subprojects (including three in the private sector) in Cote d'Ivoire for a total of US$13.2
million. Two subprojects were in the energy sector (CIPREL and PETROCI) and two
were in the agro-industrial sector (SACO and SICOR). As evidenced by the estimated ex-
ante rates of return, these were all considered to be viable projects. (See appendices D for
the main characteristics and E for the status of subprojects).
18.   Based on staff assessment, about 35 percent of subprojects are considered
unsatisfactory, or at risk of being unsatisfactory. This assessment is qualitative and too
early for definitive conclusion, as several projects are still in the process of being
implemented. (See Appendix F for a description and rating of the subprojects).
19.   BOAD's activities also contributed to the development of the financial sector in
three ways. First, BOAD tapped the local regional capital market to raise CFAF 24
billion in three issues in 1993, 1995, and 1997. These resources were raised in the form of
two bond issues (1993 and 1995) on the Abidjan securities exchange, and one issue on the
regional money market, subscribed exclusively by financial institutions of the region, thus
making available new financial instruments to the market. However, there appears to have
been no secondary market in these issues, partly because of the lack of alternate
investment opportunities for the primiary holders of these bonds. Second, BOAD in
partnership with donors and commercial banks established a venture capital company
(CAURIS Investissement), and a regional guarantee fund (GARI) for private investments,
both of which became operational in late 1995. Third, on the basis of a study concerning
the feasibility of establishing leasing industry in the sub-region, appropriate adjustments
were made by member countries in their tax structure (removing disincentives linked to
VAT) to allow for the development of the industry. Simultaneously, BOAD made
available resources for the leasing cornpanies to finance their leasing operations. As a
consequence, leasing has developed into a credible alternative to bank financing.
5



20.   The-project contributed to further the institutional development of BOAD, which
has a sound financial situation as evidenced by its capital adequacy ratio of 38 percent and
the profitability of its operations during the whole period under review (1990-97).
Considering that BOAD is not a profit maximizing institution, its profitability remained
adequate: its average Return-On-Assets (ROA) was one percent and its average Return-
On-Equity (ROE) was 2.5 percent for the last four years. During that period, BOAD
improved its risk management and therefore its long term  viability.  The Board is
monitoring classified assets and provisioning on a quarterly basis. In order to tap the
regional capital market, BOAD has adopted risk management principles for its
interventions; guiding principles were submitted to the Board in June 1996 and were
approved (see Appendix L for an analysis of risk management policies, financial situation
and portfolio). A Post Evaluation Unit, which was created in 1991 but, stopped
functioning in 1995 and 1996, has been recently reinvigorated. The Private Sector Unit
became a full Private Sector Department enabling BOAD to handle better and more
projects in the private sector. However, while BOAD has considered the environmental
aspects of its lending in subproject appraisal reports, little progress has been achieved in
enhancing the environmental objective. BOAD has no specific guidelines or specialized
staff to address the environmental impact of its projects, but relies on consultants.
21.   Beyond the financial sector (see paragraph 19), BOAD had less success in
promoting the regional approach: although BOAD led some regional thinking by
conducting studies and coordinating some member countries' actions, no regional project
was completed during the period under review. It must be noted that BOAD and IDA do
not share an common definition of a regional project3. BOAD has not been successful in
promoting genuine regional development or investment planning on a regional basis, thus
not even approaching its stated goal of doubling the proportion of regional projects to 40
percent of its lending. However, this may be more a reflection of the lack of regional
thinking culture in the sub-region, which tends to favor country limited horizons for
investment and development, and makes it difficult to achieve true regional behavior. This
culture is nevertheless changing following the 1994 devaluation of the CFAF, the
institution of the UEMOA, and the establishment of various regional operational policies
and institutions such as the UEMOA Commission, to which BOAD contributed.
22.   Taking an overall view of the performance during the period under review against
agreed upon objectives, it could be reasonably regarded as satisfactory.
3For IDA, a regional project would involve a regional institution or, at least two countries simultaneously
in all the project steps. BOAD's definition is broader: a regional project contributes to regional
integration. For instance, the Togolese project "Port Autonome de Lome" is considered a regional
project by BOAD, because it should have a positive impact on the regional trade between Togo,
Burkina and Niger. With this definition, BOAD claims 59 regional projects and 30 percent of its
portfolio (see Part III, page 25 paragraph 3.4.5. "Promotion de l'integration economique").
6



C. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
23.   Although the overall program cost was in line with anticipation (see Table 5),
project implementation took longer than initially expected, as commitments were made
beyond 1993. After the January 1994 devaluation, BOAD experienced a rapid increase in
its activity, to the point that the portfolio increased by 150 percent in three years, thus
extending its project processing capacity. During, 1996 and 1997, as the date of the
loan/credit closing was extended by one year, BOAD disbursed 60 percent (see Table 4).
During implementation, IDA invested on average 8 man-weeks per year to supervise this
project (see Table 9).
24.   The Bank's response time to requests from BOAD regarding specific subprojects
was too slow. There were three main reasons for the lengthy response time. First, there
was an initial general miscommunication between BOAD and Bank staff, mainly
concerning the approval of subprojects (the first several requests for subproject financing
sent by BOAD were rejected by the Bank for reasons that were not clear to the staff of
BOAD) and the use of the "free limit". After a BOAD mission to the Bank's headquarters
in September 1993, the issues were resolved and the pace of the project improved
considerably. Second, many of the subprojects were in the infrastructure sector (roads,
water, telecommunication), requiring inputs from specialized staff, who were not part of
the project team, and whose help was based on goodwill rather than on structured
collaboration. Third, reorganizations of the Africa Region during project implementation
impacted the quality of Bank supervision. In addition, as, a regional project, there was
sometimes ambiguity as to which division was responsible for this project and as a result,
some project files were misplaced, making the project documentation incomplete.
25.   Disbursement. Disbursement requests were reviewed by the Bank and proved
satisfactory. BOAD's control system was adequate and a review of supporting SOE
documents revealed that sufficient documentation existed. However, it appeared BOAD
could better monitor certain financial parameters (such as elapsed time of processing
requests, or outstanding documentation of special advances) in order to improve its
internal processing efficiency. The periodic reports from such a monitoring system would
allow BOAD management to identify and address implementation problem areas.
26.   Procurement. All aspects of procurement were reviewed by Africa's Operation
Support. BOAD's review of documents is systematic but not necessarily thorough. In
addition, BOAD's guidelines are outdated and inadequate. The lack of procurement
specialists to assist staff, and the focus on appraisal rather than on supervision, explain the
cursory reviews. Procurement guidelines are being revised with the help of the European
Union.
D. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE ]?ROJECT
27.   UMOA  member countries were in the process of implementing structural
adjustment programs when the present operation was being prepared. The situation of
7



economic hardship was exacerbated by the CFA franc overvaluation, which was not
corrected until the January 1994 devaluation. Before the devaluation, BOAD had
difficulty identifying productive investments that would contribute substantially to
economic growth in member countries. Hence, the approval process and implementation
of approved subprojects were much slower than anticipated. After the devaluation,
however, BOAD experienced a rapid increase in its activity, as mentioned earlier.
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
1.    Subprojects financed
28.   At the time of loan/credit closing, many of the subprojects were still being
executed or had recently closed, therefore no project completion reports were available
for review (see Appendix E: Status of subprojects). Although IDA staff visited several
subprojects at various stages of execution throughout the region, no joint subproject
supervision was carried out. It is therefore not possible to adequately assess at this stage
the sustainability of the subprojects in general. For that reason, project completion reports
(PCR) for BOAD II subprojects were reviewed. Three PCRs were available, two for
subprojects in the public sector and one in the private sector. BOAD carried out thorough
assessments of all three subprojects, concluding that two were successful and one was not.
This illustrates that BOAD is candid in evaluating its operations and willing to build on its
past experience: this process contributes to sustainability.
2.    BOAD as an institution
29.   BOAD is a financially sound institution, on the path to sustainability. As a result
of technical and financial assistance from the Bank and prudent management, BOAD has
become a financially sound institution with a track record of sound policies and practices
in its lending and financial management. It has acquired valuable knowledge of its member
countries' economies and their requirements in the development area. It has established
itself as a source of development finance, but probably needs to further establish itself as a
source of technical thinking in the UEMOA zone.
30.   BOAD will be considered sustainable when the three following criteria are met
simultaneously. First, a sound financial situation with capital growth in line with portfolio
growth and administrative costs in line with its activity, comparing favorably with financial
institutions. Second, a real contribution to project design and supervision through
valuable technical input. Third, an ability to mobilize its resources.
31.   BOAD has a sound financial situation with an adequate capital adequacy ratio of
38 percent (see Appendix L). Its intermediation margin has improved during the period
under review, as it was halved from 7 percent to 3.5 percent (see Appendix J). This is due
to a better private sector risk management evidenced by a stable figure for classified loans
and since 1995, a low level of specific provisioning (see Appendices I and K). These
figures can be compared with average intermediation margins of large commercial banks
8



in 1992 of 2.3 percent in France, 4.13 percent in the UK or 5.7 percent in the US. A
greater emphasis on private sector lending will probably reduce further the average size of
booked assets, while increasing the number of loans to process. BOAD will therefore
need to (i) ensure that administrative costs remain in line with the size of the portfolio, i.e.
watch closely loan processing and monitoring and, (ii) ensure adequate contribution of
each loan, i.e. set margins on a risk adjusted base. BOAD meets this criteria.
32.   BOAD's contribution to project design through valuable technical input is difficult
to assess accurately. However, based on (i) the description of the subprojects (see
Appendix F), (ii) on whether the project is rated satisfactory at this time, (iii) on the
presence of cofinanciers and, (iv) the nature of the cofinanciers, we estimate that nine out
of the 17 projects, or 50 percent of' subprojects, benefited from a valuable input from
BOAD. The supervision effort was insufficient, however. This was mostly due to the
greater number of projects processed in the post-devaluation period by a stable number of
staff. With the additional assumption. that this sample of projects is representative of the
overall BOAD portfolio, we conclude that BOAD's contribution needs to be improved
and as a result that BOAD does yet meet this criteria.
33.   Finally the ability to access funds. BOAD may have a comparative advantage in
amounts. The existence of BOAD may have allowed its borrowers to access funds that
would not have been available otherwise. The credit line from Japan Eximbank (Jexim)
may be cited as an example. Jexim sees it as a better means to increase its exposure to
West Africa than lending directly to each country because of economies of scale.
34.   To finance a public sector operation, however, BOAD is not in a position to raise
funds more cheaply than its shareholders and borrowers. When Burkina Faso borrowed
from BOAD, it paid more (intermedliation and margin) than if it had borrowed directly
from IDA, therefore implicitly subsidizing BOAD's operations. However, should BOAD
provide value through technical advice, this may not be that important.
35.   It is safe to state that BOAD is probably one of the best credit risks in the region
when it comes to tapping the local capital markets to finance private sector operations.
The recent successes could illustrate this point, although BOAD benefits from a privilege,
as revenues from its bonds are tax-exempt. Nevertheless, should the above tax advantage
be terminated, BOAD can probably still access more and cheaper funds than its private
borrowers. This line of business is, however, not yet sustainable for two reasons: first,
because BOAD incurred start up costs, essentially in the form of provisions for classified
assets; and second, because the funding of those private sector operations is not yet fully
market-based. BOAD does not meet yet this criteria.
36.   Thus, BOAD is not yet sustainable but assuming no undue political pressures, it
should be on the path to replicating, improving and funding its operations with little
external technical financial support.
9



F. BANK PERFORMANCE
37.   Overall Bank performance has been unsatisfactory. Initially, at appraisal, Bank
staff was aware that the CFAF was overvalued vis-a-vis the FRF. This foreign exchange
risk was not properly assessed. The macro-economic imbalances did not provide an
enabling environment for private sector investment and contributed to a slow project start.
Little disbursement occurred prior to the CFAF devaluation (9 percent in three years until
December 1993), which, eventually, limited the losses it triggered.
38.   This project was prepared before lessons were drawn from BOAD I and II. As a
result the SAR stated overoptimistic goals related to the regional aspects of the project
and as written earlier this aspect was not satisfactory.
39.   The objectives were vague. The SAR did not specify indicators to monitor the
project results, particularly as concerns institutional strengthening.
40.   The Bank was not well organized to handle this project. As mentioned earlier, the
Bank's response to requests from BOAD regarding specific subprojects was too slow.
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
41.   BOAD's performance during project implementation was, by and large,
satisfactory. The funds were to have been committed by the end of 1993, but subproject
identification took much longer than originally anticipated at the time of appraisal, because
of poor macro economic conditions and suspensions of countries from the lending
program4: commitments were reduced and disbursements became minimal as BOAD did
not relax its lending standards. The IDA/IBRD loan disbursement rate was very slow and
by January 1996, had only reached 34 percent and 27 percent, respectively. BOAD
therefore requested an extension of the closing date by one year, from December 31, 1996
to December 31, 1997. The IDA/IBRD loan disbursement rate increased considerably in
1997 and reached 80 percent and 88 percent respectively by the closing date.
42.   Increased coordination between BOAD, IDA and other donors would have
avoided the situation created by the power generation project in Senegal, whereby BOAD
extended a loan to SENELEC (electricity parastatal), under the free limit, after the Bank
had indicated that policy and institutional problems had to be solved before extending any
new lending to this agency. Similarly, better coordination among borrowing countries
would have helped improve the justification of a road section supported by BOAD in
Burkina Faso. It is expected that this section will be eventually part of the Lom-Niamey
axis, but its extension into Togo is not yet planned (See appendix F for a detailed
description).
4  During the project, Senegal was suspended for 18 months, Togo for 3 years and Niger has been in
suspension since May 2, 1991.
10



43.   Finally, BOAD contributed in an efficient and timely manner to the production of
the present Implementation Completion Report.
}I ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
44.   Overall, the outcome of the lproject is rated marginally satisfactory. No specific
performance indicators were identified at the time of appraisal by which to measure the
project's results but, the major benefits discussed in the SAR have been realized.
L FUTURE OPERATION
45.   The line of credit was approved when macroeconomic conditions were not
appropriate. Subproject approval lagged compared to initial expectations. Following the
CFAF devaluation in January 1994, BOAD invested most of its resources in the
processing of new projects. Most of' these projects are not completed or recently closed,
and it is therefore hardly possible, at this stage, to make a well informed assessment of
their future operations as we lack the necessary perspective allowing hindsight. The
insufficient focus put by BOAD on supervision in past years makes such an assessment
even more difficult. In addition, sulpervision has been mostly concerned with input and
output, not outcome and impact.
46.   Late 1996, BOAD requested another US$100 million IDA credit. At that time,
the BOAD III lines of credit were 50 percent disbursed only and there was no point in
considering a new project. As conditions have changed, BOAD needs to evolve and Bank
continued support cannot be taken fDr granted. In fact, fundamental changes have taken
place, both at the global and the sub-regional levels. At the global level, the private sector
is now recognized as being the main engine of economic growth; the importance of capital
markets is increasing as opposed to that of the banking system; public sector investments
are being reduced and increasingly focused on social sectors and poverty alleviation;
official development aid flows are declining, leading to increased donor coordination with
greater emphasis on achieving sustainable results.
47.   In the sub-region, since the devaluation of the CFAF in 1994, the member
countries are coordinating more closely and harmonizing their economic and financial
policies, liberalizing and privatizing their economies, creating a regional stock market to
deepen and widen of the regional financial system. In this new context, BOAD has to
fundamentally reassess its role.
48.   BOAD is currently engaged in developing a strategy for future operations in a
business-as-usual mode when the whiole environment is undergoing radical changes. Until
BOAD formulates a clear strategic vision that addresses all those changes, while ensuring
that key principles, such as (i) selectively building on comparative advantage, (ii)
complementing but not competing w(ith the private sector, and (iii) financial transparency
11



while ensuring accountability, are respected, it will be difficult for IDA to justify additional
fanding support.
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
49.   The project is rated satisfactory although there is an unsatisfactory component
related to regional aspects. Certainly the BOAD III SAR would have set different goals in
that respect if both ICRs for BOAD I and BOAD II had been available for review,
including the harmonization of the definition of a regional project.
50.   Ceterisparibus, financial intermediary lending is as efficient as the institution itself.
Therefore it is essential that the institution has a clear strategic vision. In this case the
strategy note was vague. It is also important that the institution measures its impact and
ensures that its projects have satisfactory and sustainable results on the ground. The Bank
cannot measure the impact of all sub-projects, the institution itself must be able to do it
reasonably well, with the Bank concentrating on the methodology used. BOAD has a
capacity to appraise and manage projects resulting in relatively satisfactory outputs;
however BOAD does not allocate enough resources to supervision and impact
measurement.
51.   In the context of policy framework coordination, the Bank team in charge of the
proposed project should have included sector specialists, in addition to financial sector
specialists.
52.   In the case of financial intermediary loans (FILs), the Bank should delay the
preparation of the ICR to better assess the impact or the sustainability of subprojects. The
additional time would allow more subprojects to be completed and hence the analysis
would benefit from valuable input.
12



BANQUE OUEST AFRICAINE DE DEVELOPPEMENT (BOAD)
THIRD REGIONAL, DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 2089-WAF; Loan 3161-WAF)
4. PART II -- STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Obiectives   SubstantiaI    Partial       Negligible    Not A_Mlicable
Macroeconomics policies    .        O                           0el
Sector policies           .E                                    o               O
Financial objectives             El              O              o        
Institutional development        O               El             O               
Physical objectives              El              El O                           El
Poverty reduction                O               O              0               El
Gender concerns                  E               El                             El
Other social objectives          O               El                             El
Environmental objectives         E O             l
Public sector management          E                            El
Private sector development  .     El             El             E               
B. Project Sustainability        Likely              Unlikely             Uncertain
0                   0 O        
C. Bank Performance         Highly Satisfactory    Satisfactory           Deficient
Identification                     0                    0                    El
Preparation assistance             0
Appraisal                 .        0                    0                    El
Supervision                                                                  El
D. Borrower Performance    Highly Satiisfactorv    Satisfactory          Deficient
Preparation                        0                    El                   0
Implementation                     0                    El                   0
Covenant compliance                0                   El                    0
Operation                          0                   El                    0
E. Assessment of Outcome        Highly       Satisfactorv    Unsatisfactory   Hiehlv
SatisfactqEy                                 Unsatisfactory
0                     0                      0
13



Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title                       Purpose                         Board         Status
*___________________   .________ _________ ______ _  A pproval  ,.  _l
Preceding Operations
BOAD I                     To finance feasibility and detailed engineering   12/27/1979   Closed on
Cr-969-WAF                 studies for regional development projects.                     12/31/87
BOAD II                    To strengthen BOAD in its development efforts I 03/08/1983   Closed on
Ln 2242-WAF; Cr 1331-    and expand its role in regional integration.                    03/29/1991
WAF                        More specifically, (a) to provide US$  19.1
.million for financing of sub-projects in all
sectors, except social infrastructure (health,
education  and  housing) and  (b) technical
assistance equivalent to US$ 1. million.
Following Operations
BOAD IV                    The purpose of an eventual following operation .             Identification
(3A-PE-16)                 remains to be defined.
14



Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cvcle              Date Planned               Date actual
Identification                            n.a.                       January 1989
Appraisal                                 n.a.                       May 1989
Negotiations                              n.a.                       September 1989
Board presentation                        n.a.                       February 1, 1990
Signing                                   n.a.                       March 30, 1990
Effectiveness
Ln. 3161-WAF                          May 1990                   September 28, 1990
Cr. 2089-WAF                                                     April 27, 1990
Loan/credit closing                       December 31, 1996          December 31, 1997
Table 4: Credit and Loan Disbursements. Cumulative Estimated and Actual
I 1990   1991 . 1992   1993   1994    1995    1996    1997   1998
Cumulative      .             .          .           .
Estimated         2.0    8.0    18.0   31.0   41.0   49.0    53.0   55.0
(US$ m)
Cumulative
Estimated         3.64   14.55  32.73  56.36  74.55   89.09   96.36    100
(% )            .       _ _    .      .               _      ''
Cumulative
Actual                    21     21    443    8.04    19.63   29.12   46.95   49.63
(US$ m)         .       ,     
Cumul. Actual                 .       .              .
(%)based on              .42    .42    8.93   16.20   39.55   58.67   94.60   100
amount disbursed .      _             . _            .
Cumul. Actual
(%) based on total       .35    .35    7.34   13.31   32.51   48.22   77.74  82.18
project amount
Date of Final Disbursement: January 14, 1998
(*): Actual percentages are based in SDRs for the Credit and US$ for the Loan.
15



Table 5: Program Costs
(US$ million)
Project component             A Appraisal estimate              Actual
i|Local   Foreign jTotal    Loca    Foreign    Total
Subproject Financing             170.0    370.0    540.0    362.3    258.0    620.3
Technical Assistance              0.5      1.5       2.0       0.1      0.8       0.9
Total Project cost        170.5    371.5    542.0    362.4    258.8    621.2
Table 6: Program Financing
(US$ million)
Financing Plan               Appraisal estimate               Actual
l ____________________________ I[   Local  Foreign  Total     Local    Foreign   Total
BOAD                             88.5       -        88.5      188       -        188
IBRD                               -       15.0      15.0       -        0        0
IDA                                -       40.0      40.0               27.7     27.7
OTHER EXTERNAL                            276.5    276.5        -      231.1    231.1
RESOURCES
SUBBORROWERS                     82.0      40.0     122.0    174.4       -      174.4
Total               170.5    371.5    542.0    362.4    258.8    621.2
NB:   At appraisal, program costs and financing anticipated an approval period of four years, 1990-
1993. In order to compare a similar period and take into account the major changes induced by the CFAF
devaluation, we extended that period to include 1994. Actual figures relate to the 1990-1994 period.
16



Table 7. Compliance with Credit Conditions
CredittLoan . Covenant   Present5
Agreement      Type    . Status          Description of Covenant         Comments
Reference  .                                                        *
Credit Agreement (Cr. 2089)
MP.
6.02(b)      Project Imp     C      No sub-projects will be funded in  None
member states delinquent in their
payments to IDA and/or the Bank.
3.03 (b)       Flow &        C      All sub-projects to be pre-approved by . None
Utilization           IDA, except for sub-projects of up to
of Funds             $2 million equivalent which fall under
the free limit. Projects in the free-limit
category not to exceed US$27 million
equivalent in the aggregate.
Loan Agreement (Ln. 3161)
4.03           Flow &        C      BOAD  to charge sub-borrowers a . None
Utilization           foreign exchange coverage fee.
; of Funds  *.        ;                                  *;
6.02(f)      Project Imp.    C      No sub-projects will be funded if None
delinquent in its payment to the Bank.
Schedule       Flow &        C      All sub-projects to be pre-approved by  None
2-3(b)        Utilization           the Bank, except for subprojects of up
of Funds             to $2 million equivalent which fall
under the free-limit category not to
exceed US$27 million equivalent in
the aggregate for subprojects proposed
to be financed out of the loan or credit
proceeds.
Present status C    complied with
CD = complied with after delay
CP = complied with partially
NC= not complied with
17



Table 8: Use of Bank Resources
(Staff- Weeks)
Stage of Project Cycle                              Planned                        Actual
Through appraisal        (Preparation,                               N/A.                           11.5
Preappraisal)                                            ___
Appraisal +  Board    (Negotiation)                                     -                           13.0
Board  4 Effectiveness                   i               3
Supervision                                                                                         77"   .5
Completion                                             i               -                            10.0
Total                                                                -"-                           112.0
N/A: not available
Table 9. Bank Resources: Staff Missions
Performance   Rating
Stage of     Month/    Number g Days         Specialized Staff  g                               Types of Problems
Project Cycle   Year    of Persons    in       Skills Represented  jhmplemntatio    Development
Field                          n Status    g    Mact    g
Supervision
I        10/1990        I         5     OperationsOfficer          S              S
Operations Officer
II       6/1991          1        5                                                S
Operations Officer
III      3/1992       i1           5   i                    i                              i Utilization of the line
of credit
IV        10/1992        I         5     Operations Officer        U               S         slow disbursement
V        2/1994         2         5      Operations Officer,  j    U               S         slow disbursement
Consuhant
VI       5/1994          2         5     Operations Officer,       S               S
Financial Analyst
VII       3/1995      I1           5     Sr. Private Sector         S              S
Development
Specialist
VII       2/1996      i1           4     Sr. Private Sector         U              S         slow disbursement of
Development                                         both lines of credit
Specialist
Vill      2/1997         2         2      Sr. Private Sector        U               S         slow disbursement of
Development                                        both lines ofcredit
Specialist, Financial
Analyst
IX       5/1997         2          5     Sr. Private Sector
iDevelopment              S               S
Specialist, Financial
g  gAnalystggg
Comoletion     311998  I    2          10    Financial Analyst          S               S         ICR preparation
_ _ _ _ _ *   . _ _ _          .  Program  Assistant               ._                      *   _  _
18



BANQUE OUEST AFRICAINE DE DEVELOPPEMENT (BOAD)
THIRD REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 2089-WAF; Loan 3161-WAF)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
5. PART III -- PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE
BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Banque Ouest Africaine de Developpement
RAPPORtT D'ACHEVEMENT
DU PROJET BOAD III DE LA BANQUE MONDIALE
MARS 1998
19



I.    INTRODUCTION
La cooperation avec le Groupe de la Banque Mondiale est lune des plus actives que mene la
BOAD. Elle a et initiee des le debut de ses activit6s et est marquee de plusieurs accords
d'assistance technique et financiere qui se sont constanument renouveles pour nourrir d'intenses
relations de cooperation entre les deux institutions.
L'assistance technique apportee par la BIRD a et multiforme et a concern6 la mise a disposition
d'assistants techniques, la fornation de cadres, l'appui institutionnel et l'echange d'informations.
L'assistance financiere s'est concretisee par la conclusion de trois lignes de credit successives d'un
montant global de US$ 78 millions (US$3 millions en 1980; US$ 25 millions en 1983 et US$ 55
millions en 1990.)
I:L    LE PROJET BOAD m  DE LA BANQUE MONDIALE
Le troisieme Projet de la Banque Mondiale a la BOAD sign6 le 30 mars 1990 est a deux
composantes:
le pr& Banque Mondiale 3161 WAF d'un montant de US$ 15.000.000 destine a refinancer
des pr&s secondaires lies a des Projets productifs implantes en Cote d'Ivoire; le montant
maximum de chaque refinancement est de US$ 4.000.000;
le Cr6dit IDA 2089 WAF d'un montant de DTS 32.000.000 destine a refinancer des pr&s
secondaires implantes dans les autres pays de rUnion Economique et Monetaire Ouest
Africaine (UEMOA) autres que la CMte d'Ivoire comporte deux volets.
A.    Prets secondaires     31 100 000     DTS (montant maximum de refinancement par
sous-projet = US$ 4 000 000)
B.    Etudes et services de
consultants          900 000        DTS (montant maximum de refinancement par
dtude = 90 % du couit de la consultance).
La mise en place de ce troisieme Projet a ete subordonnee a:
a)    l'Weaboration et l'adoption d'une strat6gie de developpement de la BOAD  dont les
principaux axes concement : i) le developpement institutionnel de la Banque, ii) la
promotion et le financement du secteur prive, iii) la mobilisation de l'epargne locale et la
contribution a l'emergence d'un march6 financier sous-regional, iv) la promotion de
l'integration economique, v) la mise en place des nouveaux instruments de controle de
gestion (audit interne et evaluation retrospective);
b)    la realisation de trois etudes economiques: i) une etude sur la creation et l'exploitation de
nouveaux etablissements bancaires de type cooperatif : ii) une etude sur les perspectives et
modalites de d6veloppement d'activites de leasing sur le territoire des Etats membres ; et
iii) une etude visant a determiner la faisabilit6 de l'etablissement d'une societe de consultant
par l'Emprunteur;
c)    1'engagement de la BOAD de mettre en place un r6gimne modifi6 de taux d'int6ret
applicables a ses nouvelles op6rations de pret.
20



M.   LA MISE EN OEUVRE DU PROJET
Pour atteindre ses objectifs fondamentaux et conformement aux conditionnalites du Projet BOAD 3
la Banque a elabor6 et a fhit approuver par ses organes deliberants les outils ci-apres qui servent de
cadre a ses activites : (1) la Strategie de developpement de la BOAD, (2) l'actualisation de la
Declaration de politique gen6rale pour la BOAD, (3) la Strategie de promotion et de financement
du secteur priv6 ainsi que les Directives detailles pour la mise en oeuvre de ladite stratgie.
La mnise en place de ces outils par la Banque s'inscrit dans le cadre des efforts d'actualisation de ses
textes et procedures en vue de mieux s'adapter aux exigences du secteur priv6.
Dans la meme veine, rapprobation et la mise en oeuvre du Projet regional d'appui mstitutionnel a la
BOAD pour la promotion du secteur prive dans les pays de l'UEMOA, finance par la Comnnission
de l'Union Europeenne et la Banque en mai 1995, ont permis a celle-ci de poursuivre ses efforts
d'adaptation de ses textes de base, regles et manuels d'intervention. En effet, ce Projet comporte
quatre (04) composantes: (i) un appui institutionnel et technique, (ii) des etudes sectorielles et
diagnostiques d'entreprises, (iii) l'organisation d'une table ronde, et (iv) la formation.
L'execution du Projet BOAD 3 s'est faite dans un environnement marqu6 par une periode d'atonie
des economies des pays de l'UEMOA suivie d'un ajustement de la parite des FCFA par rapport au
FF (intervenu en janvier 1994). En outre le Traite de l'UEMOA transformant l'Union Monetaire en
une Union Economique et Monetaire en vue d'une accel6ration du processus d'integration
economique, a et signe en janvier 1994 et est entre en vigueur en aouit 1994.
C'est dans ce contexte de mutation de l'environnement de la Banque et d'adaptation progressive de
r'action de celle-ci que le credit IDA 2089 WAF et le Pr& BIRD 3161 WAF, respectivement entres
en vigueur le 27 avril 1990 et le 28 sept=mbre 1990, ont ete ex6cut6s.
Les dates linmites d'imputation et de mobilisation ont ete prorogees une seule fois du 31.12.1996 au
31.12.1997.
3.1.   Le Pret de developRement 3 161 WAF
Les prts de cinq (05) projets secondaires du secteur prive implant6s en CMte d'Ivoire concenant le
secteur priv6 ont e  imputes sur le pret de developpement 3161 WAF a hauteur de 100 % de
l'enveloppe du credit (US$ 15 000 000). Ils se repartissent comme suit:
-     deux (02) operations dans le secteur de l'energie (CIPR-EL et Bloc CII 1);
-     deux (02) operations dans le secteur de I'agro-industrie (SACO et SICOR);
-     une (01) operation dans le domamne sanitaire (Centre Ophtalmologique d'Abidjan).
Des cinq (05) operations, seul le prit secondaire concernant le Centre Ophtalmologique d'Abidjan
n'a pas connu de tirage.
Sur le plan Financier, I'execution du Pret s'etablit comme suit:
Montant Autclrise        Montant Tire       Taux de Ralisation
.      .......................................................).... ...................  (U.................  L .  .... . ,. .  .... (o .
Pret secondaires    .      15 000 000           13 232 662      .        88%
Le dMtail des utilisations figure en annexe I.
21



3.2.   Credit de developpement 2089 WAF
3.2.1. Volet A = refinancement de prets secondaires
Quinze (15) pr&s secondaires dont un (1) conceme le secteur prive (credit bail au Senegal) ont ete
imputes sur le volet A du credit de developpement 2089 WAF a hauteur de 100 % de l'enveloppe
du credit (DTS 31 100 000). La repartition sectorielle desdites autorisations est la suivante:
Secteur public
- neuf (09) Projets d'infrastructures (routes modemes, ports, aeroports et t6l6communications);
-   trois (03) Projets de developpement rural;
-   deux (02) Projets d'energie.
Secteur prive
-     un (01) Projet de credit bail;
3.2.2. Volet B - Etudes et Missions de Consultance
Quatre (04) operations ont ete imputees sur le volet B du credit de developpement 2089 WAF pour
un montant global de DTS 540 061 soit 60 % environ de 1'enveloppe du credit (DTS 900 000) et
concemnent les etudes suivantes:
-     deux (02) etudes sont relatives a la creation et a l'exploitation de nouveaux etablissements bancaires (Banqu
-     une (01) etude conceme une mnission de Consultance en faveur de la Banque (etude sur les
taux d'intret);
-     une (01) etude se rapporte & une etude de factibilite (rehabilitation du Port Autonome de
Cotonou au Bnin).
3.2.3. Execution globale de la ligne de credit
L'execution de la ligne de credit s'etablit comme suit:
Montant Crdit Montant Autorie    Montant Tire       Taux de
D TS           p)TS    . *.. S2                Realisation
VOLET A
Prets secondaires       31100 000 I      31 100 000       25 159 969           81%
VOLET B           *            
Etudes et Consultants      900 000 .       540 061          444 124            49%
TOTAUX                 32 000 000.      31 640 061.      25 604 093 .80%
Les details de l'utilisation des volets A et B figurent en annexes II et Im.
22



3.3.   Autres constats dans la mise en oeuvre du Projet
Le demarrage du Projet a ete marque par des difficultes.
S'agissant du pret BIRD, pendant les trois premieres annees apres la mise en place du credit,
aucune des trois (03) demandes d'imputation de sous-projets implantes en COte d'Ivoire n'a recu
l'accord de la Banque Mondiale. Le delai de r6action de la Banque Mondiale a ete en moyenne de
deux (02) mois.
En ce qui concerne le Credit IDA 2089 WAF, sur dix (10) Projets proposes au refinancement sur
la ligne de credit, les suites donn6es par la Banque Mondiale se sont presentees comme suit:
-      deux (02) Projets ont e  acceptes;
-      cinq (05) Projets ont ete refus6s;
-     trois (03) Projets ont eu une re)onse d'attente.
Les delais de reaction de la Banque Mondiale ont e  en moyenne de quatre (04) mois, avec un
delai extreme de neuf (09) mois.
Cette situation a conduit la Banque a depecher une mission a la Banque Mondiale du 20 au 24
septembre 1993.
Celle-ci a permis au regard des r6sultats obtenus, de dissiper des incomprehensions et de clarifier
les procedures d'imputation notamment sur (( free limit >).
3.4.   Mise en oeuvre de la Strat6ie de developpement de la BOAD dans le cadre du Projet
BOAD III
3.4.1. Developpement institutionnel de la Banque
La Strategie de developpement de la BOAD adoptee en 1989, definit une division et les limites des
risques d'intervention dans un Projet, la politique des taux d!int6r8t, la politique de prise de
participation et la notion de Projets a caractere int6grateur.
En outre deux guichets ont ete mis en place pour les emplois de la Banque : (1) le Guichet 1 dit
commercial est ouvert a toute op6ration d'investissement, de production et de services a but lucratif
et commercial, les taux applicables sont ceux du marche; (2) le Guichet II dit special est reserve
aux operations de soutien au developpement. Certains pr&s du Guichet II, notamment ceux du
developpement rural et des infrastructures de base, beneficient des interventions du Fonds de
bonification.
3.4.2. Actualisation de la DMclaration de politique generale
En relation avec les mutations du contexte economique et institutionnel de la sous-region, la BOAD
a procede en 1992 a une actualisation de la eclaration de Politique Generale qui definit les
champs d'actions de la Banque ainsi que ses relations avec les institutions financieres existantes.
3.4.3. Promotion et financement du secteur priv6
En vue de soutenir les politiques et actions de promotion de l'initiative privee dans les pays de
l'Union, la Banque s'est dotee progressivement d'outils appropries pour une intervention mieux
adaptee et plus significative en faveur de ce secteur. II s'agit notamment de I'adoption de la
Strategie de la BOAD pour le financement du secteur prive en decembre 1990, de la creation en
juin 1991 d'un departement specifique charg6 des activites avec les operateurs prives. En octobre
1995 les moyens de ce departement cnt e  renforces par un redeploiement du personnel de la
23



Banque et une Division de l'Analyse et du Suivi des Risques a e creee pour conforter ses activites
en direction du secteur priv6.
Les objectifs vises par la Strategie de la BOAD pour la promotion et le financement du secteur
prive dans les pays de 1'UEMOA concernent essentiellement : (1) la promotion et le financement
des Projets productifs ; (2) le d6veloppement de Projets a caractere integrateur ; (3) la creation
d'un environnement favorable a l'epanouissement de l'initiative priv6e ; (4) la mise en place de
mecanismes et structures necessaires A l'essor du secteur priv6 ; (5) I'emergence de nouveaux
entrepreneurs et la cooperation Sud-Sud.
En outre, la Banque, pour se donner d'avantage de moyens de contribuer a la realisation desdits
objectifs, a initie des reflexions pour une meilleure adaptation de ses regles et procedures
d'intervention.
Au 31 decembre 1997, les approbations de la Banque en faveur du secteur prive ont atteint 98
milliards FCFA pour 104 operations soit 28,2 % du cumul des engagements nets de la Banque
(347 milliards de FCFA pour 251 operations). La repartition de ces realisations par type de
concours se presente conmme suit:
-      51 443 M FCFA pour 42 pr&s directs a essentiellement des entreprises industrielles de
valorisation des ressources locales;
-      34 762 M FCFA pour 34 lignes de refinancement destinees aux histitutions Financieres
Nationales (IFN) en vue du financement des P.M.E.;
-      11 843 M FCFA pour 28 prises de participation au capital social d'nstitutions Financieres
Nationales, d'entreprises industrielles ou de societes r6gionales intervenant dans le secteur
prive.
La Banque a joue un role actif dans le soutien A la restructuration des banques et au renforcement
de leurs ressources longues.
Elle a mis en place des lignes de refinancement en faveur des Institutions Financieres Nationales
(WN). Ces formes d'interventions contribuent a resoudre les problemes de ressources longues d'un
nombre important d'IFN des pays de l'UEMOA en permettant un refinancement de Projets
d'investissements productifs dans les secteurs d'intervention de la Banque.
La Banque a developpe des operations de cofinancement de Projets prives avec des banques
locales lui permettant d'avoir indirectement un suivi rapproche des Projets finances grace aux
informations sur l1exploitation communiquees par les banques locales. En outre les cofinancements
permettent aux banques locales de s'impliquer davantage dans le financement des investissements a
long terme.
S'agissant du credit-bail dans les pays de l'UEMOA, la Banque a initie depuis 1994, une action de
promotion pour developper ce produit. A cet effet, elle a oeuvr6 pour l'adoption et lharmonisation
du regime fiscal du credit-bail et soutenu la creation en 1996 de l'Association Ouest Africaine des
Societes de Credit-bail.
Au plan du developpement de l'esprit d'entreprise, la Banque a organis6 des s6minaires en faveur
des cadres des administrations publiques et des operateurs econorniques des pays membres de
1'UEMOA.
En plus des actions ci-dessus, la Banque a continu6 de se doter d'instruments appropries pour
contribuer a attenuer les handicaps serieux que constituent l'absence de garanties consequentes et
de fonds propres suffisants au niveau des op6rateurs 6conomiques prives.
24



Pour cela, la Banque a contribue entre autres, a la promotion et a la creation:
-      d'une Societe de Capital Investissement (CAURIS - INVESTISSEMENT), qui a demarre
ses activit6s en juillet 1995, pour le renforcement des fonds propres et des quasi-fonds
propres des societes;
-      d'un Fonds de Garantie des Investissements Prives en Afrique de rOuest (Fonds GARI), en
collaboration avec d'autres partenaires notamment la CFD, devenu operationnel en
septembre 1995.
3.4.4. Mobilisation de l'epargne locale - et la contribution a l'emergence de un marche financier sous-r6gional
A partir de mars 1993, la Banque a lanc6 des emissions obligatoires et des bons. Ces types
d'operations r6pondent a deux motivations principales:
-      conform6ment a la mission statutaire de la BOAD, contribuer a l'arnorce d'un marche
financier regional UMOA, en lui fournissant des titres fiables pouvant faire lobjet de
transactions;
-      lever des ressources financieres en FCFA pour le financement des activites operationnelles
de la Banque.
En effet, la premiere emission obligataire de cquatre milliards FCFA lancee par la Banque au mois
de mars 1991 dans les pays de l'UMOA a e  une premiere et un succes. Elle a notamment pernis
de prouver qu'il est possible de rnaliser des operations financieres regionales a l'echelle de 1'UMOA,
d'ouvrir ainsi la voie a d'autres initiatives et d'en tirer des lecons pour la mise en place dun marche
financier sous-regional.
Cette operation a e suivie *un emprunt obligatoire de cinq milliards FCFA en 1995 et d'une
emission de bons BOAD de 15 milliards FCFA en 1997 portant ainsi les emprunts mobilises sur le
march6 int6rieur a l'UEMOA sur un montant de 24 milliards FCFA representant 31 % de 1'encours
des emprunts de la Banque. Ces emissions oni; egalement permis de tester la signature de la BOAD
sur le marche financier sous-regional, de s'assurer qu'elle est bonne et de confirmer la qualite de la
Banque comme animateur naturel d*un marche: financier regional de valeurs mobilieres.
3.4.5. Promotion de I'intrion 6conomiquc-
La BOAD a initie, en accord avec les autorites nationales concernmes la realisation d'etudes
regionales pour aider a l'emergence de Projets integrateurs. Cinquante cinq (55) etudes ont e  ainsi
effectuees depuis l'origine de la Banque sur les filieres et secteurs suivants: industrie textile, et
filieres avicole et porcine, cuirs et peaux, machines agricole, industrie pharmaceutique, etc... Elles
ont g6nere trente-sept (37) Projets viables dont onze (11) ont ete realises.
La Banque a finance au 31 decembre 1997, cinquante neuf (59) Projets integrateurs pour un
montant de 101 666 millions de FCFA, soit 29,2 % de ses engagements cumul6s nets dans les Etats
membres. Bien que cette performance soit ap)preciable par rapport aux realisations d'institutions
similaires au niveau de la sous-r6gion et du continent, elle demeure inferieure a l'objectif de 65 %
qu'elle s'etait fixe volontairement.
25



3.4.6. La mise en place de nouveaux instruments de contr8le de gestion
La Banque a mis en place deux nouveaux outils de gestion qui viennent renforcer sa capacit6
d'expertise et de contr8le de ses activites, a savoir l'audit interne et l'evaluation retrospective en mai
1991 au sein du Bureau de l'Evaluation, des Operations et de l'Audit Interne (BEAI) rattache au
Cabinet du Pr6sident et dirig6 par un Directeur.
IV. EVALUATION DES PERFORMANCES DE LA BOAD
Une des missions de la BOAD est le financement des op6rations de soutien au developpement des
Etats membres. Dans ce cadre, les Projets de developpement rural et de mise en place des
infrastructures ont occupet une place de choix dans les interventions de la Banque durant
l'execution du Projet BOAD 3 de la Banque Mondiale.
Les facteurs qui ont contribue au succes ou A l'echec peuvent s'apprehender comme suit:
4.1.   Facteurs de succes
Les principaux facteurs de succes du Projet BOAD 3 de la Banque Mondiale sont de divers ordres:
-     la pertinence des strategies adoptees par les instances decisionnelles de la Banque relative
entre autres a la promotion et au financement du secteur prive, a la contribution de la
BOAD a l'emergence d'un marche financier sous regional;
-     la bonne disposition des Etats membres de la BOAD a accepter les adaptations
strat6giques proposees;
-     le reajustement de la parit6 du FCFA par rapport au Franc Francais a donne un nouveau
souffle aux economies des Etats membres en permettant une reprise des activites
6conomiques;
-     la mise en place par la BOAD de Bureaux de Representation a permis un suivi plus
rapproch6 des Projets refinances sur les lignes de credit de la Banque Mondiale.
-     Les habitudes de travail avec la Banque Mondiale ont facilite les echanges dans l'execution
du Projet.
-     L'organisation inteme mise en place par la BOAD pour le suivi du Projet a contribue a
redynamiser lIex6cution du Projet.
4.2.   Les facteurs d'echec
Les facteurs qui ont affecte la bonne ex6cution du Projet sont relatifs a:
-     la lethargie des economies des Etats membres durant la periode precedant le
reajustement de a parite du FCFA;
-     la lourdeur dans la mise en oeuvre des Projets refinances;
-     la suspension des decaissements qu'ont connu plusieurs Etats membres de la BOAD du fait
des impay6s, dont un qui est demeure de maniere constante sous sanction depuis  1991;
-     quelques insuffisances dans la supervision des Projets refinances.
26



V.    EVALUATION DES PERFORMANCES DE LA BANQUE MONDIALE
5.1.   Facteurs de succes
-     La Banque Mondiale a fait montre de disponibilit6 et de comprehension quand la BOAD a
depeche une mission a WASHINGTON du 20 au 24 septembre 1993. Cette mission a
permis de dissiper des incomprehensions et de clarifier les procedures d'imputation
notamment sur la "Free Limit".
-     La supervision rapprochee du Projet par la Banque Mondiale au moins deux fois par an a
permis d'accelerer l'execution du Projet.
-     La souplesse observee par la Banque Mondiale en autorisant que les pieces justificatives
souvent volumineuses ne soient pas jointes aux demandes de tirage, a permis d'all6ger les
procedures de tirages.
5.2.   Les facteurs d'echec
Les facteurs qui ont affect6 negativement l'ex6cution du Projet ont trait a
-     la rotation 6levee des cadres au niveau de la Banque Mondiale;
-     la depersonnalisation des relations entre la Banque Mondiale et la BOAD au demarrage du
Projet a entraine de nombreux rejets de demandes d'imputation;
-     la lenteur observee dans la reaction de la Banque Mondiale au demarrage du Projet dont la
moyenne a e  de trois (03) mois avec un delai extreme de neuf (09) mois pour une
op6ration.
VI.  IMeACTS INSTITUT[ONNEL, ECONOMIQUE ET FINANCIER
L'execution du troisieme Projet de la Banque Mondiale a eu un triple impact 1) institutionnel, 2)
economique, et 3) financier.
6.1.  Impact institutionnel
Les sous-projets soumis au refinancement de la Banque Mondiale ont toujours fait lobjet de
conumentaires enrichissants sur le plan methodologique. Cette contribution a eu un impact
favorable sur l'am6lioration de rexpertise des cadres de la Banque et sur le developpement de
nouveaux m6tiers (credit-bail, capital-risque, 6missions d'emprunts sur le march6 monetaire et sur
le march6 financier).
De meme, la concertation permanente instauree entre les deux institutions a permis un echange
d'exp6rience fructueux.
6.2.  Impact operationnel et economique
6.2. 1. Pret BIRD 3161 WAF
Le Projet a apporte un appui a l'action de la Banque dans le secteur prive en refinancant cinq (05)
sous-projets (CIPREL - BLOC CI - 11 - Centre International d'Ophtalmologie d'Abidjan - SACO -
SICOR) pour un montant total de 7 714 M FCFA. En dehors du Projet de Creation du Centre
International d'Ophtalmologie d'Abidjan, dont le demarrage des travaux n'a pu s'effectuer avant la
cl6ture du Projet, rex6cution des autres sous-projets s'est effectu6e de maniere satisfaisante.
27



Du point de vue de l'impact 6conomique, l'execution des Projets d'energie a permis i) la valorisation
des gisements de gaz naturel existant, ii) la couverture du deficit 6nergetique du pays, iii) la
reduction de cout de production de l'energie electrique de source locale, et iv) la valorisation des
ressources locales. II en est de meme pour les Projets agro-industriels dont la realisation a eu un
impact tres significatif dans l'conomie en permettant notamment aux nationaux de participer plus
activement au d6veloppement economique, (privatisation) et en apportant une valeur ajoutee aux
productions interieures.
6.2.2. Cr6dit IDA 2089 WAF
En ce qui conceme les Projets publics, les sous-projets refinanc6s ont contribue en la realisation ou
en l'amrnagement de 230 km de routes bitumees, 211 km de pistes rurales, l'am6nagement de 258
ha de p6rimetres irrigues, 167 forages positifs dont 16 equipes de pompes solaires.
Le Projet a egalement permis la rehabilitation de centrales thermiques, de reseaux d'eau et
d'electricite. II a contribue a l'amenagement de terre-pleins et d'autres infrastructures portuaires.
L'impact des Projets d'infrastructures routieres sur les economies des pays concernes se traduit par
la reduction des couits d'exploitation des vehicules et des effets induits sur la securite du transport
et la conimercialisation des produits agricoles et manufactures. Les deux demiers Projets cites ont
permis notamment de desenclaver les pays de 1'hinterland en leur offrant un acces sur la mer et en
favorisant l'int6gration economique.
S'agissant specialement du sous-projet "Amenagement et Assainissement des voles urbaines dans le
District de Bamako", l'impact est non seulement economique mais aussi environnemental parce
qu'il touche plus de 75 000 habitants et contribue a diminuer la pollution de P'air. En outre
1'exploitation des perimetres agricoles realises (258 ha) a entrain6 un accroissement de la
production vivriere de la zone d'intervention du Projet et am6liore l'autosuffisance alimentaire.
L'hydraulique villageoise avec 167 forages realis6s permet de donner de l'eau potable et saine A de
centaines de milliers de personnes. La rehabilitation des surchauffeurs de la Centrale de CAP des
Biches a eu pour impact d'eviter beaucoup de delestages nuisibles au fonctionnement des
installations. Enfin, le troisieme Projet a contribue a l'approfondissement du secteur financier dans
la zone de l'Union Economique et Monetaire Ouest Africaine (UEMOA).
6.3.   Impact financier
Le Projet BOAD 3 a permis de drainer dans la zone dintervention de la Banque un flux financier
evalue aux environs de 25 milliards de FCFA. Les durees des lignes de credit IDA (40 ans dont 10
ans de differe) permettront a la Banque de recycler lesdites ressources pour d'autres Projets de
d6veloppement. II conviendrait 6galement de souligner 1'effet d'entrainement des concours de la
Banque Mondiale pour les autres bailleurs de fonds qui ont accepte de renouveler leurs concours a
la Banque.
28



VII. ]LEs LESONS A TIRER
La coop6ration initiee entre la Banque Mondiale et la BOAD rev& aujourd'hui un caractere
exemplaire. Elle a demarr6 avec les activites operationnelles de la Banque en 1975 et il est
indubitable que les deux partenaires l'ont mise a profit pour mieux se connaitre et s'apprecier. On
peut alors legitimement penser qu'a ce jour, du fait de cette longue p6riode de cooperation, les deux
institutions soient disposees a inaugurer ime nouvelle ere de relations faite de confiance mutuelle
renforcee et de densification des liens de cooperation.
C'est dans cet esprit que la Banque Mondiale, a l'instar d'autres partenaires, devrait pouvoir
desormais accorder une plus grande souplesse a la BOAD, ben6ficiaire du Projet, en lui laissant a
la fois une reelle initiative dans l'imputation des sous-projets pressentis et une enveloppe plus
elargie (consistante) en terme de free-limit. Conume la Banque Mondiale l'a initi6 au cours de la
pr6paration du rapport d'achevement du present Projet, il serait tout a fait souhaitable que la
conception des Projets ulterieurs se fasse, en etroite concertation avec le beneficiaire. II s'agirait
alors de mieux prendre en compte ses specificites operationnelles et les realites de l'environnement
econoniique dont il est tributaire. Par ail]leurs, la BOAD confirme la necessit6 de poursuivre une
concertation permanente en vue d'une plus grande znaitrise des procedures des deux institutions
dont les actions devront continuer de s'adaLpter aux evolutions de l'environnement.
n y a lieu enfin au niveau de la BOAD d'observer i) une plus grande souplesse dans les procedures
d&instruction et de mise en oeuvre des sous-projets finances, ii) une plus grande s6lectivite des
Projets, et iii) la mise en place d'un mecanisme de suivi de rex6cution des lignes de cr6dit octroyees
i la BOAD.
29



ANNEXE I
SITUATION DE L'UTILISATION DE LA LIGNE DE CREDIT BIRD 3161 WAF
PROJETS                  AUTORISATIONS                       UTILISATIONS                   MONTANTS NON TIRES
CONCERNES
US $            FCFA              US $              FCFA               US $            FCFA
CIPREL C.I         4 000 000,00     1 963 600 000     4 000 000,00      1 963 600 000
BLOC CI 11          4 000 000,00    2 032 960 000     4 000 000,00      2 032 960 000           -
CENTRE              30 000,00       17 100 000                                             30 000,00        17 100 000
OPHTALMOLOGIQUE
D'ABIDJAN           2 970 000,00    1 500 000 000      1 895 299,83     1 023 618 060      1 074 700,17     476 381 940
SACO             4 000 000,00    2 200 000 000      3 337 362,35      1 900 000 000      662 637,65       300 000 000
SICOR
15 000 000,00   7 713 660 000,00    13 232 662,18   6 920 178 060,00    1 767 337,82    793 481 940,00
MONTANT DE LA LIGNE DE CREDIT                15 000 00000
TAUX DE REALISATION AU 31/12/97              88,22%
30



ANNEXE H
SITUATION DE L'UTILISATION DE LA LIGNE DE CREDIT IDA 2089 WAF
AUTORISATIONS                      UTILISATIONS                   RESTE A TIRER
DTS              FCFA             DTS            FCFA            DTS            FCFA
PAST ROUTIER SENEGAL                          3 000 000        1 252 973 373    2 998 213,77    1 252 973 373      1 786,23         -
PISTES RURALES MALI-SUD                       2 530 000        1 640 000 000    2 084 946,72    1 576 231 251   445 053,28      63 768 749
A.H.A. LIPTAKO-GOURMA BURKINA                 2 830 000        2 077 000 000    2 573 593,88    1 996 025 302   256 406,12      80 974 698
HYDRAULIQUE VILLAGEOISE MALI-SUD              2 430 000        1 562 000 000    1 834 455,34    1 451 429 480   595 544,66    110 570 520
ROUTE PARAKOU-DJOUGOU-NATITINGOU              2 830 000        2 197 245 826    2 824 686,00    2 197 245 826      5 314,00         -
ROUTE TINDANGOU-KOMPIENGA                       700 000         723 000 000      640 388,65     486 379 283      59 611,35     236 620 717
EQUIPEMENTS PORTUAIRES DE DAKAR                1 400 000       1 069 484 890    1 399 790,54    1 069 484 890       209,46          -
SURCHAUFFEURS SENEGAL                         1 400 000        1 065 793 635    1 400 389,59    1 065 793 635       389,59
SOGECA-SENEGAL                                1 400 000        1 000 000 000    1244 862,90    1 000 000 000    155 137,10          -
INTERCONN.CENTRES SECOND. SEN.                1 300 000        1 021 460 000     379 671,27     324 222 301     902 328,73     697 237 699
PDR MALI                                      2 730 000       2 2000 000 000         -               -         2 730 000,00   2 200 000 000
REHABILITATION PAL-TOGO                       2 730 000       2 2000 000 000    2 992 242,62    2 415 032 923   262 242,62     215 032 923
TETLE-C. OLTTATA-RIRTCTA                      2 ?3 nnon       2 nnn nnn 000    2 5x4 460904    2 108 796 696     145 539,96     91 203 304
VOIES URBAINES BAMAKO                         2 730 000       2 2000 000 000    2 184 268,42    1 791 532 247    545 731,58    408 467 753
AEROPORT DE COTONOU BENIN                       360 000          288 000 000         -               -          360 000,00     288 000 000
31 100 000      22 696 957 724   25 159 969,74    18 735 147 207  5 940 030,26   3 961810 517
MONTANT DE LA LIGNE DE CREDIT 31 100 00
TAUX DE REALISATION AU 31/12/97   80,90%
31



ANNEXE III
SITUATION DE L'UTILISATION DU VOLET B DU CREDIT 2089 WAF
OPERATIONS                        AUTORISATIONS                      UTILISATIONS                  RESTE A TIRER
CONCERNEES
DTS            FCFA            DTS             FCFA            DTS            FCFA
BANQUES POPULAIRES              66 161,68      24 508 800      66 161,68       24 508 800
CREDIT BALU                     80 683,34      29 888 182      80 683,34       29 888 182
ETUDE TAUX D'INTERET            8 215,77        6 318 630      8 215,77        6 318 630           -
REHAB. PORT AUTONOME           385 000,00      300 000 000    289 064,15      229 929 674      95 935,85      70 070 326
COTONOU BENIN
540 060,79     360 715 612     444 124,94     290 645 286       95 935,85     70 070 326
MONTANT DE L'ENVELOPPE DTS                     900 000
TOTAL DES TIRAGES DTS                  444 124,94
TAUX DE REALISATION AU 31/12/97  49.35%
32



BANQUE OUEST AFRICAINE DE DEVELOPPEMENT (BOAD)
THIRD REGIONAI, DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 2089-WAF; Loan 3161-WAF)
APPENDIX A: IICR MISSION AIDE-MEMOIRE
AIDE-MEMOIRE DE LA MISSION BANQUE MONDIALE
ACHEVE,MENT DU PROJET
,(mars 1998)
Une mission de la Banque mondiale a sejourne au Togo du 16 au 26 mars 1998
afin de mener la mission d'achevement du projet BOAD III. La mission etait constitude
de Madame Amy Champion, Assistante de Programmes et de Monsieur Olivier Lambert,
Analyste Financier, tous deux du D&partement Secteur Prive Finance de la Region
Afrique. Au cours des semaines precedentes, cette mission avait 6te precedee par trois
missions specialisees dans le domaine de passation des marches avec Madame Asha
Ayoung du 9 au 14 fevrier, des decaissements avec Monsieur Wolfgang Chadab du 11 au
13 fevrier et des aspects juridiques avec Madame Claudine Morin du 16 au 21 fevrier. En
outre, la mission s'est deplacee au Burkina Faso en fin de semaine afin de visiter trois
projets de la Banque Ouest Africaine de Developpement (BOAD).
La mission de la Banque mondiale a et recue par Monsieur le President Boni Yayi
i la fin de Ia premiere semaine. Elle a eu des seances de travail avec tous les departements
de la BOAD. La mission remercie la haute direction de la BOAD pour la qualite de
l'accueil qui lui a ete r6serve et pour sa disponibilite. La mission tient aussi a exprimer sa
reconnaissance aux collegues des cdifferents departements de la BOAD pour leur
participation active aux travaux de la mission, la bonne qualite des documents de base
ainsi que pour la bonne organisation des seances de travail et des visites sur le terrain.
L   LE PRCOJET BOAD m: RAPPELS
1.    Historique et Contexte
Le projet BOAD II fait suite au projet BOAD II (Credit 1331 WAF et Prt 2242
WAF) qui lui meme fait suite au projet BOAD I (Credit 969 WAF).
L'objectifdu projet BOAD I, approuv6 par l'IDA en 27 decembre 1979 et cl6ture
le 30 decembre 1987, etait de financer des etudes de faisabilite pour des projets de nature
regionale. Le rapport d'achevement est date du 25 octobre 1991. L'objectif du projet
BOAD II, approuve le 8 mars 1983 et cloture le 29 mars 1991, etait de fournir des
ressources a la BOAD pour refinancer ses prets ainsi que des ressources pour beneficier
d'assistance technique. Ce projet a fait l'objet d'un rapport d'achevement en date du 22
decembre 1992.
2.    Les Objectifs du Projet BOAI, IIL
33



Le projet BOAD HI a ete approuve par le Conseil de la Banque mondiale le 30
mars 1990 et a cl6tur6 le 31 d6cembre 1997 apres une extension d'un an de la date de
cloture. L'objectif poursuivi par ce projet etait: (i) de continuer a renforcer la capacite
institutionnelle de la BOAD; (ii) de lui permettre de financer des investissements
productifs dans la zone UEMOA; et (iii) de favoriser une approche regionale.
3.    Descripfion du Projet BOAD III
Le projet consistait en une ligne de credit BIRD/IDA d'un montant total equivalent
de US$55 millions pour refinancer des projets de la BOAD dans les pays de l'UEMOA. A
l'origine la ligne BIRD (US$15 millions) etait prevue pour la CMte d'Ivoire et la ligne IDA
(US$39 millions equivalent) pour les autres pays i.e. Burkina Faso, Benin, Mali, Niger,
Senegal et Togo. Finalement US$1 million equivalent de la ligne IDA etait reserve a
I'appui institutionnel et aux etudes.
L'Accord portait sur certains aspects lies au refinancement des sous-projets, aux
aspects institutionnels et a des actions a realiser.
Accords Iies aux sous-projets:
a)   refinancement limite a US$4 millions par sous-projet avec 'free limit' de US$2
millions
b)   taux de rentabilite economique et financier de 12% minimum pour les sous-
projets;
c)   mise en place d'un compte special (compte de contrepartie) dans lequel est
credite la difference entre le taux d'int&& paye par les projets et le taux IDA
+3,25% de marge d'intermediation autorisee.
Aspects institutionnels:
a)   rationalisation de la grille des taux d'int&r&t par la creation de deux guichets;
b)   revue annuelle de la structure des taux d'int&& de la BOAD pour ses clients;
c)   revue annuelle de la marge devant compenser le risque de change;
d)   revue annuelle du portefeuille pour determiner le niveau adequat des provisions;
e)   formulation de procedures concemant l'analyse des problemes
environnementaux.
Actions a rialiser:
a)   la r6alisation d'etudes sur (i) les banques cooperatives; (ii) les perspectives du
leasing; et (iii) I'opportunite d'6tablir une societe de conseil;
b)   l'6laboration d'une strategie de developpement de la BOAD qui, outre les
aspects institutionnels susvises, concerne: (i) la promotion et le financement du
secteur prive; (ii) la mobilisation de l'epargne locale et la contribution a
l'emergence du marche financier sous-regional; (iii) la promotion de
l'integration economique; (iv) la mise en place de nouveaux instruments de
controle de gestion (audit interne et evaluation retrospective).
34



c)   la mobilisation des ressources locales.
IL  EXECUTION DU PROJET BOAD m
1.    La sitation des deux lignes dk credit
a.    La ligne de credit IDA 2089 WAF
Sur le volet A de cette ligne, 15 autorisations d'imputations ont ete donnees, par la
Banque mondiale, pour le montant total de la ligne i.e. 31,1 millions DTS, mais seulement
13 utilisations effectives ont eu lieu pour un montant d'un peu plus de 25,1 millions DTS.
Le reliquat de 5,9 millions DTS a ete annule. L'utilisation de la ligne ressort donc a
environ 81%.
Sur le volet B du credit, le niontant disponible etait de 0,9 million DTS. Les
autorisations concernaient quatre etudes pour un montant total de 0,54 million DTS, mais
seulement 0,44 million DTS a ete tire. Le taux d'utilisation ressort donc a 50% environ et
la moitie a ete annulee.
b.    La ligne de credit BIRD 3161 WAF
Sur cette ligne, cinq autorisations pour le montant total de US$15 millions ont ete
donnees par la Banque mondiale. Cependant les utilisations ne concement que quatre
projets pour un montant de US$13,2 million. Le reliquat i.e. US$1,8 million a donc ete
annule. L'utilisation de cette ligne ressort donc a plus de 88%.
C.    Calendrier des Imputations et DMcaissements
Les imputations ont pris plus de temps que prevu (elles devaient avoir lieu avant le
31 decembre 1993). Les raisons tiennent a deux facteurs: le contexte macroeconomique
d'une part, et d'autre part, A une incomprehension entre la Banque mondiale et la BOAD
dans l'instruction des demandes d'imputation par la Banque mondiale.
Les decaissements, quant a eux, n'ont reellement commence qu'a partir du
deuxieme semestre 1993, soit pres de trois ans apres la date de mise en vigueur. Au cours
de l'annee 1997 seule, les documents de retraits de fonds indiquent, que pour le pret
BIRD et le credit IDA, respectivemenit 30% et 40% des fonds ont ete decaisses.
35



2.    Les sous-projets
a.    Sous-projets refinances sur le ligne de credit IDA
Des seances de travail ont ete organisees avec le Departement des Financements
Publics (DFP) de la BOAD. Elles ont pernis a la mission de mieux apprehender les sous-
projets dans le secteur public. La ligne de credit IDA a refinance 13 projets dans le
secteur public et un projet dans le secteur prive (SOGEGA) au Senegal. Le DFP a fourni
les fiches de projets, la situation de l'utilisation de la troisieme ligne de credit IDA, et les
rapports d'evaluation pour tous les projets. La moitie des sous-projets est en cours
d'execution, et le reste, acheve recemment; les rapports de fin d'execution n'ont donc pas
encore et produits. Parmi ces 14 projets, il n'y a pas un seul projet regional. La mission
a visite sur le terrain trois sous-projets en cours au Burkina Faso: "Route Tindingou-
Kompienga", un site du sous-projet "Amenagements hydroagricoles Liptako-Gourma", et
"R6habilitation du R6seau de telecommunications a Ouagadougou." La mission a pu se
rendre compte du bon avancement des projets et de la satisfaction des emprunteurs a
travailler avec la BOAD et le bureau de representation local.
En ce qui conceme les aspects environnementaux, la mission a pu constater au
travers des rapports d'evaluation que malgre l'absence de procedures specifiques cette
question a ete traitee dans tous les cas a partir de 1991.
L'Accord de Credit IDA pr6voyait que les taux de rentabilite economique (TRE)
de tous les sous-projets devaient etre au minimum de 12 %. La mission a pass6 en revue
tous les calculs de TRE et a constate que tous les TRE anticipes etaient calcules (a
1'exception des projets d'hydraulique villageoise) et que ceux-ci etaient sup6rieurs a 12%.
b.    Volet B de la ligne de credit IDA
Le projet a refinance quatre etudes concemant les banques populaires dans
1I'UEMOA, le credit-bail dans I'UEMOA, une etude sur la structure des taux d'inter6ts de
la BOAD, et une etude de faisabilite concemant le port autonome de Cotonou qui se
traduit a l'heure actuelle par un projet.
c.    Sous-projets refinances sur la ligne de credit BIRD
De meme, des seances de travail ont ete organisees avec le Departement du
Financement du Secteur Prive (DSP) au sujet des sous-projets dans le secteur prive. La
troisieme ligne de credit BIRD a refinance quatre projets dans ce secteur. Le DSP a
foumi: (i) les fiches de projets pour tous les sous-projets finances sur la ligne de credit
BIRD; et (ii) les etats financiers pour CIPREL, SACO et SICOR. (Le sous-projet
SOGECA au Senegal faisait partie de refinancement sur la ligne de credit IDA, bien qu'il
soit dans le secteur prive.) Les derniers etats financiers pour PETROCI manquent et il a
et6 convenu que le DSP les enverra a la Banque mondiale a Washington des qu'il les
obtiendra. Parmi ces quatre projets, il n'y a pas un seul projet regional.
De m8me, la mission a obtenu tous les rapports d'evaluation; les rapports
d'achevement ne sont pas disponibles parce que les sous-projets sont en cours
d'execution. Quant aux rapports d'evaluation, la mission a verifie les TRE et les taux de
rentabilite interne (TRI) pr6visionnels qui ont tous depasse le minimum de 12 % prevu
dans l'accord de pret. L'aspect environnemental a ete examine dans tous les cas.
36



3.    L'institution
a.    La gestion des risques
La gestion des risques n'appara^it pas tres contraignante mais est structuree.
D'apres le Departement Finance et Comptabilite (DFC), la BOAD respecte tous les ratios
lies a la gestion des risques.
Les credits. La BOAD n'est pas soumise a la Loi Bancaire de l'UMOA et par
consequent a la Commission Bancaire. La BOAD n'as pas non plus l'obligation
d'appliquer le plan comptable bancaire. Cependant, elle I'applique dans un souci de
transparence compte tenu de son activith de marche. C'est le Conseil des Ministres qui a
fixb les regles relatives aux limites d'interventions. Les regles distinguent le secteur public
et le secteur prive; celles-ci sont plus restrictives dans le cas du secteur prive; neanmoins, a
l'inteineur du secteur prive, les institu1tions financieres, les pr8ts directs aux projets de
privatisations (non d6finis), les projets regionaux et les projets miniers et energetiques
ben6ficient des memes regles que les projets du secteur public. Les regles concement les
engagements par rapport aux fonds propres effectifs et la division des risques. Une
provision de 1 % sur les encours publics est constituee pour prot6ger la BOAD contre les
delais'de paiement, une provision g6n6rale de 3% des risques prives est aussi constituee.
La tr6sorerie. Jusque recemmnent, la BOAD n'avait d'autre choix que de placer sa
tresorerie aupres de la BCEAO. Avec la mise en place du march6 monetaire approfondi,
la BOAD s'est dotee de principes directeurs pour intervenir sur ces marches en tant que
placeur. La duree maximum des placements est de 25 mois ce qui peut apparaltre un peu
long. La BOAD s'est dotee de trois types de limites: une limite globale, par operation et
par contrepartie. Il a aussi et institue un comite de placement dont le role est de faire une
recommandation au President, sur la base d'une note d'analyse.
Les emprunts. Ils sont limites par le plus petit des deux montants: 300% des fonds
propres effectifs ou par le capital sujet Ai appel.
Le risque de change. Une provision, couvrant le risque de fluctuation entre le
franc francais et les autres devises d'emprunt, est constituee chaque annee.  La
determination du taux de provision est donc limitee aux fluctuations entre le franc francais
et les autres devises d'emprunt. En 1997, ce taux etait de 0,5 % de l'encours des pr8ts
approuves au cours de l'exercice. Ce taux est determine par un modele qui applique aux
risques de change constates de l'e:ercice precedent, un coefficient de fluctuation
determine et a partir des differences des taux des obligations a 10 ans des principales
devises d'endettement de la BOAD. La BOAD n'est pas autorisee a preter en devises et
ne peut conserver de la tresorerie en devises. Au 31 decembre 1997, le fond de
couverture de risque de change affiche un solde de crediteur de plus de 8 milliards FCFA
pour.un encours d'emprunts en devises, de plus de 56 milliards FCFA.
Le risque de taux. Celui-ci est limite dans la mesure oii les taux d'intervention de
la BOAD sont calcules a partir d'un couit moyen des ressources appele le taux d'equilibre.
II n'existe pas encore d'instruments de gestion du risque de taux en ce qui concerne les
placements.
b.    La situation financiere
37



La situation financiere de la BOAD est bonne malgre 1'evenement majeure qu'a
constitue la devaluation du franc FCFA de 50% par rapport au franc francais en janvier
1994. Le ratio de solvabilite international a baisse au cours de la periode 1990-97 de 71%
a 38% au 31 decembre 1997.
Les sources de financement. Le capital autorise de la BOAD ressortait A FCFA
240 milliards au 31 decembre 1997.  Cependant le capital effectivement lib&e  ne
representait que 10% environ a FCFA 24,5 milliards. Le capital sujet a appel (FCFA 184
nilliards) represente la garantie de remboursement des emprunts de la BOAD. Au 31
janvier 1998, les trois sources principales d'emprunts mobilisees par la BOAD
concernaient la Banque mondiale, les emprunts internes (deux emissions obligataires et
une emission de papier long sur le marche monetaire approfondi) et Japan Eximbank. La
BOAD beneficie aussi de concours non remboursables pour un montant de FCFA 19,5
milliards, actuellement utilise a hauteur de FCFA 6,5 milliards. Les fonds suisses et le
fonds de contrepartie IDA en constituent les elements les plus importants. La devaluation
a cree une perte exceptionnelle mecanique de plus de 17 milliards de par la reevaluation
des emprunts en devises. Cependant cette perte exceptionnelle est entierement support6e
par les Etats membres au fur et a mesure du remboursement des emprunts et donc n'a pas
affect6 les fonds propres effectifs de la BOAD qui ont progresse de FCFA 44 a 66
milliards au cours de cette periode.
Les utilisations desfonds. Au cours de la p6riode 1990-1997, l'encours des prets
a ete multiplie par trois, passant d'environ FCFA 43 a 116 milliards. Les prets au secteur
public (risques souverains) sont passes de FCFA 36 a 79 milliards, alors que ceux au
secteur prive passaient de FCFA 7 a 37 milliards. Mais cette croissance ne s'est pas
realisee uniformement: en fait l'activite a plutot stagne jusqu'a la devaluation de janvier
1994. Pendant cette periode la BOAD disposait d'une tresorerie abondante qui a oscille
entre FCFA 33 et 45 milliards. Au 31 decembre 1997, le montant des liquidites atteignait
FCFA 40 milliards. La decrue des taux d'interet, favorable a l'activite economique, a eu
un impact sur la qualit6 des revenus de la BOAD: en effet, la part des produits de
placement a diminu6 fortement et la part liee aux revenus des prets a augmente. Pendant
toute cette periode les resultats de la BOAD ont et positifs.
Structure des taux d'interets. La BOAD a institue deux guichets: un guichet
public et un guichet commercial. Le taux applique a un projet depend de la nature de
celui-ci et est determine a partir d'un taux de r6f6rence: pour le guichet public, le taux
d'equilibre (5,5% en 1997) et pour le guichet commercial, le coat moyen des ressources
du secteur prive (6% en 1997).
38



le taux de r6ffrence     marge ou bonification
guichet public   taux d'dquilibre          rural: -1,7%
route: -0,7%
secteur marchand: +1,3%
guichet commercial  cofit moyen des ressources du a travers les IFN:  +1 a 2 %
_  secteur privd          financement direct: +3 A 5 %
Le hors bilan. Le hors bilan de la BOAD est constitue uniquement par les
engagements sur pr8ts non decaisses. Au cours de la periode sous revue ceux-ci sont
passes d'environ 63 milliards FCFA a 155 milliards FCFA au 31 decembre 1997. Cette
situation est mise en evidence par un tauix de decaissement qui est passe de 50% a 54% au
cours de la periode 1990-97.
c.    L'itat du portefeuille
Portefeuille du secteur public. Au cours de la periode couvrant le projet BOAD
HI, ont &e suspendus le Senegal pour un an et demi, le Togo pour 3 ans et le Niger, qui
l'est encore actuellement, depuis 1991. Au 31 decembre 1997, les arrieres des Etats
concernent donc actuellement exclusivement le Niger pour un montant FCFA 7,6 milliards
dont 2,2 d'inter8ts de retard. Le Niger se trouve depuis le 2 mai 1991 au stade de
suspension des operations de financement.
Portefeuille du secteurprive. Les impayes sur les prets au secteur prive s'e1lvent
a FCFA 4,7 milliard dont 1,2 d'int6r6t de retard et concernent 10 dossiers. Les deux
cr6ances les plus importantes concernent les dossiers SIALIM en Cote d'Ivoire pour
FCFA 2,5 mnilliard et African Sea Food au Senegal pour FCFA 656 millions. Le ratio
"cumul des prets declasses-sur-encours des prets au secteur prive" a evolue de 53% au
cours de l'exercice 92-93 'a 12% en 19I97 refletant une meilleure maitrise du risque priv6.
De plus, il faut noter que les dossiers probl6matiques actuels ont ete approuves avant 1991
en grande majorite et que depuis 1994-95 aucun declassement de pret n'a eu lieu. Le
portefeuille de pr8ts declass6s est provisionne a environ deux tiers a la fin 1997.
Portefeuille de participations. La BOAD a pris environ FCFA 12 milliards de
participations dans 14 institutions financieres et 7 entreprises. La valeur brute des
participations qui posent probleme s'elevait a FCFA 3,3 milliard soit 27%. Les trois
participations problematiques les plus importantes concernent Air Afrique (FCFA 2,5
milliard), BND Burkina (FCFA 0,5 milliard) et BHCI (FCFA 150 millions). Le montant
de la depreciation etait de FCFA 2,6 milliard a fin 1997 soit environ 75%.
d.    Les proc6dures
Decaissements. La mission a permis de mettre en evidence que le processus de
decaissement est assez elabore de meme que les requetes de retrait de fonds aupres de la
Banque mondiale. Cependant, si les mecanismes de contr8le financier apparaissent
adequats, le systeme d'information ne permet pas de suivre les d6lais de paiement.
D'apres la BOAD, les decaissements s'effectuent aujourd'hui dans un delai moyen
compris entre deux et trois semaines. Le suivi des comptes speciaux doit 8tre renforc6 de
39



maniere a s'assurer que les ressources mises en place servent bien a financer le projet
prevu. Les documents justifiant les retraits de fonds aupres de la Banque mondiale etaient
disponibles et complets.
Achat de biens et services. II est apparu que d'apres les documents que les memes
procedures s'appliquent tant aux projets du secteur public qu'aux projets du secteur prive.
De plus, il n'y a pas de distinction entre l'achat des biens et le recrutement de consultants.
En fait les procedures stipulent une methodologie sans rentrer dans les details; en effet, les
emprunteurs de la BOAD sont senses appliquer les procedures locales des differents pays.
Les procedures explicitent les appels d'offres internationales ou nationales, les procedures
sont discutees au cours des negociations et font partie de l'accord de credit. En ce qui
concerne le recrutement des consultants, la BOAD recommande ses propres procedures
qui sont assez satisfaisantes. La revue des documents apparait syst6matique mais n'est pas
suffisanument approfondie et ceci pour trois raisons: il n'y a pas de specialistes en la
matiere pour assister les responsables de projets; les ressources humaines sont limitees et
le personnel se concentre plus sur les 6valuations des nouveaux projets; et, les procedures
sont differentes d'un pays a l'autre. Les procedures apparaissent quelque peu obsoletes et
non adaptees en particulier pour les projets du secteur prive. Ceci n'a pas echappe a la
BOAD qui a institue une commission de revision avec l'aide d'un consultant.
4.    Les Accords depret et de cr'dit
II apparait que les accords aient et realises en tres grande partie.
Cependant il apparalt que l'article 3.01 (c) du contrat de credit IDA relatif aux
procedures specifiques environnementales n'ait pas ete respecte en totalite dans la mesure
od aucune procedure n'a ete formulee en ce domaine.
L'utilisation du compte de contrepartie pour contribuer au financement du budget
de fonctionnement de la Commission de l'UEMOA est a la frontiere de l'accord. En effet,
la definition des utilisations retenues dans l'accord de credit stipulent "des mesures
specifiques d'assistance au developpement des Etats membres".
L'Accord de Credit prevoyait dans son annexe II que la BOAD menerait une etude
pour determiner de l'opportunite d'etablir une societe de conseil. Cette etude n'a pas ete
realisee parce qu'elle n'a plus e  jugee opportune par la BOAD apres une reflexion
approfondie de la question.
Au dela des accords formels, la BOAD avait planifie de mobiliser US$80 millions
equivalent sur les marches financiers. La BOAD a leve FCFA 24 milliards en trois
emissions distinctes i.e. environ la moitie prevue a l'origine pendant la periode.
Actuellement une emission de 10 milliards FCFA est en cours de placement.
40



M.  CONCLUSIONS ET LECONS
1.    Conclusions et acquis du proj,et
Le projet BOAD III a toutefois permis de renforcer la capacite institutionnelle de
la BOAD par la realisation d'etudes, la mise en oeuvre continue des accords notamment
l'accent sur la qualit6 financiere du portefeuille avec l'exercice de determination des
provisions, la r6vision annuelle de la provision pour risque de change, et la reflexion
strategique continue.
Les ressources mises a la disposition de la BOAD lui ont permis d'accroitre son
activite et de financer des investissements productifs (+17 projets) dans la zone UEMOA,
et cela au dela de ces ressources precises car, fort du soutien de la Banque mondiale la
BOAD a pu mobiliser des ressources supplementaires d'autres bailleurs de fonds.
Cependant sans une analyse fine de l'impact des projets qui ne peut etre effectuee au stade
actuel (la plupart des projets sont en cours d'execution) il est difficile d'6valuer
precisement la contribution reelle de la BOAD au developpement des economies des Etats
membres.
L'approche regionale a ete favorisee mais pas au travers des sous-projets. En effet
la BOAD en creant Cauris (capital developpement), GARI (fonds de garantie) et en
mobilisant des ressources locales a complete et anime le systeme financier regional
contribuant ainsi a le developper. SorL action en faveur du credit bail, en concertation avec
les operateurs economiques et les tresors nationaux a permis de resoudre certains
probl6mes emp8chant le developpement de cette alternative essentielle au credit bancaire.
La mission ayant eu des seances de travail avec tous les departements de la BOAD
estime que l'institution demeure une institution dans laquelle l'age moyen des cadres est
eleve (41 a 45 ans), tres centralisee, hierarchisee et rigide laissant peu de place a l'initiative
personnelle et quelque peu deresponsabilisante. Cet etat de fait a certainement permis a
l'institution de rester solide en franchissant les periodes d'ajustement internes et externes
de ses Etats membres. Cependant on peut se poser la question de savoir si cette structure
est toujours adaptee a la situation acluelle (environnement en mutation rapide) et donc, si
la BOAD peut accompagner, voire preceder, ces mutations.
2.    Les legons
a.    Performance des sous-projets
L'impact des sous-projets. La performance des sous-projets BOAD III ne peut
etre analysee au cours de cet exercice car beaucoup d'entre eux sont encore en cours
d'execution. C'est pourquoi la mission a etendu son champ d'action a l'analyse de projets
refinances sous la ligne BOAD II et d'autres non refinances par la Banque mondiale mais
beneficiant de rapport de fin d'ex6cution. En effet, chaque projet doit faire l'objet d'un
rapport de fin d'execution. La mission a obtenu les rapports de fin d'execution pour deux
sous-projets dans le secteur public finances sur la deuxieme ligne de credit IDA (Cr. 1331-
WAF), le Projet de Centre de Tri Postal au Benin et le Projet Hydraulique Villageoise
41



Houet au Burkina Faso. Ces deux rapports ont 6te 6labores d'une maniere satisfaisante;
les effets sur l'environnement ont ete evalues, et le TRI a ete calcule pour un des deux
projets. L'impact des deux projets a ete positif. Par exemple, dans le projet au Burkina,
tous les villages de plus de 100 habitants possedent maintenant un point d'eau moderne et
les femmes ont ete liberees de la corvee d'eau. En ce qui concerne le projet au Benin,
I'impact est le raccourcissement du delai d'acheminement du courrier. Cependant, cet
impact n'a pas et mesure et reste tres qualitatif alors qu'il aurait fallu le quantifier. La
mission a aussi obtenu les rapports de fin d'execution pour deux projets dans le secteur
prive refinances sur la deuxieme ligne de credit BIRD (Ln. 2242-WAF), notamment
COSMIVOIRE et CARNAUD. Ces rapports ont ete elabores d'une maniere satisfaisante;
cependant les TRE et TRI ont ete calcules seulement pour le rapport CARNAUD.
La division d'Evaluation des Operations a ete creee en 1991 au sein du Bureau de
l'Evaluation et de l'Audit Interne (BEAI). Cette division a post-evalue 17 projets faisant
l'objet de 14 rapports dont 12 disponibles et 2 en cours de finalisation sur 149 projets
executes. La BOAD n'a pas defini une classification permettant de qualifier l'impact et
donc de quantifier le taux de reussite. Le tableau produit par la Division d'Evaluation des
Operations (Etat des projets faisant l'objet d'un rapport d'audit de performance)
mentionne que le projet COSMIVOIRE en C6te d'Ivoire compte parmi des operations
reussies de la BOAD, bien que le rapport d'audit de performance date decembre 1993
conclu que le projet n'a pas atteint ses objectifs, et rappelle que l'etude de faisabilite et
l'evaluation du projet ont ete insuffisantes A plusieurs egards, que la BOAD n'a pas
corrige les insuffisances de l'etude de marche et sous-estime le montant de certaines
depenses. Le rapport d'audit de performance tire un certain nombre de lecons utiles pour
les interventions de la BOAD dans le secteur prive.
Enfin, il apparait que la BOAD ne fait pas d'exercice systematique regulier pour
mesurer la qualite de son portefeuille en terme d' impacts, au dela des problemes de
decaissement ou de remboursement.
b.    Performance de la BOAD
Analyse du portefeuille de projets sous l'angle de I'impact. I1 serait souhaitable
que la BOAD mette au point un systeme et analyse regulierement la qualite de son
portefeuille en terme d'impact reel. Ces mesures et leurs evolutions permettront de
mesurer I'efficacite de l'institution. En tout etat de cause, il apparait important de suivre
la production des rapports de fin d'execution et de favoriser une production plus
importante de rapports de post evaluation et peut-etre de presenter ceux-ci au Conseil
d'Administration dans un dMlai fixe de la cloture du projet, ce qui n'est pas le cas a l'heure
actuelle.
Coordination entre bailleurs. L'utilisation de la free-limit n'a pas permis dans un
cas de coordonner l'action de la Banque mondiale et de la BOAD dans le secteur de
l'electricite au Senegal (cas de SENELEC - surchauffeurs du Cap des Biches). Sans
vouloir remettre en cause le principe de la free limit, il serait souhaitable que la BOAD
s'assure de la coh6rence des actions avec la Banque mondiale et les autres bailleurs de
fonds lors de chaque projet.
42



Coordination entre emprunte&rrs. Un sous projet routier au Burkina (axe Lome-
Niamey via Burkina), bien qu'ayant et realise physiquement de facon satisfaisante a eu un
impact nul (sur l'augmentation du trafic) car le risque (identifie dans la rapport
d'evaluation) de non construction, d[u cote togolais, d'un trongon indispensable, s'est
realise. II conviendrait avant de comnnencer les projets routiers impliquant plusieurs pays,
de s'assurer de la coordination elfective des differents pays concemant les axes
prioritaires.
Achats de biens et services.  La mission recommande de revoir d'abord les
objectifs concernant la supervision de la passation des marches dans les secteurs public et
prive, puis de clairement distinguer les deux cas; et en ce qui concerne le secteur public,
une certaine harmonisation des procedures des differents pays serait souhaitable.
Decaissements. II serait souhaitable de mettre en place un systeme de suivi des
delais de decaissements.
c.    Perfornance de la Banque mondiale
L'evaluation du projet n'a pas suffisamment anticipe l'impact qu'a eu la
surevaluation du franc CFA sur le deroulement du projet. Ce risque avait n6anmoins et6
identifie.
Les d6lais initiaux de r6ponse de la Banque mondiale concemant l' imputation des
sous-projets ne sont pas acceptables. L'equipe chargee de ce type de projet devrait
inclure officiellement outre des specialistes financiers, des specialistes en infrastructures
(6nergie, eau, routes, telecom) et en agriculture qui seraient charges et responsables
d'evaluer les demandes d'imputation et la coherence d'action avec la Banque mondiale et
les autres bailleurs de fonds dans leur secteur.
IV. CALENDRIER, DILIGENCES ET POURsuITE DE L'EtTUDE
S'TRATEGIQUE
La mission a pu constater que le Rapport d'Achevement de la BOAD est presque
pret et s'en felicite. Ce rapport de synthese (10 pages au plus) fera partie integrante du
Rapport d'Achevement officiel. II devra etre transmis a la Banque mondiale des que
possible avec une breve lettre indiquant comment la BOAD entend mettre a profit les
lecons tirees.
La mission preparera le rapport d'achevement provisoire comprenant des annexes
statistiques et le transmettra a la BOAD pour commentaires avant le 15 mai 1998. Une
fois les commentaires repus, la Banque accomplira toutes les diligences pour soumettre ce
rapport avant le 15 juin 1998.
En marge des travaux relatifs a l'elaboration du rapport d'achevement du troisibme
projet, des discussions ont porte sur la poursuite de l'etude strategique des activites
futures de financement et d'appui de la BOAD en zone UEMOA.
La mission a et6 informee ides decisions prises, concemant cette etude, par les
reunions extraordinaires du Conseil d'Administration de la BOAD et du Conseil des
43



Ministres de I'UMOA tenues en fevrier 1998.
Dans le cadre de la poursuite de 1'etude et conformement a I'approche sugg6ree
par la Banque Mondiale et approuv6e par les instances de decisions de la BOAD, il a ete
retenu que la BOAD proposera a la Banque Mondiale, un projet de termes de reference de
I'6tude complementaire pour affiner les strategies de la BOAD.
Cette etude comportera trois aspects: une etude diagnostique de la BOAD, une
evaluation sommaire de l'impact de ses financements et une proposition d'affinement des
strat6gies tenant compte des conclusions des deux premiers aspects. II a et6 convenu
de confier la realisation de l'etude a Mazars et Guerard. Afin de s'assurer de r6sultats
satisfaisants, pour toutes les parties concern6es a l'issue de 1'6tude compl6mentaire, ce
bureau soumettra a l'appreciation prealable de la BOAD et de la Banque Mondiale une
note d'approche methodologique des trois aspects de 1'etude complementaire.
L'evaluation approfondie de l'impact des financements de la BOAD pourrait constituer
une condition d'accompagnement d'un eventuel 4ame projet.
Lome, le 26 mars 1998
Olivier J. L. Lambert
pour la mission de la Banque mondiale
44



BANQUE OUEST AFRICAI[NE DE DEVELOPPEMENT (BOAD)
THIRD REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 2089-WAF; Loan 3161-WAF)
APPENDIX B: EcoNoMIc INDICATORS OF UEMOA COUNTRIES
UEMOA Member Country Statistics, 1997
Population    GDP                      GNP           Total DebtiGDP  Investment-to-  Country Share in
Per Capita                                        GDP                   the Union
(million)   (in CFAF  (1996, USS)   (external debt   (based-on GDI   (based-on GDP
.                                                   ...billion)   ... in  02                             i./)   inO%)
....................... ....                       . .... ...  ...... v....................  ..                                          .... i., ............. 
Benin                *    6                 1,238   .    350)    .                  72.1                      18.0                      8.2
...                                                 .........................                        .      .........................----.----------------------...................
BurkinaFaso                  11             1,425              230)                 51.01/                   24.9                       9.5
~~~~~~~~~..........   ............................ . .................   .............                                                ..........
Cote d'Ivoire                15            5 984               660                  227.2                    18.5                      39.8
--.................                    ....  ...............................................................................................................
Guinea-Bissau!    1                          181               260                  303.1                     16.0                       1.2
~~~~~~~~~~------------------...............   H                                  i  ...............  ........   ............
Mali                         10        .  1,478                240                  111.8                    258                        9.8
.l i.8 e.r      j            10          1.094              200                   85.8                     132                       7.3
SeneSal                      9             2,773               570                   69.6                     16.5                     18.4
.................    .......................   ............... ......... ........;..............T.......        ....... ......
Togo                         4               862               300                   94.5   .                15.0                       5.7
Raw Data Source: Africa Region Database, April 9, 1998.
/ 1996 figure
45



O            , .    ..  I.
~~~~0 _
.i                 ..        ....
men
..'    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...... ....... ........



BANQUE OUEST AFRICAINE DE DEVELOPPEMENT (BOAD)
THIRD REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 2089-WAF; Loan 3161-WAF)
APPENDIX D: CHARACTERISTICS OF REFINANCED SUBPROJECTS
AND LIST OF STUDIES
Subproject                    Sector                                Country
Loan Subloan
a) BOAD      b) IDA
Credit 2089                                                                CFAF billion
I        Hydroagriculture Liptako-Gounna Burkina  Imgation              2.98       2.10  Burkina-Faso
2        Road rehab. zone CMDT Mali            Rural Development         1.64       1.35     Mali
3        Village hydraulic - Mali -Sud         Drinking Water            1.56       1.58     Mali
4        Paved road reinforcement -Senegal     Road                      2.77       1.25    Senegal
5        Parakou -Djougo Road - Benin          Road                      3.00      2.20     Benin
6        Tindangou-Kompienga road - Burkina Faso Road                    0.72       0.72  Burkina Faso
7        Mali Urban road rehabilitation- Mali  Street Network            5.00       2.20  Burkina Faso
8        Port Rehabilitation / Dakar - Senegal  Port                    2.00        1.07    Senegal
9        Port Autonome de Lome - Togo          Port                      5.00       2.20     Togo
10       Urban Telecom - Burkina Faso          Telecomununications       5.00       2.20  Burkina-Faso
1       Rehabilitation Surchauffeurs 302 - Senegal Energy Production    1.50       1.07    Senegal
12       Secondary interconnection centers - Senegal Energy Distribution  3.00      1.02    Senegal
13       SOGECA  - Senegal                     Leasing                   1.00       1.00    Senegal
Loan 3161                                                                  Loan   Subloan
US$ million
I       CIPREL                                 Electricity Product      9.00       4.00  CMte d'Ivoire
2        PETROCI (bloc CI-11)                  Oil I Gas                 6.00       4.00  CMte d'Ivoire
3        SICOR                                 Agroindustry             5.00       4.00  CMte d'Ivoire
4        SACO                                  Agroindustry              3.00       2.97  Cote d'Ivoire
Credit 2089               Name of study                                    CFAF million
Volet B
I        Cooperative banling institutions      Finance                            25.00    UEMOA
2        Leasing                               Finance                             29.00    UEMOA
3        Interest rate structure               Finance                            63.00    BOAD
4        Cotonou port rehabilitation           Infrastructure                       3.00     Benin
47



BANQUE OUEST AFRICAINE DE DEVELOPPEMENT (BOAD)
THIIRD REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 2089-WAF; Loan 3161-WAF)
APPENDIX E: STATUS OF SUBPROJECTS
,Name of Subprojects                               Date of first       Date of      Number of   Man-day unit
disbursement      Completion   supervision   of supervision
expected or    missions
actual
1  DAKAR Port Rehabilitation - (Senegal)                 Mar-91             1996             5             30
......................................................................................................................................
2  .Paved road reinforcement -(Senegal)                  Mar-92             1997             5             30
3   Hydroagriculture Liptako-Gourma (Buriina)            Apr-92             1998             4             96
4   Parakou -Djougo Road - (Benin)                       Mar-94             1998             5             35
......................................................................................................I...................................................................................................................................
5   Rehabilitation Surchauffeurs 302 - (Senegal)          Jun-94            1996              1            14
6   Village hydraulic - Zone CMDT (Mai)                  Dec-94             1998             2             20
7  .Tindangou-Kompienga road - (Burkna Faso)             Dec-94             1997              1             7
8   Road rehab. zone CMDT - (Mali)                       Dec-94             1997             2             20
9  .Secondary interconnection centers - (Senegal)        Aug-95             1999              1             7
10 ,Ouagadougou urban Telecom - (urkina Faso)            Jan-96             1998             1             15
11 .SOGECA Leasing  - (Senegal)                          Aug-96             1998             2             6
12 Port Autonome de Lom6 - (Togo)                        Dec-96             1999             1             10
13 ,Bamako urban road rehabilitation - (Mai)            Jan-97             1998             3             12
14 ICIPREL - Cote d'Ivoire                               Oct-94             1996             0             0
15 ,PETROCI (bloc CI-ll) - Cote d'Ivoire                 Feb-95             1996             0             0
16  SACO- Cote d'Ivoire                                  Mar-96             1998             1             5
17 ',SICOR - Cote d'Ivoire                               Dec-96             1999             1             5
48



BANQUE OUEST AFRICAINE DE DEVELOPPEMENT (BOAD)
THIRD REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 2089-WAF; Loan 3161-WAF)
APPENDIX F: DESCRiPTION AND RATING OF SUBPROJECTS
A total of 17 subprojects were refinanced under the BOAD III project. The IDA line of
credit refinanced 13 subprojects for a total of US$36.4 million equivalent.  Three
subprojects focused on rural development: two irrigation projects (one in Burkina Faso
and one in southern Mali), and one feeder road project also in southern Mali. Seven of the
subprojects were in the infrastructure sector and included road projects, supply of port
equipment, and development of the telephone network. There were also two subprojects
in the energy sector in Senegal: the rehabilitation of a power generator and distribution of
electricity. In the private sector there was one leasing project. The IBRD component of
the line of credit refinanced four subprojects (including three in the private sector) in Cote
d'Ivoire for a total of US$13.2 million. Two subprojects were in the energy sector
(CIPREL and PETROCI) and two were in the agro-industrial sector (SACO and SICOR).
Conclusion
On the basis of field visits and conversations with Bank Staff 35% of subprojects are
considered unsatisfactory or at risk, of being unsatisfactory (see Table A: Rating of
Subprojects in this Appendix F). BOAD's supervision was weak.
General Comments
*  After the 1994 CFAF devaluation BOAD conducted missions to reevaluate the costs
of projects which had already been appraised. In the majority of cases, the devaluation
had an impact on the costs and the additional funding needed, was shared among
donors, including BOAD.
*  Four subprojects closed in 1996 end three in 1997. The other 10 projects are expected
to close either in 1998 or in 1999. During the period under review, on average,
BOAD sent a supervision mission every 21 months and invested 9 man-day per
mission (see Appendix E, Status of subprojects).
49



Rural Development
* The irrigation project in Burkina Faso, in the Liptako-Gourma region, involved six
different sites in a sensitive institutional context; the completion mission visited one
site (Soubeira). This project was approved by BOAD in December 1990. The
developmental objective was to contribute to food security by rehabilitating and
developing small and medium size irrigation zones thus allowing rice to grow in winter
and vegetables during the off season. The expected outcome of the project was the (i)
rehabilitation of 195 hectares in the irrigation zone below the Bogande, Mani and
Tapao dams; (ii) increase in the size of the irrigation zone by an additional 63 hectares;
and (iii) creation of a 38 hectares area for flood cultivation. The project resulted in (i)
the rehabilitation of five small dams and the construction of one additional dam, (ii) in
all sites, the rehabilitation of existing ditches and in some cases creation of new ones;
and, (iii) the construction of six village warehouses. The total cost for this project was
initially estimated at approximately CFAF 2.5 billion with BOAD providing CFAF 2
billion. At appraisal 50% of expenditures were identified as foreign expenditures.
Presently, the total cost has been revised to CFAF 3.5 billion mainly because of the
1994 devaluation but also because the costs were underestimated in 3 sites. BOAD
has increased its loan by CFA 1 billion. As of late 1997, CFAF 2.1 billion has been
disbursed. During the visit of the completion mission, it appeared that the project had
a positive impact on beneficiaries' income and on food security. It is the opinion of
IDA staff involved in similar projects in the country that these projects are needed in
Burkina.
In the cotton growing zone of southern Mali (Bougouni, Sikasso, Koutiala and Fana) two
BOAD projects were refinanced by IDA: a feeder road program and water supply project.
* The southern Mali III program was a multi-component, multi-donor, program. One
component consisted in the rehabilitation and the construction of 600 km of priority
feeder roads and drainage to open up this isolated region. This component was
financed by BOAD and IDA. The initial task manager on IDA's side was aware of
BOAD's involvement and of the nature of its resources: the TM involved BOAD at all
stages to ensure a tight coordination (one procurement package divided in four lots)
and took the opportunity to expose BOAD to the Bank's methods on the ground
through joint supervision missions. It is the former TM's judgment that BOAD staff
was competent although less rigorous and that they did not emphasize enough capacity
building, an important element to ensure sustainability. This project closed recently on
December 31 1997. This overall program is a success as cotton produced increased
from 230,000 tons in 1989 to 560,000 tons in 1997, thus ensuring substantial
additional revenue to the local people. BOAD's contribution cannot be isolated nor
this particular component. Such a project certainly gave BOAD the opportunity to
build further capacity in the rural development field.
*  The water supply project in the same region is aimed at improving women's lives by
shortening the distance to get water and improve health of all beneficiaries. The
output of the project consisted of the creation of 200 new wells, 150 with manual
50



pumps and 50 with solar powered pumps. It was approved in June 1993 by BOAD's
Board and the first disbursement occurred in December 1994. The total cost of the
project is estimated at approximately CFAF 3.6 billion, with BOAD as the lead donor
providing CFAF 1.5 billion, the FED approximately CFAF 0.8 billion and, FAD CFAF
0.3 billion. This project is almost completed and BOAD has almost fully disbursed its
loan. According to the latest supervision report the following has been noticed: there
have been delays in the installation of the pumps; in the case of certain wells, defects in
the concrete have been detected; in the case of solar pumps, defects in water valves
have been detected.
Roads
Four road projects were refinanced under the IDA credit: in Senegal, the Kaolack
connection in the context of the transport sector adjustment program; in Benin, the
Parakou-Djougou-Natitingou axis; in Burkina Faso, the road Tindangou-Kompienga to
the border of Togo; and in Mali, the street network in Bamako.
In Senegal. BOAD participated in one aspect of the sector investment portion of an
IDA-led transport sector adjustment program which was initiated in 1987, but really
started in 1992. For the road sub-sector, the overall objective was to create a
sustainable, efficient road maintenance system, ensure a well-maintained network by
privatizing road maintenance works and by supporting the rehabilitation of a number
of roads, including those that facilitated regional integration, among others. The
objective of the investment in which BOAD participated was to facilitate trading with
Mali and Gambia. The outcome of the project was lower maintenance costs for the
200 to 300 vehicles using these rDads. The project output is 110 km of resurfaced
roads which were in a very poor shape, contributing hence to safeguard the initial
investment. The total cost was; initially estimated to be about CFAF 5 billion
(excluding taxes). BOAD provided CFAF 2.5 billion, while IDA contributed CFAF
1.2 billion. This project was delayed in 1993 due to the fact that Senegal accumulated
arrears with BOAD, which in tum suspended its disbursements. It was also unable to
meet its counterpart funds requirements to the IDA credit due to the difficulty macro-
financial situation resulting from the overvaluation of the CFA Franc. At that time the
project was 87% completed. Subsequently, Senegal became current with its arrears
with BOAD, provided its counter part funds to the IDA credit and the project was
completed.  During project implementation BOAD  conducted five supervision
missions. The overall program is rated satisfactory by IDA for the investment portion.
BOAD's participation in this program was appreciated for the following reasons: it
allowed close coordination based on an agreed program, BOAD's country knowledge
was useful, and additional funds were needed.
In Benin, the objective was to contribute to improve the farmers revenue in the cotton-
producing region of Djougou through better feeder roads and accessibility to and from
rural areas. The project output consisted of the construction of 216 kmn of paved
roads linking Parakou-Djougou and Djougou-Natitingou. The project execution took
place between 1993 and 1995 and the project is about to close. Total costs amounted
to CFAF 16 billion which were financed by donors including FED, ECOWAS fund,
51



OPEC fund and BOAD (CFAF 3 billion). In 1997, traffic was measured: 200 vehicles
per day compared to 132 vehicles per day before the project. This indicates a positive
impact of this project.
* In Burkina Faso, the road from Tindangou-Kompienga to the border of Togo is on the
Lome-Niamey axis. This project can be considered as a regional project as it
contributes to facilitate exchanges between two countries via a third one. It is a 45 km
stretch that would contribute to reduce the length of the actual trip by 75 km. In
addition a large dam was built in the Kompienga region. This road was to contribute
to better access to the markets of the additional agricultural production made possible
by the existence of the new dam. After the June 1992 appraisal, the approval by
BOAD's Board was delayed by almost one year due to the fact that Burkina had
accumulated arrears with BOAD. The initial estimate was CFAF 2.1 billion (excluding
taxes) but the final cost was CFAF 3.8 billion due to unanticipated additional work and
the CFAF devaluation. The financing was provided by donors which included
ABEDA, ECOWAS fund, IDB and BOAD (CFAF 0.7 billion). The project was
completed in April 1996. However, this project so far has had no impact as measured
by a stagnant traffic which is not mentioned in the supervision reports.  The
explanation lies in the presently missing 50 km stretch of road in Togo that would
complete the axis. According to BOAD, that project is now ready to be presented to
the Board of BOAD for approval. Donors involved include IDB and ADB.
* In Mali, BOAD was involved in the improvement of the street network of Bamako in
the context of the urban development plan agreed between the Malian Government
and donors, aiming at improving the efficiency of Bamako and the salubrity of a very
low-income district inhabited by 75,000 people. BOAD's project output was the
rehabilitation and construction of 16.3 km of streets and the construction 8.2 km of
ditches collecting rain water. The total cost was estimated in 1996 to amount to
CFAF 5.5 billion (excluding taxes). The project was appraised in July 1996, the loan
became effective in January 1997 and the works started in February 1997. When
ROAD requested the no objection to refinance this project under the IDA credit, the
Bank requested that BOAD change the structure of its project to better coordinate
with other donors including IDA.
52



Ports and Telecommunication
Additional infrastructure projects financed by BOAD in the context of BOAD III included
(i) the rehabilitation of the Dakar Port, (ii) the rehabilitation and modernization of the
Lome Port, and (iii) the telephone netwvork extension in Ouagadougou.
*  The rehabilitation of the Dakar Port was also part of the Transport Adjustment and
Investment Program mentioned earlier. The expected outcome of this investment
project was a more efficient and better maintained port ensuring the sustainabiity of
investments. Three donors were involved: IDA, CFD and BOAD. BOAD's project
output consisted in repairing and reinforcing the embankments, modernizing the
medium and low voltage electrical network and modernizing the water distribution
system. The total cost was initially estimated at appraisal in 1990, at CFAF 3 billion
(excluding taxes); it was subsequently revised to 3.8 billion due to the devaluation.
BOAD provided a CFAF 2.8 biLilion loan. The project was completed in 1996:
containers can be unloaded faster thanks to adequate structures and facilities along
with bigger machines; water lealcs have been reduced and water billing improved;
centralized management of electricity allows better management linked to movements
of ships. The BOAD mission indicated in the last supervision report dated November
1996 that maintenance allocations and systems were not sufficient. This was also
noted during a visit of an IDA miission to the port. Nevertheless, it is IDA's opinion
that this was a sound project which contributed to make the Dakar port one of the
most efficient in West Africa measured by total number of ship movements (+20%
between 1992 and 1995) or transshipped volume handled (+13% p.a. since 1992) or
by time to harbor ships (from 48 hours in 1992 to 15 minutes in 1996).
* BOAD also financed the rehabilitation of the Lome Port. The project aimed at
improving the port competitiveness by repairing its basic infrastructure which was
damaged and modernizing its equipment. The project output consisted in restoring the
principal pier and the acquisitiorL of moving equipment to replace the obsolete and
aging fleet. The project was appraised in June 1995 and the total cost was estimated
to be CFAF 5.7 billion (excluding taxes) of which BOAD financed CFAF 5 billion.
The project was approved in October 1995 and started in 1996 after some initial
delays. It appeared in early 1997 that the cost of restoring the pier had been
underestimated due to more than initially expected deterioration. The increase costs
were borne by the Borrower (Port Autonome de Lome or PAL). As of December 31,
1997, the loan was 50% disburseid. In 1997, PAL profit should surge from CFAF 612
million to CFAF 1,500 million due to a 25% increase in traffic from 2 million tons to
2,5 million tons. This project was visited by an IDA mission in February 1998 and
focused on procurement. Rehabilitation works of the main pier were procured
through an international competitive bidding procedure. A short-list was used to
select an international consulting company. The mission also met with representatives
from the borrower, the consulting firm retained and the contractors. The borrower
expressed satisfaction to work with BOAD. The contractor and consultant confirmed
the likelihood of completing the 'works within schedule. Based on that visit, IDA was
satisfied with the implementation of the project. Although technical studies may have
been done too quickly resulting in an initial underestimation of the costs and no policy
53



measures have accompanied this loan such as contracting out certain activities, it is the
opinion of IDA staff involved in similar projects in the country that this project was
needed and overall beneficial to the Port and that BOAD showed greater
responsiveness than other donors.
* In the telecommunication sector, BOAD financed the telephone network extension in
Ouagadougou. The expected outcome is an improved telephone quality, reliability and
greater access to new lines. The project output includes the installation of(i) a second
digital switch of a capacity of 25,000 lines, .(ii) a fixed digital link between the two
switches and (iii) extension of the local distribution network to connect new
subscribers in Ouagadougou. The project was appraised in June 1995 and the total
cost was estimated at CFAF 7.8 billion including CFAF 2.2 billion of taxes. The
BOAD loan was CFAF 5 billion. The project was visited by an IDA mission and it
was noted that it was almost completed. IDA considers that the project. contributes
positively to the network extension in Ouagadougou which is needed to meet the
market demand of telephone access.
Energy Sector
BOAD also financed four projects in the energy sector; two were in Senegal (rehabilitation
of a power generator in Dakar and improvement of electricity distribution in secondary
cities) and two in Cote d'Ivoire (CIPREL and PETROCI).
* The expected outcome of the first project (rehabilitation of the boilers of two power
generating units in Dakar) consisted in a better performance of the power generator.
IDA visited this subproject and also noticed the reduced gas pollution produced
compared to furnaces not rehabilitated. However, the visiting mission also noticed
that via BOAD, IDA money financed in part a larger investment project that IDA had
turned down in 1992. The financing by BOAD of this project may have contributed to
a delay in institutional reforms that were necessary in IDA's judgment. At appraisal in
1992, the cost was estimated at CFAF 2.2 billion (excluding taxes); additional costs
amounted to CFAF 1.7 billion due to the impact of the devaluation. BOAD finally
provided a CFAF 2.6 billion loan. The project was completed at the end of 1996 after
some delays. The production of the rehabilitated units increased by 50%, while their
specific consumption fell by 11% highlighting the positive impact of this project on
electricity generation.  SENELEC (the Senegalese electric company) and the
Government of Senegal had already come to IDA requesting assistance to rehabilitate
these generators. IDA's response was positive provided that institutional reforms
(mainly reforming SENELEC) were undertaken in parallel. At that time, SENELEC
refused these reforms and turned to BOAD who did not accept immediately because
of the position of the Bank and CFD. However, observant that CFD had agreed to
finance another SENELEC investment, BOAD agreed to finance this project. Then
BOAD refinanced that subproject in part under the IDA line of credit using its free
limit of US$2 million (without the need of seeking a no-objection). During the
preparation of the new energy sector adjustment program in January 1997, the
Senegalese government finally agreed to privatize SENELEC.
54



* The second project deals with electricity distribution in Senegal in secondary cities of
Darha, Linguere and Touba. The expected outcome is an increased access to
electricity in those three cities. I'he output is to connect Darha and Linguere to the
general interconnected grid and to extend the low voltage grid in Touba to include
new areas of that city. This project was appraised by BOAD in July 1994 and the loan
became effective in August 1995 Total cost was estimated to be CFAF 3.6 billion
(excluding taxes); the BOAD loan was CFAF 3 billion. By mid 1997 BOAD had not
disbursed because SENELEC hacl delayed setting up the guarantees agreed, such as
the pledging of a trustee account. Project implementation started recently.
* CIPREL is a private special purpose company, created in 1994, with the Bouygues
group as a major shareholder, which aims at generating electricity with natural gas
discovered in Cote d'Ivoire. It was a large project as total costs amounted to almost
CFA 37 billion. The company started to generate electricity in late 1995. BOAD
contributed to the financing plan along with IFC and CFD/Proparco, both in equity
with an investment of CFAF 184 million (3% of capital) and debt with a loan of CFAF
4.5 billion (16% of the debt). The 1996/1997 audited income statements show
revenues amounting to CFA 14.3 billion and a profit of CFA 3.1 billion. This is a
good project. According to IFC staff involved in the project, the presence of BOAD
was appreciated because, at that time in 1995, no private bank wanted to get involved.
* In the early 1980s oil was discovered in Cote d'Ivoire; production of crude oil started
in the late 1980s. PETROCI (which is 100% owned by the Ivoirian state), in
association with a technical partner (United Meridien International corp.) other
financial partners, including IFC, decided to develop in 1995 two oil fields (Lion and
Panther) in the so-called "CI-I 1". Expected output of these fields is 20,000 barrels
and 67.4 million cubic feet of natural gas a day for at least two to three years. The
total development costs were estimated to top US$160 million (CFAF 84 billion
equivalent) and PETROCI was to finance 33% or CFAF 28 billion. The financing plan
of PETROCI's share included E][B for CFAF 19 billion, BOAD for 3 billion and a
local bank pool for CFAF 6 billion. BOAD's loan was totally disbursed by February
1996. But the reservoir is complex, estimates were optimistic and expected output of
20,000 barrels a day did not even last one year: presently production amounts to
12,000 barrels and 97 million cubic feet of gas a day. Today this project barely breaks
even on a cash basis and it remains to be seen whether investors will recoup their
initial investment: the 1996 financial statements show a CFAF 27.6 billion revenue and
a profit of CFAF 217 million.
55



Agro-industrial sector
*  Through an earlier privatization, SICOR, the largest coconut flake producing company
in Africa, became part of the OCTIDE group, one of the largest agro-industrial groups
in Cote d'Ivoire controlled by Mr. Bakou. The rationale of the project was to control
supply (integrate vertically) while allowing expansion and some diversification
downstream. The project consisted of (i) the transfer of assets from Palmindustries (a
state owned company) to SICOR, namely 13,000 hectares in three plantations
(Jacqueville, Grand-Lahou and Glike), and (ii) the construction of two coprah oil
extraction units of 5,000 tons each of raw oil to be located in Jacqueville and Glike.
The total cost of this project amounted to CFAF 5.6 billion (excluding taxes) of which
CFAF 4 billion accounted for the purchase of the industrial plantations. The lending
pool included a loan from the Government for CFAF 1.7 billion, from BOAD for 2.5
billion and a pool of local banks for CFAF 0.5 billion. The deal was leveraged; but
BOAD reduced its risk by involving GARI which guaranteed 50% of its loan to
SICOR in addition to the usual collateral. The loan agreement was signed in
December 1996. During fiscal year 1996, SICOR's sales amounted to CFAF 6.7
billion and the profit to CFAF 534 million. The SICOR coconut plant and industrial
plantation were visited by IDA in 1997: it was noted that management and the work
force were motivated to deliver a success story. The acquisition phase went ahead but
the construction of the two oil extraction units have not yet been built and may be
further delayed because, the OCTIDE group is experiencing financial difficulties linked
to its coffee and cocoa trading subsidiary.
*  SACO is the result of a merger of two companies (SACO and Chocodi) in 1995, in
which Ivoirian State owned 35% and 14% respectively, under the auspices of the
BARRY Group a world class player in the chocolate business. BARRY subsequently
sold SACO to the Callebeau Group, also a world class player in the chocolate
business.  The project output included (i) the installation of a cocoa powder
production line, (ii) the modernization and extension of the capacity of the Abidjan
press and (iii) creation, in San Pedro, of a new crush and press unit for cocoa beans.
The total cost amount to CFAF 15 billion (excluding taxes). In February 1997, the
total cost was estimated to be CFAF 16 billion. The lending pool included Proparco
for CFAF 4 billion, EIIB for CFAF 3.5 billion, BOAD for CFAF 1.5 billion and a pool
of four local banks for CFAF 1 billion; additional financing (linked to the additional
costs) was provided by the EIB and the local banks. BOAD's loan became effective in
March 1996. The project has been implemented swiftly although it raised some
procurement issues for BOAD (no bidding process in the private sector). The new
unit in San Pedro has been operational since September 1996. In fiscal 1996 year,
SACO's sales revenue amounted to CFAF 58 billion and profit after tax to CFAF 1.2
billion. It is the opinion of IDA staff involved in privatization in Cote d'Ivoire that this
project contributed to increase the share of local input in the final product which is the
objective of the Ivoirian government.
56



Financial sector
* BOAD refinanced a Senegalese private leasing company with various shareholders
including the IFC and Proparco. The Borrower is SOGECA (Societe Generale de
Credit Automobile) and BOAD provided CFAF 1 billion to develop its portfolio,
representing about 10% of projected activity. The project was appraised in mid 1996
and became effective in December 1996. By mid-1997, BOAD had disbursed 70%.
SOGECA had sought to refinance one large operation (the leasing of three trucks) and
a portfolio of 31 small operations including leasing of cars, computers and medical
equipment. In 1996 the net banking revenue amounted to CFAF 613 million and
profit after tax to CFAF 249 million. It is the opinion of IFC staff involved in this
transaction that BOAD seemed to be more risk-averse and less flexible than IFC and
that in general, BOAD's involvement seems to have a lesser market signaling effect
than a corresponding IFC presence. Nevertheless, by refinancing SOGECA, BOAD
contributed to develop a credible alternative to bank credit --therefore to the
development of the private sector-*- and, learnt how to deal with leasing companies as
SOGECA was the first transaction of that kind.
57



44
............................... ........... z...... .................  ..................                          .......... .................  .................. ........................ .............          ............ .................. ............ t............ ............ ..................
so
oi.t 0
cn
'o                                                                      qzl                                                                    "O                                                                        4-
CA                                                                           45                        12                                                                                                4
o
>
01,                                                                                                                                                                                                     gi-                 g   ! 0
co                0                    5,                               CC3                                                                                              >u  P.
bb
C-4                                                                                                                                                  i'B  0    1 =>
co                                                                      ou           a !'O                      . .                                                                                                                :                                                                                 CZ
rA                                                                                "u                  0
0                    W.                                                                                                                                                                                 4                                    (ON
(U              ta                        cd  oi ol LA                             0                                                                             o
O-                          4                                                                      ig   .i  -m
S                                                                                                       '61
0: a  41                     .2                iq  .i
ui                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
i 0    0                            0
r-L                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
.0                                                                                                                               io
:3                                                                                                                                                       r.                        2 .
CA                                                                                                                                                                                o                  cd                     j >, la  = j                              cd            tn           N            N
t,.              rIjcd                                                              2                                                                                                                                                                                                           co
:.-  0                             w                                                                                                               Cd
0                                                                            -14               iOn
'+3
Cd                                                                                                              0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             00
19
01-2  t                                                       i
Eq 'A              2                                                  =    0:   -,;z: 0
0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CZ
+C8                                                                                                                                         cd                                           rn                                                                                                 2 zi   2
O U
O
A
o;  r,             2                                                                             -S:   42!
I                       IS
............................... ........... ...... .................. .................. ........... . .................. .................. .................. ........................ .................. ........... .................. ........... ....................... .................
O'
Cd                                            ct3
Ca                                                                                -.4-                 t                                                                                          L5
'C'3                                                                                                                                   CZ
0 0!                                                                          0
21
Ei                                                                                          (A                                                                                                                                                                                    :Y
(D                                                                                                                                                                                                          co
cd                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               7a,
0.
42
C13         t                   0
:0 0                                                                                                                                              <
M                                                                                                     :w WU U    R U:  U:%  U: cn
.......... ........... t        .................. .................. ........... .................  .................. .................. ..........................................
....... ..............                                                                                                                                                                                              ........... .................. ........... t......        t........... .................
CD
:00                  Ch                                                                                                                         :4:1
Cd                                                                       cq



BANQUE OUEST AFRICA.INE DE DEVELOPPEMENT (BOAD)
THIRD REGIONA]L DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 2089-WAF; Loan 3161-WAF)
APPENDIX G: EQUrrY OWNERSHIP OF BOAD - 1997
(CFAF million)
Shareholders        Subscribed   %        Called      Paid in      To be Paid    Subscribed
Uncalled
Class A
Berin               14,200        5.98    2,850        1,250       1,600          11,350
Burkina Faso        14,200        5.98    2,850        1,250       1,600          11,350
Cte d'Ivoire        14,200        5.98    2,850        1,250       1,600         11,350
Guinea Bissau       14,200        5.98    2,850        --          2,850         11,350
Mali                14,200        5.98    2,850        1,250       1,600          11,350
Niger               14,200        5.98    2,850        1,250       1,600          11,350
Senegal             14,200       5.98    2,850         1,250       1,600         11,350
Togo                14,200        5.98    2,850        1,250       1,600         11,350
BCEAO               113,600       47.83   22,800       9,850       12,950        90,800
Total Class A       227,200      95.66   45.600        18.600      27,000        181,600
Class B
France              4,600         1.94    4,600        3,114       1,486         -
Germany             1,000        0.42    1,000         1,000       -
EIB                   500         0.21     500          500        -
ADB                 2,000        0.84      500          500        -             1,500
Belgiurn            2,200         0.93    1,400         800        600             800
Total Class B       10.300       4.34    8.000         5.914       2.086         2.300
GRAND TOTAL    237,500            100.0   53,600       24,514      29.086        183.900
Authorized capital not subscribed  2.500
Authorized Capital                240.00)
59



BANQUE OUEST AFRICAINE DE DEVELOPPEMENT (BOAD)
THIRD REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 2089-WAF; Loan 3161-WAF)
APPENDIX H: SIMPLIFIED BALANCE SHEETS (1991-1997)
September 30, except 1995-97, December 31
(CFAF million)
1990/91       1991/92      1992/93       1993/94       1994/95         1996         1997
..........................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Liquid asSets                32,892        35,770        46,093        42,233        41,134       29,514        26,959
Loans                        43,540        46,906        51,437        54,467        74,179       91,013       116,509
to government              36,404        36,982        40,762        41,839        58,189       67,956        78,921
.t iv     s           .r   ......... 7,136   9,924        10,675        12,628        15,990       23,057        37,588
Other6                       14,640        15,647         8,676        30,058        35,283       39,636        48,633
TotalAssets                  91,072        98,323       109,236       126,758      150,596       160,163      192,101
L i ab..tieS..                                                  .........................................................................
CaPital7                     44,572        47,497        50,053        50,788        54,523       59,199        66,518
....... ................................................................................................. . ..............................
Borrowin.s                    16,313       16,601        22,021        36,852        38,723       43,096        55,665
Bonds                              --            --       4,000         4,000         9 000         9 000       24,000
... ..........................I....................  .....................        .2 R  q ...............................?L2'
Other8                       30,187        34,225        33,162        35,118        48,350       48,868        45,918
Total Liabilities            91,072        98,323       109,236       126,758      150,596       160,163      192,101
6     Other assets include: essentially subsidies to be received linked to the reevaluation of liabilities, fixed
and intangibles assets.
7    Excluding callable capital.
8    Other liabiihties include essentially special purpose funds managed by BOAD.
60



BANQUE OUEST AFRICAINE DE DEVELOPPEMENT (BOAD)
THIRD REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 2089-VVAF; Loan 3161-WAF)
APPENDIX I: SUMMARY ][NCOME STATEMENTS (1991 - 1997)
(CFAF million)
Sept. 30                       1990/91  1991/92   1992/93  1993/94 1994/95'    1996    1997
except Dec., 1995 to 1997                 _
Total interest                                   6,805         7,256           8,116         7,417         9,412        8,041        8,329
.................  ............................   ....................................................................................................................................................................
On loans to customers                          3,612    3,895                4,295         4,704          6,515   6,608    7,048
On liquid assets and                           3,193          3,361          3,821         2,713          2,897        1,433        1,281
investments
~~~~~~....................................................................................................................................................... 
Total interest expense                              934           956          1,319         2,047         2,906        2,579         3,123
......................................... ...................................................................................................................................................................................
Net interest differential income                 5,871         6,300           6,797         5,370         6,506        5,462        5,206
Net non interest income                              34            88              89            75           122          142          295
Gross operating income                          65905    6,38                   686    5445    6,628   5,604    5,501
............................................................   .......   ...... Il,...... ...... 1   ...  ...Il   ...  ...."    ...   'l....Il,...    I.....I..........
Total operating expenses                         2 410    2,670                2,795         3,173         4,828    3,605    4,253
Net operating income                             3,495         3,718           4,091         2,272          1,800    1,999    1,248
Net specific risks provision                        788           902          1,681         1,555            248          109            14
Net general risks provision                          62            88              60            90           238          318          403
Earnings before extraordinary                    2,645         2,728           2,350            627         1,314    1,572              831
items
Net extraordinary items                             127           184              87           106           231           78          450
|Netincome before tax                            2 772    2,912                2,437            733         1,545    1,650    1,281
Retained profit                                  2,772    2,912                2,437            733        1,545   1,650    1,281
15 month period
61



BANQUE OUEST AFRICAINE DE DEVELOPPEMENT (BOAD)
THIRD REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 2089-WAF; Loan 3161-WAF)
APPENDIX J: BOAD FINANCIAL INDICATORS AND RATIOS
90/91   91/92   92/93   93/94   94/95    1996    1997
Capital Adequacy Ratio * (%/6)                                 71           68          70           50          44           40          38
................. ............ ............................................... 0........7.............0....3...5................ ...2................... ...............0....9................ 0....................I.......
TotalIDebt/Equity Ratio                                      0.37        0.35         0.52          0.8         0.9          0.9          1.2
LiquidassetRatio(%)                                            36           36          42           33          27           21          21
Return on average assets (ROA) (%/o)                             -         3.1         2.3          0.6          1.1         1.1          0.7 .
.................................... .  . ......................................................................................................................................................................
Return on on average Equity (%)                                  -         6.3         5.0          1.4         2.9          2.9          2.0
Intermediation costs (%/ototal average                           -         6.8         7.2          6.1         3.9          3.6          3.6
assets)  ........................
Net interest margin                                           3.4          3.0          1.7         2.5          1.8         1.7          1.3
..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Loan provisions as % of outstanding                           3.4          4.1         6.1         7.1          5.8         4.7          4.0
Loans
* Following major assmtions:
-Risk weighted assets: Government risk @ 33%; off balance sheet commitments @ 50%
-Adjusted capital: callable capital excluded.
62



BANQUE OUEST AFRICAINE DE DEVELOPPEMENT (BOAD)
THIRD REGIONAL, DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 2089-WAF; Loan 3161-WAF)
APPENDIX K: PORTFOLIO ARREARS
Sept.30, except Dec. 31, 95 - 97  90/91     91/92    92/93     93/94     94/95     1996     1997
(Currency unit: CFAF mnillion)
Total Government risk portfolio    36,404    36,982   40,762    41,839    58,189   67,956   78,921
.......................................................... .................................................... .............................................................................................................................
Arrears                             1,684     2,960    3,575     4,141     4,862    5,871    4,693
Principal in arrears                 1,123     1,672    2,284     2,943     3,495    4,311    3,462
Interestsinarrears                   561      1,288    1,291      1,198     1,367    1,560    1,231
% principal in arrears / Government  3.1%     4.5%      5.6%      7.0%      6.0%     6.3%
sk portfolio                                                                                 4.4/
Total.private sector risk portfolio  7,136   9,924   10,675    13,287    15,990   23,057   37,588
Classified loans                    3,746     3,761    5,659     6,072     5,597    5,379    4,665
Provisions                            915     1,243    2,439      3,081     3,240    2,889    2,897
% Classified loans / Private sector  52.5%   37.9%    53.0%      45.7%     35.0%    23.3%    12.4V
portfolio
% Provisions / Classified loans    24.4%     33.0%    43.1%      50.7%     57.9%    53.7%    62.1
Equity portfolio at cost      2,965     2,515    2,335      5,250     8,337    9,109   11,370
Provisions                           465               1,040      1,040              1,170    2,055
665                          670
Net value of equity portfolio       2,500     1,850    1,295     4,210     7,667    7,939    9,315J
Net value / Portfolio at cost      84.3%     73.6%    55.5%      80.2%     92.0%    87.2%    81.9o/1
63



BANQUE OUEST AFRICAINE DE DEVELOPPEMENT (BOAD)
THIIRD REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 2089-WAF; Loan 3161-WAF)
APPENDIX L:
BOAD's RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES, FINANCIAL SITUATION AND PORTFOLIO
It is the Council of Ministers which sets the prudential rules that BOAD is to follow.
1.    Risk Management Policies
Credit risk. BOAD does not fall under the UMOA Banking Law and, therefore, is not
subject to the control of the Banking Commission. BOAD is also not required to apply
the Banking Accounting Plan; however, it does in order to tap the regional capital
markets. BOAD's prudential rules distinguish public sector risk and private sector risk;
rules are more restrictive for the private sector; but financial institutions, direct loans to
privatization projects (undefined), energy and mining projects, all fall under the same rules
as those of public sector (see Table below). A provision of 1% on outstanding public
sector risk is set apart to protect BOAD against delayed payments, as well as a general
provision of 3% of private sector risk.
Table B. BOAD's prudential rules
in percentage of BOAD's effective net worth_ Limit per operation || Limit per borrower
Public                Loans            < <10             loan + equity < 100
Sector                Equity           < 10 of equity fund l
Private               Loans           [< S               loan + equity < 10
Sector               Equity          |q<lOofeguityfund   or         <15
In addition, BOAD is to follow those two rules: the sum of the largest public sector risks
(in excess of 25% of BOAD's effective net worth) are to remain below 10 times effective
net worth; a loan to a private sector project must not exceed 50% of total project cost
(excluding taxes).
With regard to the definition of classified loans to the private sector, BOAD uses the new
banking accounting plan definition.  However, this is not adequate because loan
repayments are made twice a year in general; there are exceptions and repayments can be
set at four times a year (or be specifically adjusted in the case of restructured projects).
This is to be compared to monthly repayments in the case of commercial banks loans
allowing close and regular contact. When a payment is in arrears or a major event
occurred, then BOAD downgrade the total amount of the loan and it becomes classified.
64



Loans to Governments or guaranteed by Governments (public sector risk) are not
classified but only considered to be in arrears.
Liquid Asset Management. Until recently, BOAD had no choice but to invest its liquid
assets with BCEAO. With the new money market, investors have more choices and
BOAD has adopted guidelines be an active participant. The guidelines specify that the
maximum duration of investments is 25 months; this may seem long. BOAD has adopted
in June 1996, three types of limits: a global limit, one per operation and one per
counterpart. Based on a technical note, the Investment Committee recommends an
investment to the President.
Borrowings. They are limited by the smallest of the two amounts: 300% of effective net
worth or 100% of callable capital. The maximum debt:equity ratio of 3:1 for BOAD is to
be compared with the present (much too high) rate of 25:1 for commercial banks. This is
a sound rule for BOAD which takes into account the risky business of development.
Foreign Exchange Risk. A provision, covering the foreign exchange risk between the
French franc and other currencies, is constituted every year but not between CFAF and the
French franc. In 1997, this rate was 0,5 % of outstanding loans approved during the year.
This rate is determined by a model which applies, to the fluctuations of the preceding
period, a variation coefficient based on the rate differences of 10-year bonds in the major
borrowing currencies. BOAD is only authorized to lend in CFAF and cannot hold foreign
currencies. As of December 31 1997, the foreign exchange risk provision showed a
credit position in the amount of CFAIF 8 billion for an outstanding borrowing portfolio in
foreign currencies of more than CFAF 56 billion that is a 14.3% coverage. This situation
should nevertheless be reviewed carefully together with the CFAF compulsory lending
practice.
Interest rate risk. This risk is limited since BOAD lending rates are based on the average
cost of resources. There are no CFAF interest rate risk management instruments yet.
2.    The Financial Situation
BOAD's financial situation is reviewed annually by BCEAO's internal inspection and a
local Commissaire aux Comptes. In addition, BOAD is subject every two years to a
financial audit by an international accounting firm (Price Waterhouse) and every four years
to a management audit (also by Price Waterhouse.) The last financial audit took place on
the 1996 accounts and it was clean. The last management audit took place in 1997 based
on 1996 accounts and concluded that (i) financial performance was satisfactory, (ii)
BOAD will face a shortage of resources, and (iii) BOAD has a floor for its interventions
which is too low resulting in high administrative costs compared to asset growth.
BOAD's financial position of is good despite the CFAF franc devaluation against the
French franc in January 1994 which idoubled all foreign borrowing: BOAD requested and
obtained a special subsidy to cover those losses. The capital adequacy ratio decreased
65



during the 1990-97 period from a high of 71% to a still strong 38% as of December 31,
1997. (See Appendix J).
Sources of Funds. BOAD's authorized capital was CFAF 240 billion as of December 31
1997 (see Appendix G). However only 10% was paid-in which amounts to CFAF 24.5
billion. The callable capital (CFAF 184 billion) guarantees the reimbursement of BOAD
borrowings. In January 1998, BOAD three main borrowing sources were: (i) the World
Bank; (ii) borrowings on the local regional capital markets (two bond issues and one long-
term paper on the money market) and (iii) the Japan Eximbank. BOAD also has other
credit lines such as the French Credit Acheteur, but most are tied and therefore not always
applicable. BOAD also benefits from grants totaling CFAF 19.5 billion of which 6.5
billion are committed. The Swiss and IDA special accounts are the major components of
those grant resources . The devaluation created a CFAF 17 billion loss. But this
exceptional loss is supported by the member states as they committed to a CFAF 17 billion
subsidy to be paid over the life of the borrowings. BOAD's net worth was therefore not
affected: it increased from CFAF 44 to 66 billion during this period (see Appendix H).
Use of Funds. During the 1990-97 period, outstanding loans increased almost threefold,
from CFAF 43 to 113 billion. Loans to the public sector (sovereign risk) increased from
CFAF 36 to 79 billion, whereas those to the private sector (private risk) increased from
CFAF 7 to 37 billion. Most of this growth took place after the January 1994 devaluation.
During this period, BOAD was a liquid institution with liquid assets ranging from CFAF
33 to 45 billion, although only part of it was available for funding loans as BOAD
manages many funds as a trustee. As of December 31, 1997, liquid assets amounted to
CFAF 40 billion. During this period, BOAD showed positive results between CFAF 2 and
3 billion prior to the devaluation and between CFAF 2 and 1 billion after. The decline in
profitability is the result of a combination of lower revenue on liquid assets (due to lower
interest rates) and higher funding costs as a greater proportion of resources is raised at
market rates. (See Appendix I).
This decline in profitability took place despite the fact that BOAD is approving on average
24 projects a year compared to 12 before the devaluation (see Appendix C). BOAD
probably processes more smaller projects which is to be expected as private sector activity
develops because those projects tend to be of a smaller size compared to public sector
projects. Keeping administrative costs in line will be a challenge to BOAD.
Interest Rate Structure. In 1990, BOAD created two windows: a public sector window
and a commercial window (including profitable public sector and private sector
investments). The applicable rate to a project depends on the nature of the project; such
rate is based on a reference rate to which a margin or a subsidy is added: in 1997, for the
public window, the equilibrium rate was 5.5% and for the commercial window, the
average cost of resources of the private sector was 6%.
66



Table C. BOAD's lending interest rate structure
Window           reference rate         [ margin or subsidy
public sector    equilibrium rate        rural development: -1.7%
roads:         -0.7%
commercial:    + 1.3%
private sector   average cost of private sector banks & financ inst.: +1 to 2 %
resources               co-financing:    +3 to 5 %
Off Balance Sheet. BOAD's off-balance sheet consists of the committed undisbursed
portions of loans. During the period under review, these commitments grew from CFAF
63 billion to CFAF 155 billion while the disbursement rate increased from 50% in 1990 to
54% 1997 according to BOAD's officials.
3.    The Portfolio
The public sector portfolio. During the period under review, the following countries
were suspended: Senegal for a year and half, Togo for three years and, Niger has been
suspended since 1991. As of December 31, 1997, Niger is the only country in arrears with
CFAF 4.7 billion including CFAF 3.4 billion in principal i.e. 4.4% of total government risk
portfolio. Niger has been in arrears with BOAD --and therefore of suspension of
operations-- since May 2, 1991.
The private sector portfolio. As of IDecember 31 1997, classified loans to the private
sector total CFAF 4.6 billion concerning 10 projects all approved before 1992. The two
most important loans are to SLALIM in Cote d'Ivoire (an IFC investment) for CFAF 2.5
billion and to African Sea Food in Senegal for CFAF 656 millions. The ratio of classified
loans to total loans to the private sector decreased from 52% in 1991 to 12% in 1997 due
to the growth of a healthy portfolio vwhich demonstrates an improved private sector risk
assessment capacity. However, this level of 12% is still too high. Since 1994 no loan was
downgraded to classified.  This classified portfolio is covered at 62%  by specific
provisions.
The equity portfolio. The equity pornfolio is largely funded by an equity fund. Member
states contribute to this fund which amounted to CFAF 8 billion at year en 1996.
BOAD's equity portfolio amounts to CFAF 11.3 billion at year end 1997 when valued at
cost but the accounting value is CFAF 9.3 billion; the ratio of net value-to-portfolio at
costs is 82%. BOAD has invested in 14 financial institutions and in seven enterprises.
The three main investments of the problem portfolio are Air Afrique, BND Burkina and,
BH-CI, with initial investments of, respectively, CFAF 2.5 billion, CFAF 0.5 billion and,
CFAF 150 million. At the end of 1997, the total value of these holdings was worth about
25% of the total initial investment. (see Appendix K).
67



BANQUE OUEST AFRICAINE DE DEVELOPPEMENT (BOAD)
THIRD REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 2089-WAF; Loan 3161-WAF)
APPENDIX M: STATUS OF EXTERNAL RESOURCES
January31, 1998
(CFAF million)
Source              Equity            Credit Lines        Non-reimbursable        Remarks about
Grants                 grants
1. Countries
Belgium                     2,200                 -                    1,996           financing of
studies
France                      4,600                 -                      -
Germany                     1,000
Netherlands                   -                   -                     136
Switzerland                   -                 3,037                  7,100           Rural Devel. Fund
Subtotal                    7,800               3,037                  9,232
L............. .................................................................................................................. ..........................................................
2. Bilateral
organizations
Eximbank Japan                -                 8,153
KfW                           -                 1,428                  1,018           counterpart funds
DEG                           -                 3,030
Belg. Mixed Credit            -                 4,872                   800
French Purch.                 -                25,394
Credit
CFD                           -                 9,610
Proparco                      -                 6,000
SwissMixed Credit             -                 4,112                  4,112           public portion
SEB Credit                    -                 6,062
Subtotal                      0                68,661                  5,930
...........................................................................................................   M i.....................   ............................... ....................
3. Multilateral
organizations
IBRD/IDA                      -                32,693                  2,131           counterpart funds
ADB/ADF                     2,000              12,252                   721            counterpart funds
EIB                          500                3,313                    -
IDB                           -                 4,910
Subtal             *-----               -      -----2 ........... 2?S.0  53,1 68 .....  2,852
GRAND TOTAL                10.300              124.866                18.014
68



C    f4   %O                 q
0                                         -
OX4
1z4
F-                     bi
0                                                                   ...".
'-   r    %O
0
                                                                                  .
r        _                            U    
_                                      (.   .                           U    4
:   0:                     -
4                                    4)        -      .                                                                            4)
    I..                                                                           '0
I-   4)
 00  -
z                                                                  
4)        4    
-                 4)
u                :
0'                                                                                     0    4)
4)
U
0%



ORGANIGRAMME DE LA BANQUE OUEST AFRICAINE DE DEVELOPPEMENT (BOAD))
Suite Decision No. 96-028 du 30/05/96
President
M. Boni YAYI
Cabinet
MMNI V. HOUNOUVI (CONSEILLER SPECIAIL)                            BUREAU DE L'EVALUATION DES
C. AGOSSA (CONSEILLER FINANCIER)                  _OPERATIONS & DE L'AUDIT INT. (BCEAO)
D. V- KOYO (ASSISTANT)   -M. YAMEOGON (Dir.)
T. ALOKO (A.R.P.)_
V. TRAORE (EXPERT COMMUNICAT.)
Division dc l'Audit
Internc (DAI)
_M. YAMEOGON
Division de L'Evaluation
des OpErations (DEO)
VICE PRESIDENT
M. Alpha TOURE
BUREAU DE REPRESENATION
BURKINA:        NI. V. KOIKOU
COTE D'IVOIRE: M. B. FAYE
SENEGAL:        NI. K. LANIIZANA
GEI'T. DES AFFAIRES      DEPT. DES RESSOTtRC    DEP'n'. DES FINANCES          DEPl't. DU FINANCENIEN'r   DEPT. DU FINANCEMEN'          ECO. DES ETUDES ET DE
MENERALES (DAI)           RNI.       A      .    El' DE LA CONIP''Al. (DFC)  DUl SECT-EUR PRIVE (DSP;. DU SECTEtJR PRIVE (DSP         LA COOP. (DIEC)
NI.C. LELLA-KOUASSI      NI. L. KANDA (Dir.)      NI.M. TIIIANI (Dir.)        Ai.I. KOULIBALI (Dir.)      M. K. WOMAS (Dir.)           M. J. HOUNTOMEY (Dir.)
(Dir. Adj)  NI. NI. ASKIA (Dir.Adj)  M.Y. SANOUSSI (Dir adj)     NI.D. TRAORE (Dir. adj      MI.F. FASSASSI (Dir. Adj)    M. 0. FALL (Dir. Adj)
(Dir. ~ Ad: N. I SIA(i.A
Div. des Affaires   1    Div. du Personnel         Div. Des Operations Fin.    Div. du Dev. Rural     M.R.K. AKA                          & de l'Assist.
Juridiques (DAJ)    J    et de ls Formation (DPF) -  el d la Treserorie (DOFT)  et des I'Environ. (DDRE  Conseiller  Div. d  Instit.      (DIEAP)
|Nl. C. LELLA-KOUASSI|  M. O. CISSE                 N | .M. TIIIAM              N | .S.G. IIASSANE                    F InancI H res s  .D.IF|  M. F. ZOUNGRAMA
.  ~ ~ M..   ADUB
Div. des--          I                              Div. de la comptabililt de des    Div. des Infrastruct. | '    |                                 Coo8.
el du Protocole (DCP)  |    Div. de I'Approvision.  opErations bancaires (DCOD  El de I'Energie (DIE)                Div. Prlts & Particif  D  detds C Ep
NI. V. TRAORE       j     et du Patrimoine (DAP)   NI.V. SANOUSSI              M.D. TRAORE
-- |M.M. ASKIA           l                                                                    1M. F. FASSASSI|
Div. Informat.          1                          Div. duControle;:p
Et Organisation (DIC)                             de GCestion (DCC)                                                 Div. Analyse etl     Div. de In Document.
| M.E. forogo      |                             | M.A. FAVAMA                                      ..:..*.*.-...|.Suivi des RIsques     De l'Informat & des
..(DASR) RNOArMhivesU(DDIA)
|M.K. TRONOU    . ||M. J. HOUNTOMEY



MAP SECTION



WEST AFRICA
WEST AFRICAN ECONOMIC AND MONETARY UNION
WEST AFRICAN ECONOMIC AND
MONETARY UNION MEMBERS
* NATIONAL CAPITALS
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
,.,, , . .. O . ... . ' z * wo < ~ A . .... .. / ] O % O  O 2 0
.          ..... .  MER  /                                   A   L   G        E   R    I  A                      L  I B       Y    A
ANS
:    AT   A:NrlCf            '       M    AUR.TANI                                         ..
.M                      qqsoto                   ;      _.    v  A U  R I T  A NIA
2                   ~~~~~~~~Nouakchott
0~~~~~~~ ~                                               MA50                              $  5 IOEES.? ;4    G   E R O 2  
CA ,. tistnp o                                                                       roue  dea  pg nt 9pra aldBnk. RIAo{A   --  
SENEGAL >  
GAMBIA,  ~~~~~~~~~~  ~   ~        ~          ~BURKINA>   *N        T,ef~o>   .       ,     .          Ca
Bamak cpcfc:TFAS                                         i/ CSUDAN
_s,Q                     ...BN'Diamena
BISSA   0  GUINEA  6                --------~~~m-g                                             -'
ra~~~~~_ ,, ,,, .    "..,. . ..                             :       _.,      .:           .             .        
Conakr4   =-\,,"                                                            N IG  E R  I A                 ,.
A LAN TIC ItCT.                                                          HN                             *Abujo             ,
FTeeefodowLEONE"                                                                                        'Ng 6EGHN    O 
OCEAN                            '~           -y          , .o                                                      N~              'CENTRAL
~J~BERIA,    Y ussuro                                                -KAFRICAN
Mpnonnvi                                     '-L14       qN~~                "                               REPUBLIC
~~AMIK'JUIN  ~    Bongul,,.
250         500      750 KIOMET' "S.MIbu7<                                                                              *aud         l
Thi map was Piroduced by' the Map Vemon Un,it of The W~orld Bank.                                       QTtRAL         L                     /      1
The: boundaries, colors, dfenanminations and onyo!her informotion shown                                        A,"                                        DEM. REP.
oin this map do not imsply, an the port of The Wobrld Bonk Group, any  iSAO TOEAND___-0F
iE udgment anf the 4eal status of any territory, or any endarsenent ar..INp                                             ~Libreville      (    OG                 OG
0oscc'eptonc6 of such botundaries.                                                                            VSa,o t m e                                     CONGON      o (-~
0'                a'~~~~~~1
'a l.2                       ~..1~.0                                                                                           o-                                  2.0' 



