Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2089 WAF
Development Credit Agreement
(Third Regional Development Project)
 between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
BANQUE OUEST AFRICAINE DE DEVELOPPEMENT
Dated March 30, 1990
CREDIT NUMBER 2089 WAF
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 30, 1990, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and BANQUE OUEST AFRICAINE DE DEVELOPPEMENT (the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
by a letter, dated December 22, 1989, addressed to the Association, the 
Borrower has stated its development strategy for the three-year period 1989-1992, 
outlining specific development objectives aimed at adapting its operations to the 
evolving economic environment and improving their economic impact, particularly in the 
area of regional economic cooperation;
(C)
the Borrower has also requested the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the Bank) to provide additional assistance towards the financing of 
the Project and, by an agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the 
Borrower (the Loan Agreement), the Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an 
aggregate principal amount equivalent to fifteen million dollars ($15,000,000) (the 
Loan);
(D)
the Borrower intends to contract from external commercial lender(s) an 
amount equivalent to about twenty million dollars ($20,000,000) to assist in the 
financing of its operations; and
Page  2
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing to 
extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement (the General Conditions) constitute an integral 
part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by the Borrower out 
of the proceeds of the Credit to an Investment Enterprise for the financing of an 
Investment Project; and "freelimit Sub-loan" means a Sub-loan which qualifies as a 
free-limit Sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 3 (b) of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement;
(b)
"Investment Enterprise" means the recipient of a Subloan;
 
(c)
"Investment Project" means a specific development project to be carried 
out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan;
(d)
"Eligible Member State" means any one of the following member states of 
the Union Monetaire Ouest Africaine: the People's Republic of Benin, Burkina Faso, the 
Republic of Mali, the Republic of Niger, the Republic of Senegal and the Republic of 
Togo;
(e)
"Member States" means the Eligible Member States and the Republic of Cote 
d'Ivoire;
(f)
"Statutes" means the Statutes of the Borrower approved on December 4, 
1973, as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(g)
"Statement of Policy" means the Statement of Lending and Investment 
Policy approved on September 24, 1974, by the Ministerial Committee responsible for 
the reform of the Union Monetaire Ouest Africaine, as amended to the date of this 
Agreement; and
(h)
"Subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of the outstanding 
voting stock or other proprietary interest is owned or effectively controlled by the 
Borrower or by any one or more subsidiaries of the Borrower or by the Borrower and one 
or more of its subsidiaries.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to thirty-two million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
32,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) amounts 
paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, amounts to be paid) by the Borrower on 
account of withdrawals made by an Investment Enterprise under a Sub-loan to meet the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Investment Project in respect 
of which the withdrawal from the Credit Account is requested; and (ii) expenditures 
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for Part B of the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1996, or such later date as 
Page  3
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
June 1 and December 1 commencing June 1, 2000 and ending December 1, 2029. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on December 1, 2009 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) any Eligible Member State gross national product per 
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 
dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider any such Eligible 
Member State creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the 
review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after 
due consideration by them of the development of the Eligible Member State's economy, 
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above in respect of 
the portion of such installments attributable to the amount of the Credit made 
available to the Eligible Member State concerned, by requiring the Borrower to repay 
twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount of 
the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association 
may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the 
amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with 
the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from 
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall 
not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment 
modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the economic condition of the Eligible Member 
State concerned has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested 
by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of 
installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a special account to which shall 
be debited: (i) all payments made by the Borrower to the Association pursuant to 
Section 2.05 of this Agreement; (ii) all proceeds received by the Borrower in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 4.03 of this Agreement in respect of 
Sub-loans; and (iii) a spread not exceeding three and one-fourth percent (3-1/4%) per 
annum on the principal amount of the Sub-loans outstanding from time to time, and to 
which shall be credited all payments of interest in respect of Sub-loans.
Page  4
(b)
The Borrower shall use any credit balances on said account exclusively 
for the purpose of financing, on a grant basis, specific measures of development 
assistance in the Eligible Member States.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project; Management
and Operations of the Borrower
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project and conduct its operations and affairs in accordance with sound financial, 
ecological and environmental standards and practices, with qualified management and 
personnel, and in accordance with the Statutes and Statement of Policy.
(b)
In order to assist the Borrower with the preparation, appraisal and 
supervision of projects, and the carrying out of the studies included in Part B (b) of 
the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants to be financed under Category (2) 
of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement and whose 
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be 
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with 
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank 
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981, provided, however, that no 
prior consultation with, or review or approval by, the Association shall be required 
with respect to any step in the selection process for consulting assignments costing 
less than US$50,000 each and, provided further, that the aggregate cost of such 
assignments shall not exceed US$500,000. Furthermore, the Borrower shall ensure that 
the studies included in Part B (b) (i), (ii) and (iii) shall have started not later 
than June 30, 1990.
(c)
For purposes of carrying out the Project and conducting its operations in 
accordance with sound ecological and environmental standards and practices, the 
Borrower shall: (i) take all necessary measures to strengthen the capacity of its 
staff in assessing the ecological and environmental aspects of projects; and (ii) 
formulate and apply policy guidelines, satisfactory to the Association, covering the 
ecological and environmental assessment of projects.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, Sub-loans will be made in accordance with the procedures and on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation to each Investment 
Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Association and of the 
Borrower; (ii) comply with its obligations under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the 
purposes of the Project.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall furnish to the Association at regular intervals 
all such information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the 
expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit, the Project, the Investment Enterprises, 
and the Investment Projects, including semiannual reports on the status of projects 
under preparation, the Sub-loans and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived 
from the foregoing.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall duly perform all its obligations in agreements 
which funds have been lent or otherwise put at the disposal of the Borrower by any of 
the Member States or others for relending, investment or management. The Borrower 
shall promptly inform the Association of any action which would have the effect of 
assigning, or of amending, abrogating or waiving any material provision of any such 
agreement.
Section 3.05. If the Borrower establishes or acquires any Subsidiary, the 
Borrower shall cause such Subsidiary to observe and perform the obligations of the 
Borrower hereunder to the extent to which such obligations shall or may be applicable 
thereto, as though such obligations were binding upon such Subsidiary.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain procedures and records adequate to 
monitor and record the progress of the Project and of each Investment Project 
Page  5
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it) and to reflect in 
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations and 
financial condition of the Borrower.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements), 
including the records and accounts for the special account 
referred to in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so 
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall not make any repayment in advance of maturity 
in respect of any outstanding debt of the Borrower which, in the judgment of the 
Association, would materially affect the Borrower's ability to meet its financial 
obligations.
Section 4.03. In order to protect itself against risk of loss resulting from 
changes in the rates of exchange between the currencies (including the CFA Franc) used 
in its lending and borrowing operations, the Borrower shall charge a foreign exchange 
risk fee of two and two-fifths percent (2-2/5%) per annum on the principal amount of 
its loans outstanding from time to time. The adequacy of this mechanism shall be 
reviewed annually by the Borrower and the Association and, if the Association shall 
not deem it to be satisfactory, the Borrower shall take such steps  satisfactory to 
the Association as shall be necessary to improve its protection against such risk.
Section 4.04. (a) The Association and the Borrower shall from time to time, at 
the request of either party, but not less than annually, exchange views through their 
representatives with regard to the administration, operations and financial condition 
of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, including its interest rate structure and the 
rationale therefor, and the Borrower shall furnish to the Association all such 
information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning any of these 
matters.
(b)
The Borrower shall: (i) carry out a comprehensive review of its portfolio 
Page  6
to determine the appropriate level of provisions to cover loan losses with respect to 
the fiscal year ending September 30, 1990; and (ii) annually update such review. The 
Borrower shall, in consultation with the Association, make appropriate provisions to 
cover such losses as may be prudent on the basis of the findings of such reviews.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
any part of the principal amount of any loan to the Borrower having an 
original maturity of one year or more shall, in accordance with its terms, have become 
due and payable in advance of maturity as provided in the relative contractual 
instruments, or any security for any such loan shall have become enforceable;
(b)
a change shall have been made in the Statutes or the Statement of Policy 
which would materially and adversely affect the operations or the financial condition 
of the Borrower;
(c)
a resolution shall have been passed for the dissolution or liquidation of 
the Borrower; and
(d)
a Subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created or acquired or 
taken over by the Borrower, if such creation, acquisition or taking over would 
adversely affect the conduct of the Borrower's business or the Borrower's financial 
condition or the efficiency of the Borrower's management and personnel or the carrying 
out of the Project.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) or paragraph (c) of 
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
(b)
the event specified in paragraph (d) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Association to the Borrower. 
ARTICLE VI
Termination
Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The President of the Borrower is designated as representative of 
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 2033
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Page  7
Banque Ouest Africaine de Developpement
Boite Postale 1172
Lome
Togo
Cable address:
Telex:
 
BOAD
5289
Lome
5336
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
BANQUE OUEST AFRICAINE DE DEVELOPPEMENT
By /s/ Abou Bakar Baba Moussa
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                                 Amount of the
                                Credit Allocated                % of
                                 (Expressed in             Expenditures
Category                         SDR Equivalent)          to be Financed
(1)  Sub-loans                     31,100,000             100% up to 80% 
    of the cost of 
    the Investment Project
(2) Consultants'                      900,000             90%
    services for
    Part B of the
    Project
        TOTAL                      32,000,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; or
 
(b)
a Sub-loan unless the Sub-loan has been made in accordance with the 
procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in financing such 
Page  8
productive facilities and resources in the Eligible Member States as will contribute 
to their economic and social development.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Financing of Investment Projects
 
Financing of Investment Projects through loans to Investment Enterprises in the 
territories of the Eligible Member States in furtherance of such corporate purposes of 
the Borrower as are provided in the Borrower's Statutes and Statement of Policy.
Part B:
Technical Assistance
 
(a)
Strengthening of the Borrower's capabilities in project preparation, 
appraisal and supervision. 
(b)
Carrying out of economic, sectoral and project feasibility studies, 
including inter alia: (i) a study relating to the establishment and operation of new 
banking institutions of a cooperative and mutualist type; (ii) a study on the 
prospects and modalities for developing the leasing business in the territories of the 
Member States; and (iii) a study to determine the feasibility of the establishment of 
a consulting firm by the Borrower.
*   *   *
Part B of the Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1993.
SCHEDULE 3
Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans
1.
The appraisal report for each Investment Project shall include: 
 
(a)
the technical feasibility, financial viability, economic justification, 
an assessment of impact in terms of environmental, health and safety considerations 
and, where applicable, commercial soundness and availability of markets; and
(b)
a calculation of the internal financial rate of return and of the 
economic rate of return, such calculations to be in accordance with guidelines 
satisfactory to the Association. Only Investment Projects with economic and financial 
rates of return of at least twelve percent (12%) shall be approved.
2.
The amount of each Sub-loan shall not exceed the equivalent of four million 
dollars ($4,000,000).
3.
No expenditures for goods or services required for an Investment Project shall 
be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit unless:
(a)
the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been approved by the 
Association and such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than one hundred 
twenty days prior to the date on which the Association shall have received the 
application and information required under paragraph 4 (a) of this Schedule in respect 
of such Sub-loan; or
(b)
the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been a free-limit 
Sub-loan for which the Association has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account 
and such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than one hundred twenty days 
prior to the date on which the Association shall have received the request and 
information required under paragraph 4 (b) of this Schedule in respect of such 
free-limit Sub-loan. For the purposes of this Agreement, a free-limit Sub-loan shall 
be a Sub-loan for an Investment Project in an amount to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit which shall not exceed the sum of: (i) $2,000,000 equivalent, 
when added to any other outstanding amounts financed or proposed to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit or of any other credit, provided for in any outstanding 
development credit agreement between the Borrower and the Association entered into 
before the date of this Agreement, the proceeds of which have been or are being used 
for financing goods and services directly and materially related to such Investment 
Project; or (ii) $27,000,000 equivalent, when added to all other free-limit Sub-loans 
financed or proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, 
the foregoing amounts being subject to change from time to time as determined by the 
Page  9
Association.
4.
(a)
When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit Subloan) to the 
Association for approval, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association an 
application, in form satisfactory to the Association, together with: (i) a description 
of the Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment Project, including a 
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit; (ii) the proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the 
pro-forma schedule of amortization of the Sub-loan or of repayment of the amount of 
the Credit to be used for the Investment; and (iii) such other information as the 
Association shall reasonably request.
(b)
Each request by the Borrower for authorization to make withdrawals from 
the Credit Account in respect of a free-limit Sub-loan shall contain: (i) a summary 
description of the Investment Enterprise and the Investment Project, including a 
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit; and (ii) the terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule of 
amortization therefor.
(c)
Applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions of 
sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph shall be presented to the Association on 
or before December 31, 1993.
5.
Sub-loans shall be made on terms whereby the Borrower shall obtain, by written 
contract with the Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate legal means, rights 
adequate to protect the interests of the Association and the Borrower, including the 
right to:
(a)
require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate the Investment 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, 
financial, managerial, ecological and environmental standards and practices and to 
maintain adequate records;
(b)
require that: (i) the goods and services to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit shall be purchased at a reasonable price, from suppliers or 
contractors eligible under "the Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985, account being taken also of other relevant 
factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods and 
availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor and, in the case of 
services, of their quality and the competence of the parties rendering them; and (ii) 
such goods and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the 
Investment Project;
(c)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Association, if 
the Association shall so request, such goods, works, plants and construction included 
in the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and 
documents;
(d)
require that: (i) the Investment Enterprise shall take out and maintain 
with responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as 
shall be consistent with sound business practices; and (ii) without any limitation 
upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to the 
place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a 
currency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or repair such goods;
(e)
obtain all such information as the Association or the Borrower shall 
reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and 
financial condition of the Investment Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived 
from the Investment Project; and
(f)
suspend or terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise to the use of 
the proceeds of the Credit upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform its 
obligations under its contract with the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 4
Modification of the General Conditions
For the purpose of this Development Credit Agreement, the provisions of the 
General Conditions are modified as follows:
Page  10
(1)
The words "to its members" in the first sentence of Section 1.01 are deleted.
 
(2)
Paragraph 5 of Section 2.01 is deleted and replaced by the following new 
paragraph:
"5. The term 'Borrower' means the party to the Development Credit 
Agreement to which the Credit is granted."
(3)
A new paragraph 15 is added to Section 2. 01 to read as follows: 
 
"15. The term 'Member States' means the People's Republic of Benin, 
Burkina Faso, the Republic of Cote d'Ivoire, the Republic of Mali, the 
Republic of Niger, the Republic of Senegal and the Republic of Togo."
(4)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(5)
The words "in the currency of the Borrower" in Section 4.01 are deleted and 
replaced by the words "in the currency of the Member States".
(6)
The words "the Borrower" in Section 4.06 (b) are deleted and replaced by the 
words "the Member States".
(7)
The following new paragraph (b) is added to Section 6.02:
 
"(b) A Member State shall have failed to make payment of principal, 
interest, service charges or any other amount due to the Association or the 
Bank: (i) under a development credit agreement between such Member State and 
the Association, or (ii) under any loan or guarantee agreement between such 
Member State and the Bank."
(8)
Paragraph (e) of Section 6.02 is deleted and replaced by the following new 
paragraph:
"(e) Any one or more of the Member States: (i) shall have been suspended 
from membership in or ceased to be a member of the Association; or (ii) shall 
have 
ceased to be a member of the International Monetary Fund".
(9)
The words "the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, terminate the right 
of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such amount. Upon the giving of 
such notice, such amount of the Credit shall be cancelled" set forth at the end of 
Section 6.03 are deleted and the following is substituted therefor:
" or (e) by the date specified in sub-paragraph 4 (c) of Schedule 3 to 
the Development Credit Agreement, the Association shall, in respect of any 
portion of the Credit: (i) have received no applications or requests permitted 
under sub-paragraph (a) or (b) of said paragraph; or (ii) have denied any such 
applications or requests, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, 
terminate the right to submit such applications or approvals or to make 
withdrawals from the Credit Account, as the case may be, with respect to such 
amount 
or portion of the Credit. Upon the giving of such notice, such amount 
or 
portion of the Credit shall be cancelled."
(10)  Section 8.01 is deleted and replaced by the following Section:
"Section 8.01. Taxes. (a) The principal of, and other charges on, the 
Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes levied 
by, or in the territories of, the Member States. 
(b)
The Development Credit Agreement, and any other agreement to which 
these General Conditions apply, shall be free from any taxes levied by, or in 
the territory of, the Member States or in connection with the execution, 
delivery or registration thereof."
(11)
Paragraph (b) of Section 9.01 is deleted and replaced by the following 
paragraph:
"(b) The Borrower shall take all action necessary or useful to ensure 
that the Member States afford all reasonable opportunity for representatives 
of the Association to visit any part of their territories for purposes related 
to the Credit."
(12)
Section 9.02 is deleted and replaced by the following Section: 
Page  11
"Section 9.02. Financial and Economic Data. The  Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably 
request with respect to the financial and economic conditions of the Member 
States as well as with respect to its own financial condition and that of any 
entity 
owned or controlled, or operating for the account or benefit of the 
Borrower."
(13)
The word governmental in paragraph (a) of Section 12.01 is deleted and replaced 
by the word "corporate".
