Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER
3161
WAF
Loan Agreement
(Third Regional Development Project)
 
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANQUE OUEST AFRICAINE DE DEVELOPPEMENT
Dated March
30,
1990
LOAN NUMBER
3161
WAF
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March
30,
1990
between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank) and BANQUE OUEST AFRICAINE DE DEVELOPPEMENT (the Borrower).
 
WHEREAS
(A) the Republic of Cote d'Ivoire (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, 
having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule
1
to this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;
(B)
by a letter dated December 22, 1989 addressed to the Bank, the Borrower 
has stated its development strategy for the three-year period 1989-1992, outlining 
specific development objectives aimed at adapting its operations to the evolving
economic environment and improving their economic impact, particularly in the area of
regional economic cooperation;
(C)
the Borrower has also requested the International Development Association 
(the Association) to provide additional assistance towards the financing of the 
Project and, by an agreement of even date herewith between the Association and the
Borrower
(the Development Credit Agreement), the Association is agreeing to provide 
such assistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to thirty-two million 
Special Drawing Rights
(SDR
32,000,000);
 
(D)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between 
the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of
the Borrower in respect of the Loan;
Page  2
(E)
the Borrower intends to contract from external commercial lender(s) an 
amount equivalent to about twenty million dollars
($20,000,000) to assist in the 
financing of its operations; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing to extend
the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section
1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth in 
Schedule
4
to this Agreement
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement.
Section
1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)
"Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by the Borrower out 
of the proceeds of the Loan to an Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project; and
"free-limit Sub-loan" means a Sub-loan which qualifies as a free-limit Sub-loan 
pursuant to the provision of paragraph
3
(b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
 
(b)
"Investment Enterprise" means the recipient of a Subloan; 
 
(c)
"Investment Project" means a specific development project to be carried 
out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan;
 
(d)
"Eligible Member State" means the Republic of Cote d'Ivoire, a member 
state of the Union Monetaire Ouest Africaine;
(e)
"Member States" means the Eligible Member State and the People's Republic 
of Benin, Burkina Faso, the Republic of Mali, the Republic of Niger, the Republic of
Senegal and the Republic of Togo;
(f)
"Statutes" means the Statutes of the Borrower approved on December 4, 
1973, as amended to the date of this Agreement; 
 
(g)
"Statement of Policy" means the Statement of Lending and Investment 
Policy approved on September
24,
1974, by the Ministerial Committee responsible for 
the reform of the Union Monetaire Ouest Africaine, as amended to the date of this
Agreement; and
(h)
"Subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of the outstanding 
voting stock or other proprietary interest is owned or effectively controlled by the
Borrower or by any one or more subsidiaries of the Borrower or by the Borrower and one
or more of its subsidiaries.
 
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section
2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that
shall have an aggregate value equivalent: to the amount of fifteen million dollars 
($15,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each 
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section
2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
2
to this Agreement for amounts paid
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, amounts to be paid) on account of withdrawals made by 
an Investment Enterprise under a Sub-loan to meet the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Investment Project in respect of which the withdrawal from
the Loan Account is requested, up to seventy percent
(70%) of the total cost of the 
Investment Project.
 
Page  3
(b)
No withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (i) payments made for 
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; or
(ii) expenditures by an 
Investment Enterprise in respect of a Subloan unless the Sub-loan has been made in 
accordance with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in Schedule
2
to this Agreement.
 
Section
2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1996, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the 
Guarantor of such later date.
 
Section
2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not  withdrawn from time to time.
 
Section
2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section
2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
 
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined
in respect of such Semester. 
 
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately
preceding each date specified in Section
2.06
of this
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this
Agreement is signed.
 
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June
30, 
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank 
has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans 
which may be made by the Bank after July
1,
1989, bearing interest 
rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph
(a)
of
this Section.
 
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
 
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs
(a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal
to the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates 
specified in Section
2.06
of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
 
"(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."
 
"(c) (iii) 'Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April
1, July
1
or October
1
in a calendar year." 
 
Section
2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on June 1 
and December
1
in each year.
 
Section
2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule
3
to this Agreement.
 
ARTICLE III
Page  4
Execution of the Project; Management
and Operations of the Borrower
Section
3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule
1
to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out
the Project and conduct its operations and affairs in accordance with sound financial,
ecological and environmental standards and practices, with qualified management and
personnel, and in accordance with the Statutes and Statement of Policy.
 
(b)
For purposes of carrying out the Project and conducting its operations in 
accordance with sound ecological and environmental standards and practices, the
Borrower shall: (i) take all necessary measures to strengthen the capacity of its 
staff in assessing the ecological and environmental aspects of projects; and
(ii) 
formulate and apply policy guidelines, satisfactory to the Association, covering the
ecological and environmental assessment of projects.
 
Section
3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, Sub-loans will be made in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule
2
to this Agreement.
 
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation to each Investment 
Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Bank and of the 
Borrower;
(ii) comply with its obligations under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the 
purposes of the Project.
 
Section
3.03. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank at regular intervals all 
such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the expenditure of
the proceeds of the Loan, the Project, the Investment Enterprises, the Investment
Projects, including semiannual reports on the status of projects under preparation,
the Sub-loans and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from the foregoing. 
 
Section
3.04. The Borrower shall duly perform all its obligations in agreements 
under which funds have been lent or otherwise put at the disposal of the Borrower by
any of the Member States or others for relending, investment or management. The 
Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any action which would have the effect of
assigning, or of amending, abrogating or waiving any material provision of, any such
agreement.
Section
3.05. If the Borrower establishes or acquires any Subsidiary, the 
Borrower shall cause such Subsidiary to observe and perform the obligations of the
Borrower hereunder to the extent to which such obligations shall or may be applicable
thereto, as though such obligations were binding upon such Subsidiary.
 
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section
4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain procedures and records adequate to 
monitor and record the progress of the Project and of each Investment Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it) and to reflect in 
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations and
financial condition of the Borrower. 
 
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited; and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
 
Page  5
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from
the Loan Account was made, all records
(contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph
(b)
of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals.
 
Section
4.02. The Borrower shall not make any repayment in advance of maturity 
in respect of any outstanding debt of the Borrower which, in the judgement of the
Bank, would materially affect the Borrower's ability to meet its financial
obligations.
 
Section
4.03. In order to protect itself against risk of loss resulting from 
changes in the rates of exchange between the currencies
(including the CFA Franc) used 
in its lending and borrowing operations, the Borrower shall charge a foreign exchange
risk fee of two and two-fifths percent (2-2/5%) per annum on the principal amount of 
its loans outstanding from time to time. The adequacy of this mechanism shall be 
reviewed annually by the Borrower and the Bank and, if the Bank shall not deem it to
be satisfactory, the Borrower shall take such steps satisfactory to the Bank as shall
be necessary to improve its protection against such risk.
 
Section
4.04. (a) The Bank and the Borrower shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, but not less than annually, exchange views through their
representatives with regard to the administration, operations and financial conditions
of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, including its interest rate structure and the
rationale therefor, and the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all such information as
the Bank shall reasonably request concerning any of these matters.
 
(b)
The Borrower shall: (i) carry out a comprehensive review of its portfolio 
to determine the appropriate level of provisions to cover loan losses with respect to
the fiscal year ending September
30,
1990; and
(ii) annually update such review. The 
Borrower shall, in  consultation with the Bank, make appropriate provisions to cover
such losses as may be prudent on the basis of the findings of such reviews.
 
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section
5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a)
any part of the principal amount of any loan to the Borrower having an 
original maturity of one year or more shall, in accordance with its terms, have become
due and payable in advance of maturity as provided in the relative contractual
instruments, or any security for any such loan shall have become enforceable;
(b)
a change shall have been made in the Statutes or in the Statement of 
Policy which would materially and adversely affect the operations or the financial
conditions of the Borrower;
(c) a resolution shall have been passed for the dissolution or liquidation of 
the Borrower; and
(d)
a Subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created or acquired or 
taken over by the Borrower, if such creation, acquisition or taking over would
adversely affect the conduct of the Borrower's business or the Borrower's financial
Page  6
condition or the efficiency of the Borrower's management and personnel or the carrying
out of the Project.
 
Section
5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
 
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) or paragraph (c) of 
Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
 
(b)
the event specified in paragraph (d) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
 
ARTICLE VI
Termination
Section
6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
 
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section
7.01. The President of the Borrower is designated as representative of 
the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
 
Section
7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
 
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818
H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
 
For the Borrower:
Banque Ouest Africaine de Developpement
Boite Postale
1172
Lome
Togo
Cable address:
Telex:
 
BOAD
5289
Lome
5336
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
/s/
Edward V. K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
Page  7
BANQUE OUEST AFRICAINE DE DEVELOPPEMENT
By
/s/
Abou Bakar Baba Moussa
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
1
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in financing such
productive facilities and resources in the Eligible Member State as will contribute to
its economic and social development.
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications
thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:
 
Part A:
Financing of Investment Projects
 
Financing of Investment Projects through loans to Investment Enterprises in the
territory of the Eligible Member State in furtherance of such corporate purposes of
the Borrower as are provided in the Borrower's Statutes and Statement of Policy.
 
Part B:
Technical Assistance
 
(a)
Strengthening of the Borrower's capabilities in project preparation, 
appraisal and supervision. 
 
(b)
Carrying out of economic, sectoral and project feasibility studies, 
including inter alia: (i) a study relating to the establishment and operation of new 
banking institutions of a cooperative and mutualist type;
(ii) a study on the 
prospects and modalities for developing the leasing business in the territories of the
Member States; and
(iii) a study to determine the feasibility of the establishment of 
a consulting firm by the Borrower.
 
*   *   *
Part B of the Project is expected to be completed by December
31, 1993.
 
SCHEDULE
2
Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans
 
1.
The appraisal report for each Investment Project shall include: 
 
(a)
the technical feasibility, financial viability, economic justification, 
an assessment of impact in terms of environmental, health and safety considerations
and, where applicable, commercial soundness and availability of markets; and
(b)
a calculation of the internal financial rate of return and of the 
economic rate of return, such calculations to be in accordance with guidelines
satisfactory to the Bank. Only Investment Projects with economic and financial rates 
of return of at least twelve percent
(12%)
shall be approved.
 
2.
The amount of each Sub-loan shall not exceed the equivalent of four million 
dollars
($4,000,000). 
 
3.
No expenditures for goods or services required for an Investment Project shall 
be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan unless:
 
(a)
the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been approved by the 
Bank and such expenditures shall have been made nor- earlier than one hundred twenty 
days prior to the date on which the Bank shall have received the application and
information required under paragraph
4
(a)
of this Schedule in respect of such
Sub-loan; or
 
(b)
the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been a free-limit 
Sub-loan for which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account and such 
Page  8
expenditures shall have been made not earlier than one hundred twenty days prior to
the date on which the Bank shall have received the request and information required
under paragraph
4
(b) of this Schedule in respect of such free-limit Sub-loan. For the 
purposes of this Agreement, a free-limit Sub-loan shall be a Sub-loan for an 
Investment Project in an amount to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan which
shall not exceed the sum of: (i) $2,000,000 equivalent, when added to any other 
outstanding amounts financed or proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, or of any other loan, provided for in any outstanding loan agreement between the
Borrower and the Bank entered into before the date of this Agreement, the proceeds of
which have been or are being used for financing goods and services directly and
materially related to such Investment Project, or
(ii)
$27,000,000 equivalent, when 
added to all other free-limit Sub-loans financed or proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan and the Credit, the foregoing amounts being subject to change
from time to time as determined by the Bank.
 
4.
(a)
When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit Subloan) to the Bank 
for approval, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form
satisfactory to the Bank, together with: (i) a description of the Investment 
Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment Project, including a description of the
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan;
(ii) the 
proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the pro-forma schedule of 
amortization of the Sub-loan or of repayment of the amount of the Loan to be used for 
the Investment; and
(iii) such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
 
(b)
Each request by the Borrower for authorization to make withdrawals from 
the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit Subloan shall contain: (i) a summary 
description of the Investment Enterprise and the Investment Project, including a
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan; and
(ii) the terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule of 
amortization therefor.
 
(c)
Applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions of 
sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph shall be presented to the Bank on or 
before December
31,
1993.
 
5.
Sub-loans shall be made on terms whereby the Borrower shall obtain, by written 
contract with the Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate legal means, rights
adequate to protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower, including the right
to:
 
(a)
require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate the Investment 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical,
financial, managerial, ecological and environmental standards and practices and to
maintain adequate records;
(b)
require that: (i) the goods and services to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be purchased at a reasonable price, from suppliers and
contractors eligible under
"the Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits published by the Bank in May
1985", account being taken also of other relevant 
factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods and
availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor and, in the case of
services, of their quality and the competence of the parties rendering them; and
(ii) 
such goods and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the
Investment Project;
(c)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank if the 
Bank shall so request, such goods, works, plants and construction included in the
Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
(d)
require that: (i) the Investment Enterprise shall take out and maintain 
with responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as
shall be consistent with sound business practice; and
(ii) without any limitation upon 
the foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the
place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a
currency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or repair such goods;
(e)
obtain all such information as the Bank or the Borrower shall reasonably 
request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial
condition of the Investment Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived from the
Investment Project; and
Page  9
(f)
suspend or terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise to the use of 
the proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform its
obligations under its contract with the Borrower.
 
SCHEDULE
3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
June
1,
1995                                    275,000
December
1, 1995                                285,000
June
1,
1996                                    295,000
December
1, 1996                                305,000
June
1,
1997                                    320,000
December
1, 1997                                330,000
June
1,
1998                                    345,000
December
1, 1998                                355,000
June
1,
1999                                    370,000
December
1, 1999                                385,000
June
1,
2000                                    400,000
December
1, 2000                                415,000
June
1,
2001                                    430,000
December
1, 2001                                450,000
June
1,
2002                                    465,000
December
1, 2002                                485,000
June
1,
2003                                    500,000
December
1, 2003                                520,000
June
1,
2004                                    540,000
December
1, 2004                                560,000
June
1,
2005                                    585,000
December
1, 2005                                605,000
June
1,
2006                                    630,000
December
1, 2006                                655,000
June
1,
2007                                    680,000
December
1, 2007                                705,000
June
1,
2008                                    735,000
December
1, 2008                                760,000
June
1,
2009                                    790,000
December
1, 2009                                825,000
 
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
 
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section
3.04
(b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
 
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate
(expressed
as a percentage per annum) 
applicable to the Loan on
the day of prepayment
multiplied by:
 
Not more than three years
0.15
before maturity
More than three years but
0.30
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.55
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not
0.80
Page  10
more than sixteen years
before maturity
More than sixteen years but not
0.90
more than eighteen years
before maturity
More than eighteen years before
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE
4
Modification of the General Conditions
For the purpose of this Loan Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions
are modified as follows:
 
(1)
A new paragraph 21 is added to Section 2.01 to read as follows:
 
"21. The term 'Member States' means the People's Republic of Benin, 
Burkina Faso, the Republic of Cote d'Ivoire, the Republic of Mali, the
Republic of Niger, the Republic of Senegal and the Republic of Togo."
 
(2)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(3)
Paragraph (f) of Section 6.02 is deleted and replaced by the following new 
paragraph:
"(f) Any one or more of the Member States: (i) shall have been suspended 
from membership in or ceased to be a member of the Bank; or
(ii) shall have 
ceased to be a member of the International Monetary Fund."
 
(4)
The words "the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, terminate 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such amount. Upon the 
giving of such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be cancelled" set forth at the 
end of Section
6.03 are deleted and the following is substituted therefor: 
 
"or (e) by the date specified in sub-paragraph 4 (e) of Schedule 2 to 
the Loan Agreement, the Bank shall, in respect of any portion of the Loan: (i) 
have received no applications or requests permitted under sub-paragraph
(a) or 
(b) of 
said paragraph; or
(ii) have denied any such applications or requests, 
the Bank may, 
by notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, terminate the right
to submit such
applications or approvals or to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account, as the case
may be, with respect to such amount or portion of the
Loan. Upon the 
giving of such notice, such amount or portion of the Loan shall
be cancelled."
 
(5)
Section 8.01 is deleted and replaced by the following Section: 
 
"Section 8.01. Taxes. (a) The principal of, and other charges on, the 
Loan shall be paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes levied by,
or in the territories of, the Member States. 
 
(b)
The Loan Agreement and the Guarantee Agreement and any other 
agreement to which these General Conditions shall apply, shall be free from
any taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Member States on or in
connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof."
(6)
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.01 is deleted and replaced by the following 
paragraph:
"(c) The Borrower shall take all action necessary or useful to ensure 
that the Member States afford all reasonable opportunity for representatives
of the Bank to visit any part of their territories for purposes related to the
Loan."
 
(7)
Section 9.02 is deleted and replaced by the following Section: 
 
"Section 9.02. Financial and Economic Data. (a) The Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
with respect to the financial and economic conditions of the Member States as
well
as with respect to its own financial condition and that of any entity
owned
or controlled, or operating for the account or benefit of the Borrower.
Page  11
(b)
The Guarantor shall furnish to the Bank all such information as 
the Bank shall reasonably request with respect to financial and economic
conditions in its territory, including its balance of payments and its
external debt as well as that of its political and administrative subdivisions
and of
any entity owned or controlled by, or operating for the account or
benefit of, such Guarantor or any such subdivision, and of any institution
performing the functions of a central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or
similar functions, for such Guarantor."
 
