Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Iep.t No. P-4052-INC
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
iNTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO Us$43.4 MILLION
TO TME
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR THE
WEST TARUK CANAL IMeROVEMENT PROJECT
may 1, 1985
Thi do_uueat be a resticted dthtleum mu   y be wed by redplnt ony i the perfammmce o
their mEdal dut  Its lb tmy not .dtwis be disrued without WgId Bak autbwi_atim



CURRENCY EQUIVALENS
Currency unit    =   Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00    =   RP 1,100
Rp I million    =   US$909
GOVERNIENT OF INDONESIA FISCAL YEAR
April I - March 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIAIIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
DGWRD           -   Directorate General of Water Resources Development
DKI-Jakarta     -   Daerah Xhusus Ibukota - Jakarta City Government
ERR             -   Economic Rate of Return
GOI             -   Government of Indonesia
IPEDA           -   Iuran Pembangunan Daerah (land tax)
JSSP            -   Jakarta Sewerage and Sanitation Project
ICB             -   International Competitive Bidding
LCB             -   Local Competitive Bidding
LIB             -   Limited International Bidding
O&M             -   Operation and Maintenance
OM&R            -   Operation, Maintenance and Replacement
PDAM-DKI Jaya- -   Perusahaan Daerah Air Minum - Jakarta's Public Water
supply Utility
POJ             -   Perusahaan Otorita Jatiluhur (the Jatiluhur Authority)
PROSIJAT        -   Irrigation Project Unit in POJ
REPELITA        -   National Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita I, 1969-74;
Repelita II, 1974-79; Repelita III, 1979-84; Repelita IV,
1984-89; Repelita V, 1989-94)
WTC             -   West Tarum Canal
.



FOR OMcIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
WEST TARM CANAL IMPROVEMT PROJECT
Loan and Project Sunary
Borrower:         Republic of Indonesia
Amount:           $43.4 million
Terms:            Repayable in 20 years, including 5 years grace, at the stan-
dard variable rate.
Project
Description:   The main objectives of the proposed project, which will serve
the agriculture and urban sectors, are to increase rural
incomes and food production through Larger irrigation
supplies, and to improve urban living conditions through
increased and improved raw water supply to Jakarta. Toward
these objectives, the proposed project includes (a) improve-
ment of the West Tarum Canal (WTC) and its major structures,
(b) the construction of a pipeline from the canaL to the
Pulogadung Treatment plant; (c) strengthening the operation
and maintenance (0M) capacity and financial condition of the
Jatiluhur Authority; (d) technical assistance for: (i)
construction supervision, (ii) design of a future conveyance
canal and pipeline, (iii) land mapping for reclassification
and reassessment of taxation, (iv) protection of raw water,
and (v) improvement of safety measures at the Jatiluhur
Dam. Agricultural beneficiaries will include mostly small-
holders, with incomes below absolute poverty, in about 67,000
ha at West Tarum, in West Java, while urban beneficiaries
vill be Jakarta's residents whose highly inadequate water
supply will be improved. To improve traditionally inadequate
O&M funding, the project provides for increased cost sharing
by beneficiaries in both sectors. Urban beneficiaries
through direct water charges will pay the entire cost of
supplying raw water, while irrigation beneficiaries will pay
part of recurrent costs through Land taxes. While these
arrangements should ensure adequate O&L funding, and hence
satisfactory O&H of the improved Canal, there is some risk of
delay in putting them into place, and consequently inadequate
funding or below-standard O&M. However, the Government has
already indicated readiness to increase land taxes, to assign
priority in the use of a portion of these taxes for O&M, and
to supplement such funds, as required, for adequate O&M.
Jakarta's Municipal Water Utility has also agreed to pay its
share of O&M and capital costs.
Thisdocumct h L retirkd ditibutionand may be uwd by roSpcntsonl in theperformnnst
of thew officWdub  Its contentsmay nototherwoe be docksed wdblout Wodd Bmkautonuoise6L|



- ii -
Estimated Costs: /a                                 Local    Foreign    Total
(tUS$ million) -
West Tarum CanAl                    10.0       14.1     24.1
Pulogadung Pipeline                 3.9         5.5      9.4
Equipment                           0.3         6.5      6.8
Mapping                              0.2        1.4      1.6
Technical Assistance                2.2         3.6      5.8
Engineering and Administration      4.1          -       4.1
Total Base Cost                    20.7        31.1     51.8
Physical Contingencies              3.4         5.3      8.7
Price Increases                     5.3         7.0     12.3
Total Project Cost                 29.4        43.4     72.8
Financing Plan:
Bank                                 -         43.4     43.4
Government of Indonesia            29.4          -      29.4
Total                            29.4        43.4     72.8
Estimated Disbursements:  Bank FY          1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992
________  -   .-US$ million)
Annual            0.4   3.9   6.9   7.8   5.7   7.9  10.8
Cumuladtive       0.4   4.3  11.2  19.0  24.7  32.6  43.4
Rate of Return: 26Z.
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 5429-IND, dated April 24, 1985.
Maps: IBRD Nos. 18504 and 18505.
.
Ja Including $4.8 million in taxes on civil works.



REPORT AND RECONMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPNENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC
OF INDONESIA FOR THE WEST TARUM CANAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the RepubLic of Indonesia for the equivalent of US$43.4 million to help
finance the West Tarum Canal Improvement Project. The loan would have a term
of 20 years, including five years of grace, at the standard variable interest
rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A basic economic report, "Indonesia:  Growth Patterns, Social Pro-
gress and Development Prospects" (No. 2093-IND dated February 20, 1979), was
distributed to the Executive Directors on February 26, 1979, and a country
economic memorandum has been prepared in each subsequent year. The latest of
these, entitled "Indonesia: Policies and Prospects for Economic Growth and
Transformation" (No. 5066-IND dated April 26, 1984), was distributed to the
Executive Directors on May 2, 1984. Annex I gives selected social and econo-
mic indicators for the country.
Background
3.        The Republic of Indonesia is a highly diverse country spread across
an archipelago of more than 13,000 islands with a land area of about two mil-
Lion sq km. It now has a population of over 155 million, growing at about
2.1Z p.a., and is the world's fifth most populous nation. The country has a
diversified resource base, with plentiful primary energy resources, signifi-
cant mineral deposits, large timber potential and a developed system of agri-
cultural commodity production and export. A high proportion of these primary
resources are located on the sparsely populated islands of Sumatra and
Kalimantan, while two-thirds of the population live on Java, which has areas
with some of the highest rural population densities in the world. About a
quarter of the population lives in urban areas, and the current rate of urban
population growth is about 4% p.a.  The 1983 estimate of GNP " r capita is
US$560, which places Indonesia among middle income countries._
11   Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Fourth
Population Project (No. P-4026-IND), circulated under cover of R85-104,
dated April 18, 1985, and submitted to the Executive Directors for
consideration on May 7, 1985.
2/   On the basis of the World Bank's system of country classification and
Atlas methodology for calculation of GNP.



-2-
Macroeconomic Developments and Resource Menagement
4.        Until 1981, the economy had been growing at almost 8X p.a. for over
a decade. This growth was associated with rapid increases in-public expendi-
tures, total investment and savings. The initial impetus for this occurred in
the period of recovery from the turbulence of the mid-1960s. The Government
of Indonesia (GOI) took effective action to restore macroeconomic stability,
liberalize the economy, rehabilitate infrastructure, and provide incentives
for domestic and foreign private investment. However, the dominant external
influence over the past decade has been the huge expansion, and significant
variability, in foreign exchange earnings from oil. Met exports from the oil
and gas sector rose from US$0.6 billion in 1973174 to US$10.6 billion in
1980181, whe the current account enjoyed a surplus of US$2.1 billion. Oil
receipts also provided about 60Z of Central Government receipts by 1980/81 and
helped finance a sustained increase in demand. The pattern of expenditures
has also helped foster diversified growth. Of particular note has been the
support for agriculture, through investment in infrastructure, support ser-
vices and effective use of subsidies to maintain producer incentives. This
supported an agricultural growth rate of almost 4Z p.a. over the past decade,
and movenent towards self-sufficiency in rice. Manufacturing also enjoyed a
high growth rate during the 1970s (of about 14% p.a.), although this was from
a very low base and predominantly oriented toward the protected domestic
market.
5.        During 1982, the Indonesian economy was affected adversely by the
protracted international recession and the accompanying decline in export
earnings, especially from oil. These developments led to a sharp turnaround
in Indonesia's external resource position and a fall in real per capita
incomes. In response, the Government acted promptly to ensure that the
country's balance of payments situation was manageable and to provide a basis
for longer-term structural transformation. Particular attention was paid to
reducing Indonesia's dependence on oil for export earnings and public
revenues. Specific measures introduced over the past two years include:
(a) a 28Z devaluation of the rupiah against the US dollar in March 1983,
without any change in the policy of full convertibility;
(b) a major rephasing (postponement/cancellation) of large-scale and
import-intensive public investments, especially in the industrial
sector;
(c) successive price increases for petroleum products, which have
largely eliminated domestic subsidies;
(d) a far-reaching financial reform, including the liberalization of
interest rates and the abandonment of credit ceilings; and
(e) introduction of a comprehensive tax reform program, aimed at
increasing government revenues by broadening the tax base,
simplifying the structure of rates and improving administration.



f- - ~ ~   ~      ~     ~     ~      3
3
6.        These measures, aided by more favorabLe trends in the world economy,
are aLready having their desired impact. Non-oil GDP rose by an estimated 4Z
during 1983 and the balance of payments situation is improving. In partic-
ular, the current account deficit was reduced from US$7.3 billion (8.4% of
GNP) in 1982183 to an estimated US$2.7 billion (3.5Z of GNP) in 1984/85. The
major factors responsible for this improvement are import cuts, resulting from
the Government's efforts to curb aggregate demand, and higher export earnings
from non-oil products, due to recovery in the industrial countries and the
Government's policies to promote non-oil exports. The Government's restraint
is also evident in the budget, where real expenditures have probably fallen
over the past three years. This fiscal discipline, in turn, helped keep
domestic inflation down to about 12% in 1983 and 9% in 1984, despite the
inevitable pressures associated with the 1983 devaluation and the petroleum
price adjustments.
Policies for Medium-Term Growth and Transformation
7.        Sustained growth of the non-oil economy by at least 5Z p.a. is
probably necessary to have a significant impact on employment creation and
poverty alleviation over the remainder of this decade. To promote such a
growth rate, without generating unmanageable balance of payments pressures, is
one of the major challenges facing the Government. Successful transformation
of the economy will require continued action in three key policy areas:
management of the public investment program (and improvements in the
regulatory/policy environment for private investment), rationalization of the
external trade regime and development of the financial sector.
8.        The projected import constraint imposes serious limitations on the
rate at which Indonesia can undertake new investments over the next few years.
At the same time, some reallocation of resources towards agriculture and the
social sectors might be justified, in order to reduce the import content of
investment while still meeting the Government's employment objectives. It is
therefore important that mechanisms are established to facilitate orderly and
rational adjustments to the public investment program. Possible options
include preparation of multi-year expenditure plans (at least for the larger
projects), identification of a core progrdm of high priority projects and
strengthening of project appraisallselection procedures. The Government is
also considering ways to improve project implementation, so that investment
returns can be realized more promptly. Given the budgetary constraints, it is
expected that the private sector will be called upon to play an increasingly
important role in capital formation. To encourage this process, the
Government announced in August 1983 that there would be a major overhaul of
the regulatory framework for private investment, with the objective of simpli-
fying and streamlining the licensing system.
9.        The recent decline in the price of oil has clearly demonstrated the
importance of reducing the economy's heavy dependence on a single source of
foreign exchange and, more generally, the need to rationalize the external
trade regime. The Government has set a target of doubling non-oil exports in
nominal terms over the next five years. This target should be attainable
provided that economic recovery in the industrial economies is sustained,
Indonesia's access to those markets is not constrained by protectionist



-4-
measures and, most importantly, Indonesia follows appropriate trade and
exchange rate policies. The Government has already introduced a range of
export promotion measures intended to improve export incentives, ensure ready
access to finance for exporters, raise product quality and enhance marketing
capacity. However, over the longer term, there is no effective substitute for
comprehensive trade reform. On the import side, Indonesia's trade regime has
been characterized by a predilection for high tariffs and quantitative
restrictions. The difficult external payments situation faced by the country
since 1982 has reinforced this tendency. There are strong arguments for
adopting trade and industrial poLicies which provide more equal incentives for
supplying the domestic and export markets. A comprehensive program of import
policy reforms might include a rollback of import bans, gradual reductions in
tariffs, adjustment assistance to industries affected by import liberalization
and anti-dumping legislation to protect domestic industries from unfair
competition. Such measures would help to improve the efficiency and
competitiveness of the economy.
10.       The Goverment's decision to move towards a more liberal financial
environment raises a number of issues relating to resource mobilizatioa,
financial intermediation and credit allocation. Over the longer term, as the
scope for subsidized credit is reduced, the banking system will have to play
an increasingly important role in mobilizing domestic resources. However,
during the transition period, some potential conflicts between the resource
mobilization and credit allocation objectives could arise. For example, the
increase in deposit rates following the recent financial reforms, while
encouraging resource mobilization, has also led to high real lending rates
which have tended to dampen investment and credit demand. This in turn may
restrain economic activity. It is therefore important to find ways to reduce
the high intermediation costs of banks. Consideration should also be given to
other ways of mobilizing financial resources, including development of a
capital market, expansion of the banking network (especially in rural areas)
and selective relaxation of restrictions on private banks (combined with
increased bank supervision).
Incomes, Employment and Human Development
11.       Indonesia's physical, human and economic resources are very unevenly
distributed between its main regions. Java, for example, accounts for almost
50% of Indonesia's GDP and 62Z of its population, but only 7% of its land
area. Although all five of the country's main regions experienced rapid per
capita growth in the 1970s, regional differences in output tended to widen.
To a large extent, differences in performance are associated with the impor-
tance of the mineral sector, particularly petroleum. However, there are two
important processes at work in Indonesia which enable the benefits of growth
to be more evenly spread than indicated by output trends.  The first of these
is migration. Between 1971 and 1980, 4.3 million people (or 16% of the
natural increase in population) resettled permanently in provinces outside
those of their birth. Approximately 1.7 million people moved from Java to the
Other Islands, of whom one million were resettled through the official trans-
migration program. There has also been substantial rural-urban migration both
between and within provinces. The second process is the redistribution of
income through the government budget. Regional variations in per capita



-5-
consumption are much less pronounced than differences in per capita output.
This is largely due to the impact of taxation on the oil sector.
12.       An analysis of household expenditures indicates that Indonesia's
rapid economic development has been accompanied by significant-progress in
reducing poverty. Between 1970 and 1980, the proportion of the population
living in poverty declined from 57% to 40X; the decline was particularly rapid
in the Other Islands and in urban areas. The core of the poverty problem con-
tinues to be in rural Java, where landless laborers form a large, and possibly
rising, proportion of the population and where, for most of the 1970s, there
is little evidence of any rise in real agricultural wages. The 1979-81 bumper
rice harvests appear to have led to improvements in wages and incomes in Java,
while agricultural incomes in parts of the Other Islands dependent on export
crops declined. This situation may have been reversed following the 1983
devaluation, but evidence on this is still inconclusive.
13.       In the future, the availability of productive employment will be a
key determinant of income distribution. As compared to the 1970s, the growth
in the labor force is expected to increase over the next decade (to about 2.7%
p.a.) while economic growth will be lower. The resultant squeeze in the labor
market is not expected to lead to a dramatic increase in unerployment but
there is a serious risk of stagnant or declining labor income in both rural
areas and the urban informal sector. Given the balance of payments constraint
Lacing the country, Indonesia's employment outlook depends crucially on the
pattern of economic growth. Although over the long term the structural shift
in employment away from agriculture should continue, this sector will still
account for half or more of total employment and the growth in agricultural
incomes will be an important determinant of job opportunities elsewhere in the
economy. It is therefore important to maintain an appropriate policy on agri-
cultural mechanization (e.g., by ensuring purchases of equipment are at econo-
mic prices), to spread labor demand on Java throughout the agricultural year
(e.g., by improving water resource management and development) and to encourage
agricultural development on the Other Islands. It is also important that
public expenditures are increasingly directed toward sectors, such as social
programs and rural infrastructure, which generate employment or ease the
burden of adjustment on the poor. For the private sector, the Government
needs to ensure that incentives appropriately reflect the priority for labor-
intensive investments.
14.       There has been substantial progress in extending the provision of
social services throughout the population. Universal enrollment in primary
education has been virtually achieved and the enrollment rate in secondary
schools is now about 35Z. However, the weak educational base of the popula-
tion continues to be a major obstacle to rapid economic development and a
substantial further expansion of secondary and tertiary education will be
necessary as well as a major effort to raise the quality of .he whole system.
In the health sector, there has been a large expansion in facilities, notably
at the sub-district level, but contiaued investment and an improvement in
quality will be necessary to increase effectiveness. This will have to be
complemented by a major expansion in water supply and sanitation if the
improvement in indices of mortality and morbidity during the 1970s is to be
maintained. By 1981, only 18% of the rural and 40% of the urban population



-6-
had access to safe water, compared with government targets of 602 and 75Z,
respectively, for 1990.
External Capital Flows
15.       The recent improvement in Indonesia's balance of payments situation
is evidence of the Government's commitment to manage short-term economic
shocks. The ongoing program of economic reforms should also help to hold the
current account deficit to sustainable levels over the medium term. Even so,
continued resource transfers from abroad will still be essential if the
Government's modest growth rargets (5Z p.a.) for the next five years are to be
achieved. Staff projecticns indicate that new public medium- and long-term
(MLT) borrowing will have to average about US$5.2 billion p.a. over the next
three years, including about US$2.5 billion p.a. of official development
assistance and the balance from import-related credits and untied borrowing.
Indonesia is well placed to arrange the necessary financing on reasonable
terms; the profile of existing debts is good and a comfortable level of
exteral reserves has been rebuilt over the past year.
16.       Total public debt outstanding at the end of 1983 was estimated at
US$21.7 billion, with an additional US$13.0 billion of undisbursed commitments.
Of the total debt disbursed and outstanding, official assistance (including
non-concessional multilateral aid) accounts for 50% and obligations at
variable interest rates for only 23%; there is no short-term public debt. The
average maturity of public MILT debt at the end of 1983 is estimated at 15
years. The Government continues to manage its external debt quite prudently.
Until 1982, Irdonesia had succeeded in maintaining its public debt service
ratio, based on net exports (i.e., net of oil sector imports), at or below
20%. Hovever, because of the sharp drop in oil export receipts over the past
three years, the ratio rose to 26Z in 1984. With the projected levels and
composition of borrowings and export earnings, Indonesia's public debt service
ratio, again based on net exports, would rise to about 30Z in 1989 and then
gradually decline in Later years. With private MLT debt included, the total
debt service ratio, based on the conventional concept of gross exports, would
rise from 21Z in 1984 to around 24% in 1989 and decline back to 21% by 1985.
While debt manAgement will require careful attention in the coming years, the
projected debt service ratios are not excessive by international standarO-.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA 31
17.       As of March 31, 1985, Indonesia had received 48 IDA credits total-
ling US$938.5 million (less cancelLations) and 93 Bank loans amounting to
US$7,021.0 million (less cancellations). IFC commitments totalled US$163.2
million. Annex II contains a summAry of IDA credits, Bank loans and IFC
3/   Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Fourth
Population Project (No. P-4026-IND), circulated under cover of R85-104,
dated April 18, 1985, and submitted to the Executive Directors for
consideration on May 7, 1985.



- 7 -
investments as of March 31, 1985. The share of the Bank Group in Indonesia's
total (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end of 1983 was 13.1%, and
the share of deFt service, 10.3Z compared with 13.3Z and 7.9%, respectively,
in 1982.  From 1968 until 1974. all lending to Indonesia was made through
IDA. Due to the country's improved creditworthiness following the commodity
and oil price boom in 1973/74, the bulk of the Bank Group's lencing in the
remainder of the 1970s was through IBRD loans, with a modest amount of IDA
lending being justified primarily on poverty grounds, as the per capita GNP
was well below the IDA cutoff level. IDA lending was discontinued in FY81.
Given the critical importance of agriculture (including transmigration) for
employment, food security and exports, over one-third of Bank Group-assisted
projects have been in this sector. In addition, loans and credits have been
extended to virtually all other sectors of the economy, including transportd-
tion, education, urban development, water supply, rural development, indus-
trial development financing (including small-scale industry), power,
telecommunications, population and nutrition, and technical assistance.
18.       During Repelitas I (1969-74) and II (1974-79), and in line with the
objectives of these first two Five-Year Plans, a high proportion of Bank Group
lending was directed initially toward the rehabilitation and then the expan-
sion of infrastructure and production facilities. Special attention was also
given to meeting the shortage of skilled manpower and technical assistance
needed for preinvestment studies and project execution. Repelita III (1979-84),
published in early 1979, stressed the need for continued high growth and
stability, but departed from previous plans by placing special emphasis on
more equitable income distribution and poverty alleviation. This focus, which
was fully in line with the conclusions of the basic economic report, required
greater attention to employment generation (particularly in the industrial
sector) and to improvements in basic public services. While Bank lending was
alreadv consistent with these objectives, increased emphasis has been given to
these priorities. However, the adverse economic developments that occurred in
the latter half of the plan period and the measures taken to address them, led
to a reshaping of development objectives for Repelita IV (1984-89). These
emphasize restoring growth of incomes and employment while continuing finan-
cial prudence, promoting structural change toward a more diversified economy,
and maintaining efforts to improve income distribution and alleviate poverty.
This shift in focus has underscored the need to follow through on reforms that
have already been initiated, seek increased efficiencies in the economy,
mobilize domestic resources to finance needed investments and recurrent
expenditures, and foster a policy environment conducive to the achievement of
required changes.
19.       The Bank has geared its lending and economic work program to address
these needs and to maintain a high level of resource transfer. The approach
is to continue to emphasize the ongoing dialogue on economic policy that has
been a cornerstone of the Bank's relationship with the Government for many
years, and to coordinate discussion of macroeconomic issues with advice on
institutional and policy reform in important sectors and subsectors, coupled
with lending operations and technical assistance that meet priority needs and
support institutional improvements in specific areas. Emphasis in economic
work is being given to trade and industrial issues, development of the finan-
cial system, and public resource management. In the lending program, agricul-



ture continues to receive the most attention. However, the program is broadly
based, and includes increasing emphasis on education and human resource devel-
opment. Continued attention is being given to power and energy, where the
Bank is concentrating on policies to diversify Indonesia's energy base,
rationalize pricing and improve sector pLanning. In transportation, the Bank
is focussing on efficiency improvements in the maritime sector and on
improving the national network of highways and rural roads. In urban develop-
ment and water supply, lending is being directed more and more to developing
innovative low-cost solutions, providing for cost recovery and strengthening
local institutions, in order to minimize demands on the Government budget and
decentralize the responsibility for addressing basic needs. In alL, the
Bank's lending program is intended to contribute about 2CX of Indonesia's
capital requirements during the next three years and is expected to be an
important catalyst in attracting other funds. Where possible, we are seeking
also to widen the impact of Bank lending through technical assistance, as well
as complementary investments and coordinated policy dialogue with other
donors. This is especially true in our lending programs for power, urban
development, water supply and transportation.
20.       There has47een a notable improvement in the last few years in the
disbursement ratio - from a low of 13% in FY80 to over 19% in FY84. The poor
FY80 ratio was in large part merely a result of the rapid increase in commitm-
ents during the FY77-79 period, when total Bank/IDA commitments to Indonesia
increased by 122Z compared to a Bank-wide increase of 83%. However, it also
reflected implementation difficulties arising out of the Government's budget-
ary, procurement and payment procedures, as well as the severe shortage of
managerial and technical manpower in Indonesia. A number of steps have been
taken by the Government and the Bank to address these issues. Several special
Bank missions have visited Indonesia to analyze the problems and make recomr-
mendations for simplifying budgetary and financial procedures. The Government
and the Bank have also instituted formal and regular joint review procedures
to identify general and project-specific problems and work out corrective
measures. Procurement seminars were held in Jakarta in September 1979,
November 1981 and May 1984. As a consequence of these joint initiatives, the
Government has taken measures to streamline some of the complex budgetary and
financial procedures affecting project implementation. In addition, in order
to reduce disbursement delays due to initial project implementation diEficul-
ties, many operations are now being presented for Board consideration at a
later stage in the project cycle. The combined effects of all of these
activities are reflected in the increase in disbursements from US$206 million
in FY79 to US$764 million in FY84. It is nevertheless clear that continued
efforts to improve project implementation and the pace of disbursements are
required, as Indonesia continues to show a disbursement ratio below the
Bankwide average. A number of initiatives are underway. The Bank is helping
the Government in a special effort to identify problems in the construction
industry with a view to developing appropriate remedial actions and poLicies,
as weaknesses in the domestic contracting industry have been identified as one
4/   The ratio of actual disbursements during the fiscal year to the
cumulative undisbursed amount at the beginning of the fiscal year.



-9-
of the major causes of implementation problems in Indonesia. Efforts are also
underway to develop standardized tender documents in order to speed the pro-
curement process, and to improve project monitoring and land acquisition
procedures. It is the Bank's and the Government's intention to devote
continued attention to these and other aspects of project implementation in
the coming yea:, in order to ensure that maximum benefit is realized from the
Government's investments, Bank-assisted and other.
PART III - SECTORAL BACKGROUND
The Agricultural, Rural and Water Supply Sectors
21.       Agricultural and Rural Sector.  The Government's major objectives
for the agricuLture and rural sector are to: (a) create productive employment
to raise incomes of the rural poor; (b) increase domestic food supply to keep
pace with rising demand; (c) expand agricultural exports, particularly of
smallholder tree crops; and (d) ensure productive, sustainable use of
Indonesia's land, water and other resources. These goals have in part been
achieved through irrigation improvements and a shift to high yielding rice
varieties, supported by fertilizers, which served to almost double rice pro-
duction during che 1970s. Between 1970 and 1983, paddy production increased
from 13 million tons to 23 million tons, 902 of it from irrigated areas, which
made Indonesia nearly self-sufficient in its major food coumodity. However,
to maintain this position and offset growing demand, GOI plans to invest an
average of US$800 million a year, or 8% of the development budget, in
upgrading and expanding irrigation systems and swamp development.
22.       Water Supply Sector.  Public urban and rural water supply systems
are relatively undeveloped in Indonesia, and serve only a small part of the
population. About 40Z of the urban and 18X of the rural population had access
to piped water supply in 1981. The remainder obtains drinking water from
vendors, shallow wells or rivers, at considerable health risk. The
Government's major objectives for the water supply sector are:
(a) Physical. The provision of basic water supply, sewerage and sanita-
tion facilities, in accordance with technology appropriate to the
local situation, cost-effectively, and with emphasis on the needs of
low-income groups;
(b) Institutional. The development of new, and the strengthening of
existing, central and local institutions - including water supply
and sewerage public utilities - to improve their ability in
planning, implementing and delivering basic services; and
(c) Financial. The creation of financially viable public utilities,
which can provide services at affordable tariff levels, and with a
tariff structure which allows recovery of operation, maintenance,
and an appropriate proportion of capital costs.



- 10 -
23.       Though these objectives have been pursued during the past decade,
GOI intends to step up this effort considerably during its Fourth Five-Year
Development Plan (Repelita IV, 1984-89), and aims to expand service to cover
70X of the urban population and 55Z of the rural population by 1990, at an
average basic needs level (60 liter/capita/day minimum).
24.       The West Tarum Canal.  Of special importance in GOI's objectives for
both the agricultural and water supply sectors is improvement of the West
Tarum Canal (WTC), which provides irrigatior water to the fertile agricultural
areas of West Tarum as well as raw water to the Jakarta metropolitan area.
The WTC, built in the 1960s was designed to convey flows ranging from up to 85
cubic meters per second (cms) at its pump-lift headworks to about 11 cms at
its terminal. Shortly after construction, the canal was severely damaged by
earth slides and its capacity reduced significantly. In the mid-1970s, it was
repaired under the Bank Group-assisted Irrigation Project II (Cr. 195-IND).
In 1982 a hydrometric survey indicated that the conveyance capacity of the
canal and its major structures was significantly less than designed. This
was, in part, due to design deficiencies, and, in part, due to inadequate
maintenance. Despite the deficiencies, the WTC was capable of supplying the
irrigation demands of its partially developed service area and up to 6 cms to
Jakarta. This, however, left no water for flushing of Jakarta's rivers, which
also serve as open sewers. WTC's current capacity is not adequate to meet
peak irrigation requirements of all of West Tarum (where rehabilitation of
irrigation distribution systems is nearing completion) and raw water demand of
Jakarta's expanding water supply. An increase in WTC's capacity is the least
cost solution to meet these demands.
25.       West Tarum.  West Tarum, Java's most fertile. rice producing area,
forms the western section of the about 300,000 ha Jatijuhur irrigation project
gross area. It covers a gross area cf 87,000 ha, or a net irrigable area of
67,000 ha, and is bounded on the wes: by Jakarta, on the north by the coast,
on the east by the Citarum River and on the south by the West Tarum Canal.
About two million people currently live in the West Tarum area, mostly engaged
in agriculture. Most of the area has been under wet-season rice and secondary
crops for generations, and about 48,000 ha are under dry-season irrigated
rice. Due to its proximity to Jakarta's markets, West Tarum has a comparative
advantage in growing a variety of crops in addition to rice. With works under
the Bank Croup-assisted Irrigation Projects V and XII (Cr. 514 and Ln.
1645-IND) up to about 50,000 ha of paddies can be irrigated, but further
expansion is constrained by insufficient capacity of the WTC.
26.       Jakarta.  Jakarta, Indonesia's capital and largest city, had an
unprecedented growth rate of 6Z p.a. in the 1950s; thoug' its growth slowed to
about 4Z p.a. in the 1970s, its population of about 7 million in 1983 is
expected to increase to over 12 million people by the turn of the century.
Jakarta's water supply has not kept up with its population growth and in 1980
served only 30Z of the population. The remainder obtained water from vendors,
private wells or rivers. The water supply system is fed mainly by a treatment
plant at Pejompongan (capacity 5.6 cms), a newer plant at Pulogadung (capacity
now being expanded from 1 cms to 4 cms), springs, and a number of small "mini"
treatment plants.



- 11 -
27.       A major deficiency of Jakarta's water supply is the condition of its
distribution systems. Many of the city's older systems are in poor condition,
suffering high losses and an inflow of polluted groundwater. Of the treatment
plants' annual production in 1980, only about 47Z reached consumers. Most of
the remainder was lost through leakage. Government, fully aware of this
situation, has begun works aimed at improving and expanding water supplies.
The Bank is assisting in this effort by helping to finance the Jakarta
Sewerage and Sanitation Project (Ln. 2236-IND) which, among other things, is
expanding the sewerage system in some densely populated areas of Jakarta and
initiating studies for future water supply, sewerage and sanitation projects
for the city.
Water Resources
28.       Surface and Ground Water.  The main surface water resource for all
of West Java, including Jakarta, is the Citarum River. At the Jatiluhur Dam,
located about 80 km east of Jakarta, the Citarum has an average annual annual
runoff of about 6 billion cubic meters. In addition to its 2 BCM (active
storage) reservoir at the Jatiluhur Dam, two additional dams, Saguling and
Cirata, located upstream, are scheduled for completion in 1985 and 1988,
respectively. The Jatiluhur reservoir is operated as a multi-purpose reser-
voir, serving irrigation, water supply and power. Saguling and Cirata will be
operated primarily for hydropower generation, but they will contribute to
increasing the Citarum's water supply potential. In addition, smaller flows
are contributed to the West Tarum area and to Jakarta by the Cibeet, Cikarang
and Bekasi Rivers, intercepted by the WTC, and exclusively to Jakarta, by the
Ciliwung River and a number of creeks, including the Sunter. Groundwater is
also an important water source in the area, and in 1980 an estimated 50Z of
greater Jakarta's water supply was derived from groundwater. However, present
extraction already exceeds the aquifer's safe yield, and groundwater will
therefore not offer a source of increased water supplies.
29.       Sediment.  Progressively denuded catchments contribute large sedi-
ment loads to all rivers in the area. Although most of the Citarum's sedi-
ments settle in the Jatiluhur reservoir, large amounts still enter the WTC at
its headworks, and similarly large amounts enter the WTC from intercepted
rivers. Properly designed and properly operated and maintained sediment traps
could remove most of the sediment that otherwise would settle in the canal,
and therefore improved sediment traps and their maintenance will be addressed
under the project.
30.       Bacteriological Water Quality.  As a result of Jakarta's high popu-
lation density and lack of control on the use of resources, practicaLly all of
Jakarta's population is exposed to bacteriologically unsafe drinking water. A
significant number of people derive drinking water from contaminated shallow
wells and rivers while the remainder receive periodically unsafe water through
the city's water supply system as treatment plants have not been effective in
treating highly contaminated inflows. Contributing to this is contaminated
groundwater which enters water distribution systems. As a result of the poor
water quality, water-borne diseases have increased, particularly in Jakarta's
most crowded and poorest areas. Preliminary results of water quality monitor-
ing, initiated in November 1983 under Irrigation Project XII (Ln. 1645-IND),



- 12 -
indicate that raw water in the WTC is of much better and more treatable
quality than river water reaching treatment plants. The project therefore
includes construction of a pipeline to bring water from the WTC to the
Pulogadung treatment plant, and provides for studies and design of a second
pipeline to the Pejompongan treatment plant.
Bank Group Role and Support Strategy for Irrigation and Water Supply
31.       Irrigation.  Since 1968, the Bank has provided $1,018 million for
irrigation projects in Indonesia. The earliest Bank-assisted projects were
designed to repair major systems to quickly increase rice output. Later proj-
ects provided additional rehabilitation of existing systems, drainage, flood
protection, and tertiary networks. The most recent projects include measures
to strengthen planning, programming and budgeting capacity, and management
information systems (Irrigation XV and XVI, Cr. 995- and Ln. 2118-IND), and to
build up the capacity of provincial irrigation services in East Java Province
(Irrigation XVII, Ln. 2119-IND), and in eight other provinces (Second Provin-
cial Irrigation Development, Ln. 2375-IND). During Repelita IV the Bank's
involvement in the sector will emphasize institution-building and address per-
sistent sectorwide problems such as operation and maintenance standards and
cost recovery. Lending will focus on:
(a) strengthening of national and provincial irrigation services, and
improving their operation and maintenance (O&W) performance; and
(b) a number of technically complex projects or projects which present
difficult economic choices. Such projects include the West Tarum
Canal, the Jatigede Multipurpose Dam Project, and the Kedung Ombo
Multipurpose Dam and Irrigation Project.
32.       The first five Bank-assisted irrigation projects have been
completed. Project Performance Audits have been issued for four projects,-
and a follow-ug/Impact Evaluation Report is available for the first project
(Cr. 127-IND).-   Implementation delays and cost overruns, common to the five
projects, were caused by protracted procurement procedures, shortages of local
funds, larger-than-expected inflation, design deficiencies and slow
contractors' performance. However, since cost increases were more than offset
by higher rice prices, economic rates of return are expected to exceed 40%.
The Project Performance Audits highlighted the need to improve operation,
maintenance and replacement services (OM&R); provide technical and adminis-
trative support to water users associations; and promote efficient water
use. These problems have been addressed under the proposed project.
5/   Cr. 127-IND, PPAR No. 2047, May 1978.  Crs. 195, 220 and 289-IND, PPAR
No. 3269, December 1980.
6/   Report No. 4575, June 1983.



- 13 -
33.       Water Supply.  The Bank's overall objectives and strategies for the
sector are consistent with those of Government. The Bank has made four loans
7L'for the sector. In addition, substantial complementary investments in
water supply and sanitation have been supported by five Bank Loans for the
urban sector.  Through the Second Urban Development Project (Ln. 1330-1nD) the
Bank has had a significant involvement in the formulation of a comprehensive
development strategy for the Jakarta Metropolitan Area through the Jakarta
Metropolitan Development Plan, completed in 1981. Detailed studies of
municipal and industrial water demands and improvement and expansion of
Jakarta's water supply systems are currently in progress as part of the
Jakarta Sewerage and Sanitation Project (JSSP) (Ln. 2236-IND) with parallel
Japanese Government assistance. A follow-up project is also being prepared to
rehabilitate Jakarta's existing water supply and upgrade its institutional
framework.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
34.       The project was identified by Bank and FAOICP missions in 1980 and
prepared by the Directorate General of Water Resources Development (DGWRD) and
the Jatiluhur Authoricy (POJ) and their consultants between 1981 and 1984 with
Bank assistance under Irrigation Project XV (Cr. 995-IND). The Bank appraised
the project in September 1984 and negotiations were held in Washington from
April 11-16, 1985. The Indonesian delegation was led by Mr. Soebandi
Wirosoemarto, Assistant to the Minister of Public Works, Directorate General
of Water Resources Development. The Staff Appraisal Report No. 5429-IND, is
being distributed separately. Supplementary project data are provided in
Annex III.
Project Formulation
35.       The project has been formulated to meet peak irrigation requirements
of the entire West Tarum area and Jakarta's raw water requirements until the
mid-1990s, and to improve water quality, by works that are: (a) technically
feasible, (b) least-cost solutions, (c) ready as needed without requiring
prolonged service interruptions, (d) designed to deliver a reliable water
supply of acceptable quality, and (e) an integral part of long-range develop-
ments. An improvement of the WTC meets these objectives; however, an addi-
tional conveyance canal will be necessary after the mid-1990s to supplement
raw water supply, and studies and design for this canal (the Tarum Jaya Canal)
will be carried out under the project.
36.       Considerable attention was given in project formuLation to improving
the O&H of the Jatiluhur system and ensuring adequate O&M funds through cost
recovery from irrigation and water supply beneficiaries. An agreement was
7I   Five Cities Water Supply Project (Ln. 1049-IND, 1974), Second Water
Supply Project (Ln. 1709-IND, 1979), the Jakarta Sewerage and Sanitation
Project (Ln. 2236-IND, 1983), and the East Java Water Supply Project
(Ln. 2275-IND, 1983).



- 14 -
promoted between Jakarta's Public Water Supply Utility (PDAM-DKI Jaya) and POJ
for the recovery of capital and recurrent costs, and steps have been initiated
to increase land taxes (IPEDA) and increase allocation of these taxes for O&M
of irrigation systems. The project has also been formulated to strengthen
executing institutions, and to assist in planning the protection of water
carried by the WTC and the proposed-Tarum Jaya Canal to avoid degradation of
water quality in the future.
Project Objectives and Description
37.       The main objectives of the project are to (a) increase rural incomes
and food production, and improve the use of human and land resources through
increased irrigation supplies; (b) improve urban living conditions through
increased and improved raw water supplies; and (c) improve POJ's institutional
capacity for O&M through technical inputs and by increasing cost sharing by
beneficiaries.
38.       The project will provide the following:
(a)  Civil Works.  To enlarge and improve the WTC and its major struc-
tures, and to construct a closed conduit, about 7.5 km long and 2 m
in diameter, between the Bekasi-Jakarta reach of the WTC and the
Pulogadung water treatment plant serving Jakarta. For the WTC this
would involve mostly earthworks, structural works at canal inlet and
river crossings (trashracks, additional siphon barrels) and tunnel
lining;
(b)  Equipment.  For improved operation and maintenance of the WTC and
for safety of the Jatiluhur Dam; and
'c)  Mapping.  Aerial photography and mapping of the entire Jatiluhur
Service Area (about 300,000 ha) for land reclassification for
taxation.
(d)  Technical and Institutional Assistance:
Ci) Technical assistance in: supervision and management of
project construction, preparation of plans and design of an
additional conveyance canal (the Tarum Jaya Canal) and a pipe-
line to the Pejompongan treatment plant, and management
improvement;
(ii) Technical assistance in tax assessment data management
(collection, processing, recording); and
(iii) Technical assistance in preparing a plan to protect the water
quality in the WTC and in the proposed Tarum iaya Canal.
39.       Consulting Services.  Local and foreign consulting services for
technical and institutional assistance will be provided to DGWRD in project
construction management, design of a future conveyance canal and pipeline, and
for protection of water quality; and to POJ in upgrading O&E  of the WTC: of



- 15 -
Jatiluhur's main irrigation system and of the Jatiluhur Dam. Assistance will
also be provided to IPEDA's inspection office in the Jatiluhur area to
strengthen tax data management. The base cost of the assistance package is
estimated at US$5.83 million for 247 man-moaths of expatriate services, 620
man-months of local professional services and 1,044 man-months of local
technician assistance. During negotiations assurances were obtained that
consultants will be engaged according to an agreed implementation schedule
(Schedule 5 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Status of Engineering
40.       Definite engineering plans and cost estimates of civil works were
prepared under Irrigation Project XII (Ln. 1645-IND) on the basis of final
design of the WTC. Additional work on detail design and contract documents is
well in hand, scheduled for completion in July 1985. Weekly water quality
measurements at 21 locations in the WTC, which have been carried out since
November 1983, are being continued. Detail design of the pipeLine to
Pulogadung has started, scheduled for completion in October 1985. Bidding for
the construction of the pipeline is scheduled for December 1985. The contract
for consulting services for construction supervision is currently being
negotiated with inviced consultants, scheduled for commencement of work in
September 1985 (one month ahead of commencement of construction).
Land Acquisition
41.       Land acquisition for limited rights of way required along the canal
is in progress and negotiations with land owners are underway. Due to limited
requirements, no significant delays in construction are expected. Similar
activities for the pipeline right-of-way will commence upon completion of
alignment surveys. This activity has been programmed in construction
schedules.
Project Cost and Financing
42.       The total project cost is estimated at US$72.8 million (including
taxes on civil works of US$4.8 million), of which US$43.4 million (60%) will
be in foreign exchange. Quantities of civil works are based on final
design, and unit costs are based on recent contracts for similar works. A 15Z
allowance has been included for physical coatingencies for all items, and
price contingencies have been estimated, based on the following inflation
rates: for foreign costs: 5Z in 1985, 7.5X in 1986 and 8% in 1987-90; and for
local costs: 8% in 1985-90. Expected price increases total about 24X of base
costs.
43.       The proposed Bank loan of US$43.4 million will finance the foreign
exchange cost of the project. GOI will finance the remaining US$29.4 million.



- 16 -
Implementation
44.       The project will be implemented over a six-year period starting at
the end of 1985. Most implementation will be done without interruptions of
water supply to Jakarta. Work which does require service interruption will be
implemented during times of sufficiently Large flows in the Ciliwung River so
as not to reduce Jakarta's raw water suppLy.
45.       Executing Agencies.  Construction of physical works under the
project and the design of future developments will be implemented by a project
unit for Jatiluhur's multipurpose development, in DGWRD's Department of
Irrigation I. This unit, previously reporting to Jatiluhur's Directorate, has
been responsible for the rehabilitation of Jatiluhur's irrigation system
(under Irrigation Project II, Cr. 195-IND) and for construction of flood
control works (under Irrigation Project V, Cr. 514-INlD), and is nearing
completion of its current assignment for tertiary construction (under
Irrigation Project XII, Ln. 1645-IND). The Jatiluhur Authority (POJ) will be
responsible for the operation and maintenance of all infrastructure (including
the Pulogadung pipeline) upon completion of construction. The Authority was
established in 1970 to operate and maintain the multipurpose Jatiluhur
project, including the dam, power plant, irrigation and raw water supply
systems. The Directorate of Land Taxes (IPEDA) within the Directorate General
of Taxation in the Ministry of Finance, will be responsible for mapping,
demarcation of landholdings, reclassification of Lands for taxation purposes
and reassessment of land taxes. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
GOI will cause the implementation of land mapping, reclassification and
reassessment in accordance with an agreed implementation schedule (Schedule 5
of the draft Loan Agreement).
46.       PDAM-DKI Jaya.  PDAM, established in 1968, is a semi-autonomous
utility of DKI-Jakarta responsible for the expansion and operation -nd main-
tenance of Jakarta's water supply. The raw water to be provided under the
project will be treated by PDAM's plants and distributed through its system.
Prior to loan negotiation, PDAM has entered into an agreement with POJ on
terms and conditions for this raw water supply (para. 36). PDAM has been
financially profitable in the past years with an average annual net surplus of
about Rp 2 billion during 1981-83. During negotiations assurances were
obtained that GOI will complete the expansion of the Pulogadung treatment
plant by September 30, 1988, and its distribution system by September 30,
1989. (Section 5.02 of the draft Loan Agreement.)
Operation and Maintenance (O&M)
47.       The West Tarum Canal is currently operated on the basis of two
weekly irrigation demands, and agreed raw water supplies to Jakarta, within
the constraints of WTC's carrying capacity and available water supplies.
Deliveries are maintained throughout the two weeks, even if changes in
hydrologic conditions occur in the interim. This procedure will have to be
modifiea to be more responsive to actual demands to achieve an optimal use of
water. This requires improved and upgraded data collection and processing,
and improved communications between operating subcenters.  The project
addresses this need by providing operational hardware (microcomputers and



- 17 -
communication equipment), software, and technical assistance and training in
its use by operation staff.
48.       As a result of POJ's recurrent shortage of funds (para. 53), WTC's
maintenance has not been adequate, and siltation has taken place. The project
addresses this issue by providing for infrastructural improvements, equipment
to reduce siltation, and technical assistance to train POJ's staff in effec-
tive O&H.  The project also provides for cost recovery from water users to
improve funding of operation, maintenance and replacement (paras. 52-58).
Furthermore, the project includes measures to protect the safety of the
Jatiluhur Dam, reservoir banks and associated structures.  During negotia-
tions, assurances were obtained that periodic inspections will take place
under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank (Section 5.01 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
Procurement
49.       Construction of civil works (earthworks and major structural works)
on the West Tarum Canal (US$27 million) and construction of the Pulogadung
pipeline ($11.7 million) will be procured through international competitive
bidding (ICB) procedures, in accordance with Bank guidelines. In view of the
urgency of increasing Jakarta's raw water supply, civil works for the con-
struction of the Bekasi-Jakarta reach (US$4 million) will be procured under
limited international bidding (LIB) procedures opened to foreign contractors
and using documents acceptable to the Bank. Signing of the contract will be a
condition of loan effectiveness (Section 6.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Major maintenance equipment (US$5 million) will be procured through ICB, and
miscellaneous smaller equipment and parts totalling US$2.4 million, in pack-
ages not exceeding US$100,000 and not suitable for ICB, will be procured
through local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures, acceptable to the Bank.
Other equipment (US$2.1 million) to be procured in small packages not exceed-
ing US$50,000 each and not suitable for ICB, will be procured through GOI
procurement procedures acceptable to the Bank.
50.       The Bank will review prior to award civil works contracts, valued at
more than US$1.5 million each, all goods contracts (about five) over
US$200,000 equivalent, and all contracts for consulting services. Other
contracts will be reviewed following award, on a sample basis. Procurement
arrangements are summarized in the following table.



- 18 -
PROJECT EXPENDITURE BY PROCUREMEN CATEGORY
Not      Total
ICB       LIB     LCB   Other  applicable  cost
Civil Works
West Tarum Canal               27.0       4.0      -      -       2.6 /a    33.6
Pulogadung Pipeline           11.7         -       -      -       1.7 7T    13.4
Subtotal                    38.7        4.0      -      -      4.3 /a    47.0
(21.5)     (2.2)            -      (0)       (23.7)
Equipment
Operation                       -          -       -     0.1      -          0.1
Maintenance                     5.0        -      0.1    2.0       -         7.1
Dam Safety                      -          -      2.3     -                  2.3
Subtotal                     5.0         -      2.4    2.1      -          9.5
(4.7)       -     (2.4)  (.1)      -         (9.2)
IPEDA Mapping                     -          -       -     2.1      -          2.1
-       -    (2.1)     -         (2.1)
Technical Assistance
IPEDA                           -         -        -     0.2      -          0.2
DGWRD                           -          -       -     6.0      -          6.0
POJ                             -          -       -     2.2      -          2.2
Subtotal                      -          -             8.4      -          8.4
(8.4)         CLI(8.)
Engineering & Administration      -          -       -      -       5.8        5.8
Total                         43.7        4.0     2.4   12.6    10.1        72.8
(26.2)     (2.2)   (2.4) (12.6)   (0)        (43.4)
/a   Rights-of-way.
Note: (1) Costs include physical and price contingencies.
(2) Figures in parentheses are proposed loan amounts.
Disbursements
51.       Disbursements under the proposed loan would be:  60Z for civil works
under ICB and LIB; IOOZ for imported equipment; 65Z for imported equipment and
materials procured locally; 95Z for locally manufactured goods; and 100Z for
technical assistance. Disbursement will be made against contracts. Estimated
disbursements are similar to those of other irrigation projects in Indonesia



- 19 -
and in the region, and are expected to be completed within a year after
physical completion of project works. Project Completion is expected in
December 1990 and Loan closing would be by December 31, 1991.
Accounts, Audits and Reporting
52.       Assurances have been obtained from GOI that:  agencies participating
in this project will maintain separate records and accounts related to project
expenditures; accounts will be audited annually by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank; all contracts, orders and receipts will be kept at
least one year after loan closing; and audited reports will be forwarded to
the Bank within nine months following the end of each fiscal year (Section
4.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Cost Recovery
53.       The need for an improvement of P0J's current weak financial condi-
tion is illustrated by an accumulated net loss (as of June 30, 1982) of about
Ip 32 billion in its irrigation and water supply operations. With inadequate
revenues in both operations, POJ is heavily dependent on Central Government
budgets to meet recurrent costs, which is undesirable in view of the fact that
budget allocations have traditionally been too low to enable adequate O&M.
The project will address funding problem by including provisions to make
appropriate adjustments in raw water charges to PDAM, and to generate
increased land tax (IPEDA) revenues to be used for irrigation OE& which would
be complemented by GOI, as necessary, to ensure adequate O&M at all times
(Sections 3.01 and 3.03 of the draft Loan Agreement).
54.       Project Cost Allocation.  For recovery purposes, project costs have
been allocated to irrigation and water supply in direct proportion to
respective capacity requirements. Application of this principle on the basis
of current estimated costs, results in an allocation of 70% of improvement
costs of joint-use facilities to irrigation, and 30Z to water supply. The
cost of single-use facilities, e.g., WTC's Bekasi-Jakarta reach and the
Pulogadung pipeline, has been allocated entirely to water supply. Seventy
percent of the investment and replacement cost in O&M equipment, which will
primarily benefit raw water supply, has been charged to this component. On
this basis, of the total estimated investment of about US$67 million (includ-
ing contingencies and engineering, but excluding technical assistance),
US$39 million (58%) has been allocated to raw water supply and about
US$28 million (42%) to irrigation. Annual O&M costs will be prorated on the
same basis, but adjusted at given intervals to actual expenditures.
55.       Recovery of Raw Water Supply Costs.  PDAM currently pays POJ for its
raw water supplies in accordance with negotiated rates. In 1981, the payment
was abDut Rp 40 million or about Rp 0.4 per cu m, which was inadequate to meet
O&M costs for raw water supply, much less to recover investment costs. PDAM's
payment, based on allocated estimated investment and recurrent costs, will
amount in 1990 to Rp 6.2 billion. The utility will be able to meet this
payment, which would be less than 10% of its estimated operational costs,
through larger revenues from an increased water supply from the WTC and
through a conservatively estimated increase in water tariffs. Capital and



- 20 -
recurrent costs of the Pulogadung pipeline will be offset by potential savings
in the cost of water treatment.
56.       Prior to loan negotiations, POJ and PDAM entered into an agreement,
accepted by the Bank, which will become effective in July 1988 or three months
after POJ commences increased raw water supplies, and which specifies:
(a) PDAM will pay POJ an annual fee to cover 100Z of allocated OM&R raw
water supply costs and repay capital investments allocated to DKI
Jakarta raw water supply according to principles given in para. 54;
(b) Allocated capital costs shall be paid yearly throughout a 30-year
period at an interest rate of 12Z p.a.; the annual OM&R costs shall
be reviewed every three years by both parties and adjusted based on            *
actual costs; and
(c) POJ will ensure the delivery to PDAM of an uninterrupted supply of
water of an agreed quantity, peak discharge and quality.
During negotiations GOI confirmed that POJ shall keep separate accounts for
Ci) recovery of capital costs, (ii) replacement of O&M equipment, and
Ciii) O&M of WTC and of the Pulogadung pipeline. These accounts will be
annually audited and audited reports shalL be sent to PDAM and the Bank for
its comments. Also, assurances were obtained that any proposed amendment to
the agreement between POJ and PDAM would be furnished to the Bank for comment
(Section 3.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
57.       Recovery of Irrigation Water Costs.  There are no direct irrigation
water charges in Indonesia, except contributions by farmers of irrigated lands
to village water masters and water user associations, for the upkeep of ter-
tiary irrigation systems. The lack of appropriate revenues in the Irrigation
subsector, unjustified in view of significant benefits attributable to irri-
gation, imposes an unduly heavy burden on GOI in financing new developments
and in operating and maintaining irrigations systems. To ease this burden,
revenues in the irrigation subsector should be increased, commensurate with
benefits. In view of a long tradition of farmers' perceived inalienable right
to free surface water, Government is not ready, at this time, to impose water
charges, and the most practicable way of increasing revenues appears to be an
increase of land taxes (IPEDA) by applying existing laws and regulations
linking land taxes with, inter alia, rice production and rice prices. A
dialogue has been initiated with the West Java provincial government to
channel locally generated funds through this mechanism to POJ for O&M of main
and secondary irrigation sy3tems and an agreement has been reached in
principle.
58.       IPEDA (Iuran Pembangunan Daerah), literally a contribution for rural
development, is commonly collected from farmers by provincial governments
through village heads and allocated at the Kabupaten (District) level. The
tax is used for a variety of rural developments but is usually not used for
the upkeep of main and secondary irrigation systems, which have traditionally
been financed by the Central Government. In West Java, the provincial
government, which in the past retained lOZ of IPEDA collections, has recently



- 21 -
rechannelled 8Z to district governments and about 2Z, or about Rp 200/ha (1Z
of the current requirement) for O&M of Jatiluhur's main and secondary
irrigation systems. Under current regulations, IPEDA is assessed in
accordance with the size of landholdings, the productivity class of the land,
and the value of production, and may be reassessed periodicaLly.  However, in
practice, most lands are under-assessed. Current IPEDA rates were established
in 1979 and have not been materialLy increased since. Under the impact of
previous and current investments in irrigation, rice production will increase
to about 10 t/ha and this will raise IPEDA for an average 0.8 ha holding from
a current assessment of Rp 13,300/ha to about fp 29,000/ha (using the 1979
paddy price of Rp 95/kg), or Rp 50,000/ha (using the 1985 price of Rp
165/kg). Clearly such an increase in IPEDA can only be implemented gradually,
and in the interim COI will have to provide the required funds for adequate
O&M. Nevertheless., the successful creation through the project of a
provincial level f mding mechanism for irrigation, would reduce over time,
dependency on the Central Government budget, and provide a model that could be
replicated in other areas of Indonesia.
59.       During project appraisal, GOI agreed in principle to update land
classification and IPEDA assessment in Jatiluhur's irrigated area and to
provide IPEDA revenues for financing O&M of main and secondary irrigation
systems in the Jatiluhur area. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that:
(a) GOI wilL cause POJ to update maps of the Jatiluhur service area for
reclassification of IPEDA by December 31, 1988;
(b) GOI will cause the Directorate of IPEDA to reclassify irrigated
lands and reassess IPEDA rates in the Jatiluhur service area (about
300,000 ha) in accordance with agreed terms and specifications by
March 31, 1990;
Cc) GOI will cause the West Java Provincial Government to allocate a
portion of IPEDA collected in the Jatiluhur Service Area, to the
financing of O&M of main and secondary irrigation systems in such
area in accordance with a schedule acceptable to the Bank, to be
furnished to the Bank by December 31, 1988; and
(d) GOI wilL, at all times, make available adequate funds for O&M of
Jatiluhur's irrigation systems, and those required to supply to
Jakarta reliable raw water of acceptable quality, as agreed between
POJ and PDAM, supplementing funds which may become available from
other sources (Sections 3.01 and 3.03 and Schedule 5 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
The above-mentioned activities will be facilitated by two technical assistance
schemes: (a) land remapping for reclassification and IPEDA reassessment
(assisted under the proposed project) and (b) studies on farmers' tax burden
and improving IPEDA collection efficiency (assisted under Irrigation
Project X, Ln. 1578-IND).



- 22 -
60.       Cost Recovery Indices.  With the charges to be introduced under the
project, the cost recovery index for the water supply component is about 106%
at a 10Z interest rate. The cost recovery index for the project's irrigation
component is about 11.5% which is in line with other irrigation projects in
Indonesia. The relatively low cost recovery index for irrigation is due to
the relatively small amount of incremental taxes generated by the project.
Agricultural Production and Farm Incomes
61.       The improved West Tarum Canal will provide additional water to West
Tarum's irrigation systems in the project area, rehabilitated under the Bank-
assisted Irrigation Projects V and XII (Cr. 514-IND and La. 1645-IND). This
will facilitate an expansion of the cropped area in the dry season, which is
the main project benefit, and a concomitant increased production of rice,
soybeans and maize. With the full impact of Irrigation Projects V and XII,
rice yields are expected to increase to about 5 tlha during the wet season and
about 4.8 t/ha in the dry season, and no further increase in paddy yield is
expected under the project. Yields of soybeans and maize are expected to
increase slightly (about 0.2 tlha) with the project because of reliable water
supply. By 1990, when the project is fully developed, paddy production will
increase as a result of a higher cropping intensity by about 82,000 tons and
maize and soybeans by about 22,000 tons. Much of this incremental production
will be absorbed by the Jakarta market.
62.       Supporting Services.  Farmers in the project area are experienced
food crop growers and have access to credit package for inputs supervised by
the agricultural extension service. Water users associations (WUA) have
recently been established for all tertiary systems in the project area.
However, most of them are inactive and preparations are being made to train
and motivate water users through a national program, for which GOI will
provide specific details by October 1985.
63.       Farm Incomes and Payment Capacity.  In the farm income analysis,
budgets have been developed for farm sizes of 0.3 ha, 0.8 ha, and 1.5 ha
representing small, average, and large farms in the project area. Annual net
farm incomes of all farms will rise as a result of the project. A significant
income increase (150-185Z) for all farm groups will result from massive
improvements under Irrigation Projects V and XII, and a smaller increase (112-
118Z) as a result of the proposed project. After subtracting an equal minimum
living allowance from net incomes, average and large farm holders will have a
considerable surplus for payment of incremental taxes. Smallholders' surplus
will remain negative, albeit considerably less so than before, and their
payment capacity for additional taxes is limited. The size of landholding is
reflected in IPEDA's current rates, and smallholders are assessed a lower rate
than holders of larger farms; however, the difference is too small to reflect
adequately respective payment capacities.



- 23 -
Monitoring and Evaluation
64.       Monitoring and evaluation in the Jatiluhur project area, is being
routinely carried out by PROSIJAT; however, monitoring and evaluation of water
management and crop production requires considerable improvement. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that GOI will cause DGWRD to submit a comprehen-
sive plan for monitoring and evaluation for project works construction, and
will cause POJ to submit to the Bank for comment by July 31, 1986, a compre-
hensive monitoring and evaluation scheme for the project, and comence its
implementation by July 31, 1987 (Schedule 5 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Environmental Impact
65.       The project will have an important effect on improving Jakarta's
water quality and in reducing endemic water-borne diseases by increasing and
improving raw water supplies to the city. The project will also contribute to
preserving and protecting Jakarta's principal water resources from pollution
by initiating studies and preparing for protective measures in the WTC, in the
proposed Tarum Jaya Canal, and in intercepted rivers. It will likewise
contribute to improved sanitary conditions by providing water for flushing of
the city's rivers.
Benefits, Justification, and Risks
66.       The proposed project will increase food crop production, improve
water supply to Jakarta, reduce foreign exchange expenditures for rice and
other foodgrain imports, and enhance employment and income opportunities in
the agricultui'al sector. At full development, about 82,000 tons of paddy and
about 22,000 tons of soybean and maize will be produced annually which will
save GOI about US$22 million each year in foreign exchange by reducing
imports. An equivalent of 15,000 full-time farm jobs will be created through
crop intensification and associated marketing services every year. Civil
works of the project will generate sor 4 million man-days of construction
labor during the 5-year implementation period. Jakarta will receive a
progressively increasing amount of raw water with improved quality which will,
upon completion of implementation in 1990, generate some US$3.9 million of
benefits (see para. 68). About 140,000 rural families, most of whom are small
landholders with incomes below absolute poverty, and 700,000 urban families,
will benefit from the project directly and indirectly. Investment costs per
family are about US$120 per farm family and about US$29 per urban household.
67.       The project is the least-cost means to achieve these benefits and a
continuation of water resource developments which will expand supply of raw
water to Jakarta from Jatiluhur. The project will upgrade the Jatiluhur
Authority's O&M capability and promote cost-sharing of investment and recur-
rent costs by beneficiaries. The project also provides for protection of
water quality. These considerations, though not quantifiable, are important
benefits and justfications for the project.
68.       Benefits.  The economic analysis includes only direct and quanti-
fiable benefits of irrigation, attributable to this project, and measurable
benefits to Jakarta's water supply. Irrigation benefits are derived from



- 24 -
incremental farm production (rice, maize and soybeans) valued at economic
prices (March 1985 constant dollars) net of incremental production costs.
About 80% of irrigation benefits are attributable to paddy production from an
incrementally irrigated area of about 17,000 ha in the dry season and the
remainder are attributable to secondary crops including soybeans and maize.
Benefits of raw water supply to Jakarta are derived from increased raw water
quantity through the enlargement of the WTC and from improved raw water
quality by a protected conveyance (through a pipeline) to the Pulogadung
treatment plant. The former are assumed to equal allocated development costs.
The benefits of improved water quality wiLl be generated by savings in
chemicals for the treatment of increasingLy polluted raw water and the
improvement of treatment efficiency.
69.       The economic rate of return (ERR) of the entire project is estimated
at about 262. The ERRs for the irrigation, water supply, and pipeline
components are 38%, 132 and 19Z, respectively. The high ERR of the irrigation
component is mainly due to relatively low project cost and sunk costs of
existing facilities.
70.       Sensitivity analysis indicates that the project as a whole is
economically robust, insensitive to cost overruns, reduced benefits, or imple-
mentation delays. There is some risk that the quality of O&M could be
affected if funds are inadequate. However, the Government has alrcady
indicated readiness to increase land taxes and O&K allocations, and Jakarta's
municipal utility has also agreed to pay its full share of costs.
PART V - LEGAJ. INS;RUENTS AND AUTHORITY
71.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and the
Bank and the report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii)
of the Articles of Agreement ara being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. A condition of loan effectiveness is the signing of the contract
to construct the Bekasi-Jakarta reach of the canal (para. 49). Other special
conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex III.
72.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOKKENDATION
73.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 1, 1985
Washington, D.C.



ANNIM I
-25 -                                       Page 1 of 5 pages
INDONESIA       -SOCIAL INDICAIM  DATASU
INDONsIA              .CE ~UES Cr o 1IE1m   ANEIAUh) -
HOsT              0105?MS UE=wN ESTIMAT) lb 
196fb      1970        A IL        ASI & PACEIC           LA. AJMCA A C&A
ANN  CTEAN  SQ. U)
TOTAL                              2913.3     t919.3   1919.3
ACRIOILTRAL                         296.5      307.1    317.3
CWP  caPI  C15)                        90.0      150.0    580.0             1091.2                   2106.6
CEILoCRAS OF OIL EQUIVALENT)         65.0       96.0    191_0              567_3                    S95.S
POPUITI   -M VITL SETZSXDCS
PGPOLATION.MID-EALR rIUSAOIS)    94680.0   116201.0  15259S.0
URBAN POPULATP  (Z0O TOA)            16.6       17.1      22.3              34.7                     66-.5
tPOPUlATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN TEAu  2000 (KL                           20
SrATIOA   POPUTIO  (KIML)                              370.1
POPULATION      I                                        1.9
POPULATION UmITy
PER SQ. s.                         49.3       60.5      77.9             261.9                     35.7
PER Sq. %t. AGRI. LAD             319.3      376.4    471.0             1735.1                    92.8
POPULATION AGE sRUCtRE CZ)
0-14 UmS                          40.7       ".0       39.5              39.0                     39.9
1S-64 UtS                          56.2       53.4      57.3              57.6                     56.0
65 AND ABOVE                        3.1        2.5       3.1               3.3                      .1
POPULATIOmN CRI  RATE (:)
TOTAL                               2.1        2.0       2.3               2.3                      2.4
UmmN                                3.7        3.6       4.5               4.3                      3.6
CUM BIRTH RATE (PER 73DUS)           ".2        41.0      33.6              30.1                     31.3
CRUDE  ETAS RATE (PER TEDS)          22.9       17.6      13.0               9.5                     8.1
CROaS REPRODUCTION RATS               2.7        2.7       2.2               2.0                      2.0
FABELT PLANNIN
AEloIRs. AlIUIL ITWUS)               ..      181.1   3051.0
USERS CZ (     HARRED,    )          ..         ..       3.0 Ic           52.7                     40.3
INmEm OF FOOD PROD. PE CAPrrA
(1969-71-100)                        93.0      10Z.0    117.0              123.0                    114.3
PM CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (I OF REQUIRUIET)         B6.0       96.0    110.0              114.4                    ItO.6
PROTELNS (CRAMS PER DAT)           38.0       44O       49.0              57.0                    67.3
OF IOIR ANIMAL AND PULSE          6.0        6.0       7.0 Id           14.1                     34.1
Canw (CAES 1-4) 0EA1K RATE           22.9       16.9      13.0               7.2                      5.7
LiFE UcPECr. AT uIRmE (TEAS)         41.2       47.0      53.3              60.4                    64.7
INFANT ioir. RATE (PER TOM)         149.9      120.9    102.0               66.3                    60.6
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER C(IDP)
TOTAL                                *-        3.0      23.0              37.0                     65.4
URBm                                          10.0      41.0              54.S                    78.1
RURAL                                ..        1.0    1l.0                26.4                     46.2
ACCESS To E1TA DS105.L
(X OFt POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..       15.0      23.0              41.3                     52.9
URBAN                                .        19.0      20.0              47.4                    67.0
RURAL                                ..       14.0      24.0              33.3                    24.5
r                       rPOPUATION PER PIESICIAN          46780.0    265100.  11530.0 le           7749.4                   1917.7
PoP. PE  NUS1N  PERSON             4510.0 If  7680.0   2300.0 7           2460.4                   a15.8
POP. PER HOSPIAL BED
TOTAL                            1360.0     1650.0   1720.0 le          1044.2                    367.2
UJNa                              250-0         ..    700.0 7            651.2                   411.5
RRAL                                                  3 __   3160.0     2594.6                   2636.3
ADN1SSIONS PER HSPITL MED              ..         ..      22.4 Ih           27.0                    27.3
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEeLD
TOTAL                               4.4        4.8
URa                                 4.9        5.3
RURAL                               4.3        4.7
AVERAGE M. OF PUSASOIUOOK
TOAL                                 ..        1.5
URBAN                                ..        1.6
RURAL                                ,         1.35
ACCCSS TO E5CrT. C OP DIdIZWMS)
TOTAL                                ..         ..
RA                                   ..         ..        .
~~AL~~           ..          .



AM I
-26-ANI
Page 2 of 5 pages
- soCIAL ZU   T   DM
IuOlSa                             333u   mauls CISIhNT  AIKUAM) La
mar                     (MS um        nam ) 
U=2gi           xuzzu lom              lim  Amm
Ni!!b    197Cib a!                ASIA & PACIPZJC       LAX. AiUICA & CM
ADJUSTED Dl uaBms
VIDWM    TOT                      7.0        77.0    100.0             102.0                   10D.4
MAXL                     6.0       83.0    106.0             15.9                    106.3
PMEkTr                  56.0       72.0     94.0              9.2                    104.5
SECONRY., TOTL                     6.0       1s.0      30.0             46.0                    43.2
MAIE                    10.0       20.0     36.0              46.7                    4.3
FEMALE                   3.0       10.0     24.0              *3.1                    4.5
VOCAZIDL CZ OF SEWRU*IT)            20.4       22.1     13.4              17.5                    33.6
PPU!TL-ZAC RATM
pRnInA                            39.0       29.0      32.0             3L.8                    30.1
SECOU:IZ                          14.0       13.0      16.0             23.5                    16.8
ADL LITRCYt RATE CE)                39.0       56.6     62.0              72.9                    79.5
m
PASSESE  CUS/DIOD POP                1.1        2.1      4.4              10.1                    46.0
RADIO R    ERSITWUSAND  POP          7.2       2L.9     42.4             113.6                   225.6
TV 3ECI/TOISAND POP                  0.1        0.8      9.6              5O.L                   107.2
NEWSPAPER C-DA11 fNERAL
IN?Ulr) CIRCOLATIOS
PER TOUSAED  POPULATIMO           11.0         ..      17.7             53.9                    63.5
CINEM  AUAL ATEENDAWCAPITA           2.8                 0.8 /d            3.4                     2.8
OTAL LAJOR FORCE (CTROl)         34791.0    41090.0  54689.0
FEMLU  (PERCE)                    27.8       30.9     29.1              33.5                    23.2
AGRICULTURE CPERCEK)              75.0       66.0      58.0             52.2                    31.5
DUSU  (PERCENT)                    8.0       10.0     12.0              17.9                    23.9
PARTICIPATIOS RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             36.7       35.4      35.8             38.7                    32.2
MALE                              54.2       49.5      5L.1             50.9                    49.3
FEMALE                            20.0       21.6      20.7             26.6                    15.2
ECOWOfC DEPENDENCY RATIO             1.2        1.3      1.2               1.1                     1.4
loco  DISSRUTER
PERCENT OF PRIVATE ID
RECEnED W.
IllXlr SZ tF HOUSEHOLDS                                23.5 1           22.2
MTGE   20: OF IIOIEBRLDS            ..                49.4 /            48.0
1   21gr = OF HOUSEHOLDS                               6.6 /Y            6.4
WOVST 402 OF  .1EIOLS                          ..      14.41I           15.5
POWER?T TG 
ESTnIATrD ABSOLUTE POWEi IoJWtl
LEVEL CUSS PER CPr]A)
URBA; .N                                    124.0 01  124.0 A          188.6                   288.2
RDRAL                               .       106.0 7r  106.0 7Ti        152.0                    184.0
ESTEO RELATIVE POVERTY 
LEML CSS PB CAPITA)
URBAN                               .           .    119.0 /I          177.9                   522.8
RMtAL                               .          .      98.0 7r          164.6                   372.4
ESTInAMD POP. BELU ADSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOSE LEVEL (S)
oR.                                          51.0/t  26.0 1            23.4
RURAL                               .        59.0 Ti- 4.0 7Ti           37.7
NOT AVAILABLE
OT APPLICAILE
N O EZ S
/a  Tm group averags for eah Indicator are population-maigitad aritbatic _ama. Coverage of countres moog the
Indicators depends on availabilty of data and in not uniform.
fb  Unlea zzb=vine noted. Data for 1960- refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; -ta for 1970' betawen 1969 and
1971; a  data for 'Mot Recent Eatlatr- betwee 1980 and 1982.
/c  1983; /d 1977; /a 1579; /f 1962; .LL 1976;  b 1975; /S 1980 price.
ne. 19114



_-ii  cr St -   'qi -  -.                     a    At L              4 
.1'1 -a tm-dan  t-.nt.   n-lt-  a-   .rtWi   a-J.                    i-
P            -       _*.4_*" s~"
a-          ti-                                          . 4   i  .  a  ; -
-_       --  tAtini _1_    a-isg a   a _n  J-
tad~      *___i   t   * a        -   - p             -      p c
_p.A^ ..       - .            - __-                                                     A ia    e_ *i. _ _             -           (ua-  .
in'  -                                                   F-  .a- adt 1n-lntcrwna. "s- 1                          -1 a    a-   a - -tl-
al-lne    rnnia(n  It  t.aia "-aul-al                                                          M    -  16 let.....     -...  a-jAV    s-aI-a-snn                 na.
a--IIcn-c  *_~ _n tty.                    | |      -nla.                                   .5.. n-    ttsea is. _ts _- *-q   t (                 - nt ;tn  -  d
- ta  Al        I   u.n.l -  (t-t--      a- ntsain  aIi -it  an -     eatw
-14~~~                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~ PU -t   t-ci VI-n. -J(t-aii--iiutat  jc
-ad                               V-Pp ! i_ *It ,t - -l`  t
_ -    -...  ta. -   tct pa- a-a-u a-u          d  .-  -asa-in          att                           cua. t _a-l at .>   -Sn.  -   -     iit  |-} SitiC  151
--   -'      'l      mmXB     s -4                 isev   J.;   _l
a-i- - Itflaatti ta-at    a-i iliac-4 ~~~nta   -ii a-tat-cne pntatI-A                                                             Am
* --> -   a-.- -t D_A a. -   a*   u_uc                                                                           - as- i-ntp  _D| .-t
1i        - 1 -1-             la                                                                                                          a-aj D.n.-  wi2   a-ti-ta
..tpatas- *-s  1n1 V-_1                                   -aPi
-  rnt nc-airnin  ma-la tat..-..- a-ca *ip ala-Inn -itnantia-                               jail in  ca*! *lt---p--    mt --1--                P- Z a ----- - a-n- _-----
ta-nt ic-ce_   -'tn     * ia-   '1- let. n in 1e-u} is-tad -ct-naaa.iw    1sa  -ai   ntg.   -s.a    t--.-
-4* 'iC  in a-i-    .c.in..... US  c.n. a.-nt i-i. _.-sine i-au-                                                   tc  ta-c _1- ogic.......................... *l*3>S -__,*_-ta--- lim.1 in  _ptaipc
*_^  _, ,_}a.  _a_  _  .    ._w .        ac-a i{    u   LiMi.d                    .a-ni _ neaa  un'   ni. -       lli nQt   -Bas nI   -1c . an %t-a    '.pd
.|_1_ F%             _B1        s   .w- 'Ui                                                                                              a
_ fti F- GM     ml 1-6  ~1 I... J~                                                            A4-`Ai t-     a   nn   t -nt -u-c-a  i   a_  .  * --   -.--ct.
Zm                                          aa-    J   ia- _       t-- n_               . _ 1.  *lW  d
an __a,- . cai    - -lid.,_,n.,a-dm    ncc.,  _,-ai                                                 .etn......... n_ _,_,_, *,, ins at,,, _cc  c-rn, ........................a-p3 -   in   a-* ildt  -1
Itrn.tti ii a-Inset - (s-li in lc-ac ittit a-ant .c-ninre_         I5                 tamana  -_S 4rn c-all   ttrnli -           _   __ti  ->| miI tI-a--J1n c-.   nIcI-   ,,A
1" w ~~~~ _*j_ _~~-4a -ttc  a   tr _c-  cci itts _1   t'n-iti ltirn.  pi-tl  itswa |
_    f t - I S~-at~ _-.                          -                           a- _3t.i--t  ci S.c-ut. Sn * annu a n _ a-cccia-ctn  s-t a-
:~~~~~~~~~-ac-a aat n ian et                                                   -as-inE _-i   v_ ssn_  . cta _ -act  _a im   u_.at pa .uttlac-
-u~~~~~~~~~~~~A a-p    ip-X n   s.r   a    nu-tntatit. ataa-_                            caa  in _ia  ttrntrnt  - in.. _          c- atS  itln 1_         tat_-
arntit nil  .rn   _,arct ea arn tncat n-                    .ca-untnr   aj                                  .p-ii-a rn_i   Itr    e.tn -, a-tI    t   l
li-u)dn  an   na_ ac-anta   -n  t             I     ancaccaa                       aad n.ua  i.e ijunn .tU ateina  t.ugga s-t _               a't   *-ltt ' -ann
nina ani  nma inBw_ nc             cla  p.ad  _q  cal- accaclin                    _              s-ja)    (tcaa_nrn   at artana   trut_.nan_usa
-  a-tsdlictdi.a -I _-t-   in   -a- -ut-  - c.t-ai-  '1-a-cattl
=s _ .~~~~~~~~t-p csc pa-                                            ant is_ *cs  t.-ts  l          -   aci asati   Pnc-p  nta- a*~X1-_ 
tlit-X _tc  tinn  *ar     n. in san -*.aan  -   -     in iaa    isataac                         tI aausel n  PWb tncna    cnnn -inntrnInl   -~   jici
pa iriri ttlrn   trntia rnt ..a iti   - icraaa  .itInaa.i    na- ti-Ila a-l-ni                                        t.na_ i-a  t_  _ a-.c pa
-c-c-a aettt tic-a p     a-.aa   -  naati aitti tcnna - (Inaai.a) alma                        rnlcana ine5. nut- Iltttj-ist!                a-a-t-  s-nII n-l
'tn-w-   a- tl-nacrn-nnt    -i*-list at ilia-n- _n-l   a-avni  an _nI _-. i-_sc-ian    as........ nncda,icca   -.n.......w1
p-an 3a-tpta-c  _nt  -Ic  ic_lrnitm-nn - PP  .s-c    aat  a-_- tncs                               an    a iaun  .psI  ci-n             n1'na-   .i  _lr rnr.atii
.,. _ *_ _ o~~~~~ zs .- gs . ;s1~na                                                  nttt~  in| :t"_ nlausri  *-n t- -   atlat n  c-a _t
Ua_ J.    _      " V,_=                                                     w                                         7__,. _a_    __"_
-  matis nc_ - _a-u~| r_  .J. -.   t-Ic--    n   l.1it .crn-n rnc-taPl
s-= _aPi              An .    II I  ttatrn.   a--t_ ti   ut   -   latat-tt                                               -'
unts~~~~-laannintini  2 a        csl-st ta-nPtccat- iana                         '          in tmst *'oist cit = .wan   a    -  i-a-a-c  _t i- a- -  natltn
-cnn-tn _ ta a--c -.w ca-us  aB a Wtatcc i-         _ s -I   a                           t n           t              -a- ni a  s-   c_        s 'Mal      - t
_a-ia- ccc --a- a_ ~1@at -cs-ac-twa its- tc    -: in a-aan.-ta at                         nc itti tic. tan   rna.aclictn atV_ inqa-. ann. - *3a at mli tt-in- .-
na-a-n ., a _ ~a                                                 < pints.._-s  -tu pas    .I                                                 a
t t          a         a          ma-In ; a ac_I-_l in  -aa-              a.                         at _t   i_  -c   i-ne -                _t         *u  tan  s
-tita_t a- a-c-*s-ta-a t    tints rnt a    a as *rn teaai.ti It         a-                                                 -Salti        -as _          
t.tn  .Y-catulini an _nac   - atc|l~ tarn   _I tnla                                           .t  a- .W   tltn_  la-n :- a-ti-(n-saint nac cc''nn *' sina
-n-it                                                             aI _c I_-  c-d-l   Ataa    n   t                            
-M~~~~~i  1_ * ss* s.v_ - ~ P_.-.    .-_d  -,=-1 "-.
-c- c- -  _ata a_--n"  4 Ia sc-p  tan      na                           -Pt an -ica-    -,- an  AF-            S     iI
_t-at ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~ijnn                                             -tip   t-i n_al ttc. a-itc   - Is-ia  tiiata  nt attin_ u-*1                 ta
*sa-t pa ni-na ~,3 s-at na-la  ac-_- I*a-a an Snaa-aa.4 *                  4         ct1 tcinllnat?S  n i s tt-in -* pIs- - A1-n  tta a- 1--  -
(actin in a-a -n a-tm  can-i tsaa.fl - Icrntanns tt a '_V       an  Sti                                                        cA t,-c in _.s_ -j         l    tnt
-*- ni tanis-rnl at  rna~ et inc-up  _ntarntt La-A    _- i -P Z                                                                                  s c--a - -t-c-c
-tm       .   Ac *-t 4 uItc  -                                                                             I_t c i   -- tl   tut -                             -a-n
ttttl-iu i icpvt an _ . .              I- s  - r a        t        :         _ Ist _a taa     ac              a a-           la    n    ua         
satt- r -an   -              ccn                                                                                                 uinn.  atcn 4   _r-*it
A      ts a-  ia- itta.n                            ni   -la  c-ta-nc   ic-i atas-ad   Ia-   laa *-- 0_t
nat-t-a  intp-d-atanana-rna- i -a3 ccinittt autel                                 a-c ls-i-  rn-iP a-'cStuaat-i                 neanlsI  c5-  A.-..
a-a  t     0 -c  --t_aV netj-tI a       I-s    *-      p-- t      -                       n            i-         -       -t a-   ans    ct f %-  M-         c-      IC
!W-tactnl (-tad pt-nn I a-t--a ia-i  m    tr.aaat-n                                              inmc-nctlrnai- --nIta-aa Aan -0 as-a niP-   n-
ScS-ntrnln-n- s       t     aVm-    p n-sm-  .s - - utiatnatnn                               "  niaV-   n.Ot Ic-tIle   eta  , n tniatti - ti(d 41              i-
an ia-a-Isat  t  aI-" a -in  -  tP                       nt-a-ta-Intn-In sa-ita-ttlcttSai- s-ita-i A ti 1.t  c-tni
cc  i_n _,      I ins-_a-i Stla-ac *lset      ".e  S     cat  _na ar -                                    i _ -a-i *--nn-a n-ta  d- a--c-a
la-a  5  tnIc.na   a-it~nt attta  -l a-na- * t a -tt on-lan  tnacata    a 3 - - i-4-m   ~B% t- an                                         -s-te I-c-a
act-   int- - tcs        tn- -I              - -       o - ntai    ul!.<Iiti                 ilutat  iinnnti    -U     i-iir  iiaX f   -  I-iaa sattn
6- --w- jq Pm-"a  i5tIiiIij35i-                                        tndnaiatn    -  in!iilln    ndlrc-a   -nt-
An-p- . I-q- I-W-  ~   ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      Su-fi n-An         tnt   v-  -1 a-tilt-a-  =lii-  t  ni    ln-ntt1
P- csA  i      -ti -         ta-;l   a    A-an- taalacaa-ia.1          n  nan      j-         W aitant-& tilt      - trta-cti     - SaJl.S -M ut a-at-  t-
A-altat- i-a- -ta      '-i  5   til t-   lttd-i-   n-n.aci-cn 
aa-rn aa-tt                                                                 A-in-t.Itt       a   .  i. a- acne a-tat-y                             setlatotad t-titn
saftd  S                                                          t c   i acta                                                                                            i   iZ         a



ANN   I
Population        155.8 millUon (rid-1983)                 - 28 -                                               r-ge 4 of 5 Pages
CNP per Capita:  US$560 (1983 estimate)
INDONESTA - ECONCIMC INDICATORS
Amount
(aillion USS at                             Annual rareth rate (2) /b
current prices)                 ActuaL                          P-rojected
Indicator                            1982          198U           ----   VI9D3  lYA$4/a  1JVi 19Mb   195/   19o    1939   199U
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product /c          78,344        9.9    7.9   -0.2    4.7    5.5    2.6    5.0    5.1    4.7    4.1    4.3
Agriculture                      20,651        5.2    4.9    2.1    4.8    5.0    3.7    3.7    3.7    3.7    3.7    3.7
Industry                        29g896        12.5    8.5   -6.4    5.0    7.3    0.2    5.4    5.6    4.5    3.0    3.5
Services                        27.797        11.8    9.8    5.5    4.3    4.0    4.5    5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5
Csumptlion                         62.731        12.4   15.8    3.0    2.0    5.6    1.3    3.4    4.3    4.3    4.3    4.1
Gross investment /d                18,908        18.9   11.1    8.5   -5.0   -2.0    5.1    5.1    5.3    5.5    5.7    5.5
Exports of GNFS                    19,508       -5.6   -2.4  -12.6   14.8    1.5    Z.9    6.3    5.2    3.9    1.4    3.2
Imports of GNFS                   22,803        15.1   27.1    3.2   -8.1   -5.0    0.5    1.3    2.5    2.6    3.0    3.4
Gross national savings             12,273        33.2  -20.0  -15.9   22.2   16.7   -1.6   12.2    8.2    7.1    5.4    5.5
PRICES
ZDTFdeflator (1981 - 100)                          91    100    113    131    142    156    166    179    194    209    226
Exchange rate (Rp per USS)                       627    632    661    909  1,026
Share of GDP at market prices (Z)
(at current prices)                          Averam  annual increase (2) /b
19bO   19/U   i9I%        51)  1985       19     00 1-/U   19/0 -   19/5-S    1950-55   1985 - 9U
Gross domestic product           100    100    100    100    100    100          3.9        8.4        7.4       4.1        4.6
Agriculture                     54     47     32      25     26     25         2.7        4.1        3.3       4.1        3.7
Industry                       14      18     34     43      38     37         5.2       12.0       9.8        2.8        4.4
Services                       32      35     35      32     36     38         4.8        9.7       9.5        5.6        5.5
Consumption                    91      89     79     71      76     74         4.1        8.4       9.2        5 '        4.0
Gross investment /d             a      14     20      21     20     22         4.8       18.3      12.2        4.5        5.4
Exports of GNFS                13      13     23      31     25     25         3.6        9.2       2.9       -1.2        4.0
Imports of GNFS               -13    -16    -22    -22    -22    -20           3.2       22.1      14.0        2.6        2.6
Gross national savings          8       9     17      26     20     22         6.1       23.1      14.2        0.5        7.7
As 2 of GDP
10=               19/0                191X5              1980               1904
PUBLIC FINANCE /e
Current revenue                               11.7               10.1               17.4                22.5               20.1
Current expenditures                          14.0                8.4                9.9                12.8               11.8
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                    -2.3               +1.6               47.5               +9.7               +8.3
Capital expenditure                            n.a.               5.0               11.3                13.0                7.4
Foreign financing                              0.2                3.5                3.7                 3.3               -0.9
1960-70         1970-75           1975-80          1980-85          1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
Annual CNP groith rate (Z)                            4.5             7.6               7.1             3.8              4.8
Annual GNP per capita grcvth rate (2)                2.4              5.1              4.7              1.7              2.8
Annual energy consumption grawth rate (2)             2.2             11.2             11.0             1.3             4.7
ICOR                                                 2.2              2.2              3.3             5.2              4.4
Marginal savings rate                                0.30             0.48             0.28            0.03             0.35
Import elasticity                                     1.2             2.8              0.84            0.63             0.57
/a  Estimates.
7W  At constant 1973 prices for 1980-81, and 1981 prices for 1982-90.
7Ec At market prices.
7Ur Fixed investment; stock changes are included in consumption.
7e  Central Government only, on an April-to-March fiscal year basis.                              East Asia and Pacific Region
March 29, 1985



Population       155.8 million (mid-1983)                     - 29                                        AN-13   I
CUp per Capita: US$560 (1983 estimate)                         -age -                                          ef 5 pages
nDmoSsm - BALAN OF PAETIS AND lTEmWAL cA-PTJL A1ID DEBT
jALllons US  t current prices)
Actual                               Projected
lYW               IfD tSoZ  IfS3    lYm4/a  Ifl5      11-p              LYYUl
BAIANCE OF PAhNTS/b
1. ercports                                   22.885   22,994   18,672   19,816   19,983  21,115   23,043   26,331   36,460
(a)  Oil and LUG (gross)                  17,297   18,824   14,744   14,449   14,082  14,481   15,483   17,784   23.801
(b)  Nanoil                                5,588    4.170    3,928    5.367    5,901   6,634    7,560    8,547   12,659
2.  Imports (including net NFS)              -17,589  -22,570  -22,339  -19,583  -18I188 -19,070  -20.752  -23,015  -31,705
(a)  Oil sector                           -4,050   -5,407   -4,802   -3,839   -3.552 -3,823   -4,216  -4,776   -6,893
(b)  Monoil imports                     -11,837  -14.561  -15,824  -14,174  -13,225 -13,807  -14,990 -16,535  -22,499
(c) NFS (net)                             -1.702   -2.602  -1.713   -1,570   -1441  -1,440   -1.546   -1,704   -2.313
3. Resource balance                            5,296      424  -3667         233  -1,795   2,045    2 291    3,316    4,755
4. Factor services                            -3,165   -3,210   -3,573   4,669   -4,620  -5,003   -5,395   -6,049   -7,487
(a)  Interest public debt                   -823     -994  -1,145   -1Z256   -1,499  -1,734  -1,958   -2,211  -2,747
(b)  Other (net)                          -2,342   -2,216   -Z.428   -3,413   -3,121  -3,Z69   -3,437   -3,838   -4,740
5. Capital grants                                 76       67      105        95      100     110      120      125      150
6.  Balance on current account                 2,207   -2,719   -7,135   .4,341   -2,725  -2,848   -2,984   -2,608   -2,582
7. Direct foreign investment                     140      142      311       193      Z50     250      275      300      375
8. Public H & LT loans
(a)  Disbursement                          2,551    2,673    4,192    4,965    4,189   5,238    5,521    5,649    7,001
(b)  Amortization                           -936   -1,053  -1,102   -1.295   -2,036  -2,461   -2,534   -3,176   -5,050
(c)  Net disbursements                     1,615    1,620    3,090    3,670    2,153   2,777    2,987    2,473    1,951
9. Other capital (net)                        -1,488      -31      655    2,547       611    -29       175       56      502
10. Change in reserves (- increase)            -2,736      988    3,279   -2.069      -289   -150      -453     -221     -246
11. Net official reserves                      -7,342    6.354    3,074    5,144    5.433   5.583    6.036    6,257    6.902
Reserves in sonths of nonoil imports
+ NFS                                      6.5      4.4      2.1       3.9      4.5     4.4      4.4      4.1      3.3
Memorandum Item
met toreign assets of the banking
system/c                                   10,787   10,622    6,392    8,916    9,205   9,355    9,809   10,029   10,674
Total reierves in months of nonoil
imports + NFS                                 9.6      7.4      4.4       6.8      7.5     7.4      7.1      6.6      5.2
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT/d
Gross Dibursements                            2 551    2 673    4,192    4 965
Loncessional Lns                              -lSi       7ig3     1W      9tnw
Bilateral                                   TM7      71       17       3fl
IDA                                          42       69       78       60
Other
Nonconcessional LIns                          1 892    1,880    3,503    4,357
Bsilateral                 1X   ~ 7U  511T  WtD
IBRD                                          331      314      505      489
Other multiLateral                             52       85      126       160
Private-source                              1,421    1,310    2,356    3,219
Eternal Debt
DflflihiEibnding and disbursed /e          14 971   15 670   18,515   21 686
Official-source                         7tsu    1t15    flfl,l    lZ,037
Private-source                            5,465    5,812    7,403    9,649
Undisbursed debt                            9,481   11.387   12,870   12,975
Debt Service
lotel service payments                      1,759    2.047    2,247    2,551
Interest                                    823      994    1.145    1.256
Payments as 2 of exports/f                    7.7      8.9    '2.0       12.9
Averace Interest Rate on New Loans (S)          8.1      8.7      9.2      5.8
UttIcial-source                               5.4      7.8      S.d       8.7
Private-source                               12.4      9.4      9.5      8.8
Average Maturity of tIe Loans (Tears)          18.8     15.5    15.2       15.1
Otricial-source                              24.4    20.5    20.6        22.3
Private-source                                9.8     11.1     11.1      10.3
As Z of debt outstanding at end of 1983
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
*         Maturities due within 5 years                                                                           40
Maturities due within 10 years                                                                         70
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                                                        7.0
/a  Estilates.
71  On an April-to-March fiscal year basis.
7F Includes foreign assets of deposit money banks In addition to official reserves.
7W  Excludes private nonguaranceed loans.
7W  At end of period.                                                                        East Asia and Pacific Region
7r Oil exports treated on gross basis.                                                              March 29, 1985



ANNEX II
30 -                     Page I of 4 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK CROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1985) /a
Loan/                                                          Amount (USS miLlion)
Credit  Fiscal                                                 (less canceLlations)
number   year   Purpose                                      Bank     IDA    Undisbursed
Thirty-five Loans and fort7-one Credits fully
disbursed                                                1,584.59   642.71         -
1578    L978   Tenth Irrigation                             140.00      -         68.02
1604    L978   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders II            65.00      -         29.75
869    L979   Polytechnic                                     -      49.00       11.29
1645    L979   Twelfth Irrigation                            77.00      -         23.47
1653    L979   Third Urban Development                       54.00      -         11.26
1692    1979   Second Agricultural Training                  42.00      -          8.29
1696    1979   Fifth Highway                                123.20      -         19.59
919    1979   Transmigration II                               -      67.00        0.0
1707    1979   Transmigration II                             90.00      -         86.27
1708    1979   Eighth Power                                 175.00      -         41.64
1709    1979   Second Water Supply                           35.50      -          9.85
946    1980   Yogyakarta Rural Development                    -      12.00        7.40
1751    1980   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders III           99.00      -         3i..79
984    1980   Smallholder Rubber Development                  -      45.00       27.57
995    1980   Fifteenth Irrigation                            -      37.6        15.72
996    1980   National Agriculture Extension II               -      42.00       24.95
1811    1980   Fourteenth Irrigation                        116.00      -         53.39
1835    1980   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders IV            42.00      -         29.72
1840    1980   National Agricultural Research                35.00      -         35.00
1014    1980   National Agricultural Research                  -      30.00        5.94
1872    1980   Ninth Power                                  253.00      -         86.71
1898    1981   Smallholder Coconut Development               46.00      -         33.06
1904    1981   University Development                        45.00      -         37.30
1950    1981   Tenth Power                                 250.00       -         21.68
1958    1981   Swamp Reclamation                             22.00      -         13.45
1972    1981   Fourth Urban Development                      43.00      -         24.13
.
/a The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
all Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



ANNEX II
-31-                       Page 2 of 4 pages
Loan/                                                         Amount (USS million)
Credit  Fiscal                                                 (less canceLlations)
number   year   Purpose                                     Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
2007    1981   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders V           161.00       -       114.44
2011    1981   Second Small Enterprise Development         106.00       -         8.95
2049    1982   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway                     85.00       -        75_70
2056    1982   Eleventh Power                              170.00       -        84.11
2066    1982   Second Seeds                                 15.00       -        10.80
2079    1982   Bukic Asam Coal Mining Development and
Transport                                 185.00      -         85.87
2083    1982   RuraL Roads Development                      85.00       -        63.11
2101    1982   Second Teacher Training                      80.00       -        76.26
2102    1982   Second Textbook                              25.00       -        24.89
2118    1982   Sixteenth Ierigation                         37.00       -        21.24
2119    1982   Seventeenth Irrigation (East Java            70.00       -        48.11
Province)
2120    1982   National Fertilizer Distribution             66.00       -        41.71
2126    1982   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders VI           68.10       -        59.49
2153    1982   Coal Exploration Engineering                 25.00       -        19.69
2199    1982   Central Java Pulp and Paper Engineering       5.50       -         4.21
2214    1983   Twelfth Power                               300.00       -       256.20
2232    1983   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders VII         154.60       -       152.32
2235    1983   Provincial Health                            27.00       -        25.97
2236    1983   Jakarta Sewerage and Sanitation              22.40       -        21.38
2248    1983   Transmigration III                          101.00       -        66.00
2258    1983   Public Works Manpower Development            30.00       -        28.72
2275    1983   East Java Water SuppLy                       30.60       -        27.49
2277    1983   Fifth BAPINDO                               208.90       -       158.71
2288    1983   Transmigration IV                            63.50       -        61.75
2290    1983   Second Polytechnic                          107.40       -       107.13
2300    1983   Thirteenth Power                            279.00       -       241.15
2341    1984   Third Agricultural Training                  63.30       -        62.84
2344    1984   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder Sugar         79.20       -        53.91
2355    1984   Second Non-Formal Education                  43.00       -        41.38
2375    1984   Second Provincial Irrigation Dev.            89.00       -        85.34
2404    1984   Highway Betterment                          240.00       -       235.37
2408    1984   Fifth Urban Development                      39.65       -        39.15
2430    1984   Third Small Enterprise Development          204.70       -       204.14
2431    1984   Second Swamp Reclamation                     65.00       -        64.84
2443    1984   Fourteenth Power                            210.00       -       209.48
1950-1  1985   SuppLemental Loan for Tenth Power
(1950-IND) /a                             50.00       -        50.00
2472    1985   Secondary Education and Management
Training                                   78.00      -         77.81
/a lot yet effective.



-32-                       ANN  II
Page 3 of 4 pages
Loan/                                                         Amount (US$ million)
Credit  Fiscal                                                (less cancellations)
number   year   Purpose                                     Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
2474    1985   Upland Agriculture and Conservation /a       11.30       -        11.30
2494    1985   SmalLholder Rubber Development II /a        131.00       -       131.00
Total Bank loans and IDA credits          7,020.93   938.48
Of which has been repaid                   -395.81   -17.69
Tot4l now outstanding                     6,625.12   920.79
Amount sold to third party        28.24
Amount repaid by third party    -28.24         -
Total now held by Bank and IDA /b         6,625.12   920.79
Total undisbursed                         3,693.82    98.65   3,792.47
/a   Not yet effective.
/b   Prior to erchange adjustment.



ANNEX 11
-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~3  - 
Page 4 of 4 pages
B. ITATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1985)
Fiscal                              Type of            Loan    Equity    Total
year         Obligor               business           -     (US$ million) -
1971    P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement             10.6       2.5       13.1
1971    P.T. Unitex                  Textiles            2.5       0.8        3.3
1971    P.T. Primatexco Indonesia   Textiles             2.0       0.5        2.5
1971    P.T. Kabel Indonesia         Cable                2.8      0.4        3.2
1972    P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.          Textiles            4.5      1.5        6.0
1973    P.T. Jakarta Lnt_ Hotel      Tourism             9.8       1.6       11.4
1973    P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement               5.4      0.7        6.1
1974    P.T. Primatexco Indonesia   Textiles             2.0       0.3        2.3
1974    P.T. Monsanto Pan            Electronics         0.9        -         0.9
1974    P.T. PDFCI                   Devel. Fin. Co.      -        0.5        C.5
1974    P.T. Kamaltex                Textiles            2.4       0.6        3.0
1976    P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement              5.0       1.5        6.5
1976    P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement               -        1.1        1.1
1977    P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.          TextiLes            0.4       -         0.4
1977    P.T. Kamaltex                Textiles            1.3       0.2        1.5
1979    P.T. Daralon                 Textiles            0.9        -        0.9
1980    P.T. Papan Sejahtera         Capital Market      4.0       1.2        5.2
1980    P.T. Indo American
Industries            Glass Dinnerware  11.1       0.9       12.0
1980    P.T. Semen Andalas           Cement and
Indonesia               Construction
Material        48.0       5.0       53.0
1982/5  P.T. Saseka Gelora Leasing Capital Market        5.0       0.3       5.3
1984    P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cemenc             25.0        -       25.0
Total gross commitments                        143.6      19.6     163.2
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled            107.6       7.4     115.0
Totai held by IFC                               36.0      12.2      48.2
Undisbursed (including participant's portion)  9.5                   9.5



ANNEX III
-34-
INDONESIA
WEST TARUM CANAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events:
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project           : 4 years
Cb)  Agency which proposed the project           : DGWRD and Consultants
(c)  First Bank mission to consider project   : August 1982
(d)  Departure of appraisal mission              : September 1984
Ce)  Completion of negotiations                  : April 1985
Cf)  Planned date of effectiveness               : August 1985
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
The GOI would ensure that:
Ca) expansion of the Pulogadung treatment plant will be completed by
September 30, 1988 and its distribution system will be completed by
September 30, 1989 (para. 46); and
(b) land will be reclassified and the land tax reassessed by March 31,
1990, and the West Java Provincial Government will allocated
incremental land tax revenues from this area to finance O&1 of
Jatiluhur's main and secondary irrigation systems in accordance with
a schedule, acceptable to the Bank, which will be furnished by
December 31, 1988; and adequate funds for O&M of the Jatiluhur
irrigation systems will be made available (para. 59).
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



IBRD 18504
.OPoift. "a:                                      .
'MU             Cabs                                                                                           'MW~~~~~~~~~~~~~onmbn
JAKARTA      TaNWrol
r                                A
Cana  Enargmnt
_"_d        Pr_posed P.iPW
*  Planned Treatment Plants~N                         PUrVkDr
-  Secondary Canals ~ ~     ~      ~     ~     LA                              ub
Other Jatllihur SerIc nAre
Caxitnal Enargmeandteev
7W                 Proposeam ad Rieliervi Une Cntrcio                        UMT
RailwCaals
Seco:sc  ondarviCnas                                                           JI
_ _ _ _ __           __  _  __  _  __  _ __  ___    _
_ _ _ d~~~~~xstn Da             'n  eevi
JbKARTA  TquqgldoktN,_S  * 4                                              FBRUAR    198
WES  TAeR U   s9
KNLOIMETROVEEN  PRJC ;IAD
PROJECT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EBUR 1985t9 



IBRD 18505
INDONESIA                                                          5EUTUI.
WEST TARUM CANAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT I
Raw Water and Flushing Supply from the WT.GC                                                     Java Sea
FROM= LCATKIN
o-45 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ Bg -o|  MkIADuRA 
EXSnNuzE JAWA
is  is    WATE TREATMENWT PLA,r  U
... --4  ......a ...... _13 SUP5PLYOF FLUSHINGWATER (om)                                 ()r :..0n  c--.in
-                                         -                                 . cras.
CA^NALS TO 9E ENLARGED LWtER THE PROJECr
WBRS
ROADS
b        -I---I--I-                      ~~~~~~~~RAILWAYS 
RPyERS
Q  =  DISOHARGE
r                                              cmS =  CULC MsETERSSECONo
w"o                                                       nut,,g Pno                                                                -
N             5                                                                                             n-
t  TREAT                      I                   i' T      AT
6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ R' \ ' \Or  iuLDu /
OUIPUT~~
56    62 (1985N                                  Ss>      9                     11
/                                  JW   BARAT I ARAN
-          ;          I   \             \      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IREATME.NT  PI ANT.,
\  t           |     \           .             f "'S               l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P AiJ N  T "A-.I
-- " i / \ < ~~~~~~~~~5 O   tjl ;,                                       0].+ ,:'* 
.OhOC'S aix's  /~CAv t, C' /                                                      H.8 I -
tnfs amp ? T  Idby                                                                           JAWA              BARAT
rrw wee raw. s Ssfar e-,k-tI
rer ove cw!we of t'aw.  
CC--O . -T he tena.ni                    - - : M
usffeand us of  idw oAw &W*
aUSn ma lW Jo noT 'nly on rme                       -
ad 'he ftwv          _Fre
- of  The I     e d d  b
e.da  Pw ,C e  Cixdo' 1 n
'VW p_Vl,WV On the ICg 51*6                                                              0      2      4       0       8      10
of ww teensy or awoIrs
endo'stee-t ix acceafiffce Of
0 so Bogo                       t to Boot                                                               FE BRUA55      198
F EBRUARY 1985



