Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15792
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SUDAN
EMERGENCY DROUGHT RECOVERY PROJECT
(CR. 2290-SU)
June 18, 1996
Agriculture and Environment Operations Division
Eastern Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The official currencies of the Sudan are the Pound (LSd) and the Dinar (DSd)
DSd 1.00 = LSd 10.00
At Appraisal US$ 1.00 = LSd 12.2 (commercial rate)
US$ 1.00 = LSd 4.5 (official rate)
At ICR:                 US$ 1.00 = LSd 788
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I meter (m) = 3.28 feet
I kilometre (km) = 0.62 miles (mi)
I tonne (ton) = 1,000 kg = 2,205 pounds (lb)
I feddan (fd) = 1.04 acres = 0.42 ha
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
At Appraisal: I July - 30 June
At ICR:                 I January - 31 December
ACRONYMS
AfDB                 African Development Bank
APPD                 Agricultural Policy and Planning Department
AREP                 Agricultural Research & Extension Project
CMS                  Central Medical Stores
EDRP                 Emergency Drought Recovery Project
EFRP                 Emergency Flood Reconstruction Project
FAO                  Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FSCU                 Food Security Coordinating Unit
GOS                  Govemnment of Sudan
ICB                  Intemnational Competitive Bidding
IDA                  Intemnational Development Association
ILO                  Intemnational Labour Organization of the United Nations
LRC                  Livestock Route Company
MOANR                Ministry of Agriculture, Natural Resources and Animal Health
MOF                  Ministry of Finance
MOFEP                Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
MOH                  Ministry of Health
NRIU                 National Reconstruction Implementation Unit
NRWC                 National Rural Water Corporation
SKADP                Southern Kordofan Agricultural Development Project
SPWP                 Special Public Works Programme
TA                   Technical Assistance
UNDP                 United Nations Development Programme
UNICEF               United Nations Children's Fund
WB                   World Bank
WFP                  World Food Programme of the United Nations
WHO                  World Health Organization of the United Nations
WSP                  Western Savannah Project



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SUDAN
EMERGENCY DROUGHT RECOVERY PROJECT
(CR. 2290-SU)
CONTENTS
PREFACE ........................
EVALUATION SUMMARY ..............................................                                                       ii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ...............................................1
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES ...............................................1
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES ...............................................2
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT ...............................................6
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY ...............................................7
E. BANK PERFORMANCE ...............................................8
F. BORROWERS PERFORMANCE .....8..........................................
G. ASSESSMENT OF OVERALL OUTCOME ...............................................9
H. FUTURE OPERATION ................................................................................................................9
1. KEY LESSONS LEARNT .............................                                                                    10
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES .............................                                                             11
Aide Memoire
Map
This docunent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
| ofci&I duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SUDAN
EMERGENCY DROUGHT RECOVERY PROJECT
(CR. 2290-SU)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Emergency Drought Recovery Project
(EDRP), for which Credit 2290-SU in the amount of SDR 11.9 million (US$ 16.0 million equivalent) was
approved on August 7, 1991 and became effective on October 17, 1991. In addition, amendments to existing
IDA credits 1867-SU (SKADP), 1640-SU (WSP), 201 1-SU (EFRP) and 1639-SU (AREP) reallocating some
US$ 7.5 million were agreed to, on June 5, 1991 and became available as of July 1, 1991.
2.    The credit was closed on September 30, 1993, i.e. the planned closing date. The last disbursement
transaction was effected on November 8, 1993, at which time a balance of SDR 1.72 million was cancelled.
There was no co-financing for this project.
3.    The ICR was prepared by staff of FAO/CP on behalf of the Agriculture and Environment Operations
Division (AF2AE) of the Africa Region and reviewed by Sushma Ganguly, Division Chief (AF2AE) and
S. Agarwal, Projects Adviser (AF2). The report is based on material in the project files, as well as findings of
the FAO completion mission, which visited Sudan in October-November, 1995. Due to high turnover of
Government/project staff, many key people familiar with the project were no longer available, and the mission
faced some difficulties in obtaining project related information. The Borrower contributed to the preparation
by providing inputs to the Aide Mdmoire drafted by the FAO/CP completion mission. In view of the
suspension of Bank operations in Sudan, the ICR was not forwarded by IDA to the Government of Sudan for
review/comment.






- ii -
IMPLEMWENTATION COMPLETION RIEPORT
SUDAN
EMIERGENCY DROUGHT RECOVERY PROGRA1MI
(Cr. 2290-SU)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    In December 1990, the Food and Agriculture Organization/World Food Program (FAO/WFP) crop and
food supply assessment predicted a major fall in Sudanese food production due to drought. The food gap was
foreseen to affect 7.7 million people and to be comparable to the situation that caused the disaster of 1984/85.
In January 1991, the Ministry of Finance & Economic Planning (MOFEP) requested IDA's assistance to
combat the effects of the drought. Given the humanitarian nature of the request and the urgency of the situation,
the World Bank acted rapidly and a new credit of SDR 11.9 million and re-allocations from existing credits
(US$ 7.5 million) to provide funding for an Emergency Drought Recovery Project (EDRP) was presented to the
Board in July 1991.
Objectives
2.    The EDRP had two main objectives: (a) to alleviate the impact of the current drought on the poor and
vulnerable in the most affected areas of Darfur, Kordofan, Khartoum and the Eastern State, and the towns of
Juba, Wau and Malakal in the south; and (b) to initiate an action plan to improve longer term food security.
Various criteria were established, using experience from past interventions, to help guide in the selection of
project components and implementing partners, viz.: (i) assistance should be targeted to benefit victims of
drought; and (ii) the activities to be completed/delivered over a short time frame not exceeding 18 months,
should be implementable within the given GOS and donor assistance strategy for the overall relief and recovery
effort. The project included four main components: water and sanitation; health; agriculture; and food
security. The preparation of the project was coordinated at all stages with the International Monetary Fund
(IMF) and major multilaterals. All parties to the project agreed that it was necessary to provide a package of
relief services, agricultural inputs, and medical supplies to target those most affected, and to use existing
Government agencies and organizations which were already significantly involved in relief activities (e.g.
United Nations Children's fund (UNICEF) in the project's implementation.
Implementation Experience and Results
3.    The EDRP was a complex project, involving a wide range of institutions, covering activities in multiple
sectors and targeting beneficiaries over a broad geographic area. Overall, implementation and outcome were
satisfactory.
4.    Water: Implementation was delayed due to initial difficulties in collaboration between UNICEF and
the National Rural Water Corporation (NRWC), slow release of GOS funds and the difficulties in procuring
spare parts for some of the wateryards. Nevertheless, implementation occurred within an acceptable time-
frame and achieved excellent results, providing potable water to an estimated 500,000 drought affected people.



- iii -
A small fund was also provided to the Livestock Route Company (LRC) to purchase spare parts for the
rehabilitation of water yards. Spare parts were procured and rehabilitation was successful. Implementation and
impact are rated as highly satisfactory.
5.    Health: The objectives of the health component were to provide emergency medical supplies to the
most severely affected communities. IDA re-allocated funds from existing credits to make funds available as
quickly as possible. UNICEF immediately imported and distributed 340 World Health Organization (WHO)
emergency health kits, to meet the most critical needs. UNICEF/ Central Medical Stores (CMS) re-designed
the health kits to reflect differences in levels within the health care delivery system, allowing a more efficient
use of resources. As a result, a total of 1,440 UNICEF/CMS new health kits were distributed. In addition, bulk
orders of fast moving drugs were purchased to supplement kit use and 1,050,000 doses of meningitis vaccine
were purchased to combat an epidemic. The emergency health intervention was effective in providing
emergency supplies of medical inputs to the most critically affected areas in a timely fashion. Implementation
and impact are rated as highly satisfactory. However, despite assistance from IDA, UNICEF and the WHO, the
CMS was slow in procurement of non-critical medicines, which only began to arrive in mid-1993. CMS was
nevertheless able to disburse 80% of funds at project completion. The Technical Assistance (TA) to the Darfur
State Ministry of Health (MOH), to improve the drug distribution system and establish a revolving drug fund
system was never provided.
6.     Agriculture: The National Reconstruction Implementation Unit (NRIU) purchased 600 tons of millet
seed, which was distributed to smallholder farmers in time for the 1991 planting season. About 80% of seed
was planted, providing an incremental production of 48,000 tons and promoting rapid recovery of productivity
within the smallholder sector -- benefitting about 250,000 people. In addition, 15.5 tons of vegetable seeds and
36,000 pieces of hand tools were also purchased and distributed in drought affected areas. Implementation and
impact are rated as satisfactory. Under this component, funds were made available for the supply of fuel,
lubricants and spare parts to be sold to the mechanized agricultural sector. Procurement by the NRIU was slow,
and goods did not arrive until mid-1993. Despite IDA requests, no plan of distribution was drawn up and there
are no records to show where the inputs were sold, to whom and for what purposes. Revenues raised from the
sale of inputs by the state ministries were to be deposited in a special account in Khartoum, to be used for
follow-up development projects in Darfur and Kordofan. However, these funds remain at the state level.
Assurances were however, given by the MOF that funds would be transferred to federal level and utilized in
accordance with the Credit Agreement. The agriculture component also allocated funds during the course of
the project for the purchase of 32 tons of pasture seed and some veterinary drugs. The seed was not delivered
until 1993, germination was low and in the absence of controlled grazing, it is unlikely that sustainable pastures
resulted. The veterinary drugs were also supplied in 1993, but there are no reports on their distribution or
effectiveness.
7.     Food security: Support was given to the formation of a multi-sectoral standing committee on food
security and the establishment, at federal level, of a Food Security Coordination Unit (FSCU). International
TA was provided to assist in undertaking 5 sector reviews/studies: (i) a review of the transport sector; (ii) a
review of relevant institutions and inter-relationships; (iii) management information systems; (iv) an economic
analysis of the food security situation; and (v) a famine code. Despite highly satisfactory performance of TA to
both the FSCU and the standing committee, there was no implementation of the TA's proposed
recommendations and programs following Government decentralization. Support was also provided to the
United Nations Development Programme (UNDP)/lnternational Labor Organization (ILO)/Special Public
Works Projects (SPWPs) to promote labour intensive activities in Kordofan and Darfur. Despite appreciable
benefits being realized at the field level, these were achieved at a very high cost. GOS has continued to run
these programs at the local level, albeit with reduced input.



- iv -
8.     Sustainability: The main objective of the project was to focus attention on mitigation of the effects of
drought-related emergency primarily through supply of essential inputs. Consequently, sustainability of actions
was not a major consideration in project objectives. Nevertheless, some components did aim to include
sustainable development of resources and institutions. As far as the water and sanitation component is
concerned, the major threat to sustainability is the shortage of foreign exchange and increased difficulty to find
spare parts for the old pumping systems of wateryards. The LRC was previously operating at a loss due to low
tariff charges for water. However, since project implementation, tariffs have been raised and the LRC was sold
to the private sector and is reportedly operating at profit and thus sustainable. During the project
implementation period, the organization and management of wateryards was transferred to the benefiting
communities, which is expected to improve operation and cost recovery. NRWCs will continue to provide
maintenance services against payment. In view of the lack of the political support required for sustainable
action on food security policy formulation, the project activities in this regard did not have a significant impact.
Sustainability of the CMS system is regarded as likely as the CMS has high levels of political commitment, but
further assistance will be required and attention needs to be given to the fact that the CMS alone is insufficient
to realize or meet all medical supply needs in the country. The cost recovery mechanism introduced under the
agricultural inputs component did not function as envisaged, thwarting self-sustainability targets. However,
imported millet seed distributed under the component proved highly suitable to the better rained-fed areas and
is still being regenerated and used.
9.     Assessment of overall outcome: No Economic Rate of Return (ERR) was estimated at Appraisal,
because of the emergency nature of the operation. Overall, project performance results are satisfactory. The
project achieved its principal objective of alleviating the impact of the drought on the vulnerable and promoting
recovery of agricultural production. Improvement of rural water supply facilities was carried out in excess of
appraisal estimates benefitting about 500,000 people. Distribution of emergency drug supplies was
implemented efficiently and in a timely manner, helping to alleviate the serious impact of disease epidemics on
the most drought affected populations. Medical inputs to the CMS have helped establish a sustainable national
drug supply. Emergency distribution of seeds and tools was carried out successfully, increasing production in
the subsistence sector and providing benefit to about 250,000 people in the smallholder sector. The sale of fuel,
lubricants and spare parts to the mechanized sector have partly compensated for lost production, although
inputs were not provided until late 1993. Generally, the TA to institutions within the Federal Government was
effectively delivered. However, in part due to Government decentralization, the improved capability has not yet
been utilized effectively under the new structure.
10.   IDA/borrower performance: IDA responded rapidly to GOS requests for emergency assistance, and
Bank procedures were expedited in order to present a proposal to IDA's Board of Directors, as quickly as
possible. In addition, funds from existing credits were re-allocated within the country to provide funds for
emergency response during the most critical period. IDA provided regular and active support to GOS/NRIU
adding to the efficiency of implementation. However, after closure of World Bank's Resident Mission Office
in Sudan, at the end of 1992, effective supervision ended.
11.    The National Reconstruction Implementation Unit (NRIU), under the MOF, was responsible for overall
coordination of project activities. While overall, the implementation experience was quite satisfactory, due to
the varying capacities of different institutions, the effectiveness of implementation and achievement of
objectives, under the four components was varied.
12.    Key lessons learned: The key lessons learned are: (i) production shortfalls need not necessarily result
in famine. The most negative effects of drought may be avoided through early awareness, adequate
preparedness and response; (ii) an emergency situation calls for massive and rapid response, therefore, such an
intervention must take advantage of previously available infrastructure and institutions; (iii) targeting scarce



- v -
resources is critical for ensuring maximum impact of an emergency intervention. Successful targeting depends
on a good understanding of the causes and process of the emergency, so the most vulnerable can be identified
and mechanisms created to reach them; (iv) the successful provision of relief services and inputs to promote
immediate recovery must be conducted in a timely fashion. Intervention plans must take into account
procurement and logistic delays and accordingly ensure that planning is realistic; (v) the success of cost-
recovery systems depends in-part on the priorities set by end users and their disposable income. The priority
accorded to water in rural areas indicates that water service development may be feasible on a more
commercial basis in some areas; (vi) cost-recovery systems demand strong service delivery systems, good
management and minimum levels of community purchasing power. If some of these conditions are not met,
development of cost-recovery systems may be premature or require concurrent development of parallel
systems; (vii) national TA programs can be successful through using local skilled labour, consolidating local
knowledge, and promoting greater ownership and use of results; and (viii) in an acute drought/famine situation,
the distinction between immediate requirement for food aid and replenishment of seed supplies must be
recognized. The loss of some seed imports through home consumption is inevitable given the critical shortage
of food until the next harvest.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SUDAN
EMERGENCY DROUGHT RECOVERY PROJECT
(Cr. 2290-SU)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.    In January 1991, the Government of Sudan (GOS) through its Ministry of Finance and Economic
Planning (MOF) requested emergency assistance from the International Development Association (IDA) which
led to the Emergency Drought Recovery Project (EDRP) with two main objectives: (a) to alleviate the impact
of the current drought on the poor and vulnerable through contributing to measures which would improve water
supplies and sanitation, increase the availability of essential medical drugs, and regenerate productive capacity
in agriculture; and (b) to initiate an action plan to improve longer term food security by creating an institutional
framework to analyze and promote food security policies, establish an up-to-date food security code, and
coordinate actions on food security.
2.    IDA met with other donors in June 1991 to coordinate activities. Lessons learned from the previous
EDRP (1985) were used to establish various criteria to help define project components. They were: (i)
assistance should be targeted to benefit victims of drought; (ii) the activities should be implementable within
the current policy framework; (iii) the intervention should be able to deliver within a time frame of about
18 months; (iv) the activities should be consistent with, and incremental to, current GOS and donor assistance
strategy in the overall relief and recovery effort.
3.    The project was designed to include the following components:
(a)    Water and sanitation: Improvement of water supply facilities in the drought affected areas
and provision of water and sanitation facilities for people displaced by drought. Although
emphasis was placed on short term assistance, project design incorporated longer term
objectives to provide sustainable water supply services.
(b)    Health: The provision of emergency and essential drugs to provide for minimum levels of
health standards among the drought affected, while contributing to a more sustainable supply of
drugs.
(c)    Agriculture: The supply of inputs to support the mechanized agriculture sector in Western
Sudan, and the provision of seeds and hand tools to small farmers in the traditional sector to
support the recovery effort.
(d)    Food security: Short term Technical Assistance (TA) to the Agriculture Policy and Planning
Department (APPD) and the Food Security Coordination Unit (FSCU) to develop institutional
capacity for improved food security policy coordination. Financial assistance to support labour
intensive Special Public Works Projects (SPWP) in drought affected areas.
4.    The majority of program activities and inputs were targeted to the most drought affected areas of
Darfur and Kordofan in the West of Sudan. However, some water services, essential drugs and vegetable seeds
and tools were also developed/distributed in the drought affected northern parts of the Eastern State, displaced
camps around Khartoum and the towns of Juba, Wau and Malakal in the south. The project was estimated to



- 2 -
cost US$ 26.0 million. The financing plan included US$ 16.0 million from IDA Credit 2290-SU, US$ 7.5
million from reallocation via amendments to existing IDA credits 1 and US$ 2.5 million as the GOS
contribution (Part II, Tables 4, 8A and 8B).
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
5.     The EDRP was a complex project involving a wide range of institutions, covering activities in multiple
sectors and targeting beneficiaries over a wide geographic area within a short time period. The preparation of
the project had to be cleared at all stages with the IMF and major multilaterals. All parties to the project agreed
that it was necessary to provide a package of relief services, agricultural inputs and medical supplies, to target
those most affected and to use existing agencies and those most involved in relief activities (e.g. UNICEF) in
the project implementation. The project assisted in forging an arrangement between GOS (Health & Water)
and UNICEF. The National Reconstruction Implementation Unit (NRIU), under the MOF, was responsible for
overall coordination of project activities. While overall, the implementation experience was quite satisfactory,
due to the varying capacities of different institutions, the effectiveness of implementation and achievement of
objectives, under the four components was varied, as discussed below.
Water and Sanitation
6.     The water component consisted of two activities: support to the UNICEF/National Rural Water
Corporation (NRWC) water program; and to the Livestock Route Company (LRC) to purchase essential spare
parts for rehabilitation of livestock water supply facilities. The water component also included longer term
objectives for provision of sustainable water supply services. Despite the early availability of funds (through
IDA re-allocations from existing credits), implementation was delayed due to initial problems regarding
collaboration between UNICEF and NRWC. At completion, 280 hand-pumps were installed; 490 hand-pumps
and 43 water yards were rehabilitated; 17 deep boreholes were sunk and equipped; 4 pumping units were
installed in existing boreholes; and I generator set was installed to power Malakal town water supply.
Implementation was scheduled to be completed by mid-1993. Activities were actually completed by December
1993 providing potable water to a total estimate of 500,000 beneficiaries (Part II, Table 5).
7.     Sustainability of water supply facilities was partly addressed by providing training to village level
hand-pump mechanics, establishing village level health committees for hygiene and sanitation education as
well as assisting in the establishment of community stores to retail spare parts for hand-pumps. During the
project implementation period, the organization and management of wateryards was transferred to the
benefiting communities, which is expected to improve their operations, and further cost recovery objectives.
NRWC will continue to provide maintenance services against payment. In conclusion, despite some delays,
implementation of the emergency water component via UNICEF/NRWC was highly satisfactory.
8.     The funds provided to the LRC were utilized as foreseen at appraisal and implementation is regarded as
satisfactory. At the time of disbursement, the LRC was not commercially viable. Since implementation, water
Including:
US$ 1.0 million (Cr.1640-SU) Westem Savannah Project (WSP)
US$ 3.0 million (Cr.201 I-SU) Emergency Flood Reconstruction Project (EFRP)
US$ 1.5 million (Cr. 1639-SU) Agricultural Research Extension Project (AREP)
US$ 2.0 million (Cr. 1867-SU) Southern Kordofan Agricultural Development Project (SKADP)



- 3 -
tariffs have been increased improving prospects for sustainability. The LRC has been sold to the private sector
and is reportedly operating at profit.
9.    No information is available on reduced migration or return of people to previously drought affected
areas directly as a result of the project's achievements, but indications are that in the absence of the provision of
potable water, migration might have been greater/accelerated.
Health
10.   The health component consisted of three activities: funds were channelled through UNICEF for the
procurement and emergency distribution of free drugs to drought affected areas; funds were made available to
the Central Medical Stores (CMS) through the Ministry of Health (MOH) to purchase drugs for distribution and
sale in drought affected areas; and TA was planned for the Darfur State Ministry of Health to help improve
efficiency of the drug supply programs and set up local level cost recovery systems.
11.   The initial plan for distribution of emergency medical supplies involved the purchase and distribution
of 900 World Health Organization (WHO) emergency health kits. Amendments were made to IDA-supported
ongoing projects to facilitate rapid procurement of drugs. UNICEF immediately flew in 170 kits, and shipped
in a further 170 kits to cover immediate needs throughout Darfur, Kordofan, Khartoum and the Eastern State.
Experience with the standard WHO kits indicated that they did not appropriately address the differences in the
health care delivery system in project areas. Consequently, UNICEF/CMS redesigned 3 new kits to reflect the
different needs within the health care delivery system. As a result, a total of 1440 UNICEF/CMS new kits were
ordered and delivered helping populations in drought affected areas, from late 1992 through the first half of
1993 (Part II, Table 5). The areas of distribution were adjusted periodically to reflect changing disease patterns
and needs. In addition, remaining funds were used for purchase of bulk supplies of fast moving drugs to
supplement kit use and purchase of an emergency order of 1,050,000 doses of meningitis vaccines. Mass
meningitis vaccination campaigns were carried out annually.
12.   The CMS was separated from the MOH and re-established as a public corporation. Its facilities were
rehabilitated to improve capacity and TA was provided to improve its management systems (through
GOS/Govemment of the Netherlands cooperation). To complement these reforms, IDA made funds available
to the CMS for the purchase of essential drugs, targeted for sale to community pharmacies in Kordofan, Darfur,
Eastern Sate and Khartoum. A later amendment expanded the area of distribution, allowing sale of IDA-funded
supplies anywhere in the country with the objective of providing a seed fund, to allow the CMS to establish a
national revolving drug fund. Despite assistance from IDA, UNICEF and the WHO, procurements by the CMS
were slow, due largely to their inexperience in International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures, and
supplies did not arrive until late 1993. Nevertheless, the CMS was able to disburse 80% of its budget
allocations and continues to function as a national drug supply system, without having received any other
sizable donations of drugs. The overall implementation of CMS project activities within the States of Kordofan
and Darfur is considered as satisfactory.
13.   The project successfully contributed to formation of a national drug supply system. However, the
populations in the drought affected areas do not have the purchasing power to create sufficient demand for
medical supplies and their local health systems are weak. The mission was unable to gather data on volumes
and types of drugs sold or who they were sold to. State Ministry of Health and Non-Governmental Organization
(NGO) representatives report that the CMS effectively served 90% of the needs in Khartoum and Gezira, where
populations had sufficient expendable income. Services are too expensive for rural poor areas, necessitating
the continuation of parallel systems (i.e. UNICEF/Save the Children Fund, CARE, free drug supply or UNICEF
community based revolving drug fund schemes).



- 4 -
14.    TA to the Ministry of Health in Darfur was to be provided to establish a revolving drug fund and
promote efficient usage of drugs. The program was agreed and contracts drawn up and accepted by Save the
Children Fund and the NRIU. However, following IDA's proposed amendments to the contract (which were
rejected) the TA was not implemented.
Agriculture
15.    The agriculture component aimed to promote rapid recovery of food production by providing essential
inputs. The agricultural inputs included millet seed, vegetable seeds and hand tools, targeted for distribution to
smallholder farmers. Fuel, lubricants, tractor tires and batteries were procured for sale to farmers in
mechanized rain-fed production. Remaining funds were used to purchase pasture seed for the regeneration of
drought affected pastures and veterinary drugs to support on-going vaccination programs (Part II, Table 5).
16.    Two varieties of millet seed (600 tons) were imported by air according to specifications drawn up by
FAO. The consignment was received at El Obeid (Kordofan 300 tons) and El Fasher (Northern Darfur 300
tons) during July/August 1991. A further 15 tons of seed was purchased locally to be used for seed
multiplication. The distribution was decided by the State Ministries of Agriculture in collaboration with NGOs
and farmers' unions.
17.    Surveys indicated that while 100% of the Kordofan consignment was planted, only 60% of the Darfur
consignment was used as seed (40% was consumed). The two seed varieties performed well and an average
yield of 270 kg/feddan has been recorded. Assuming a typical seeding rate of 3 kg/feddan, some 160,000
feddan were planted, with an estimated production of 48,000 tons, which would have provided subsistence to
about 250,000 beneficiaries based on 194 kg/person/year as indicated by UNICEF. The seed introduced has
subsequently proved very suitable for more favourable rainfall areas in the States of South and West Kordofan
and South Darfur. The seed distribution component was implemented well, achieving significant impact.
18.    A total of 15.5 tons of vegetable seed were procured and effectively distributed to smallholder farmers
in Kordofan, Darfur, the Central regions, Juba, Wau and Malakal. Although the mission was not able to
quantify the possible benefits which could have resulted from the successful distribution of vegetable seed
because of lack of data, the outcome of project intervention to increase agricultural productivity in the
smaIlholder sector is considered satisfactory.
19.    Some 32 tons of various pasture/legume seeds were procured from Australian sources. A further
commitment was made to purchase seed establishment equipment, but this did not materialize. The rationale of
operation was to provide for sustainable feed resources for the livestock sector, reducing vulnerability of the
rangelands to future drought. The seed was received in time for 1993 planting and was distributed through the
Range and Pasture Department of the MOANR to four States. Establishment was through "popular
participation" by farmers themselves, under project staff supervision. A total of 17,000 feddan were planted.
Pasture seed germination rates were found to be below the rates guaranteed by the supplier and some species
were unsuited to the low rainfall conditions. Still, overall achievement of this sub-component is regarded as
satisfactory.
20.    Fuel (22,750 tons), lubricants (34 tons), oil (479 tons) and spare parts (mainly tyres and battery for
1,000 tractors) were purchased to support increased production in the mechanized sector, albeit not before the
1994/95 crop season and thus 4 years after the drought. The items were divided equally and delivered to the
State Ministries of Agriculture in Darfur and Kordofan. In addition, various hand tools worth about US$
125,000 were also successfully distributed in Kordofan, Darfur, Juba, Wau, Malakal and White Nile. State
Ministries were responsible for the sale of items at market prices and funds realized were to be deposited in a



- 5 -
special account in Khartoum, to be eventually used by the States as a revolving fund for development activities.
These funds have remained at the State level so far. Assurances were however, given by the MOF that funds
would be transferred to federal level and utilized in accordance with the Credit Agreement. Finally, an amount
of US$ 374,000 was used to procure supplies of veterinary drugs. While veterinary drug supply and delivery is
critical to the livestock subsector, the limited quantities supplied and the lack of structured use would also
imply limited impact.
Food Security
21.    The food security component aimed to strengthen institutional capacity within GOS for the analysis
and promotion of food security issues in policy formulation and to support SPWPs at the local level to reduce
community vulnerability to future drought. In 1990, IDA proposed that a multi-sectoral committee be formed
2/
for the consideration of food security issues in policy formulation  . The standing committee on Food Security
was formed in 1991, representing various ministries and chaired by the First Under-Secretary for Planning.
Funds were made available to support the establishment of a FSCU in the MOF, which would act as secretariat
to the committee and provide technical inputs for committee consideration. Funds were made available to the
FSCU for training and TA. Three staff members attended a 3-month course on food security issues and
international TA was provided to assist in undertaking 5 sector reviews/studies: (i) a review of the transport
sector; (ii) a review of relevant institutions and inter-relationships; (iii) management information systems; (iv)
an economic analysis of the food security situation; and (v) a famine code. The reports were officially accepted
but the recommendations were not implemented.
22.    Funds were also made available to the APPD in the MOA, for training and TA, to strengthen
institutional capacity for agricultural policy and pricing analysis. Staff received a total of about 8 person
months of overseas training in agricultural policy analysis. Implementation was delayed due to late response in
drawing up an acceptable plan of action and the failure to appoint international consultants for the TA. It was
eventually decided to form 10 task groups, each led by a local consultant, to produce a desk review. This
process resulted in 10 Agricultural Policy Papers (APPs), using locally available information and human
resources. A workshop for 25 members of various ministries and banks was held in Khartoum in 1992. The
course promoted the use of a policy analysis matrix and used the 10 country studies as case material. This
approach proved highly successful in generating a greater sense of involvement and application of results. IDA
gave considerable support in the preparation of the APPs and provided comments which were included in the
final reports.
23.    Government devolution of planning activities to State level led to the dissolution of the standing
committee and the FSCU. In retrospect, the provision of TA can be seen as necessary but not sufficient to
generate political motivation to include consideration of food security issues in national policy. Despite good
experience with implementation of training and international/ national TA to the APPD and the FSCU, the
outcomes of these activities were regarded as generally unsatisfactory.
24.    Funds were also provided for the purchase of equipment to support the United Nations Development
Program (UNDP)/International Labour Organization (ILO) SPWPs, to promote labour intensive activities in
Darfur and Kordofan. Procurement procedures by ILO/UNDP did not meet IDA regulations, delaying the
purchase of the equipment which began to arrive in 1993. Despite repeated requests from IDA supervision
missions, UNDP was unable to satisfy agreed reporting procedures. A UNDP evaluation of the SPWPs
2/  "Sudan, Toward an Action Plan for Food Security". World Bank 1990.



concluded that while real benefits had accrued, they were achieved at very high cost. A total of 20,000 days of
employment related to the construction of various public projects, including 9 hafirs, I dike, 7 open wells, 9
classrooms and 5 teachers' offices and the completion of 2 agricultural schemes and 15 village nurseries, was
generated.
Environmental Impact
25.   In areas where boreholes with hand pumps had been installed, there was no evidence of adverse
environmental effects from excessive numbers of people or livestock being attracted to the water points. With
regard to the wateryards, most of these have not been developed to a level which would allow a proper
assessment of potential environmental impact. Nevertheless, those yards that were in use tended to attract
people as well as large numbers of livestock (sometimes in the several hundreds or thousands) which collected
around the water point. This has inevitably led to a certain degree of land degradation around the water points,
but both Government officials and nomadic people who were consulted by the mission denied that this
presented any serious problem in terms of loss of grazing land.
Economic Objectives
26.   No Economic Rate of Return (ERR) was estimated at appraisal because of the emergency nature of the
operation. Benefits resulting from the project have been derived from the improved capacity of the GOS
institutions, donors and NGOs to deliver immediate assistance to the food insecure in the drought affected areas
and, as indicated earlier, a total of 500,000 people benefitted from the improvement of rural water supply
facilities, which considerably reduced the negative impact from polluted water supplies (which has often
occurred during past droughts in Sudan). Other benefits include the recovery of agricultural production as a
result of the provision of inputs and spare parts to about 250,000 traditional and mechanized farmers. The
benefits expected from the preparation/coordination of an effective food security policy did not materialize,
however. Actual project cost is estimated at US$ 21.6 million. Final overall disbursements include: IDA (Cr.
2290-SU) US$ 14.1 million, IDA reallocation from existing credits US$ 6.9 million, and GOS US$ 0.6 million
(Part II, Tables 8A and 8B). The credit closed on September 30,1993 and final disbursement took place on
November 8, 1993.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Factors Not Generally Subject to Government Control
27.   Unlike the disaster of 1984/1985, when there had been mass distress migration to relief camps, high
levels of morbidity and mortality and complete collapse of rural economies, these did not come to pass in
1991/1992. The improvements was generally attributed to: (i) improved early warning systems; (ii) improved
management of relief supplies; and (iii) the lowering of trade barriers by GOS, allowing food importation
(600,000 tons of food were imported by GOS/private sector, closing the national food gap). However, the
existing pumping equipment installed in the wateryards was no longer manufactured which resulted in
procurement delays of spare parts, and thus delays in the implementation of the water and sanitation
component.
Factors Generally Subject to Government Control
28.   In the early stages of the project, GOS changed higher level management within the NRIU, affecting
operational efficiency. In addition, GOS was slow in releasing local funds, hindering implementation. Due to



- 7 -
high inflation, the Government contribution decreased in real terms over the course of the project.
Furthermore, the dissolution of institutions for the analysis and promotion of food security policy (as a result of
decentralization) proved counter-productive. Compliance with covenants was mixed as indicated in Part II,
Table 10.
Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control
29.    Prior to implementation, project components originally envisaged at appraisal were altered by the
implementing agencies, e.g. UNICEF and NRWC, based on a more thorough investigation of actual needs. The
number of hand-pumps was increased from 240 to 280 units and the repair of wateryards pumping units was
reduced from 99 to 46 units. In addition, spare parts and tools were to be added for 490 existing hand-pumps,
15 new wateryards were to be constructed and new pumping units provided for 4 existing wateryards. The new
program was essentially implemented as designed albeit with some delay due to initial problems, not subject to
the implementing agencies control.
30.    The LRC was not confronted with coordination and collaboration problems and successfully
implemented the rehabilitation of their assigned wateryards. UNICEF was effective in managing emergency
supply of medical materials to drought affected areas in an efficient and flexible way.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
31.    The main objective of the project was to focus attention on mitigation of the effects of emergency
through supply of expendable inputs. Consequently, sustainability of actions was not a major consideration in
project objectives. Nevertheless, some components did aim to include sustainable development of resources
and institutions.
32.    Water and sanitation. In order to improve sustainability, the project provided training to village level
hand-pumps mechanics and assisted in the establishment of a chain of community outlets for the supply of
spare parts for hand-pumps. In addition, the O&M of wateryards was transferred to communities -- to improve
operations and cost recovery, and thus sustainability. The major threat to sustainability is the shortage of
foreign exchange and increased difficulty to find spare parts for the old pumping systems of wateryards. The
LRC was previously operating at a loss due to low tariff charges for water. Since project implementation,
tariffs have been raised and the LRC was sold to the private sector and is reportedly operating at profit and thus
sustainable.
33.    Health. One part of the health component was to provide funds to the CMS to purchase medical
supplies to be sold at cost through the health system. The CMS is supposed to provide medical supplies to the
MOH, State Ministries of Health, community pharmacies and rural hospitals, purchasing low cost drugs in
bulk. While the CMS is managing to exist presently on a full cost-recovery basis, it is threatened by: (a) the
weaknesses of the rural health institutions, which are unable to fulfill rural demand for medicine; (b) the
weakness of the CMS itself in not being able to meet all the demands of State Ministries of Health and thus
creating a requirement for parallel systems (e.g. the State of N. Kordofan asked for all future drug donations to
be made via UNICEF); (c) there are too many levels in the system, each charging 20% of net worth for
overhead costs, increasing drug costs to the end user; and (d) inflation undermining the total value of revolving
capital assets. Sustainability of the CMS system is regarded as likely as the CMS has high levels of political
protection, but further assistance will be required and attention needs to be given to the fact that the CMS alone
is insufficient to meet all medical supply needs in the country.



- 8 -
34.   Agriculture. Inputs to the mechanized sector were supposed to be sold at the prevailing market price
and funds realized were to be deposited in a revolving fund for financing development projects within
Kordofan and Darfur. This however did not happen and sustainability goals could not be met. Imported millet
seed proved highly suitable to the better rain-fed areas and is still being re-generated and used in project areas.
Given the lack of grazing control, the application of the pasture seed was regarded as unlikely to provide
sustainable development of rangelands.
35.   Food security. The food security component aimed to develop institutional capacity and effect policy
formulation in the mid- to long-term. Despite good implementation of TA to both the APPD and the FSCU,
changes in government structure resulted in the devolution of planning functions to the state level. With the
loss of a planning function in Federal government, the standing committee and the FSCU were disbanded. The
project failed to generate the political support required for sustainable action on food security policy
formulation. Sustainability is regarded as unlikely.
36.    The support given to the UNDP/ILO SPWPs for the development of labour intensive works programs
at the local level provided for appreciable benefits, but UNDP funds were cut later and their activity ceased at
the end of 1993. GOS has continued to implement the projects, on a much reduced scale, depending on the
hardware provided by the IDA. Low GOS investment in the SPWPs indicates they are unlikely to be able to
meet the recurrent costs for replacement and rehabilitation of equipment. Sustainability is regarded as unlikely.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
37.   IDA responded quickly to the request for emergency assistance, and was able to field an appraisal
mission at short notice. The project was presented to the Board within two months of appraisal and the credit
became effective 9 months after the initial request from the GOS. In recognition of the need to maximize speed
of intervention, amendments were also made to ongoing IDA-supported projects, to make funds available
within 6 months of the original GOS request. IDA appraised the project's water supply and sanitation
components on the basis of preliminary investigations of water supply needs. This resulted in some changes to
these components being introduced during implementation. Such changes should be expected in emergency
type projects and demonstrated flexibility on the part of Bank staff.
38.   IDA staff assisted in advance preparation of procurement strategies and provided close supervision
until the end of 1992 (Part II, Table 13). Thereafter, with the closure of the WB's resident mission office in the
Sudan, supervision continued to be carried out by IDA headquarters staff. Overall, IDA mounted 1
procurement mission and 6 supervision missions between 1991 and 1993. IDA's support to the finalization of
APPs was also appreciated.
F. BORROWERS PERFORMANCE
39.   The experience of the 1985 EDRP showed that it was necessary to establish a coordinating unit for
management of such projects. The NRIU was given the task of coordinating and managing the EDRP and
performed generally satisfactorily. However, the NRIU senior management was changed early in the project,
which slowed down initial implementation. After WB's withdrawal from Sudan in 1992, coordination and
management functions of the NRIU were negatively affected with regard to procurement of essential drugs
under the health component (for the CMS) and procurement and distribution of agricultural inputs for the
mechanized sector. At the time of preparing this ICR, the NRIU was coordinating and managing the
continuation of the Emergency Flood Reconstruction Project under AfDB financial assistance.



- 9 -
40.   The initial delay by GOS in funding the project components was compensated for during project
implementation by the satisfactory performance of its NRWC water program in collaboration with UNICEF.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OVERALL OUTCOME
41.   Overall, project results are satisfactory. The project achieved its principal objective of alleviating the
impact of the drought on the vulnerable and promoting recovery of agricultural production. Improvement of
rural water supply facilities was carried out above the appraisal targets and a total of about 500,000 people
benefitted from this component (Part II, Table 5). Distribution of emergency drug supplies was implemented
efficiently and in a timely manner, helping to alleviate impact of the serious disease epidemics on the
populations most affected by the drought. Medical inputs to the CMS have helped establish a sustainable
national drug supply, although this system alone is insufficient to meet the needs of the country.
42.   Emergency distribution of seeds and tools was carried out successfully, increasing production in the
subsistence sector and providing benefit to an estimated 250,000 people. The sale of fuel, lubricants and spare
parts to the mechanized sector have partly compensated for lost production, although inputs were not provided
until late 1993.
43.   TA to institutions within the Federal Government was effectively delivered. However, due to
Government decentralization, the improved capability has not yet been utilized effectively under the new
structure.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
44.   The EDRP was planned as a "special" activity, to assist in returning conditions to "normalcy".
Therefore, no direct future operations in the Sudan follow from this project. However, the Sudan remains food
insecure. More generally, due to considerable reductions in intemational development assistance, the GOS has
been forced to operate and direct development with a significantly reduced budget and limited access to foreign
exchange. Development activities have continued, but there has been a radical restructuring in planning,
implementation and financing of nearly all development and public service activities. As a result of the
changes in the Government State Structure announced in February 1994, the GOS has recently decentralized
and devolved considerable power and autonomy down to the State level. In addition, many implementing
bodies in the public sector have been reformed as public corporations to improve cost-efficiency. Federal
Government is now responsible for overall policy development; State Governments are responsible for
planning of activities and technical advice; private/public corporations implement activities; and communities
are held responsible for payments, operation and maintenance of facilities.
45.   The austerity faced by Sudan has resulted in a "developmental revolution", forcing change towards a
more appropriate, realistic, participatory and sustainable approach to development. Any new development
assistance to the Sudan must take into account the new administrative structure (strengths and weaknesses) and
should be designed to support the positive changes in developmental approaches.
46.   The rehabilitated wateryards and hand-pumps will require new spare parts before long and it is not sure
if all of these can be procured in the market. Considerations should be given by the NRWC in changing the
present technology of exchanging pumps, for one which is less costly and can be more easily repaired with
more readily available spare parts. In addition, local manufacture of pumping components and its spare parts
should be envisaged, considering the ongoing de facto privatization of pumping equipment.



- 10-
47.   Despite the general interest in solar powered pumps by the water sector, this technology should be
considered with caution in future programs as pumping of water costs about 3.5 times more compared to diesel
powered pumps.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNT
48.    The key lessons learned from the EDRP are as follows:
(a)    Expected emergencies due to drought can be largely averted through effective early warning
systems and market interventions. It should not be assumed that a production shortfall will
lead to famine and, drought intervention should not only focus on increasing food production
but should aim also to protect the livelihoods of the most vulnerable. Prevention of disaster is
cheaper and more effective than responding to disaster. Major effects can be achieved through
timely awareness and policy response to avert disaster such as reducing trade barriers.
(b)    Emergency situations require immediate and large scale intervention on a timely basis. There
is insufficient time for the development of formal project management and implementation
structures. Therefore, successful implementation depends on utilizing experienced and capable
existing infrastructure and institutions.
(c)    Targeting of scarce resources is essential to maximize impact of emergency assistance to the
truly needy and destitute. Successful targeting depends on being able to identify the most
affected groups, and a clear strategy for inputs/supplies distribution to reach the vulnerable
groups.
(d)    The scarcity of water in some parts of the project area has led some communities to pay water
prices considerably above cost-recovery levels for both hand-pumps and wateryards. Water
supply schemes may therefore be designed in the future on a more commercial basis by
supporting either credit facilities or providing revolving fund arrangements to interested
parties.
(e)    Successful cost-recovery systems may increase sustainability; however they do not guarantee
that basic needs are met. In the absence of the ability to pay for services or if service delivery
is inadequate to meet demand, cost-recovery systems may have very low impact, and
alternative systems may have to be temporarily developed. Thus, cost-recovery systems
demand strong service delivery systems, good management and minimum levels of community
purchasing power;
(f)    National TA programs can be successful through using local skilled labour, consolidating local
knowledge, and promoting greater ownership and use of results
(g)   In an acute drought/famine situation, the distinction between immediate requirement for food
aid and replenishment of seed supplies must be recognized. The loss of some seed imports
through home consumption is inevitable given the critical shortage of food until the next
harvest.



- I1 -
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives          Substantial     Partial    Negligible   Not Applicable
(/)       (/~~0)       (I,)           (IV)
Macro policies                       EEl                        I              1  l
Sector policies                         l            I           E             E
Financial objectives                  E            E            EJ             ElI
Institutional development            El            E             El            [I
Physical objectives                  EZ                          E              E 
Poverty reduction                    El            E             El 
Gender issues                         E               l          E             E
Other social objectives               E            E             E             E
Environmental objectives              E            E            El             E
Public sector management                l          E               l           E
Private sector development              l          E               l           E
Other (Emergency Assistance)         [7                            l           E
B. Proiect sustainability            Likely       Unlikey      Uncertain
(1)           (1)          (V)
C. Bank performanc                satisfactoly   Satisfactory   Deficien
(V)           (/)          (1)
Identification                     EL              l          E
Preparation assistance               l           E            E
Appraisal                          E            El            E
Supervision                        E               l          E



- 12 -
D. Borrowerp1erforrnance           satisfactory   Satisfactory   Deficient
(/)          (V)          (/)
Preparation                                     E
Implementation                                 E            E:1
Covenant compliance               E                1        E
Operation (if applicable)                                   E: 
Highly                                      kighWl
E. Assessment of outcome         satisfactoa    Stisfactoy    Unssc          unsatisfactolr
I--]       (EJ()                       



- 13 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loanl/Credit Title                            Purpose                     Year of          Status
Approval
Preceding operations
Drought Recovery Programme (Cr. 1614-SU)      Emergency assistance to    June 1985     Completed. ICR
increase food production as                   1991
a result of the drought.
Emergency Flood Recovery Project (Cr. 2011 -SU)  Restore damage caused by    May 1989  Completed. ICR
devastating rains and                         1994
flooding.
Following operations
None
Table 3: Project Timetable
Date Actual/
Steps in Project Cycle                Date Planned                   Latest Estimate
Identification
Preparation
Appraisal                                                            April/May 1991
Negotiations                                                         June 27, 28, 1991
Board presentation                   July 30, 1991                   July 23, 1991
Signing                                                              August 7, 1991
Effectiveness                         September 1, 1991              October 17, 1991
Project completion                    March 31, 1993                 September 30, 1993
Credit closing                        September 30, 1993              September 30, 1993



- 14 -
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
A. Expressed in SDR million
1991/92               1992/93               1993/94
Appraisal estimate                       8.2                   11.9                  11.9
Actual                                   1.9                   7.3                  10.2 2/
Actual as % of estimate                 23.2                  61.3                   85.7
Date of final disbursement                              November 8, 1993
................................. B. Expressed in US$ million .
Appraisal estimate                      11.0                   16.0                  16.0
Actual                                   2.6                   10.1                 14.13/
Actual as % of estimate                 23.6                  63.1                  88.1
Includes only disbursements related to credit 2290-SU
Amount cancelled - SDR 1,715,997.
3J   Amount cancelled - US$ 2,676,166.



- 15 -
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Page l of3
A. Physical Implementation Achievements for the Water Component
Items               Proposed        Proposed            Achieved       Estimated No. of
(05/91)         (11/91)            (12/93)         Beneficiaries
Drilling of            240           50 Darfur          100 Darfur           56,00W/
boreholes + hand-                  1 00 Kordofan       150 Kordofan
pumps                              100 Khartoum       100 Khartoum
30 Juba            30 Juba
Tools/parts for         99      400 Southern States    400 Southern         98,000
hand-pumps                        90 Eastern States       States
90 Eastern States
Wateryard                               46                 44              220,000
rehabilitation
Drilling of deep                        15                  17              85,000
boreholes + pumps
Pumping units for                       4                   4               20,000
deep boreholes
Generator set +                      1 Malakal           1 Malakal          20,000
tools
Total:                                                         499,000
4/  The WES strategy included the formation of health committees, the training of villagers for pump maintenance,
support to communities to build pit laterines and hygiene and sanitation education.



- 16-
Page 2 of 3
B. Physical Implementation Achievements for the (Emergency) Health Component
Items                             Proposed                 Planned                       Achieved
(05/91
WHO emergency health kits           9005                  120 Darfur                     120 Darfur
100 Kordofan                  100 Kordofan
80 Khartoum                   78 Khartoum
50 Eastern State              50 Eastern State
Hospital kits                         0                    10 Darfur                      10 Darfur
20 Kordofan                   20 Kordofan
20 Eastern State              20 Eastern State
25 Khartoum                   25 Khartoum
3 Upper Nile                  3 Upper Nile
5 Bahr El Ghazal              5 Bahr El Ghazal
7 Equatoria                   7 Equatoria
Health centre kits                    0                    80 Darfur                      80 Darfur
100 Kordofan                  100 Kordofan
100 Eastern State             100 Eastern State
186 Khartoum                  186 Khartoum
85 Upper Nile                 85 Upper Nile
85 Bahr El Ghazal             85 Bahr El Ghazal
114 Equatoria                 114 Equatoria
PHCU kits                             0                    50 Darfur                      50 Darfur
100 Kordofan                  100 Kordofan
50 Eastern State              50 Eastern State
100 Khartoum                  100 Khartoum
100 Upper Nile                100 Upper Nile
100 Bahr El Ghazal            100 Bahr El Ghazal
100 Equatoria                 100 Equatoria
A total of 348 WHO emergency health kits were distributed in late 1991/early 1992 - 2 kits were damaged in transportation. These
kits have a standard set of materials, which were too sophisticated for the PHICUs and not sufficient for the rural hospitals.
Consequently, UNICEF and the CMS designed 3 different kits (hospital, health centre and PHCU) to suit the different levels within
the health care delivery system. The use of 3 different kits contributed to a more efficient use of resources.
In addition, fast moving bulk drugs were purchased to augment gaps found during the use of the kits:
25,000 bottles                Chloroquine syrup
4,000 bottles                 Streptomycin sulphate
5.000 bottles                Amoxvcillin tablets
250,000 bottles                Amoxycillin powder
Left over funds and    i .s not utilized for transportation were used to purchase 21,000 vials of meningitis vaccine providing 1,050,000 doses
to combat a meningitis epidemic.



- 17-
Page 3 of 3
C. Physical Implementation Achievements for the Agricultural Component
Items              Delivery Date i   Quantity   T  Cost (US)    Distribution
Millet seeds           06/91         600 tons        1,535,165    Kordofan and
(Nigeria)                                                         Darfur
Millet seeds (Local)                  15 tons                     Kordofan and
Darfur
Pasture seeds         22/12/93       32.17 tons       272,571     Kordofan, Darfur,
(Australia)                                                       Eastern State and
White Nile
Vegetable seeds        06/91         15.5 tons        195,650            N.A.
(Holland)
Hand tools:            06/91                                      Kordofan, Darfur,
- Shovels                              9,000           45,000     Juba, Wau, Malakal,
- Hoes                                15,000           60,000     White Nile
- Axes                                 3,000            6,000
- Sickles (local)                      9,000           13,500
Batteries             26/05/93         1,000           39,000     Kordofan and
Darfur
Tires and tubes:      26/05/93                                    Kordofan and
- Front                                2,000          144,220     Darfur
- Rear                                 2,000           68,800
Fuel                  26/05/93      22,750 tons      4,210,937    Kordofan and
Darfur
Lubricants            26/05/93        34 tons          34,000     Kordofan and
Darfur
Oil                   26/05/93       479 tons         396,000     Kordofan and
Darfur
Veterinary drugs       05/93                          374,000



- 18-
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
No key indicators for project operation were defined in the project documents.
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as Defined
at Appraisal/Redefined            Status              Impact of Study
Study
No studies were foreseen at appraisal. However, under the project TA was provided (Food Security Component) to
assist in the generation of 5 sector reviews, namely:
review of the transport sector;
review of relevant institutions and inter-relationships in food security;
management information system;
economic analysis of the food security situation; and
famine code.
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)          Actual/Latest Estimate (US$M)
Local     Foreign      Total        Local      Foreign       Total
Item                        Costs      Costs                    Costs       Costs
Water and sanitation         n.a         n.a         7.35        n.a         n.a           5.75
Health                       n.a         n.a         7.95        n.a         n.a           6.14
Agriculture                  n.a         n.a         9.70        n.a         n.a           8.48
Food security                n.a         n.a         1.85        n.a         n.a           1.10
NRIU                         ma          na          0.15        n                         0.11
2.50       23.50       26.00        0.52       21.06          21.58



- 19-
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)             ActuaULatest Estimate (US$M)
Local      Foreign       Total          Local       Foreign       Total
Source                     Costs       Costs                       Costs        Costs
IDA                          -         16.00         16.00           -           14.07        14.07
IDA Amendment to             -          7.50          7.50           -           6.99          6.99
existing credits
Other external source        -           -             -             -             -            -
Domestic contribution      2.50          _25                        0.52                      0O52
2.50       23.50         26.00          0.52         21.06        21.58
6/  Including:
US$ 0.1 million (Cr. 1 640-SU) Western Savannah Project (WSP)
US$ 3.0 million (Cr.201 I-SU) Emergency Flood Reconstruction Project (EFRP)
US$ 1.5 million (Cr. 1639-SU) Agricultural Research & Extension Project (AREP)
US$ 2.0 million (Cr. 1867-SU) Southern Kordofan Agricultural Development project (SKADP)
Including:
US$ 0.7 million (Cr.1640-SU) Western Savannah Project (WSP)
US$ 2.8 million (Cr.201 I-SU) Emergency Flood Reconstruction Project (EFRP)
US$ 1.5 million (Cr. 1 639-SU) Agricultural Research & Extension Project (AREP)
US$ 2.0 million (Cr. 1 867-SU) Southern Kordofan Agricultural Development Project (SKADP)



- 20 -
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
The Economic Rate of Return (ERR) was not estimated at appraisal as considered not applicable for this kind of
project. Overall, project results were satisfactory. The project achieved its principal objective of alleviating the
impact of the drought on the poor and prometing recovery of agricultural production. Improvement of rural water
supply facilities was carried out in line with appraisal estimates and a total of 500,000 people benefitted from the
project (Table 5). Distribution of emergency drug supplies was implemented efficiently and in a timely manner,
helping to alleviate the serious disease epidemics on the most drought affected populations (Table 5). Medical
inputs to the CMS have helped establish a sustainable national drug supply, although this system alone is
insufficient to meet the needs of the country. Emergency distribution of seeds and tools was carried out
successfully, increasing production in the subsistence sector and providing benefit to an estimated 250,000 people.
The sale of fuel, lubricants and spare parts to the mechanized sector will have partly replaced lost production.



- 21 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Covenant                        Original      Revised
Type                 Present  Fulfilment  Fulfilment  Description of Covenant
Agreement                   Section   Status       Date         Date                                       Comments
Execution of the 5, 10      3.01(b)      C         NA           NA        Carry out project in             All components have been
project                                                                   accordance with Schedule 5       implemented according to
of the Agreement.               the implementation program.
Financial        1, 2       4.01(a)      C         NA            NA       Adequate records and
covenants                                                                 accounts to be kept by
borrower and its agencies.
2          4.01(b)      C        12/30/92        -       Preparation and submission of
audits.
1, 2       4.01(c)      C         NA            NA       Adequate records for
statements of expenditure.
Covenant Types                                                         Status
I = Accounts/audits                                                    C    Complied with
2 = Financial performance/revenue                                      CD = Complied with after delay
3 = Flow and utilization of project funds                              CP = Complied with partially
4 = Counterpart funding                                                NC = Not complied with
5 = Management aspects of the project or executing agencies            NA = Not Applicable
6 = Environment covenants
7 = Involuntary resettlement
8 = Indigeneous people
9 = M&E reporting
10 = Project implementation not covered by category 1-9
11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other allocation
12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/regulatory/institutional action
13 = Others



- 22 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement Number and Title                        I Describe and Comment on Lack of Compliance
Basically there was compliance with the applicable Bank Operational Manual Statements, in particular with O.D. 8.50
issued in November 1989 which emphasizes that the main objective of the Bank emergency recovery assistance is to
restore assets and productivity.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                    Revised                   Actual
Stage of Project Cycle
Weeks          US$         Weeks          US$        Weeks         US$
Preparation to
appraisal                                                                         0.4          0.7
Appraisal                                                                         30.2         72.9
Negotiations through
Board approval                                                                    3.4          8.7
Supervision                                                                       31.4         80.8
Completion                                                                         13.0        13.0
TOTAL                       n.a           n.a           n.a          n.a         78.4         176.1



- 23 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Number                   Specialized     Implementation    Development   Types of
Stage of Project Cycle     Month/           of       Days in       Staff Skills         Status         Objectives    Problems
Year         Persons      Field      Represented8/
Identification                                                                           _ -                              _
Preparation/Appraisal   Apr/May 1991        6          n.a       E, FA, PE, W, N,        n.a              n.a             n.a
T
Procurement             Sept/Oct. 1991       1          11            PE                 n.a              n.a             n.a
Supervision               Nov. 1991         3           5           FA, E, 0              1                1
Supervision               Jan. 1992         2           4             E,O                 I                I             PM
Supervision               May 1992          3           8           FA, IE, 0             1                1            PM, PP
Supervision               Sept. 1992        2           3             E, 0                1                I            PM, PP
Supevision/               Dec. 1992          1         n.a             E                 n.a              n.a             n.a
Supervision/           Feb/March 1993       1          n.a             E                 n.a              n.a            n.a
12/                 Oct/Nov. 1995        4          5          E, A, N, IE           n.a               n.a            n.a
ICRI
FA = Financial Analyst; E = Economist; PE = Procurement Engineer; W = Water Specialist; N = Nutritionist; T = Transport Specialist;
0 - Operation Officer; IE = Irrigation Engineer; A = Agronomist.
PM  = Project Management; PP = Procurement
IO/  In conjunction with Sudan Agricultural Sector Review Mission.
II/  Assessment of the water supply component.
12/  Combined with Southem Kassala Agricultural Development Project's ICR mission.






SUDAN: Emergency Drought Recovery Project (EDRP) - Cr. 2290-SU
Appendix A: Aide Mtmoire
SUDAN
Emergency Drought Recovery Project (EDRP)
(Cr. 2290-SU)
Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
FAO/CP Mission
AIDE MEMOIRE
A. Introduction
An FAO/WB Cooperative mission comprising Messrs. R. Suppa (Economist/Mission
Leader), V. Branscheid (Land and Water Development Engineer), J. Macartney (Agricultural
Research/ Extension Specialist - Consultant), and A. Davis (Nutritionist - Consultant) visited
Sudan from 26 October to 12 November 1995 for the preparation of the ICR of the above
project". The mission held meetings with the concerned officials of the Ministry of Finance
(MOF), the Ministry of Agriculture, Natural Resources and Animal Wealth (MOANR) and
worked closely with staff of the National Reconstruction Implementation Unit (NRIU). Meetings
were also held with officials of the various Implementing Agencies including UNDP, UNICEF,
the National Rural Water Corporation (NRWC) and the Central Medical Stores (CMS) as well as
staff of concerned NGOs (Save the Children Fund-UK and CARE). During a visit to the project
area, the mission had the opportunity to present its preliminary conclusions to the Governor/Wali
of North Kordofan state. Visits were also paid to the state Ministers of Agriculture, Health and
Finance in El Obeid. A debriefing meeting with H.E. the Federal Minister of Agriculture was
held in Khartoum on 6 November 1995 with the participation of the FAO Representative.
The mission acknowledges the cooperation and courtesy extended to it by the
Government of Sudan (GOS) and its agencies. The mission findings and recommendations, as
indicated below, are subject to review and confirmation by the IDA management.
"  During the same period, the mission also carried out the preparation of the ICR relative to the Southem Kassala
Agriculture Project (Cr. 1981-SU) for which a separate Aide Memoire has been prepared.
1



SUDAN: Emergency Drought Recovery Project (EDRP) - Cr. 2290-SU
Appendix A: Aide Memoire
B. Background
The project was appraised in April - May 1991 and was estimated to cost US$ 26.0
million. The financing plan included US$ 16.0 million from IDA credit 2290-SU, US$ 7.5
million from IDA amendments to existing credits2 and US$ 2.5 million as the GOS contribution.
The Credit Agreement was signed on 7 August 1991 and the credit became effective on 17
October 1991. The main objectives of the project were to:
Alleviate the impact of the 1991 drought on the poor and vulnerable through contributing
to measures which would improve water supplies and sanitation, increase the availability of
essential drugs and regenerate productive capacity in agriculture; and
Initiate an action plan to improve longer term food security by creating an institutional
framework to analyze and promote food security policies, establish an up-to-date food security
code, and coordinate activities re food security.
The Project Components included:
Water and Sanitation (improvement of water supply and sanitation facilities);
Health (provision of essential drugs);
Agriculture (supply of seeds, hand tools, tractor spare parts and provision of diesel fuel, oil and
lubricants); and
Food Security (short-term TA to the Agricultural Policy and Planning Department (APPD) of the
MOANR, and to the Food Security Coordinating Unit (FSCU) of the MOF, as well as financial
assistance towards the provision of equipment and materials for the UNDP/ILO Special Public
Works Programmes (SPWP).
2   Including:
US$ 1.0 million (Cr. I 640-SU) Western Savannah Project (WSP)
US$ 3.0 million (Cr.201 I-SU) Emergency Flood Reconstruction Project (EFRP)
US$ 1.5 million (Cr. 1639-SU) Agricultural Research Extension Project (AREP)
US$ 2.0 million (Cr. 1 867-SU) Southern Kordofan Agricultural Development Project (SKADP)
2



SUDAN: Emergency Drought Recovery Project (EDRP) - Cr, 2290-SU
Appendix A: Aide MEnoire
C. Project Implementation
Water Component
The water component consisted of two activities: support to the UNICEF/NRWC water
programme; and to the Livestock Route Company (LRC) to purchase essential spare parts for
rehabilitation of livestock water supply facilities. The water component also included longer term
objectives for provision of sustainable water supply services.
Despite the early availability of funds (through IDA re-allocations from existing credits),
implementation was delayed due to initial problems regarding collaboration between UNICEF
and NRWC. A detailed plan of implementation was not drawn up until November 1991. Project
implementation was further delayed by late release of GOS funds and difficulty in procuring
spare parts for rehabilitation of wateryards.
The original project design, included drilling and equipping 240 shallow wells or ring
wells and rehabilitation of 99 wateryards. At completion, the following (Table 1):
280 hand-pumps installed;
490 hand-pumps rehabilitated;
43 water yards rehabilitated;
17 deep boreholes sunk and equipped;
4 pumping units installed in existing boreholes;
1 generator set installed to power Malakal town water supply.
Implementation was scheduled to be completed by mid-1 993. Activities were actually
completed by December 1993 providing potable water to a total estimate of 500,000
beneficiaries.
Sustainability of water supply facilities was partly addressed by providing training to
village level hand-pump mechanics, establishing village level health committees for hygiene and
sanitation education as well as assisting in the establishment of community stores to retail spare
parts for hand-pumps. During the project implementation period, the organization and
management of wateryards was transferred to the benefiting communities, which is expected to
improve operation and cost recovery. NRWCs will continue to provide maintenance services
against payment.
In conclusion, despite some delays, implementation of the emergency water component
via UNICEF/NRWC was highly satisfactory.
3



SUDAN: Emergency Drought Recovery Project (EDRP) - Cr. 2290-SU
Appendix A: Aide Menmoire
The funds provided to the LRC were used as foreseen at project design and
implementation is regarded as satisfactory. At the time of disbursement, the LRC was not
commercially viable. Since implementation, water tariffs have been increased improving
prospects for sustainability. The LRC has been sold to the private sector and is reportedly
operating at profit.
Health Component
The health component consisted of: the procurement and distribution of emergency
medical supplies; the purchase of essential drugs to support the establishment of a sustainable
national drug supply; and TA to the Darfur state Ministry of Health (MOH), to assist in
establishing a drug revolving fund at the state level.
Funds were allotted to UNICEF for the procurement and distribution of emergency drugs
to the most affected areas. Amendments were made to transfer a proportion of current IDA in-
country credits, to facilitate rapid procurement. These funds were used to purchase standard
WHO emergency health kits: 170 kits were flown in and 170 kits were shipped to the Sudan for
further distribution. The drugs were transported and distributed by UNICEF to MOH facilities
throughout the drought affected areas of Kordofan, Darfur, Khartoum and the Eastern State (see
Table 2).
The use of WHO emergency kits provided for immediate intervention, however many of
the items in the standard kits were unsuitable and other crucial items were not included. UNICEF
and the CMS designed 3 new kits to serve different levels within the health care delivery system.
1440 of the new kits were ordered and delivered, helping to serve drought affected areas for late-
1992 through the first half of 1993 (see Table 2). The areas of distribution were adjusted over
time to reflect changing patterns of needs.
The remaining funds were used to purchase fast-moving drugs to help augment gaps in
the use of kit drugs (see Table 2). In addition meningitis vaccine were purchased, providing
1,050,000 doses to combat epidemics. Mass meningitis vaccination campaigns continue to be
carried out annually.
The emergency activity did not aim to provide a sustainable drug supply. Objectives
focussed on the rapid distribution of free drugs to meet the needs of affected populations. While
there are no directly sustainable benefits, current UNICEF drug supply activities include the
establishment of local level cost recovery initiatives.
4



SUDAN: Emergency Drought Recovery Project (EDRP) - Cr. 2290-SU
Appendix A: Aide Memoire
The implementation of the emergency drug supply was highly satisfactory.
Funds were made available to the CMS to procure drugs to support the establishment of a
sustainable National drug supply. IDA funds were released on condition that the CMS be
separated from the MOH and be given the status of an independent corporation, which was
realized in 1992. A drug procurement strategy was drawn up with IDA assistance in 1991.
Despite considerable assistance from UNICEF, WHO and IDA, no tenders were accepted until
1993.
The IDA input of funds remains the only sizeable contribution received by the CMS and
has been largely responsible for the establishment of a sustainable national drug supply system.
However, implementation of CMS activities within the project area of Kordofan and Darfur
States is considered as satisfactory.
While the CMS continues to function as a national drug supply facility, drug supplies do
not meet the needs at all levels. In the areas of Khartoum and Gezira, with relatively strong
purchasing power, cost recovery systems are reported as operating effectively.
Agriculture Component
The agriculture component aimed to promote rapid recovery of food production by
providing essential inputs for the 1991 planting season. The inputs included millet seed,
vegetable seeds, hand tools, fuel, lubricants, tractor tires and batteries. Undisbursed funds were
used to purchase pasture seed for the regeneration of drought affected pastures and veterinary
drugs for the protection of livestock.
In order to speed up the process of procurement and distribution, US$ 2.5 million was
provided from re-allocations of undisbursed funds from other IDA funded agricultural projects
for the purchase of seed and tools. Millet seed, vegetable seed and hand tools were purchased and
delivered to the state MOAs in June - August 1991 (see Table 3).
Two varieties of millet seed (600 tons) were imported by air from Nigeria, according to
specifications drawn up by FAO. The consignment was received at El Obeid (Kordofan 300
tons) and El Fasher (Dafur 300 tons) between 28/6/91 and 7/7/91. The distribution plan was
decided by the state MOAs in collaboration with NGOs and farmers' unions.
Surveys indicated 60% of the consignment distributed in Darfur was planted (180 tons)
and 40% consumed; 100% of seed distributed in Kordofan was planted. The two seed varieties
performed well. Despite yield reduction due to Downy Mildew and Nafasha infestation, average
5



SUDAN: Emergency Drought Recovery Project (EDRP) - Cr. 2290-SU
Appendix A: Aide M6moire
return was recorded as 3 sacks/feddan (270 kg/feddan). Assuming a seeding rate of 3 kg/feddan
some 160,000 feddan were planted, with an estimated production of 48,000 tons, which would
have provided subsistence to 250,000 beneficiaries (UNICEF advise 194 kg/person/year).
The seed introduced has subsequently proved very suitable for more favourable rainfall
areas in the states of South and West Kordofan and South Darfur, where it is still being grown.
The varieties have a higher yield potential, longer panicle and improved palatability compared to
local types. The seed component has therefore proved to be sustainable.
A further 15 tons of local seed was procured from Demazin. This was used for seed
multiplication at the Seed Propagation Department, Sennar. A total of 15.5 tons of vegetable seed
were procured for distribution to smallholder farmers (see Table 3).
Some 32 tons of various pasture/legume seeds were procured from Australian sources
(see Table 3). A further commitment was made for the purchase of seed establishment equipment
but this did not materialize. The rationale of operation was to provide for sustainable feed
resources for the livestock sector, reducing vulnerability of rangelands to future drought. The
seed was received in time for 1993 planting and was distributed through the Range and Pasture
Division of the MOA to four States. Establishment was through "popular participation" by
farmers under supervision. A total of 17,000 feddan were planted.
Pasture seed germination rates were found to be below that guaranteed by the supplier
and some species (e.g. Bracheria decumbens - 4.0 tons) were unsuited to the low rainfall
conditions. In the assumed absence of grazing control, it is unlikely that these efforts were
sustainable.
Fuel, lubricants and spare parts were purchased to support increased production in the
mechanized sector. The state MOAs were responsible for the sale of the items at market prices to
the mechanized sector. Funds realized from the sale of the commodities were to be placed in a
special account in Khartoum and used by the states as a revolving fund to help support
development activities in the respective states.
Food Security Component
The food security component aimed to strengthen institutions at the federal government
level for the formation of policy and to support SPWPs at the local level to reduce community
vulnerability to future drought.
6



SUDAN: Emergency Drought Recovery Project (EDRP) - Cr. 2290-SU
Appendix A: Aide M6moire
In 1990, the IDA proposed that a multi-sectoral committee be formed for the
consideration of food security issues in policy formation. The standing committee on food
security was formed in 1991, supported by a FSCU in the MOF. The FSCU served as secretariat
to the committee directly responsible to the First Undersecretary of planning.
Funds were also provided for training and TA to the FSCU to conduct various related
sectoral analyses and draw up a famine code, determining indicators to be used to define
emergencies and responsibilities between different levels of government, UN agencies and
NGOs.
Consultants were appointed to carry out 5 studies: (i) a review of the transport sector; (ii)
relevant institutional set-up; (iii) management information systems; (iv) an economic analysis of
the food security situation; and (v) a famine code.
The reports were officially accepted but the recommendations were never implemented.
With the decentralization of the Government structure the FSCU was disbanded. However, many
of the skills and work output from this activity remain in the APPD.
Training was provided for six officers in agricultural policy, policy analysis and
development. A course was held in Khartoum (funded by IDAIFAO) for 25 members of various
ministries and banks.
Funds were allocated to support UNDP/ILO SPWPs, to promote labour intensive
development of local resources, protecting short-term food security while reducing long term
vulnerability. Procurement procedures were extremely slow and equipment only began to arrive
in 1993. A UNDP evaluation of the SPWPs concluded that while there were appreciable benefits,
they were achieved at very high cost.
D. Actual Project Cost and Disbursement
Actual cost is estimated at US$ 21.6 million. Final overall disbursement includes: IDA
(Cr. 2290-SU) US$ 14.1 million, IDA arnendments to existing credits US$ 6.9 million3, and
GOS US$ 0.6 million. The credit was declared closed on 30 September 1993 and last
disbursement took place on 8 November 1993.
3  Including: Cr. 1 867-SU (SKADP): US$ 2.0 million; Cr. 1640-SU (WSP): US$ 0.7 million; Cr.201 I-SU (EFRP):
US$ 2.8 million; and Cr. 1639-SU (AREP): US$ 1.5 million.
7



SUDAN: Emergency Drought Recoveiy Project (EDRP) - Cr. 2290-SU
Appendix A: Aide MEmoire
E. Project Results
Overall, project results were satisfactory. The project achieved its principal objective of
alleviating the impact of the drought on the poor and promoting recovery of agricultural
production.
Improvement of rural water supply facilities was carried out in line with appraisal
estimates and a total of 500,000 people benefitted from the project (see Table 1).
Distribution of emergency drug supplies was implemented efficiently and in a timely
manner, helping to alleviate the serious disease epidemics on the most drought affected
populations (see Table 2). Medical inputs to the CMS have helped establish a sustainable
national drug supply, although this system alone is insufficient to meet the needs of the country.
Emergency distribution of seeds and tools was carried out successfully, increasing
production in the subsistence sector and providing benefit to an estimated 250,000 people. The
sale of fuel, lubricants and spare parts to the mechanized sector will have partly replaced lost
production (see Table 3).
TA to institutions within the Federal Government was effectively delivered. However,
due to Government decentralization the improved capability remains, but has not yet been
utilized effectively.
F. Key Lessons Learned
The Key lessons learned are as follows:
The success of cost-recovery efforts depends in-part on the availability of expendable income,
community priority setting and current expenditure patterns. The scarcity of water throughout
some parts of the project area has led some communities to pay water prices considerably above
cost-recovery levels for both hand-pumps and wateryards. GOS may therefore consider the
contribution of future water supply schemes on a more commercial basis, by supporting either
credit facilities or providing revolving fund arrangements to interested participants.
Emergency intervention requires immediate and large scale intervention on a timely basis. There
is insufficient time for the development of formal project management and implementation
structures. Therefore, successful implementation depends on utilizing experienced and capable
existing infrastructure and institutions.
8



SUDAN: Emergency Drought Recovery Project (EDRP) - Cr. 2290-SU
Appendix A: Aide Mtmoire
In an acute drought/famine situation, the distinction between immediate requirement for
food aid and replenishment of seed supplies must be recognized. The loss of a proportion of seed
imports through home consumption is inevitable given the critical shortage of food at the
planting season.
Funds were made available to the APPD for TA from foreign consultants. Despite the failure to
contract foreign input, the experience of using locally available expertise proved to be successful.
G. Follow-Up
The mission will return to Rome on 12 November 1995 and during the following two
weeks, will prepare a draft ICR which will be transmitted to the WB by mid-December 1995. It
is recommended that the GOS should also finalize its completion report and send it to the WB by
the end of December 1995.
KHARTOUM, 11 NOVEMBER 1995.
9



SUDAN: Emergency Drought Recovery Project (EDRP) - Cr. 2290-SU
Appendix A: Aide Memoire
List of Institutions/Persons Visited
A. Khartoum
Ministry of Finance
1.    Mr. El Fatih Ali Siddig, Deputy Undersecretary
2.    Mr. Babiker Abdalla Babiker, Deputy Director, IFCD
3.    Mr. Isarn Bashir Ibrahim, IFCD
4.    Mrs. Amna Abdalla Erzein, IFCD
Ministry of Agriculture, Natural Resources and Animal Health
1.    Dr. A.A. Genaif, Federal Minister
2.    Dr. A. Razig El-Bashir, First Undersecretary
3.    Mr. A.A. Abdalla, Deputy Director, PPD
4.    Mr. Abubakr Abdelazim, Director of the Minister's Office
5.    Mr. Hassan Abbas El Tom, Acting First Undersecretary
6.    Dr. Ali Abdel Aziz Salih, Director Agricultural Policy and Food Security
7.    Mrs. Salwa Agu Haraz, Agricultural Policy and Planning Department
8.    Mrs. Shaida Ahrned, Agricultural Policy and Planning Departrnent
9.    Mr. Ahrmed Muddathir Mahmoud, Chief, Agr. Eng - Agr. Eng. Departrnent
10.   Mr. Elrayah Ahmed Elzubeir, Director, Agr. Eng. Adm.
National Seed Administration
Mr. Mahmoud Hussein, Deputy Director
UNICEF
1.    Mr. Robert McCarty
2.    Mr. Kizza Robinson
FAO Representation
Mr. O.S. Ahmed, FAO Representative in the Sudan
National Reconstruction Implementation Unit (NRIU): EDRP
10



SUDAN: Emergency Drought Recovery Project (EDRP) - Cr. 2290-SU
Appendix A: Aide Memoire
1.     Mr. Mohamed Adam Khalil, Loan and Disbursement Department
2.     Mr. Abdelhafeez Mohed Ahmed, Director, Sector Administration
3.     Mr. Abdelhahab Alkaziz Ahmed, National Coordinator
B. El Obeid4
1.     Dr. Abdam  Ali Mohamnmdou, State Minister of Health and Acting State Minister of
Agriculture
2.     Mr. Hassan Ahmed Babiker, NRWC, Project Coordinator
N.B. in El Obeid the mission had the opportunity to brief the State Cabinet in a meeting chaired by the Governor
of State.
11



SUDAN: Emergency Drought Recovery Project (EDRP) - Cr. 2290-SU
Appendix A: Aide Memoire
Table 1. Physical Implementation Achievements for the Water Component
Items                         Proposed    Proposed               Achieved (12/93)      Est No. Bens.
(05/91)    (11/91)
Drilling of Boreholes + Hand-   240       - 50 Darfur            - 100 Darfur              56,0005
pumps                                     - 100 Kordofan         - 150 Kordofan
- 100 Khartoum        - 100 Khartoum
- 30 Juba             - 30 Juba
Tools/Parts for Hand-pumps                - 400 Southem States    - 400 Southern States    98,000
- 90 Eastem State     - 90 Eastem State
Water Yard Rehabilitation        99       - 46                   - 44                     220,000
Drilling of Deep Boreholes +              - 15                   - 17                      85,000
Pumps
Pumping Units for Deep                    - 4                    - 4                       20,000
Boreholes
Generator Set + Tools                     - I Malakal            - I Malakal               20,000
TOTAL                                                                                     499,000
5   The WES strategy included the formation of health committees, the training of villagers for pump maintenance, support
to communities to build pit latrines and hygiene and sanitation education.
12



SUDAN: Emergency Drought Recovely Project (EDRP) - Cr. 2290-SU
Appendix A: Aide Memoire
Table 2. Physical Achievements for the (Emergency) Health Component
Items                             | Planned                     Achieved
WHO Emergency Health Kits          - 120 Darfur                - 120 Darfur
- 100 Kordofan             - 100 Kordofan
- 80 Khartoum              - 78 Khartoum
- 50 Eastern State         -50 Eastern State
Hospital Kits                      - 10 Darfur                 - 1Darfur
- 20 Kordofan              -20 Kordofan
- 20 Eastem State          - 20 Eastem State
- 25 Khartoum              - 25 Khartoum
- 3 Upper Nile             - 3 Upper Nile
- 5 Bahr El Ghazal         - 5 Bahr El Ghazal
- 7 Equatoria              - 7 Equatoria
Health Centre Kits                 - 80 Darfur                 - 80 Darfur
- 100 Kordofan             - 100 Kordofan
- 100 Eastern State        - 100 Eastem State
- 186 Khartoum             - 186 Khartoum
- 85 Upper Nile            - 85 Upper Nile
- 85 Bahr El Ghazal        - 85 Bahr El Ghazal
- 114 Equatoria            - 114 Equatoria
PHCU Kits                          - 50 Darfur                 - 50 Darfur
- 100 Kordofan             - 100 Kordofan
- 50 Eastem State          - 50 Eastern State
- 100 Khartoum             - 100 Khartoum
- 100 Upper Nile           - 100 Upper Nile
- 100 Bahr El Ghazal       - 100 Bahr El Ghazal
- 100 Equatoria            - 100 Equatoria
13



SUDAN: Emergency Drought Recovery Project (EDRP) - Cr. 2290-SU
Appendix A: Aide Memoire
Table 3. Physical Implementation Achievements for the Agricultural Component
Item                 Delivery Date      Quantity         Cost (US$)     Distribution
Millet Seeds         06/91                600 MT          1,535,165     Kordofan & Darfur
(Nigeria)
Millet Seeds                               15 MT                        Kordofan & Darfur
(Local)
Pasture Seeds        22/12/93           32.17 MT           272,571      Kordofan, Darfur, Eastern
(Australia)                                                             State, & White Nile
Vegetable Seeds      06/91               15.5 MT           195,650      ?
(Holland)
Hand Tools           06/91
- Shovels                                 9,000             45,000      Kordofan, Darfur, Juba,
- Hoes                                    15,000            60,000      Wau, Malakal, White Nile
- Axes                                    3,000             6,000
- Sickles                                 9,000             13,500
(Local)
Batteries            26/05/93             1,000             39,000      Kordofan & Darfur
Tires and Tubes      26/05/93
- Front                                   2,000            144,220      Kordofan & Darfur
- Rear                                    2,000             68,800
Fuel                 26/05/93          22,750 MT         4,210,937      Kordofan & Darfur
Lubricants           26/05/93             34 MT             34,000      Kordofan & Darfur
Oil                  26/05/93             479 MT           396,000      Kordofan & Darfur
Veterinary Drugs     05/93                                 374,000
14



MAP SECTION
,~~~~~~~~~~~






IBRD 22953R
Thin mop -oo prepored
by heMopUoof the                         ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT                                         LAKE
The bordories. colors-                                            .     .   .               .   .       .    
deno-tm-ons ond  -ny                                                                             0 Wadi
other information shsown                                                                            Halfa                                                        RED
on th;s map  do  not                                                                                                                                                -
ieply, on th e port of
The Worfd Book Droop.                                                                                                                                              C
onry udgrerton the fegat   Li LIBYA
or any endorsement
or acceptance of molth;                                                          
X^{ormobon~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P Sudan, 
Fo--nnE Eorty Wommg slerr J-o-nry 199 t.                                                     I                  c,.       \                              a
Harvest Arsetsrent of L?reallProddsbnnnr/                                                                                  \,      
mrtn:;n::::re    territry  Karma 'Addam    Atbotf
I                                                                                                                            -< 
CHAD                    !                                                                                                                             (-
KHARTOUM                       tossoj ERITREA
)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Md .                                           *i             E- fSGejdof r            , 
,/                                                                                                        Se E F/sh,r  .
/t       >  _                              ?                            frlObeid           KoeR           >         '>,          g  ETHIOPIA
Nyaola       "
0 Dilling                           Ed Doamcoi
/    __t   - a ,;> i ., t}                   ~~~~~~Babonuso     dEodugli                                                  SU       A
,-  ~~                      BO~    ~(adogIr                                                    *J ~SUDAN
.EMERGENCY DROUGHT
* j  ,akal             /   RECOVERY PROJECT
SERIOUS DROUGHT
POPULATIONS AT RISK
CENTRAL                                                                 ,             t                                                             BELOW AVERAGE HARVEST
AFRICAN                                                                            /.     J CIVIL INSECURITEY AND
R E P U B L i C                    n                          1                          $                         <                                     POPULATIONS AT RISK
Wau                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SERIOUS DROUGHT
RIVERS
7^C   ' \  -  /-  g   Rumbek                         N               REGION CAPITALS
IBYA   AIBo,                                                                                                                                      NATIONAL CAPITAL
REP OP                                                                                                                                   PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
E GPT                                                                                                                       *            INTERNATIONAL
~BOUNDARIES
CHADDm   40                               ~          .      \                    Marndi                uba
, CHAD    9 SUDAN                                                                                                                                      LOKF
krose,,E Am n     ro     ETHIOPIA                                                                                            * \   \  ffis  I TLRKANA
RE~~~~EL.C  ,\ ~~~~~~ZAIREKE                                                                                                                        Y
Cot.3,2  ZAIRE                                                                                               UGKENYA  am 7  UANDA    g                        KENYA
July 1996









IMAGING
Report No:         15792
Type: ICR



