Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2290 SU
               (Emergency Drought Recovery Project)
                              between
                     THE REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                       Dated August 7, 1991
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2290 SU
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated August 7, 1991, between THE REPUBLIC OF THE
SUDAN (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
      WHEREAS: the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Page  2
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "MALNR" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture,
Livestock and Natural Resources;
      (b)   "NRIU" means the National Reconstruction Implementation
Unit, established by Circular No. 1 of the Borrower's Minister of
Finance and Economic Planning;
      (c)   "NRWC" means National Rural Water Corporation;
      (d)   "CMS" means the Central Medical Stores, a financially
and administratively autonomous public entity established by a
Presidential Decree of the Borrower, dated May 18, 1991;
      (e)   "FSCU" means the Food Security Coordinating Unit
established by the Borrower's Ministerial Decree No. 128, dated
June 16, 1991;
      (f)   "LRC" means the Livestock Route Company, a public
corporation fully owned by the Borrower;
      (g)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (h)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters, dated October 1, 1987 and
October 6, 1987 between the Borrower and the Association;
      (i)   "UNICEF Agreement" means the agreement entered into
between the Borrower and UNICEF on June 4, 1991 for the purposes of
Parts A.1, A.2 and B.1 of the Project; and
      (j)   "UNDP Agreement" means an agreement acceptable to the
Association to be entered into between the Borrower and UNDP for the
purposes of Part D.3 of the Project.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to eleven
million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 11,900,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the
National Export-Import Bank of Sudan on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection
against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments
out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
Page  3
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1993
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each January 15 and July 15 com-
mencing January 15, 2002 and ending July 15, 2031. Each installment
to and including the installment payable on July 15, 2011 shall be
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Page  4
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                           ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
agricultural, environmental, public health, administrative and
financial practices and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
      (b)   Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section and except as the Borrower and the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account, for each fiscal year
                   audited in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Association;
           (ii)    furnish to the Association, as soon as
                   available, but in any case not later than six
                   months after the end of each such year, a
                   certified copy of the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Association shall have reasonably
                   requested; and
          (iii)    furnish to the Association such other
                   information concerning said records, accounts
                   and the audit thereof as the Association shall
                   from time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;
           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the
Page  5
                   Association has received the audit report for
                   the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
                   from the Credit Account or payment out of the
                   Special Account was made, all records
                   (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                   and other documents) evidencing such
                   expenditures;
          (iii)    enable the Association's representatives to
                   examine such records; and
           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expen-diture submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                            ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   Any of the decrees referred to in paragraphs (b) and (e)
of Section 1.02 of this Agreement establishing the NRIU and the
FSCU, respectively, have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the
ability of the NRIU or the FSCU to perform any of their obligations
under this Agreement.
      (b)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of the NRIU or the FSCU or for the suspension of either of their
operations during the execution of the Project.
      (c)   The Borrower shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the UNICEF Agreement or the UNDP Agreement.
      (d)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of this Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that the Borrower will be able to
perform its obligations under the UNICEF Agreement or the UNDP
Agreement.
      (e)   The UNICEF Agreement or the UNDP Agreement shall have
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to
affect the execution of the Project without the prior consent of the
Association.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   any event specified in paragraphs (a), (b) or (e) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
      (b)   the event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower.
                            ARTICLE VI
                            Termination
      Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
Page  6
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The First Undersecretary for Planning in the
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
            P.O. Box 2092
            Khartoum
            The Republic of the Sudan
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   EIMAR                     22324
                   Khartoum
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                   THE REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
                   By /s/ Abdalla Ahmed Abdalla
                                         Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                   By /s/ Katherine Marshall
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
Page  7
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
Part A of the Project:
(1)  Equipment and works       2,600,000        100% of foreign
     under Parts A.1                            expenditures
     and A.2 of the
     Project
(2)  Spare parts under           190,000        100% of foreign
     Part A.3 of the                            expenditures
     Project
Part B of the Project:
(3)  Drugs, vaccines and       1,100,000        100% of foreign
     medical equipment                          expenditures
     including associated
     transport costs under
     Part B.1 of the
     Project
(4)  Drugs, vaccines and       3,420,000        100% of foreign
     medical equipment                          expenditures
     under Part B.2 of
     the Project
                            Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(5)  Consultants' services,      260,000        100%
     vehicles, equipment
     and training under
     Part B.3 of
     the Project
Part C of the Project:
(6)  Spare parts under           820,000        100% of foreign
     Part C of the                              expenditures
     Project
(7)  Diesel fuel, oil          1,630,000        100% of foreign
     and lubricants                             expenditures
     under Part C
     of the Project
Part D of the Project:
(8)  Consultants'                150,000        100%
     services, vehicles,
     equipment and train-
     ing under Part D.1 of
     the Project
(9)  Consultants'                190,000        100%
     services, vehicles,
     equipment and train-
     ing under Part D.2 of
     the Project
(10) Equipment,                  745,000        100% of foreign
     vehicles, spare                            expenditures
     parts and building
     materials under
Page  8
     Part D.3 of the
     Project
                            Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
Miscellaneous
(11) Incremental                  75,000        100%
     operating costs
     of the NRIU
(12) Refunding of                 45,000        Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                           suant to Section
     tion Advance                               2.02 (c) of this
                                                Agreement
(13) Unallocated                 675,000
                              __________
         TOTAL                11,900,000
                              ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
      (b)   the term "incremental operating costs of NRIU" means the
costs to NRIU incremental to the Project and relating to office and
vehicle maintenance, and to fuel, travel and office supplies.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made: (a) in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and (b) under
Category (10) until the UNDP Agreement shall have been signed by all
parties thereto and all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of
such Agreement shall have been met with the exception of those
relating to the Borrower's right to withdraw the proceeds of the
Credit.
                           SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are: (a) to alleviate the impact
of drought on the poor and vulnerable in the States of Darfur,
Kordofan and Khartoum, the Eastern State and the towns of Juba,
Malakal and Wau through improving water supplies and sanitation,
increasing the availability of essential drugs and medical supplies,
and regenerating productive capacity in agriculture; and (b) to
create an institutional framework to analyze and promote food
security policies, establish an up-to-date food security code and
coordinate actions on food security.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Water and Sanitation
1.    Rehabilitation and expansion of wateryards and construction of
wells.
2.    Construction of sanitation facilities in camps for displaced
persons.
3.    Acquisition of spare parts for use by the LRC.
Page  9
Part B:     Health
1.    Acquisition of emergency essential drugs, vaccines and medical
equipment and their distribution to persons in areas affected by
drought in the States of Kordofan and Darfur and in the Red Sea
Hills area of the Eastern State.
2.    Acquisition of essential drugs, vaccines and medical equipment
for distribution to persons in drought affected areas in the States
of Khartoum, Kordofan and Darfur.
3.    Strengthening and expansion of the community pharmacy system
of the State of Darfur including acquisition of vehicles and
equipment and provision of training to staff of the State Ministry
of Health.
Part C:     Agriculture
      Acquisition of spare parts for farm machinery and of diesel
fuel, oil and lubricants and their distribution to farmers and
cooperatives in the States of Kordofan and Darfur.
Part D:     Food Security
1.    Strengthening the capacity of the MALNR to plan and analyze
agricultural production and pricing, including acquisition of
vehicles and equipment and provision of staff training.
2.    Strengthening the institutional capacity and coordinating
mechanisms of the Food Security Coordinating Unit, including
acquisition of vehicles and equipment and provision of staff
training and, among other things, preparation of a Food Security
Code defining the responsibilities of the various agencies and sub-
divisions of the Borrower.
3.    Acquisition of equipment, vehicles, spare parts and building
materials for purposes of construction and rehabilitation of
agricultural and water collection infrastructure through small scale
labor intensive works.
                           *     *    *
      The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1993.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Works and Goods
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, works and goods shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts shall be grouped into bid
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in the Sudan may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
Page  10
1.    Equipment and works under Parts A.1 and A.2 of the Project
shall be procured by UNICEF, and drugs, vaccines and medical
equipment under Part B.1 of the Project shall be procured from
UNICEF.
2.    Contracts for spare parts under Part A.3 of the Project up to
an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $250,000 may be
awarded after direct negotiations with suppliers, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
3.    Drugs and medical equipment under Part B.2 of the Project up
to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $4,800,000
and equipment and vehicles under Part B.3 of the Project up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $400,000 may be
procured under contracts awarded through limited international
bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids
obtained from a list broad enough to assure competitive prices of
qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance
with procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines
(excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55, 2.56 thereof).
4.    Spare parts and building materials under Part D.3 of the
Project may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at least
three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
authorized withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
Page  11
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) to
(11) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                  requests for deposits into the Special Account at
                  such intervals as the Association shall specify.
           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                  documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                  paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                  withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                  the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                  shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                  by said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
Page  12
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                      Implementation Program
I.    Project Coordination
      NRIU shall be responsible for overall Project coordination and
for the reporting, monitoring and accounting obligations of the
Borrower in connection with the Project.
II.   Project Implementation
A.    Part A of the Project         Water and Sanitation
1.    The NRWC shall carry out Parts A.1 and A.2 of the Project in
accordance with the UNICEF Agreement.
2.    LRC shall carry out Part A.3 of the Project.
B.    Part B of the Project         Health
1.    The Borrower's Ministry of Health shall carry out Part B.1 of
Page  13
the Project in accordance with the UNICEF Agreement.
2.    The CMS, with the assistance of the NRIU, shall carry out the
procurement of drugs, vaccines and medical equipment under Part B.2
of the Project and transfer such items to the States of Kordofan,
Darfur and Khartoum for distribution in their respective territories
using procedures and criteria satisfactory to the Association.
3.    The Borrower shall cause the State Ministry of Health of
Darfur to carry out Part B.3 of the Project under arrangements
satisfactory to the Association.
C.    Part C of the Project         Agriculture
      The Borrower shall carry out Part C of the Project in
accordance with the Action Plan agreed upon with the Association.
D.   Part D of the Project         Food Security
1.    MALNR shall carry out Part D.1 of the Project.
2.    FSCU shall carry out Part D.2 of the Project.
3.    The Borrower's Ministry of Labor and Social Security shall
carry out Part D.3 of the Project in accordance with the UNDP
Agreement.
