                                          Documentof
                                      The WorldBank

                              FOROFFICIALUSEONLY

                                                                          ReportNo: 29091-ME




                            PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                             ONA

                                      PROPOSEDLOAN

                        INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$300.0MILLION
                                           TO THE!

                                UNITEDMEXICAN STATES

                                            FOR A

        BASICEDUCATIONDEVELOPMENT PROJECTINSUPPORT OFTHE
       THIRD PHASEOFTHE BASIC EDUCATIONDEVELOPMENTPROGRAM


                                         June 10,2004




HumanDevelopmentSector ManagementUnit
ColombiaandMexicoCountry ManagementUnit
Latin America andthe CaribbeanRegionalOffice


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performanceof their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosedwithout World
Bank authorization.

                     CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS
                 (Exchange RateEffectiveMay 10,2004)
                     Currency Unit = New Peso (MXN$)
                         MXN$1.0 = US$0.08763
                            US$l.O = MXN$11.41175


                              FISCALYEAR
                          January 1 -- December 31

              ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS


     AGE   SchoolManagementSupport (Apoyoa la GestidnEscolar)
   ANMEB   National Agreement for Basic EducationModernization (AcuerdoNacional
          para la Modemizacidnde la EducacidnBdsica)
      APF  ParentsAssociation (Asociacidnde Padres de Familia)
      APL  Adjustable ProgramLoan
     ATR  Asesores TbcnicosRurales (Technical RuralAssistants)
    CAPCE  State School Construction Entity
      CAS  Country AssistanceStrategy
     CDD   Community Driven Development
     CEPS  School Councils (ConsejosEscolares de Participacidn Social)
    CFAA   Country Financial Accountability Assessment
   CGACM   CoordinacidnGeneral deActualizacidny Capacitacibnpara Maestros en
           Servicio(General Coordination for In-Service Training of Teachersat SEP)
      CPS  Country PartnershipStrategy
      CTE  Technical School Council (ConsejoTkcnicoEscolar)
    CMRs   Teacher's ResourceCenters(Centrosde Maestrosy Recursos)
   COESPO  State PopulationCouncil (ConsejoEstatal de Poblacidn)
  CONAFE   National Council for Educational Development (ConsejoNacional de Foment0
           Educativo)of SEP
CONALITEG  National FreeTextbook Commission (ComisidnNacional del Libro de Text0
           Gratuito)
  CONAPO   National Population Council (ConsejoNacional de Poblacidn)
  COPLADE  State PlanningCouncil (Consejode Planijkacidn del Estado)
COMPRANET  InternetProcurementMechanism (SistemaElectrdnicode Contrataciones
           Gubemamentales)
     DAF   Director for Administration and Finance (Director deAdministracidny
           Finanzas)at CONAFE
     DGE   GeneralDirectorate for Evaluation(Direccidn General de Evaluacidn) at SEP
     DGEI  GeneralDirectorate for Indigenous Education (Direccidn Generalde
          Educacidn Indigena)at SEP
     DGIE  GeneralDirectorate of Educational Research (Direccidn Generalde
           InvestigacidnEducativa)
   DGMME   Direccidn Generalde Materialesy MBtodosEducativos (General Directorate of
           Educational Materials and Methods at SEP)
     DGN  Direccidn GeneraldeNormatividad (General Directorate of Norms at SEP)
      DP   Director for Planning (Director de Pluneacidn)at CONAFE

                                                                   FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

           DGPPP     GeneralDirectoratefor Planning,Programming,andBudgeting(Direccidn
                     General de Planeacidn,Programacidn, y Presupuesto)at SEP
              ECD    Early ChildhoodDevelopment
                EP   EducationalPromoter(PromotorEducativo)
              .FBS   Fixed-BudgetSelection(of consultants)
               FDI   CONAFE's Institutional DevelopmentFund(Fondode Desarrollo
                     Institucional)at CONAFE
               FM    FinancialManagement(Gesti6nFinanciera)
              FMR    FinancialMonitoring Report (Informe de Monitoreo Financiero)
              F M S  FinancialManagementSpecialist(Especialistaen GestidnFinanciera)
                FY   IBRD FiscalYew-July      throughJune
              GDP    GrossDomesticProduct(Product0 IntemoBruto)
             GOM     Governmentof Mexico
             GRM     Gerenciade RecursosMateriales (MaterialResourcesUnit at CONAFE)
              GTC    CentralTechnicalGroup (GrupoTkcnico Central)for the APL
           HDNED     EducationGroupof the HumanDevelopmentNetwork at the World Bank
             IADB    Inter-AmericanDevelopmentBank(BancoInteramericanode Desarrollo)
             IBRD    InternationalBank for ReconstructionandDevelopment(Banco lntemacional
                     para Reconstruccidny Desarrollo)
               ICB   InternationalCompetitiveBidding
                 IC  Individual Consultants
             INEA    NationalInstituteof Educationfor Adults (Instituto Nacional de Educacidn
                     para Adultos) of SEP
            INEGI    NationalInstituteof Statistics, GeographyandInformatics(InstitutoNacional
                     de Estadistica,Geografa e lnformdtica
                IN1  Instituto Nacional Indigenista (National IndigenistInstitute) currently known as
                     ComisidnNacional para el Desarrollo de 10s Pueblos Indigenus(National
                     Comisidnfor IndigenousPeoplesDevelopment)
              IPDP   IndigenousPeoplesDevelopmentPlan(Plande Desarrollopara 10s Pueblos
                     Indigenas)
              ISDS   IntegratedServicesDigitalNetwork at the World Bank
                 IT  InformationTechnology
               LCS   Least-CostSelection(for consultants)
           LCSHD     Latin Americaand the Caribbean Sector HumanDevelopmentUnit at the
                     World Bank
              LDG    Less DisadvantagedGroup
              LGE    GeneralEducationLaw (Ley General de Educacidn)
              MET    TechnicalMemorandumof Understandingon Auditing (Memorando Ticnico
                     de Entendimientosobre Auditorfas)
             MDG     More DisadvantagedGroup
               MIS   ManagementInformation System(Sistemade Informacidn de Gestidn)
             MXN     MexicanPeso (PesoMexicano)
           NAFIN   ' NationalFinancingAgency (Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.)
              NCB    NationalCompetitiveBidding (LicitacidnPu'blicaNacional)
            NGOs     Non-Governmental Organizations(OrganizacionesNo-Gubernamentules)
            OECD     Organizationfor EconomicCooperationand Development
               OM    Operational Manual
              PAD    ProjectAppraisal Document(DocumentodeEvaluacidn de Proyecto)
              PAM    In-ServiceTeacher Training Program(ProgramadeActualizacidn del
                     Magisterio)at SEP
            PARE     PrimaryEducationProject(Programapara Abatir el Reiago Educativo) (Ln.
                     3407-ME, 1991)


This document has a restricted distribution andmay be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.

      PAREB    Second Primary Education Project (Programapara Abatir el Rezago en
               Educacidn Bdsica) (Ln. 3722-ME, 1994)
    PAREIB-I   Basic EducationDevelopment Project, APLl (Programapara Abatir el Rezago
                en Educacidn Inicial y Bdsica)(Ln.4333-ME, 1998)
   PAREIB-I1   Basic Education Development Project, APL2 (Programapara Abatir el Rezago
                en Educacidnlnicial y Bdsica)(Ln.7108-ME)
  PAREIB-I11    Basic Education Development Project, APL3 (Programapara Abatir el Rezago
                en Educacidn Inicial y Bdsica)
        PCN    Project Concept Note
      PIARE    Integral Programof Education (Programa Integral para Reducir el Rezago
               Educativo) IADB-financed
         PID    Project Information Document
        PNE    National Education Program (ProgramaNacional de Educacidn)
        PME    Education Modernization Program (Programapara la Modemizacidn
               Educativa 1989-1994)
 Posprimaria    CONAFE's Rural Community-Based Lower Secondary Education Program
     PRODEI     Initial Education Project (Proyectopara el Desarrollo de la Educacidn Inicial)
                (Ln. 3518-ME, 1992)
 PROGRESA      Education, Health, and Nutrition Program (Programa de Educacidn,Salud,y
               Alimentacidn) at SEDESOL (currently named Oportunidades)
     PROSSE     Program of Essential Social Services (Programa de Servicios Sociales
                Esenciales)(Ln. 3913-ME)
       QBCS     Quality- and Cost-Based Selection (for consultants)
        QBS     Quality-Based Selection (for consultants)
         RFP    Request for Proposals (from consultants)
        RVP     Regional Vice-president at the World Bank CONAFE's State Coordinating Units
                (UnidadesCoordinadorasEstatales)
          SA    Special Account
      SASHD     South Asia Region Human Development Unit at the World Bank
        SCEP    Coordinated Public Education Services (Servicios Coordinadosde Educacidn
                Pliblica), SEP's delegation inthe states, replaced by SEPEs
      SEByN     Undersecretariat of Basic and Normal Education (Subsecretariade Educacidn
                Bdsicay Normal) at SEP
         SEP    Secretariat o f Public Education (Secretan'ade Educacidn Pliblica)
       SEPEs    State Level Secretariats of Public Education (SecretariasEstatalesde
                EducacidnPliblica)
         SFP    Secretariat for Administrative Development (Secretaria de la Funcidn Pliblica)

       SHCP     Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit (Secretaria de Hacienday Crkdito
                Pliblico)
       SNTE     National Teachers Union (Sindicato Nacional de Trabajadoresde la Educacidn)
         SPC    Subsecretariade Planeacidny Coordinacidn (Undersecretariat for Planning and
                Coordination)
         SOE    Statement o f Expenses (Estadode Gastos)
         SOP    Secretariade ObrasPliblicas (State's Public Works Secretariat)
      SSEDF     Undersecretariat of Educational Services for the FederalDistrict (Subsecretan'a
               de Servicios Educativos del Distrito Federal) at SEP
        SSPC    Undersecretariat for Planning and Coordination (Subsecretariade Planeacidn y
                Coordinacidn)at SEP
       SWOT    Analysis of Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities and Threats (Andlisis de
               fortalezas, debilidades,oportunidadesy riesgos)
Telesecundaria Television-Based Lower Secondary Education Program
        TCP    Teaching Career Program(Programa de la Carrera Magisterial)at SEP


                                         ...
                                         111

 TOR  Terms of Reference
UCEs  CONAFE's State CoordinatingUnits (UnidadesCoordinadorasEstutdes)
LJNDB UnitedNationsDevelopmentBusiness
 UPC  CONAFE's CompensatoryProgramsUnit (Unidad de ProgramasCompensatorios)




       Country Director:        Isabel M.Guerrero
         Sector Director:       Ana-Maria Arriagada
           Sector Leader        MarkHagerstrom




                           iv


                                                            MEXICO
                                     M X Basic EducationDev Phase I11

                                                         CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                                   Page

A. STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE                                       .........................................................................   1
 1. Country and sector issues           ........................................................................................................ 1
 2. Rationale for Bank involvement                .............................................................................................. 1
 3. Higher levelobjectives to which the project contributes                             ............................................................ 2

B. PROJECTDESCRIPTION                    ......................................................................................................      2
 1. Lending instrument         ................................................................................................................ 2
 2. Programobjectiveandphases ..................................................................................................                     2
 3. Project development objective and key indicators                          .....................................................................  3
 4. Project components         ................................................................................................................ 4
 5. Lessons learned andreflected inthe project design                           ...................................................................  7
 6. Alternatives considered andreasons for rejection                         ......................................................................  8

C. IMPLEMENTATION                ..............................................................................................................      9
 1. Partnership arrangements(not applicable)                     ................................................................................ 9
 2. Institutional andimplementation arrangements                         .........................................................................    9
 3. Sustainability    .......................................................................................................................        10
 4. Critical risks andpossible controversial aspects                      ......................................................................     11
 5. Loadcreditconditions andcovenants                      ....................................................................................      11

D. APPRAISALSUMMARY                     ......................................................................................................       12
 1. Economic andfinancial analyses                 ........................................................................................... 12
 2. Technical  .............................................................................................................................         12

 3. Fiduciary  ............................................................................................................................         -12
 4. Social ..................................................................................................................................        13
 5. Environment      ........................................................................................................................        14
 6. Safeguardpolicies        ...............................................................................................................        -15
 7. Policy Exceptionsand Readiness                 ........................................................................................... 15




                                                                     V

Annexes

 Annex 1.   Country and Sector ProgramBackground                               17
 Annex 2.   Major RelatedProjects Financedby the Bank and/or other Agencies    21
 Annex 3.   Results Framework and Monitoring                                   22
 Annex 4.   DetailedProject Description                                        39
 Annex 5.   Project Costs                                                      46
 Annex 6.   ImplementationArrangements                                         49
 Annex 7.   FinancialManagement and Disbursement Arrangements                  51
 Annex 8.   Procurement                                                        58
 Annex 9.   Economic and Financial Analysis                                    64
 Annex 10.  Safeguard Policy Issues                                            75
 Annex 11.  Project Preparation and Supervision                                93
 Annex 12.  Documents inthe Project File                                       94
 Annex 13.  Statement of Loans andCredits                                      97
 Annex 14.  Country at a Glance                                                99
 Annex 15.  TargetingMethodology                                               101
 Annex 16.  Policy Letter                                                      105


Map:       IBRD32287




                                               vi

                                                    Mexico
                                Basic Education Development PhaseI11

                                PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                           LatinAmerica andthe CaribbeanRegional Office
                             HumanDevelopment Sector ManagementUnit


 Country Director: IsabelM.Guerrero                   Sectors: Education
 Sector ManagedDirector: Ana-Maria Arriagada          Themes: Initial, Primaryand Secondary Education,
Project ID:PO85851                                    General Public Administration
Lending instrument: Adaptable ProgramLoan (APL)




                          UnitedStates Dollar

                          (US$) 300.0 million
Proposedterms:            Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
Grace period (years):               5                 Years to maturity:    15
Commitment fee:                 0.85 first 4 years and
                                0.75% thereafter
Service charge:




Government                                                      200.0
IBRD                                                            205.1               94.9             300.0
Total:                                                          405.1               94.9             500.0

Borrower: UnitedMexicanStates
                                       ducationthrough CONAFE




                                              End: June 2007

Does the project depart from the CAS incontent or other significant respects?Ref.    x Yes o No
PADA.3
Does the project require any exceptions from Bank policies? Ref. PAD D.7             xYes    oNo
Have these beenapprovedby Bankmanagement?                                            xYes    oNo
[s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                          oYes xNo
Does the project includeany critical risks rated"substantial" or "high"?             oYes xNo




Project developmentobjective Ref. PAD B.2, Technical Annex 3

The project development objective is to support the Government's compensatoryeducationprogram, which aims to increase
schoolingopportunities for children aged0-14 years inthe poorestrural, most educationally disadvantagedcommunities,
:hroughthe expansionof educationalopportunitiesand improvementsinthe quality of education.


Project description [one-sentence summary of eachcomponent] Ref. PAD B.3.a, Technical Annex 4

Component 1:InitialEducation provides out-of-school training for parentsand other adults directly involvedinraising small
zhildren, with the objective ofcontributing to the child's comprehensivedevelopmentandto asmoothtransition to
preschool.
Component2: Support for Basic Education aims to help improve basic educationindicators in isolated, rural communities,
by providing for a package of interventions comprising material, pedagogic and schoolmanagement actions inselected
preschools, inprimary and inlower-secondarytelesecundaria schools.
Component'3: Institutional Strengthening aims to continue strengtheningthe capacity ofthe SEPEs to plan, program and
evaluate basic educationservice delivery.


Whichsafeguardpolicies aretriggered, ifany? Ref.PAD D.6, Technical Annex 10
      SafeguardPolicies Triggered by the Project                                Yes                 No
      Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.0 1)                                  [x 1               [I
      Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                              [I                 [XI
      Pest Management(OP 4.09)                                                   [I                 [XI
      Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, beingrevised as OP 4.1 1)                    [I                 [XI
      Involuntary Resettlement(OPBP 4.12)                                        [I                 [XI
      IndigenousPeoples (OD 4.20, beingrevised as OP 4.10)                       [x 1               [I
      Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                       [I                 [XI
      Safety of Dams (OPBP 4.37)                                                 [I                 [XI
      Projects inDisputedAreas (OPIBPIGP 7.60)                                   11                 [XI
      Projectson Intemational Waterways (OPIBPIGP 7.50)                          [I                 [XI


[Imported from the PAD maintext]
Significant, non-standardconditions, ifany, for:
This project complies with all applicable Bankpolicies.

Boardpresentation: N/A

Loadcredit effectiveness:N/A

Covenantsapplicable to project implementation: N/A

Other:
With respect to retroactive financing of eligible project expenditures made prior to the date of the Loan Agreement, the
Government requested an increase in the aggregate amount from 10% to up to 15% of the proposed Loan amount. This
exceptionhas been approvedinternally as requiredby OP/GP 12.10.

A. STRATEGIC CONTEXTAND RATIONALE

1. Country andsectorissues

        Mexico, a member of the OECD and the world`s ninth largest economy, has made
significant progress in expanding education access over the past few decades (90 percent of
school age children attend primary school with a completion rate of 86 percent). However,
universal coverage is yet to be achieved and the quality of education i s well below international
standards. This is especially the case in the poorer states and among indigenous peoples. Only 7
percent of 15 year olds are at the two highest levels of performance in readingliteracy compared
to an OECD average of 31 percent. Today a child inMexico can expect to be in school for up to
12years, compared to 19inAustralia, Finland andthe United Kingdom.

        The Mexican govemment began to address the challenge of educational disadvantage by
placing greater emphasis on compensatory programs that provide extra support to education for
disadvantaged groups (children living inruralor marginal urban areas, and handicapped, migrant
and indigenous children). The ConsejoNacional de Foment0 Educativo (National Council for
Educational Development, CONAFE) of the Secretariat of Public Education (SEP) i s one of the
key institutions through which this policy i s carried out.

        The main issues facing the government's compensatory education programs are: (a) low
access to the initial and preschool education levels; (b) limited access to lower and upper
secondary education; (c) low quality throughout the education system; (d) lack of critical inputs
in schools located inpoor, rural, indigenous communitiesandmarginalurbanareas; and(e) weak
managerial andadministrative capacity at the state level.
        These issues are being addressed under the Government's National Education
Development Programwhich the World Bank has been supporting since the Program's inception.
For the period 2001-2006, CONAFE focuses on improving the quality of education for students
in the poorest areas by ensuring minimum operational standards for all targeted schools,
developing innovative programs to address the needs of students, involving schools and
communities in the decision makingprocess at the school level, and developing the institutional
capacity of states to design and implement national education policies and compensatory
programs. CONAFE' s compensatory education programs now support approximately four
million students in preschool and primary education, and about 300,000 students in
telesecundariaeducation (secondary education delivered via satellite to remote communities).

2. Rationalefor Bankinvolvement

        The Bank has contributed both technically and financially to the evolution of the
Mexican compensatory education strategy. The World Bank has been involved in Mexico's
compensatory education programs since 1991. The lessons of each project have been
incorporated in successive programs and the Bank has been able to share lessons learned from
experiences in other countries, many of which have been adapted to the Mexican context within
the ongoing program. The proposed thirdphase of PAREIB(Programapara Abatir el Rezago en
Educacio'n Znicial y Ba`sica) represents a critical step in fine-tuning the delivery mechanisms
while extending the successfulcomponents of previous phases of the program.




                                                   1

3. Higher levelobjectives to which the projectcontributes

        The proposed thirdphase of PAREIBfits the overall objectives of the Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) for Mexico. The program supports the current Country Partnership Strategy-
CPS, (Report No. 28141-ME of March 18, 2004, considered by the Board on April 15,2004) of
comprehensive assistance to the Government's efforts to reduce poverty and inequality.
Specifically, PAREIB provides operational support for a targeted program whose focus i s to
improve access to education for the rural poor. The programsupports the Government's efforts to
raise the level andquality of schooling inMexico.

B. PROJECTDESCRIPTION

1. Lendinginstrument

        An Adjustable Program Loan (APL) instrument is especially well suited for achieving
program objectives that require long term investments such as improvements in the quality of
basic education. The APL built on eight years of Bank experience through three loans that
supported compensatory programs for initialandbasic education. The government considered the
APL strategic to achieving long term goals. Inparticular, the government values the flexibility
affordedby the instrument andrecognizes the benefits of incorporating in subsequentAPL phases
the lessonslearned from the earlier phases.

2. Programobjective andphases

        The proposed Adaptable Program Loan will support Mexico's compensatory education
program, as outlined inthe National EducationProgram(PNE) 2001-2006, which buildsupon the
EducationDevelopment Program 1995-2000, under which the original Programwas approved by
the Board in June 4, 1998. Specifically, the objectives of Phase I11focus on fine-tuning the
delivery mechanisms while extending the successfulcomponents of Phase II.

        The first phase of the APL sought to improve quality in preschool, general secondary,
technical secondary, telesecundun'u andinitial education at schools serving the poorest 50 percent
of rural students and the poorest 25 percent of students in urban marginal areas in 14 states.
During APL I,coverage of lower secondary education was extended to 244,998 poor rural
students through telesecunduriu andposprimuriu modalities. The strategy evolved to emphasize
the coverage of rural lower secondary education, particularly through distance education
(telesecunduriu). Program activities in other levels were carried out on a reduced scale. This
realignment of priorities was a result of a sharp increaseindemand for lower secondary education
resulting from higher completion rates in primary school and the impact of education incentives
provided by OPORTUNIDADES, the conditional cash transfer program formerly known as
PROGRESA(Progrumu deEducacidn, Suludy Alimentucidn).

        The second phase of the APL was implemented in 31 states covering initial, preschool,
primary and lower secondary education levels. It sought to consolidate and expand quality
improvements in education in initial and basic education, strengthen management of the
education system integrating the operation of the compensatory education program nationwide,
and continue strengthening the states' institutional capacity to plan, program and evaluate the
delivery of basic education services.




                                                   2

         The proposed project i s the final phase of the three-phase APL program. The project aims
to fine tune the delivery mechanisms based on a more fully developed decentralized model. The
objectives of Phase 111are to consolidate and expand quality improvements in initial and basic
education (preschool, primary and lower secondary), covering, inter alia, infrastructure
improvements, didactic materials provision, teacher training, school supervision, implementation
of school-based management strategies, and continued strengthening of the institutional capacity
of the states to plan, program and evaluate the delivery of basic education services.

         Board approval for Phase I11i s required becausethere i s an increase in the loan amount
from US$210 million to US$300 million. At the time of APL I1processing, the Government of
Mexico requested an increase for Phase 111to US$300 million. The decision then was to reflect
that request inthe PAD for Phase 11(see Report No. 23295-ME, page 4), where it i s statedthat it
will be desirable to increase the original loan amount by US$90 million in order to keep IBRD
financing at similar level as in APL 11, but decide at the time of preparation of Phase 111on the
actual needs.

         The Government of Mexico's interest inincreasing the amount of the loan was confirmed
just prior to negotiations. Therefore, the Mexico Country Partnership Strategy (CPS), (Report
No. 28141-ME' April 15,2004; R2004-0047/1, IFC/R2004-0046/1) does not reflect the increased
loan amount, as the official confirmation of the Government's request came after the CPS was
discussed by the Board. The increase in the amount of the loan i s required because of the
expansion of the program, particularly the compulsory pre-school attendance. In terms of the
loan financing by the Government of Mexico, according to the Secretariat of Finance and Public
Credit (SHCP), the increase in the loan amount for Basic Education Development APL 111does
not represent an increase in the overall portfolio. Therefore, the increase in the amount of this
APL 111is beingcoveredby re-allocations inthe Mexican Government's portfolio of WorldBank
loans.

         As Annex 1indicates, all the triggers set for the third phase of the APL were achieved
andinsome cases substantially surpassed.

3. Project development objective andkey indicators

         The project development objective i s to support the Government's compensatory
education program, which aims to increase schooling opportunities for children aged 0-14 years
in the poorest rural, most educationally disadvantaged communities, through the expansion of
educational opportunities andimprovements inthe quality of education.




                                                  3

Key Indicators:

                                                                          % points change
                                          Baseline     PAREIB        PAREIB         PAREIB
                                                       I, I11
                                                         11,          I, I1,III        I11
                                         1997-1998    1998-2007      1998-2007      2004-2007
 Initialeducation
 Coverageof 0-4 year old children         365,328      545,361          49.3          33.1
 Parentsof young children trained         304,440      496,800          63.2          33.1
 Primaryeducation
 Failure rate                               10.2         6.8             3.4           0.5
 Repetition rate                            9.5          6.1             3.4           1.o
 Dropout rate                               3.4           1.9            1.5           0.2
 Completion rate                            77.4         86.0            8.6           0.5
 Indigenousprimaryeducation
 Failure rate                               14.0         9.3             4.7           1.1
 Repetition rate                            12.6         8.3             4.3           1.o
 Dropout rate                               1.3          2.8             4.5           0.3
 Completion rate                            63.1         83.9           20.8           1.2
 Non-Indigenousprimaryeducation
 Failure rate                               9.4          5.9             3.5           1.o
 Repetition rate                            8.8          5.7             3.1           0.8
 Dropout rate                               3.8           1.9            1.9           0.2
 Completion rate                            80.1         86.1            6.0           0.3
 Telesecundariu
 Failure rate                               6.7           3.7            3.O           0.4
 Repetition rate                            0.4           0.5           -0.1           0.1
 Dropout rate                               8.2          4.9             3.3           0.3
 Completion rate                            75.5         82.1            6.6           1.1




4. Project components

Component 1:InitialEducation (US$82.6 million with contingencies) provides out-of-school
training for parentsand other adults directly involved in raising small children, with the objective
of contributingto the child's comprehensive development andto a smooth transition to preschool.
The trainingi s targeted to families inindigenous or low-income rural communities either with 0-4
year old children or expecting their first child. The objectives of this component will be achieved
through the following five subcomponents:

             0   Training in Initial Educationfor Promoters, Supervisors and Coordinators:
                 the training of initial education staff, including education promoters, module
                 supervisors and zone coordinators, aims to strengthen their knowledge of early
                 childhood development and improve the quality and efficiency of service
                 delivery;


             0   Community Participation: this subcomponent aims to mobilize community
                 support for the program and is directed at public and private social service
                 professionals and community organizations that can complement and enrich the



                                                  4

                work of education promoters (EPs). Emphasis will be placed on the co-
                responsibility for child development among the members of the community;


           0    Training for Parents of 0-4 year old Children: this subcomponent aims to
                strengthen family understanding of early childhood development and to
                demonstratehow the family can best stimulate the process;

           0    Educational Materials: this subcomponent supports the development, design,
                printing,reproduction and distribution of educational and dissemination materials
                used in the program.       This subcomponent will finance the production and
                distribution of new or replicated educational and dissemination materials,
                consulting services for the design of materials and audiovisual equipment to be
                usedintraining sessions;

           0    Monitoring and Evaluation: this subcomponent will put in place effective
                monitoring and evaluation systems. The initial education program i s the only
                compensatory program for which CONAFE i s fully responsible for service
                delivery.

Component 2: Support for Basic Education (US$ 358.2 million with contingencies) aims to
help improve basic education indicators in isolated, rural communities, by providing for a
package of interventions comprising material, pedagogic and school management actions in
selected preschools, in primary and in lower-secondary telesecunduriu schools. In addition,
support will be provided to rehabilitate and equip teachers' centers (Centros de Maestros y
Recursos, CMRs). The objectives of this component will be achieved through six subcomponents
described below:


    0  Educational Infrastructure and Equipment:             improvements to infrastructure and
       school furniture aim to raise the physical conditions of the schools to a minimum
       operational level. The plan for these investments i s prepared in each state every year by
       the State Secretariats of Public Education (SEPEs) on the basis of a needs assessment,
       and i s consolidated by CONAFE at the national level. Infrastructureinvestments include
       construction, rehabilitation andor replacement of classrooms, sanitary services and other
       school facilities, according to the needs of each school. Construction i s carried out by the
       community, represented by parents associations, school councils, or ad hoc community
       groups, andi s supervised by the states;

    0  Didactic Materials: this subcomponent aims to improve the learning conditions at
       targeted preschools, primary and lower-secondary schools, by providing them with
       didactic materials that are appropriate to the curriculum at each level of education;

    0  Training and Technical Assistance to the Technical School Councils (Consejos
       Tbcnicos Escolares-CTEs):        this subcomponent aims to strengthen pedagogic skills of
       primary teachers, particularly those working in multi-grade and indigenous schools. This
       program complements formal in-service teacher training provided by SEP and by the
       SEPEs;

    0  Support and Training for Parent Associations (Asociacionesde Padres de Familia-
       APFs): this subcomponent aims to consolidate and strengthen the APFs through training
       and financial support. Trainingwill focus on (a) management of school funds transferred



                                                 5

        by CONAFE to the APFs; (b) participatory skills to increase parent's involvement in
         school activities; and (c) information on the achievements of students and ways in which
        parents can help improve their learningachievements;

    0   Performance Incentives for Primary School Teachers: this subcomponent aims to
        contribute to retainingteachers in rural primary schools located in isolated communities
        with difficult access; to increase teacher attendance rates; to reduce teacher turnover; to
        promote the use of after-school hours for tutoring students who are falling behind; and to
        encourage teachers to participate in school planningactivities. The incentives consist of
        monthly stipends linkedto the schools and supervised by the APFs; the stipends represent
        27% of the averageprimary teacher salary. When a teacher leaves the school, the stipend
        remains in the school. These norms are shared by the states and by SEP, which also
        provide performance incentives to teachers. The incentives to be financed by PAREIB
        I11will not duplicate those financed by other sources. This subcomponent will finance
        performance incentives to 12,600 targeted primary school teacherseach year;


   0    Support for School Supervision: this subcomponent aims to strengthen school
        supervision at the primary school level. This will be achieved through support provided
        to members of the school supervision team to enable them to visit the schools more often.
        The main goal i s to transform school supervision into a vehicle for pedagogic support to
        the schools, placing less emphasis on administrative matters.

Component 3: Institutional Strengthening (US$ 56.2 million with contingencies) aims to
continue strengthening the capacity of the SEPEs to plan, program and evaluate basic education
service delivery. This objective will be achieved through four subcomponents:

   0    Strengthening of the Pedagogic Capacity of the State Secretariats of Public
        Education (SEPEs):         this subcomponent aims to contribute to service quality
        improvements by helpingdevelop the pedagogic capacity of the technical-pedagogic staff
        in each state.    Technical assistance will be provided through a series of workshops
        focused on: multi-grade education, in-service teacher training, education evaluation,
        inter-cultural and bilingual education, effective use of education technology and
        education planning;

   0    Strengthening of the Administrative Capacity of the SEPE's: this subcomponent aims
        to continue strengthening the states' capacity to administer and efficiently deliver basic
        education services. The technical assistance to be provided will be tailored to the needs
        of each state, but will concentrate on the following main areas: school supervision,
        administrative staff development, human resources management, management of
        physical resources, financial management, monitoring and evaluation systems, and
        coordinationbetween regular and compensatory education programs;

   0    Monitoring and Evaluation of the Project: this subcomponent aims to consolidate the
        monitoring andevaluation systems for CONAFE's compensatory programs;

   0    Administration of the Project: this subcomponent will continue to be supported by
        PAREIB IIIto consolidate achievements made in the two prior phases of the program
        with respect to program operational norms and procedures that ensure efficient
        implementation. Training and technical assistance will be provided to strengthen staff
        skills in the areas of financial management, procurement, and monitoring and evaluation.



                                                 6

5. Lessonslearned andreflectedinthe project design

          This project incorporates lessons learned from Phase Iand IIof the program and all
previous education projects in Mexico, as well as those with similar objectives elsewhere inLatin
America. Lessons learned from the first and secondphase of the program show that the program
i s satisfactory, sustainability i s highly likely, institutional development impact i s substantial, and
Bank and borrower performance are satisfactory.

          The APL instrument i s especially well suited for achieving program objectives that
require long term investments, such as improvement in the quality of basic education. This is so
because the APL favors consistency in the overall framework, which in turn helps sustain
program activities over time. The experience from the first and second phase of the APL shows
that working within an overall policy framework i s crucial for the success of the project,
particularly when changes in administration take place. Successful approaches tend to include
allowances for adaptation to improve the fit between design and the particular needs of local
contexts.

          Previous education projects in Mexico supported in-service teacher training through
largehational regional courses. The first phase of the APL helped identify the shortcomings of
this strategy. By taking teachers out of the classroom to attend nationallregional courses, the
training program failed to provide sufficient improvement in the classroom performance of
teachers. It became evident that teachers needed "hands-on" technical assistance to help them
apply the skills acquired in pre-service and in-service training courses to the particular situation
of the classrooms where they work. Only in-service teacher training combined with classroom-
basedtechnical assistance can produce teachingearning results. Based on this lesson, the second
phase supported a Network for Education Quality in Primary School. This network, which
operatesfor all targeted schools, i s staffed with specialized primaryteachers (technical pedagogic
assistants) who visit schools several times duringthe year, to help teachers resolve teaching and
learning problems in the classroom, while at the same time assisting them in establishing a
continuous performance evaluation programbased on student learning achievements measuredat
the beginning and at the end of the school year. The third phase of the APL will continue to
support this technical assistance.

          Since 1992, Mexico has decentralized the function of providing universal basic education
to the states. Experience has taught two important lessons. First, technical assistance should be
directed at key policy reforms, such as integration of the administration of basic education and
rationalization of operations through the elimination of functional duplication at the state level.
Second, instituting a demand-driven mechanism i s not enough to efficiently foster educational
federalism. Instead, it i s important to provide incentives at the state level to generate innovation,
thereby a national program can be appropriately adjusted to the state context, reinforcing the fact
that the states are indeed responsible for the education outcomes within their borders.

          The initiative of supporting the establishment of parent associations in primary schools
was started by CONAFE prior to the APL, in 1995, with 2,500 pilot rural primary schools.
Subsequent studies of effective schools in Mexico confirmed the importance of this instrument to
strengthen school autonomy, which in turn tends to improve the quality of education. Based on
the experience of PAREB and phases Iand IIof the APL, parent associations are now operating
in all primary schools targeted by the compensatory education program and their functions and
decision making role in the schools i s expanding. PARED I11 will extend this initiative to
targetedpreschools.


                                                      7

        Now that Mexico has reached good coverage at the primary education level, the priority
investment in the sector i s to increase the quality of primary education as well as the quality of
preschool and lower secondary education. Identification of the factors that contribute most to
student learning i s key. Appropriate policies and relevant sector interventions require a capacity
not only to assess student learningoutcomes but to identify which factors produce the best results
and which interventions are the most effective inensuring the presenceof those factors.

        Effective targeting mechanisms must be precise and provide for an exit strategy. While
APL 1 and 2 introduced more precise targeting mechanisms than had been previously used,
improvements can still be made inthe design of outcome indicators and inpromoting more active
parental participation. Thus the improvedtargeting criteria used inthe proposed program (Annex
14) establishes a set of poverty and education indicators to identify schools and communities in
greatest need of extra assistance. The identification of targeted schools measured on the basis of
key education indicators duringAPL 1and APL 2 has shown that some schools have registered
significant performance improvements and might be approaching the stage of being ready to
graduate from the compensatory education program. The graduation of schools from the program
provides a unique opportunity to test if the improvements observed are sustainable in the absence
of the additional support provided by the program. Thus, the graduated schools will be closely
monitored.

6. Alternatives consideredand reasonsfor rejection

        In discussing options to address the objective of providing quality basic education to all
students during this and earlier phases, a number of alternatives were considered. Prior to
PARED, Bank-supported projects focused on states with higher levels of poverty. Experience
shows that, while giving priority attention to the poorer states simplifies targeting, disadvantaged
schools and students exist in every state, and high performing schools exist even in poor states.
Thus, a strategy focused on a few states was rejected in order to reach more students in
disadvantaged schools throughout the country. In the same manner, a return to a state-focused
strategy was rejected for the thirdphase.

        Inaddition, the thirdphase is focused on refining the elements of the program that work
best -that is, result in higher learning achievement for the poorest - and expanding accordingly.
Thus, a strategy of simply continuing with all components from the secondphase was rejected in
favor of focusing on the most cost-effective elements inthe final phase.

        Given the success of earlier phases, and the recently enacted legislation makingpreschool
education compulsory, the programrespondedby expanding coverage to preschools, especially in
the most disadvantaged indigenous areas of the country. Thus, the program will contribute to the
achievement of important national goals. The strategic choices made are supported by the
economic analysis conducted for the programand especially for the thirdphase.




                                                  8

C. IMPLEMENTATION

1. Partnershiparrangements(notapplicable)

2. Institutionalandimplementationarrangements

The implementationperiod i s 3 years.

        Executing Agencies. As in APL 1and 2, CONAFE will be the main executing agency
for the program, and will coordinate all implementation activities on behalf of SEP. CONAFE has
extensive experience implementingBank-and IDB-financedprojects, andwill exercise its project
coordination responsibilities through a Compensatory Programs Unit (Unidad de Programas
Compensatorios, UPC), with the participation of SEPs normative units, notably the
Undersecretariat for Basic and Normal Education (Subsecretariade Educacidn Ba'sicay NormaE,
SEByN), which has the overall responsibility for the regulation of basic education services and
sustaining plans and study programs, and the Undersecretariat for Planning and Coordination
(Subsecretariade Planeacidn y Coordinacidn, SPC), which is responsible for programming and
budgetingof the administrative unitsthat integrate SEP.

        The UPC has operative units in each state (Unidad Coordinadora Estatal, UCE), that
work closely with the state education authorities (SEPEs). Generally, two UCEs operate in each
state, one responsible for initial education and another for basic education. The UCEs
coordinators in each state are appointed by the state Education Secretary. At the national level,
the UPC coordinates program operations with the relevant CONAFE General Directors,
especially the Director for Planning(DP) andthe Director for Administration andFinance (DAF).
These units are adequately organized and staffed to perform the required administrative,
supervisory andfinancial managementfunctions. The responsibilities of UPCinclude:

        (a) Project execution activities;
        (b) Consolidation of the yearly work planandprogramexecution review;
        (c) Procurement of small contracts for goods and services;
        (d) Informationpreparation for the review of annual implementation;
        (e) Coordination with normative areas of SEP;
        (f) Communicationwith state-level offices; and
        (g) Monitoring of project objectives, goals, processes andtimetables incoordination with
        SEP and the SEPEs.

        Implementation Arrangements. CONAFE executes compensatory education activities
according to national guidelines through the UCEs in each state. Although implementation i s
highlydecentralized, CONAFE will continue to carry out procurement at the central level, except
for small works contracted by organized local community groups, and small contracts for goods
and services procured by the UCEs (see Annex 8). The organized local community groups
responsible for contracting small infrastructure works include the APFs, CTEs, School Councils
(Consejos Escolares de Participacion Social, CEPS), municipal governments and state entities.
In each case, works are supervised by the normative state entity responsible for infrastructure.
The UCEs are also in charge of signing agreements with education promoters, module
supervisors and zone coordinators for the implementation of the initial education program. The
UCEs implemented PAREB and PIARE projects, as well as PARED Iand II. of the 31     Each
states have fully staffed UCEs.The institutional capacity of CONAFE i s deemed satisfactory.



                                                9

         Implementation Capacity.          CONAFE developed significant project management
capacity in previous Bank-supported projects and meets Bank financial management
requirements. It has adequate procedures for budget control, adequate structures for internal
control and financial reporting, and a computerized information system that supports accounting
processes and transactions. The agency employs well trained professionals and its financial
management arrangementswere considered appropriate for APL 1and 2. To continue improving,
CONAFE and the Bank agreed on an action plan to strengthen the current management
information system (MIS). Expansion and/or rehabilitation of school infrastructure by
municipalities and local communities will follow the same planning and financial transfer
mechanisms used in PAREB and in PAREIB Iand I1 (see Annex 6). Proposals for these
activities are prepared at the state level by the SEPEs and UCEs. CONAFE consolidates the state
proposals in its annual budget submission to the Secretaria de Hacienda y Crbdito Pliblico
(SHCP). Nucional Financieru, S.N.C. (NAFIN), the financial agency for the project, oversees
authorized funds transfers to each state on a quarterly basis through commercial banks. These
transfers are 100 percent pre-financed by CONAFE's regular budget, and loan reimbursements
are made only after actual expenditures are documented. Communities with approved
infrastructure plans receive 60 percent of funds in advance to purchase all construction materials;
the balance i s disbursed as civil works progress. NAFINalso oversees transfers of funds to SEP
unitsparticipatinginproject implementation.

         Flow of FundsandInformation. Bank loanfunds will flow from the LoanAccount to a
Special Account managed by NAFINand established in US dollars at the Mexican central bank
(Banco de Mbxico);the Special Account may also be established at NAFIN, or in a commercial
bank, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. CONAFEreceives funds inMexican
Pesos via its standard budget from the National Treasury, which i s reimbursed at the end of the
cycle from the Special Account. As in previous phases of PAREIB, PAREIB 111counterpart
funds will form part of CONAFE's standardbudget and will be used to complement Bank Loan
resources to finance project activities, according to the agreed financing percentages by cost
category. Both Loan funds and counterpart funds will be registered in CONAFE's standard
budget intwo separatedbudgetary lines earmarked for PAREIB III.

3. Sustainability

         The sustainability of World Bank financed projects in Mexico, including PAREIB Iand
11, has been demonstrated by the success of the interventions introduced by these projects that
were replicated by SEP and state governments. Innovative models tested inPAREIBIand I1have
been generalized to the entire system. The SEPEs in several states have begun to undertake their
own compensatory programs. There i s strong country ownership of the program and the
preparation of the third phase. CONAFE's capacity i s evidenced through the successful
implementation of previous phases and the significant results achieved. In addition, the proposed
external evaluation of the entire PAREIBprogram will ascertain the sustainability of the program
upon completion of the third phase. The World Bank i s considering the program as a whole in
order to apply the declining basis for financing of incremental operational costs, consumable
student supplies, and teacher incentives. IBRD financing for operational costs declined from
70% (APL 1) to 10% (APL 2), to 8% in the proposed APL 3. For student supplies, Bank
financing declined from 25% (APL 2) to 8% (APL 3); and for teacher incentives the financing
percentagesdeclined from 10% (APL2) to 8% (APL3). Students supplies and teacher incentives
were not part of APL 1.




                                                  10

4. Critical risks and possible controversial aspects

Risk                                       Risk rating (*)         Risk mitigation measure
Changeof governmentllackof                        N                Continuousdialogue with
political support                                                  Government; demonstrated
                                                                   success of compensatory
                                                                   programsis the most convincing
                                                                   reasonfor continuing the
                                                                   framework, evaluation and
                                                                   disseminationof results as well as
                                                                   marketing of the programwill
                                                                   contribute to ensure continued
                                                                   supportfor the program.

Bilingualeducationnot                             M                Close monitoringof project
implementedproperly and                                            componentslinkedto bilingual
thereforeexpectedresults not                                       education
being met
States receiveadequate support                    M                Demanddriven technical
during project implementation                                      assistanceprovided to the SEPEs
                                                                   consolidatesand further develops
                                                                   the institutional capacity of the
                                                                    states to plan, program, budget,
                                                                    and deliver basic education
                                                                    services, promoting stronger
                                                                    linkageswith local authorities
                                                                    and communities

Teachingand supervisorystaff                      N                 Restructuring of the pedagogic
receiving technical assistance,                                     support systemprovided to
training and incentives, do not                                     schools
apply newly acquiredknowledge
and skills to the classroom

Overall Risk Rating                               -.
(*) Riskrating: H(high), M(moderat1 N(negligible).

5. Loadcredit conditions and covenants

    1. Effectiveness Conditions

              (a) The Operational Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, has been issued by CONAFE
                   andput into effect;

              (b) The ImplementationAgreement between the SHCP, CON=               andNAFINfor
                   the implementationof PAREIB 111, satisfactory to the Bank, has been adopted
                   and put into effect; and

              (c) CONAFE has to presenta Procurement Plansatisfactory to the Bank.




                                                  11

     2. Other

             (a) Project implementation i s carried out in accordance with the loan agreement and
                 the project Operational Manual (including IPDP and environmental guidelines
                 for construction);

             (b) Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) are issued every semester, in accordance
                 with applicable Bank guidelines, starting 45 days after the first full semester after
                 loaneffectiveness;

             (c) The project implementation plan, satisfactory to the Bank, has been put into
                 effect by CONAFE;

             (d) Project monitoring during project implementation, and impact evaluation upon
                 project completion, i s carriedout; and

             (e) A plan to ensure the continued achievement of the project's objectives,
                 satisfactory to the Bank, i s prepared six (6) month prior to the closing date.

D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

1. Economicandfinancialanalyses

         Economic analysis. The impacts of compensatory programs on academic achievement
are positive, significant and sizable. Mexico's national learning achievement test was used to
estimate the impact of the project on learning achievement of children attending compensatory
programs.     Program-supported schools are most effective in improving primary school
mathematics results. Compensatory education can effectively improve short-term learning results
for disadvantagedstudents (see Annex 9).

         Financial analysis. Financial sustainability depends on the capacity of the Government
to cover the recurrent costs of the investment after the project i s completed. For PAREIB111,the
following elements will ensure the long-term sustainability of the program. First, the Federal
Government already covers 60 percent of the total project costs. Second, the total cost burden of
PAREIB I11is small: it represents less than 0.05 percent of GDP; 0.65% of the total public
spending on education; and 0.87% of the federal spending on education. Given the small impact
of the project on total public finance, the financial long-term sustainability of the PAREIB is
highly likely (see Annex 9).

2. Technical

         The elements of the package of compensatory education services financed by the project
have been assessedfrom an educational perspective and correspond to best international practice.
Rigorous evaluation techniques have been applied to demonstrate their effectiveness inimproving
targeting and educational outcomes. Recently improved manuals are in effect in all states, and no
technical problems are anticipated.

3. Fiduciary

         Procurement issues. The assessment carried out by the Bank team concluded that the
institutional organization and staffing of PAREIB 11i s satisfactory and will remain intact during


                                                  12

the execution of PAREIB III.It i s proposed that CONAFE should give special attention to fine
tuning procedures of CDD procurement by communities.             This will ensure more targeted
outcomes in this key area of the project and provision of simplified procedures to be included in
user-friendly instruction books for communities. As a condition in the Loan Agreement,
CONAFE shall maintain staff assigned to procurement. If a staff member must be replaced, the
new staff should have equal or higher qualifications and should meet Bank criteria.

         Financial management issues.          A financial management (FM) assessment was
conducted to evaluate the FM arrangements for the proposed project and CONAFE's capacity to
effectively manage and implement the project and to provide the Bank with accurate and timely
information.    On the basis of the assessment carried out, the financial management team
concludes that, although some project-specific mechanisms will need to be implemented for
PAREIB 111, the existing financial management arrangements used for PAREIB 11, are
operational and considered to form a sound basis. In addition, the team notes that, although the
FMrisk is low, project implementation should be accompanied by close supervision that allows
earlier detection of financial management issues and ensures the proper use of project funds. FM
arrangementsfor PAREIBI1are operational and will be appropriate for PAREIB111(see Annex 7
for a complete description of financial managementissues).

4. Social

         The Basic Education Development Project Phase 111builds on the social assessments and
IPDP (Indigenous Peoples Development Plan) prepared by the Government of Mexico during
Phases Iand 11of the program. Program preparation includes consultations with a large cross-
section of stakeholders as part of the social assessment and evaluation of the compensatory
education programs of CONAFE. CONAFE's compensatory programs support all schools with a
majority of indigenous students: the so-called "indigenous schools." Many of these schools are
also multigrade. Therefore, PAREIB, through CONAFE, collaborates through consultations and
work programs with the General Directorate for Indigenous Education (DGEI) of SEP in the
curricular design of bilingual education programs, and with the DGEI in the design and
implementationof a multigradeteaching strategies. Also, CONAFEcoordinates with DGEIwith
special attention to technical assistancefor teacher. This assistanceconsists of providing specific
direction on detectedpedagogical needs inthe school.


(a) Compensatory EducationPrograms of CONAFE

         CONAFE carried out extensive consultations with key stakeholders on the future of its
compensatory education programs, with the aim of orienting the design of PAREIB I11 and
forming the basis for the next stage of CONAFE's compensatory education programs. Inparallel,
CONAFE reviewed the external evaluations of the program, carried out inrecent years, to extract
from them the most important lessons that could be incorporated in the design of Phase III.
Participants in the consultation workshops were asked to view the programin a timeframe of the
next ten years, and point out issues and suggestions for the development of the program over the
mediumterm.

         Consultations were held with state level program coordinators, state education planning
authorities, and national and internationaleducational specialists and academics, inthree separate
workshops of two days each. A common feature of these consultations i s that they demonstrated
the excellent ability that CONAFE has to seek and receive feedback from civil society and from
the principal actors involved inthe program.


                                                 13

         Based on the recommendations of this process of consultation, CONAFE expressed its
commitment to reorient its compensatory education programs along the following policy lines:
(a) continue contributing to raising education equity; (b) make the program more transparent by
disseminating to civil society and institutional partners the criteria that orient the targeting of
beneficiaries of compensatoryinterventions; (c) give more emphasis to monitoring andevaluation
of the program; (d) improve the management of compensatory programs; (e) more effectively
balance the educational and administrative functions of program operations; (f) continue
strengthening social participation in basic education, understanding this goal as an exercise in
citizen's rights and as the development of a culture of individual and collective responsibility
among parents and school communities with respect to education outcomes; (g) contribute to
redefining the relations between teachers and the community; and (h) improve programtargeting
and ensure the correct application of the targeting criteria.

         The important lessons drawn from internal and external evaluations are presented in
detail as part of Annex 10. The design of PARED3 111incorporates the main lessons learned from
these consultations and introduces changes in the strategies used to implement the program.
These adjustments and innovations are described for each component.

(b) Indigenous Peoples

         CONAFE's compensatory education programs target schools in disadvantaged and
isolated rural communities, including all indigenous primary schools. During the preparation of
PARED3 I,specialized staff identified local preferences early on, through direct consultation;
subsequent consultations have been held for the second stage of PAREIB. A recent social
assessment prepared for PARED3 I11found that indigenous people held quite positive opinions of
CONAFE' s compensatory programs. Stakeholders supported expansion of several aspects of
CONAFE's programs, in particular the school management support component (Apoyo a la
Gestidn Escolar-AGES).      C O N E designs culturally appropriate learning materials and plans
educational strategy in conjunction with school associations of indigenous parents. CONAFE
offers didactic materials in indigenous languages through its community education program, and
recognizes both indigenous and mestizo cultural heritage in educational content. CONAFE's
strong institutional capacity, based on over 30 years of operation and 13 years implementing
programs supported by the World Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank (IADB),
ensures its ability to execute its Indigenous Peoples Development Plan. CONAFEcollects annual
data on indigenous student test performance, dropout, repetition and failure rates. Annex 10
presents the Indigenous Peoples Development Plan for Phase III.It generally finds that an
effective program with extensive consultation and responsiveness to indigenous peoples i s
already operating, and that the successful prior performance of CONAFE bodes well for the
future education of indigenous students.

5. Environment                            EnvironmentalCategory: B

        Construction activities being financed by the project include rehabilitation and/or
expansion of existing facilities. The project OperationalManual includes environmental rules for
contractors, and basic design specifications and project screening criteria. These rules are posted
on CONAFE's webpage. The environmental safeguard norms will be part of every construction
contract. Compliance by contractors will be ensured through technical supervisors assigned to
each work site by the public infrastructure agency of each state. The environmental safeguard
norms are posted at the Bank's Infoshop and are described inAnnex 10.



                                                 14

  6. Safeguard policies

SafeguardPolicies Triggered by the Project                                Yes                 No
EnvironmentalAssessment (OP/BP/GP4.01)                                     [x 1               [I
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                               [I                [XI
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                   11                [XI
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, being revised as OP 4.11)                     [I                [XI
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                       [I                [XI
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20, being revised as OP 4.10)                     [x 1               [I
Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                        [I                [XI
Safety of Dams (OP/BP4.37)                                                  [I                [XI
Projects inDisputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)                                   [I                [XI
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                         [I                [XI



  7. PolicyExceptionsandReadiness

  This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.

  With respect to retroactive financing of eligible project expenditures made prior to the date of the
  Loan Agreement, the Government requested an increase inthe aggregate amount from 10% to up
  to 15% of the proposed Loan amount. This exception has been approved internally as requiredby
  OP/GP 12.10.




                                                  15

16

                          Annex 1: Country and Sector or ProgramBackground
                             MEXICOBasicEducationDevelopmentPhaseI11


         Mexico is a member of the OECD and i s the ninth largest economy in the world. Significant
progress has been made in expanding education access over the past few decades. An important
achievement in the last decade was the increased allocation of resources to education, moving from 3.7
percent of GDP in 1990 to 5.2 percent in 2000 with the government accounting for 85 percent of total
sector spending. This progress has helped the country meet important goals. These include: increased
access to primary education; a rapid expansion of lower secondary education; and an increased access to
lifelong learning opportunities. Despite this progress; however, universal coverage remains a challenge,
particularly in the poorest states in rural areas and indigenous communities where dropout rates and
repetition rates remain highand access to preschool, learning achievement and access to lower secondary
education are low. Today nearly 90 percent of school age children attend primary school. However, in
spite of an increased demand for lower secondary (grades 7 to 9), large numbers still drop out. An
estimated 83 percent of 13 to 15 year olds attend lower secondary education and net enrollment in upper
secondary i s only 59 percent. Throughout the system, the quality of education remains low-well        below
international standards. Only 7 percent of 15 year olds are at the two highest level of performance in
reading literacy compared to an OECD average of 31 percent. Today a child inMexico can expect to be
inschool for upto 12years, comparedto 19inAustralia, Finlandandthe UnitedKingdom.

         The main issues facing the Mexican Education system include: (a) low access to initial and
preschool education; (b) low access to lower and upper secondary education; (c) low quality throughout
the education system; (d) lack of critical inputs in schools located inpoor, rural, indigenous communities
andmarginalurbanareas; and(e) weak managerial andadministrative capacity at the statelevel.

     (a) Low access to initial and preschool education: Despite the fact that Mexico has one of the
         highest preschool (nearly 75%) enrollment rates in Latin America, access to early childhood
         education in rural and poor areas i s still low. Only 5 percent of children below the age of four
         benefit from formal or informal initial education. This limited access may explain the low
         readiness for learning among children (especially the poor) entering school as manifested in high
         repetition rates in the early grades of primary school. The repetition rates of poor students (9.3%)
         are significantly higher than the national average (6.0%). Repetitioninthe first grade continues to
         be common for poor students;

     (b) Low access to lower andupper secondary education: Inspite of an increase demand for lower
         secondary (grades 7 to 9), large numbers of students still drop out. Approximately 38 percent of
         student who complete primary education do not continue to secondary school either because of
         lack of available space or becausethe schools do not accommodate their need to work. In 2000,
         net enrollment in upper secondary was only 59 percent. Dropping out i s a critical problem for
         migrant students, who represent a significant proportion of the primary and lower secondary
         school-age children not attending school. Lower and upper secondary education are critical to the
        development of a labor force with the necessary skills to compete inthe global economy;

     (c) Low quality throughout the education system: National and international studies indicatethat
         learningachievement in Mexico needs much improvement. Low levels of learning achievement
         are evident from the low standardized learning achievement test scores of many students. Only 7
        percent of 15 year olds are at the two highest level of performance in reading literacy compared
        to an OECD average of 31 percent. In addition, there are significant variations in learning



                                                      17

        achievement by socioeconomic background. Many children that complete primary and lower
        secondary education have not acquired the knowledge and skills specified in the curriculum, or
        the knowledge and skills necessary to successfully enter the labor force;

    (d) Lack of critical inputs in schools located in poor, rural, indigenous communities and
        marginalurbanareas: Schools serving the poor, rural, indigenous andmarginalizedurbanpoor
        lack critical inputs and have limited access to textbooks, learning materials and trained teachers.
        The curriculum remains deficient and irrelevant to local conditions. As part of the school
        management reform, SEP i s encouraging schools and communities to develop pedagogical
        strategies that better fit local conditions. However, lack of local capacity has limited the
        opportunities for this reform, particularly in remote areas. In addition, the majority of teachers
        graduating from pre-service institutions refuse teaching positions in remote rural or indigenous
        schools, forcing the government to rely on untrained teachers to provide educational services in
        remote ruralareas;

    (e) Weak managerial and administrative capacity at the state level: States have uneven
        institutional capacity to provide basic education services and to operate and monitor ongoing
        compensatory programs. The weaknesses hamper the decentralization process at the state level
        and the states' abilities to translate national educational policies and strategies into concrete
        actions, to target resources towards localities of greatest need, and to monitor student
        achievement. Each level and type of education has distinct management and administrative
        structures. This bureaucracy has led to both administrative inefficiency from duplication of
        bureaucratic structures and inconsistency in the policies, strategies and objectives of each
        modality. In addition, supervisory practices are fragmented and centered on monitoring
        compliance with administrative regulations, rather than pedagogical support to teachers and to
        schools directed at improvingthe teachindlearning process.

Sector Issuesto beAddressedby the Program

The issues outlined above       are being addressed under the Government's Education Development
Program, which the World Bank has been supporting since its inception. To address the challenge of
educational disadvantage, the Government of Mexico has placed greater emphasis on compensatory
programs that provide extra support to education for disadvantaged groups (children living in rural or
marginal urban areas, and handicapped, migrant and indigenous children) and created the Consejo
National de Foment0 Educativo (National Council for Educational Development, CONAFE), within the
Secretariat of Public Education(SEP).

For the period 2001-2006, CONAFE focuses on improving the quality of education for students in the
poorest areas by establishing minimum operational standards for all targeted schools, developing
innovative programs to address the needs of students, involvingschools and communities in the decision
making process at the school level, and developing the institutional capacity of states to design and
implement national education policies and compensatory programs. CONAFE's compensatory education
programs now support more than five million students in pre-primary and primary education, and about
one million students in telesecundaria education (secondary education delivered via satellite to remote
communities). Also, near 500,000 children smaller than 4 years and more than 400,000 parents through
the service of InitialEducation.

In shaping it's program, the government has carefully taken into consideration the choice to focus on
improvingthe long-termdevelopment goal of increasing human capital. The program supports the current
CAS'S stated objective of human capital development by enhancing the quality of public education, and
ensuring the sustainability of ongoing efforts inbasic education. The programalso supports the new draft


                                                    18

CAS objective of comprehensive assistance to the Government's efforts to reduce poverty and inequality.
Specifically, PAREIB provides operational support for a targeted program whose focus i s to provide
access to education for the ruralpoor. The program supports the Government's efforts to raise the level
andquality of schoolinginMexico.

ProgramDescription

The APL supports the Government's compensatory education program, as outlined in the National
EducationProgram(PNE) 2001-2006 and the EducationDevelopment Program 1995-2000. Specifically,
the objectives of Phase 111focus on fine-tuning the delivery mechanisms while extending the successful
components of PhaseII.

The first phase of the APL sought to improve quality in preschool, primary, telesecunduriu and initial
education at schools serving the poorest 50 percent of rural students and 25 percent of students in urban
marginal areas. The strategy evolved to emphasize coverage of rural lower secondary education,
particularly through distance education (telesecunduriu). Coverage of lower secondary education was
extended to 244,998 poor rural students through telesecunduriu and posprimuria modalities. Program
activities in other levels were carried out on a reduced scale. This realignment of priorities was a result of
a sharp increase in demand for lower secondary education resulting from higher completion rates in
primary school andthe impact of education incentives providedby OPPORTUNIDADES.

The second phase of the APL was implemented in 31 states covering initial, preschool, primary and
lower secondary education. It sought to consolidate and expand quality improvements in education for 6
million children (20% of whom are indigenous) in initial and basic education, strengthen management of
the education system while integrating the operation of the compensatory education program nationwide;
and continue strengthening the states' institutional capacity to plan, program andevaluate the delivery of
basic education services.

The proposed project is the final phase of a the three-phase APL program. The project aims to fine tune
the delivery mechanisms based on a more fully developed decentralized model. The objectives of Phase
I11are: (a) to consolidate and expand quality improvements in initial and basic education (preschool,
primary and lower secondary), covering, inter diu, infrastructure improvements, didactic materials
provision, teacher training, school supervision, and implementation of school-based management
strategies; (b) to strengthen management of the education system through support for the Government's
ongoing strategy to consolidate the organization and management of basic education (preschool through
lower secondary), and to integrate the operation of the compensatory education program; and (c) to
continue strengthening states' institutional capacity to plan, program and evaluate the delivery of basic
education services.




                                                     19

Phase I11Triggers

    EducationIndicators :Improvement in                 Achievements
    completion rates at targeted primary schools
    including:

        A 23 percent improvement incompletion          81.6 %
        rates of indigenous primary schools, from
        64.2 percent in 1995-1996to 79.0 percent
        in2002-2003

        A 4 percent improvement incompletion           85.6%
        rates of non-indigenous primary schools,
        from 81.6 percent in 1995-1996to 85.2
        percent in 2002-2003

        Increaseby 15.9 percent the enrollment in     Increasedby 47.6%; 830,630 enrolled
        telesecunduria, from 562,637 studentsin
        1998-1999 to 652,105 students in 2002-
        2003

Policy Indicators

        Increased school autonomy, through             School autonomy increasedby 24% ; (from 37,278
        improved mechanismsfor participation of        in 1995-1996 to 46,254 in2003-2004 schools with
        directors, teachers, andparents'               AGEs)
        associationsinthe managementof the
        schools (AGEs). Specifically, an increase
        of 20 percent inthe number of schools
        targeted by the programthat have operative
        parents' associations
    0   The policy framework for compensatory          Policy framewoIs- maintainel
        programs i s maintained

                                                      ~~      ~
Technical Indicators
        Completion of a study that evaluatesthe         Study completed; final report delivered
        implementation of the Network for
        Education Quality in Primary Education
        Completion of a study on Basic education
        inmarginalized schools inthe Federal            Study completed; final report delivered
        District




                                                 20

        Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedbythe Bank andor other Agencies
                                 MEXICOBasicEducationDevelopmentPhase111


     Sector Issue                               Project                                Latest Supervision
      Addressed                                                                      (PSR) or OEDRatings
(listedinSection B.2)                                                             (Bank-financedprojectsonly)

                                                                                 Implementation      Development
                                                                                  Progress (IP)      Objective00)
Bank-financed
Equity inprimary      Primary EducationI(PARE), (Ln.3407-ME ,closed                    HS                HS
education             06/30/1997)
Equity ininitial      Initial EducationProiect(PRODEI), (Ln.3518-ME ,                   s                  s
education             closed06130/1997)

 Equity and           PAREB (Ln. 3722-ME, closingdate 12/31/2001)                       s                  s
efficiency inprimary
 education
 Equity and           PAREIB Phase I(APL1) (Ln.4333-MEt closing                         s                  S
 Efficiency inBasic   date 1213112001).
 Education(initial,
 preschool,primary
 andlower-secondary
 education)
                      PAREIB Phase I1(APL2) (Ln. 7108-ME effective                      s                  s
                      1211112002; closingdate 6/3012004).
 Protectionof social  Programof EssentialSocialServices (PROSE),                        s                  s
 services             Ln. 3912-ME. Closed06130/1998
 directedto the poor
Other development
agencies
 Equity inprimary     PIARE IDB-funded inparallel to PAREB, with
 education            similar objectives,covering 17 other states.


                      ComorehensiveCommunity EducationPromam,
                      IDBfunded. US$210.0 m. Approved onMarch
                       17,2003. The overall programobjective is to
                      improve the coverage, quality and efficiency of
                      educationservices offeredby CONAFE to the
                      populationlivinginpoor, isolatedareas where
                      formal educationsystemservices are unavailable.

 Improving quality in DistanceEducationproject, IDB-funded, to
 lower secondary      increaseaccess for students at the lower-secondary
 education            level using various modalities.This project was
                      cancelled.

 Social Sector        TechnologyinSupportof Education. IDB funded.
 Modernization and    Projectcurrently under preparation,itis expectedto
 PovertyReduction     be approvedinJuly 2004. Proposedloan amount:
                      US$lOO.Om.

IPDORatings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U(Unsatisfactory), HU(Highly Unsatisfactory)




                                                            21

                            Annex 3: ResultsFrameworkandMonitoring
                           MEXICO BasicEducationDevelopmentPhaseI11




Consolidate and expand quality  Number of children andfamilies
improvements ininitial andbasic servedby compensatory             Jerification that program operating
education (preschool, primary   programs                          mameters continue to function
and lower secondary)                                              md are becoming sustainable

Programpurpose:                 Endof ProgramIndicators:
Ensure that children aged0-14   Overall programindicators to be
years inthe poorest rural, most achieved intargeted schools by
educationally disadvantaged     the end of the school year 2006 -
communities have access to      2007 include:
preschool and basic education,
stay in school and successfully .    Increasedcoverage of
complete the basic education        initial education to children Verification that programi s being
cycle, through the expansion of     of ages 0-4 years at 10%      appropriately targeted, thus
educational opportunities and       annual increase; about        validating the underlying national
improvement inquality of            496,800 parents of children   strategy
education                           0-4 years reached, benefiting
                                    approximately 545,361
                                    children.                     Verification that programcan
                                                                  effectively reach indigenous
                                     At the preschool level,      communities
                                     cover 530,OO students,
                                     including 280,542            Project years 1-2: verification that
                                     indigenous students. This    programi s effective
                                     coverage represents 100%
                                     of indigenous and 16.6% of
                                     non-indigenous schools       Project year 3: verification that
                                                                  program i s being sustained




                                                 22

Coverage of Indigenous
primary schools benefit a
total of 862,067 indigenous
students.Indicators to be
achieved inthese schools
are: (a) failure rate will be
reducedby 1.1% points
from 10.4% to 9.3%; (b)
repetitionrates will be
reduced by 1.O% points
from 9.3% to 8.3%; (c)
dropout rates will be
reduced by 0.3% points
from 3.1% to 2.8%; and (d)
completion rate will
increaseby 1.2% points
from 82.7% to 83.9%

Coverage of non-
indigenous primary schools
benefit a total of 2,637,933
students. Indicators to be
achieved inthese schools
are: (a) failure rate will be
reduced by 1.O% points
from 6.9% to 5.9%; (b)
repetition rates will be
reduced by 0.8% points
from 6.5% a 5.7%; (c)
dropout rates will be
reduced by 0.2% points
from 2.1% to 1.9%; and (d)
completion rate will
increaseby 0.3% points
from 85.8% to 86.1%
 The primary students
covered total 3.5 million.
Main indicators for
indigenous and non-
 indigenous primary schools
that will be achieved: (a)
failure rate will be reduced
by 0.5% points from 7.3%
to 6.8%; (b) repetitionrates
 will be reduced by 1.O%
 points from 7.1% to 6.1%;
 (c) dropout rates will be
 reducedby 0.2% points



               23

  completion rate will
  increaseby 0.5% points
  from 85.5% to 86.0 %

I A total of 300,000 students
  attending telesecundaria
  will be covered. Main
  indicators for
  telesecundariaschools that
  will be achieved: (a) failure
  rate will be reduced by
  0.4% points from 4.1% to
  3.7%; (b) repetition rates
  will be reduced by 0.1%
  points from 0.6% to 0.5%;
  (c) dropout rates will be
  reduced by 0.3% points
  from 5.2% to 4.9%; and (d)
  completionrate will
  increaseby 1.1% points
  from 81.O% to 82.1%

Other results:
 * Identify number of
   indigenous communities
   that will be targeted for
   initialeducation
   Define baseline for number
    of indigenous communities
 .  for 2005 for Initial
    Education.
    Define 2005 baseline for
    preschool education




                24

Component 1-Initial
Education
Subcomponent 1.1-Training in ' Approximately 279000            Verification that programinputs
InitialEducationfor Education   promoters, 2,700 supervisors   are adequately dispensed
Promoters, Supervisors and      and 820 coordinators will be
Coordinators                    trained annually

Subcomponent 1.2-Community     1 10,560 annual Visits to the   Tracking that programi s being
Participation                   C0"unitieS that Operate        expanded as planned.
                                initial education programs,
                                with a total of 31,680 visits
                                by the endof the program

Subcomponent 1.3-Training        Training for 496,800 parents  Verification that programi s
for parentsof 0-4 year old      of children, benefiting        effectively targeted
children                        545,361 children 0-4 years
                                of age

Subcomponent 1.&Educational    . Provision of 527,933          Verification that interventions are
Materials                       Packages of educational and    reaching intendedbeneficiaries
                                diffusion materials for
                                parents of children,
                                promoters, supervisors and
                                 coordinators
Subcomponent 1.5-Monitoring    1  15 regional workshops and
andEvaluation                    2 national workshops will be  Tracking that program outcomes
                                 held annually, with a total ofare being achieved
                                 51workshops duringthe
                                 program
Component2-Support for
BasicEducation
Subcomponent 2.1-Educational   .  17,805 educational facilities Tracking that program i s
Infrastructure and Equipment     and administrative and         expanding neededphysical
                                 technical centers constructed facilities and ensuring minimum
                                                                operating conditions at schools
                               . and rehabilitated

                                  5,936 educational facilities
                                 and administrative and
                                 technical centers equipped
                                 by the end of 2006.


                               1  Teacher Resource Centers,
                                 rehabilitatedand equipped
                                 by end 2006.




                                              25

subcomponent 2.2-Didactic                                       'racking that needed educationa
Materials                         530,000 preschool children    iaterials adequately delivered
                                 provided with school
                                 supplies each year

                                  15,322 packagesof didactic
                                 materials provided to
                                 preschools (53.2% of which
                                 are indigenous)

                                  3.5 million students in
                                 36,000 primary schools each
                                 year (including all
                                 indigenous schools)
                                 provided with school
                                 supplies

                                  36,000 packages of
                                 supplementary didactic
                                 materials provided to
                                 primary schools, including
                                 all indigenous schools

                                  4,68 1telesecundaria
                                 schools provided with
                                 supplementary packages of
                                 didactic materials (benefiting
                                 about 300.000 students).
Subcomponent2.3-Training          Pedagogical technical        Tracking that training i s reaching
andtechnical assistance to the   trainingprovided to the       intended beneficiary schools.
Consejos Tkcnicos Escolares      CTEof 33,000 primary
(CTEs)                           schools with multi-grade and
                                 indigenous classrooms
Subcomponent2.4-Support         1 62,95 1interventions for     Tracking that parents are
andTraining for Parent           school management: 15,322 adequately prepared to participate
Associations (APFs)              for preschools and 47,629     at the school level

                              .  for primary schools

                                  Training on efficient
                                 management of schools
                                 providedto APFs of 62,95 1
                                 schools

Subcomponent2.5-
Performance Incentives for       incentives providedto         adequately motivated
Primary School Teachers          teachers yearly




                                              26

Subcomponent 2.6-Support     for 1 5,150 interventions for     Trackingthat supervisors and
School Supervision                school supervision: 4,440 for sector chiefs visit schools more
                                  supervisors and 710 for      frequently and carry out adequate
                                  sector chiefs                 school supervision


Component ?Institutional
Strengthening

Subcomponent 3.1-                  Training programs delivered Tracking that states administrative
Strengtheningof the Pedagogical   to 31states: 3 technical and staff are adequately trained
Capacity of the SEPE's            pedagogical teams ineach
                                  state
Subcomponent 3.2-                  Provide 31technical          Tracking that technical assistance
Strengthening of the              assistance sessions of 2      reaching states that need it
Administrative Capacity of        training sessions each, to
SEPE's
Subcomponent 3.3-Monitoring
and Evaluation of the Project     follow-up systemto monitor status
                                  the programand provide
                                  support through               Basis for evaluation of thirdphase
                                  compensatory strategies

                                   Continuationof the
                                  modernization of the school
                                  mapping systemthrough the
                                  consolidation of the national
                                  school mapping system of
                                  DGPPP of SEP

                                   Create a social
                                  accountability mechanism
                                  that includes an effective
                                  communication strategy for
                                  the dissemination of project
                                  information to the
                                  beneficiaries andencourage
                                  social participation.

                                Completion of studies.




                                                27

ISubcomponent  3.4-             I Continuation  of the support of  I
 Administration of the Project    the administration of the project Tracking that the project
                                  in PAREIB111,consolidating        implementationi s progressing
                                  all the achievementsof PAREIB efficiently.
                                 IandI1withrespecttothe
                                 operating standardsof the
                                 programandthe proceduresthat
                                 ensure its efficient
                                 administration




                                                  28

v)
B     v)      3
9 2           3
              Q\

& & E &
# & # &
3;  3;

                     3x
                     s     2x
                           s      2x
                                  g


            2                     2
                                  00



             x       2     3

             3             4


      2
      0",                   ri
      vi     x       2     3

             3
      d



 m
 x
 m                              2" 3

 P                               0000
 m



            9 9    " q o q ? T
                           F m
      r-4
      00
      x     s 2    2E:
                    ..     ..
      W
      m     ga g   gE g    gE g




                      2BE
                      u      v)




                     .-.
                       0
                     .i
                      U
                      U     2s
                            0
                            U



                            U

                       Q    0


                      &     Ea

       3
       3
       m
    .3
     O m
       .y
    agj.s
       3;
        cd




-5x
s                        -5h -5x
                         s   $


           a!   3            3

           3                 6   a!
                                 3




                             r-:
           3Pi  2            3   3

                  Go              Pi



2     2           09              3
                v,00     2        Pi




                              m         Y
             m                      m
            2e,                        -E"
            Y     2ze        23
                  Y                    2ze
                  0               2B    0
                                  Y 5a .3
                                        U
            U     .3
                  Y                     e,
            Ba s@
             3    e,         .3
             0    3          .3
                              U
                              Y
                              e,

                              d
                              8   B    3

          &

    *8
     x    8
    3     8

          e,
          rA



    2     8
          z
          N




          2
3         0
4 2 x     0


          N



             8
             2

sL    B
      i           B
      Y
8
v)                Y
                  v)


      a,          8
m
a,    m           m
                  a,




0          3              i2
Q          Q              0

52         xs          -t-6
                         3
                          3

      Q    m              z
Q
0     m     00            0
      Q-    r-
2    3
     vi    vi          -F-5
                         3
     d     9              $

0                         i2
\o                        0

2                      F 6
                       - g
                          5


      m
    xvi     2
            00
            m

      m
      b     9

          ._.




                   v)



                g 2
                 z&ga



9
Li     B
       8
v)     Y
       v)
8
m
a,    ma,




d
:
d     b00
       00,    2
       3




c\1
Q\
2      00
       2      2
3      m-




0
2
m-
c\1

                       b
                      3




5
h
3



k


         8 3
         0-    2
         3 - 5 3

                    Q
                    P4
                    Q?
                    a
                    i




     0
     x
     0     8 3
           0 0
           3-
           - 5 3


                    ca
     a
     b              b
     %              2
                    v,




      a
      x                c.:
                       c\
                  3 r
                    o  v
                   c0  -

  3m
  3        8
          3     2
                0
                        3
                        m
   W       3     mi



           3
           3
           3     2      3
                 3      m
           3     vi-




   N       x
   CI       W
           N     W
                 b
   t',                  3

   o\                   m
  vi             %
           3




   00
  2t'      2
           3     3
                 0

  n              %
            3




           vi
            d
           3     W
                 2
                 m

            3




    *0 a0




I

      %
      0




              3 I
3h                  x
                    m

g       3x 2 ;
        s  zw 2d 3h 8
                 $  s

        3  3     3  3




3                3




3




3




                   .

             W




  x
  3
 *9e,




          3




         0 0     0    C

.

00
m

                                   Annex 4: DetailedProjectDescription
                             MEXICO BasicEducationDevelopmentPhaseIII


The project, with a total cost of US$500.0 million (US$300.0 million Bank financing) would include the
followingcomponents andactivities:

Component 1-Initial Education (US$82.6 million with contingencies). This component provides
out-of-school training for parents and other adults directly involved in raising small children, with the
objective of contributing to the child's comprehensive development and to a smooth transition to
preschool. The training i s targeted to families in indigenous and low-income rural communities either
with 0-4 year old children or expecting their first child. Since the secondphase of PAREIB,the program
was significantly restructured to improve service quality and efficiency (see Annex 8). PAREIB I11
proposes to expand coverage of initial education by about 10percent a year, in coverage of children and
parents not in communities, in line with the recently approved Mexican law that mandates preschool
education. The training sessions are conducted by an Education Promoter (EP), recruited in the
community and trained by CONAFE. Most EPs working in indigenous communities speak the local
language. Families attend one training sessions a week over an eight month cycle. The cycle i s repeated
for three years in the same community, and families are encouragedto stay inthe program. The program
i s implemented in a highly decentralized manner in all Mexican states, and i s programmed to reach the
following targets by the end of PAREIB 111: (a) number of families served: 496,800; (b) number of
children benefiting: 545,361; and (c) number of communities served: 27,000.         The objectives of this
component will be achieved through the following subcomponents:

Subcomponent I.I-Training       in Initial Educationfor Promoters, Supervisorsand Coordinators (US$22.0
million).   The training of initial education staff including promoters, module supervisors and zone
coordinators aims to strengthen their knowledge on early childhood development and improve the quality
and efficiency of service delivery. Training will be provided by the technical team of each state on a
yearly basis, covering approximately 27,000 EPs, 2,700 Supervisors and 820 Coordinators. Each staff
member will receive from 70 to 87 hours of training a year. The training courses take into account
different levels of experience of participants and new staff receive an additional 16 hours of induction for
coordinators and supervisors, and 8 hours for promoters. Training i s conceived as a continuous process,
and includes periodic workshops to reinforce skills, monitor progress, and to share program evaluation
findings. The EPs receive, in addition to formal trainingat the beginning of each cycle, assistancefrom
their supervisors in twice a month meetings, when they can have questions answered and discuss their
experience. A detailed training plan was presented during project appraisal and found to be satisfactory.
This subcomponent will finance training costs including instructors, training materials, andper diem and
travel costs for all participants.

Subcomponent 1.2-Community Participation (US$0.9 million with contingencies). This subcomponent
aims to mobilize community support for the program and i s directed at public and private social services
professionals and community organizations that can complement and enrich the work of EPs. During
PAREIB 111, Childhood Committees will no longer be promoted, as they proved less than successful.
Instead, supervisors and coordinators will visit the communities to contact key stakeholders, particularly
those involved in health and education services. As a result, better inter-institutional coordination and
support for the work of the EPs will be fostered. Emphasis will be placed on the co-responsibility for
child development among the members of the community. Supervisors and coordinators will also be
responsible for disseminating the program locally, and for organizing the group of parents to be trained.


                                                     39

This subcomponent will finance per diem and travel costs for supervisors and coordinators to visit
communities.

Subcomponent 1.3-Training for Parents of 0-4year old Children (US$51.3 million with contingencies).
The training sessions aim to strengthen family understanding of early childhood development, and
demonstrate how the family can best stimulate the process. Parents bring their young children to the
sessions and activities are planned for them. The service will be provided for families with children aged
0-4 years and for those expecting their first child, in weekly sessions conducted by a trained EP, during
eight-month yearly cycles. Sessions will continue for three years but participating families may change;
some may leave because their child becomes older than age four or for other reasons, and new parents
may join in any given year. The selection of communities to be served i s based on three criteria: (a) high
poverty levels, as measured by CONAPO and COESPO; (b) availability of a communal or official
preschool supported by CONAFE; and (c) expressed community demand and interest. Communities
served with initial education through CONAFE's community education program, partly financed by
IADB, are excluded. For the programcycle to start the community musthave a minimumof five families
willing to participate; it is anticipated that few communities might be changed duringimplementation for
this reason. Inthe sessions with parents, the EPwill train, assist, andorient parents, actingessentially as a
facilitator in the interchange of experiences, using the education materials provided by the program.
Sessions are designed for an adult audience andtake into account local childrearing practices; the EP will
also create situations in which parents and children can play, to demonstrate how to stimulate child
development. The EP's functions were redefined to focus exclusively on training families, and frequent
visits by the supervisor intended to strengthentheir skills are planned. These changes are expected to lead
to the continuous improvementof the training sessions. This subcomponent will finance the remuneration
of the program staff (Education Promoters, Module Supervisors and Coordinators of Zone).
Approximately 50 percent of EPsare paidby subnational governments.

Subcomponent 1.4-Educational         Materials (US$7.2 million with contingencies). This subcomponent
supports the development, design, printing, reproduction and distribution of educational and program-
dissemination materials used in the program. During the preparation of PAREIB 111, all the materials
used in earlier phases were examined to verify their quality and pertinence. As a result of this analysis,
some education materials were fully revised or replaced (e.g. the Parent's Guide), others were eliminated,
and new educational and dissemination materials were created. Given the fact that children tend to
accompany their parents to the training sessions, new materials were developed for them, as for example
didactic rugs where children can play and learn, and a video showingparents how to make toys for young
children. The process of producing new and better materials for the program will continue throughout
PAREIB 111. This subcomponent will finance the production and distribution of new or replicated
educational and dissemination materials, consulting services for the design of materials, and audiovisual
equipment to be usedduringthe training sessions.

Subcomponent 1.5-Monitoring          and Evaluation (US$1.2 million with contingencies).        The initial
education program i s the only compensatory programfor which CONAFE is fully responsible for service
delivery; nevertheless, systematic monitoring and evaluation procedures were not properly developed
since the creation of the initial education program in the early 1990s. Studies carried out in preparation
for PAREIB111,found many differences inthe way the program i s implemented in each community, and
detected deficiencies in some of the programs. To address this problem, PAREIB I11will put in place
effective monitoring and evaluation systems. Data on monitoring indicators will be collected at the local
level on a continuous basis as part of the project monitoring system, and will be analyzed at state and
national levels by a team of Regional Coordinators. Regional and national workshops will be organized
to disseminate monitoring and evaluation information among all participants, provide feedback, and
promote continuous program improvement. An external evaluation of the initialeducation programis also
planned and i s described under subcomponent 3.3.             The expenditures to be financed by this


                                                     40

subcomponent are: (a) consulting services for the design, testing, and operation of monitoring and
evaluation systems; and (b) regional and national workshops, including travel expenses and per diem for
the participants.

Component 2 4 u p p o r t for Basic Education (US$358.2 million with contingencies). The objective
of this component i s to help improve basic education indicators in isolated, rural communities, by
providing for a package of interventions comprising material, pedagogic and school management actions
in selected preschools, and in primary and in lower-secondary telesecundaria schools. In addition,
support will be provided to rehabilitate and equip teacher's centers (Centros de Maestros y Recursos,
CMRs) located in isolated rural areas. The school targeting criteria are described in Annex 14). A study
to verify compliance and adequacy of these criteria will be carried out during the first year of PAREIB
III.Thetargetingcriteriaare:

    (a) Preschools: all official, indigenous, and communal preschools located inrural localities with high
         poverty levels as measuredby CONAPOandCOESPO;

    (b) Primary Schools:
               i. allIndigenousprimaryschools;
               ii. allprimaryschoolslocatedinthe250prioritypoorestruralmunicipalities;
              iii. primaryschoolslocatedinrurallocalitieswithhighandveryhighpovertylevelsas
                    measuredby CONAPO and COESPO;
              iv.   ruralprimary schoolsthat have lower education indicators compared to the national
                    average. the indicators include: grade repetition, dropout andfailure rates, course
                    completion, and standardized student achievement scores in Spanishand
                    mathematics; and
               v.   schools that are organized in multi-grade manner, i.e. one teacher teaches more than
                    one grade simultaneously.

    (c) Lower-secondary: all ruraltelesecundariaschools that did not benefit from PAREIB Iand II.

DuringPAREIB111,this component is programmed to benefit approximately: 530,000 studentsin 15,322
preschools; 3.5 million students in 36,000 primary schools; and 300,000 students in 4,681 telesecundaria
schools. The objectives of this component will be achieved through six subcomponents described below:

Subcomponent 2.I-Educational Infrastructure and Equipment (US$104.7 million with contingencies).
Improvements to infrastructure, and school furniture aimto raise the physical conditions of the schools to
a minimumoperational level. The plan for these investments prepared in each state every year by the
State Secretariatsof Public Education (SEPEs), on the basis of a needs assessment, and i s consolidated by
CONAFE at the national level. Infrastructure investments comprise construction, rehabilitation and/or
replacement of classrooms, sanitary services and other school facilities, according to the needs of each
school. Construction will be carried out by the community, represented by APFs, Technical School
Councils, or ad hoc community groups, and are supervised by the normative entity of each state. All
infrastructure works are designed and executed following technical andenvironmentalcriteria satisfactory
to the Bank includedinthe project Operational Manual. The O M specifies that works must be carried out
in land owned by the SEPE and must follow technical specifications that include inter alia, the
appropriate disposition of solid and liquid waste, and avoidance of asbestos, lead and scarce wood
materials. The construction materials will be locally procured by the community on the basis of three
quotations. The targets for this subcomponent are:




                                                    41

    (a) Infrastructure: build or rehabilitate 17,805 classrooms, in targeted preschools, primary and
         telesecundaria schools, and other education spaces such as bathrooms, education supervision
         offices andstorage areas; rehabilitate 34 CMRs; and

    (b) Furniture: equip with tables, chairs, bookshelves and blackboards in5,936 classrooms, as well as
         34 Teacher's Centers.

Subcomponent 2.2-Didactic Materials (US$88.9 million with contingencies). This subcomponent aims
to improve the learning conditions at targeted preschools, primary and lower-secondary schools, by
providing them with didactic materials that are appropriate to the curriculum at each level of education.
The packages of materials to be financed as complements to the free textbooks providedby SEP are:

            Didactic Materials                 Preschool          Primary      Telesecundaria
 Packagesof student supplies                     530,000        3.5 million          None

 Packages of educational materials and           15,312            36,000            4,68 1
 equipment for schools


The packages of educational materials for schools vary according to the type of school and are described
indetail inthe Project Operations Manual. Intelesecundariaschools, these packages include computers,
educational software, audio-visual equipment andlibrary books. The computer equipment to be procured
includes self-training materials on the four main applications of the software. An effort will also be made
to expand the availability of curriculum contents on disk and/or video, considered more efficient than
televised classes transmitted via satellite-particularly, because it permits more interaction by student and
teachers, and also becauseit i s easier to maintain. InPAREIB111,a pilot group of telesecundaria schools
will be provided with these media. This subcomponent finances the procurement and distribution of
students supplies, didactic materials, computer equipment, software and audio-visual equipment.

Subcomponent 2.3-Training        and Technical Assistance to the Consejos Tkcnicos Escolares (CTE)
(US$24.7 million with contingencies). The program of training and technical assistance to CTEs aims to
strengthenpedagogic skills of primary teachers, particularly those working in multi-grade and indigenous
schools. The program complements formal in-service teacher training provided by SEP and by the
SEPEs. Training and technical assistance to teachers will be provided by Technical Rural Advisers
(Asesores Thzicos Rurales, ATRs) duringbi-monthly visits. The ATRs are part of the technical team of
each state. In preparation for PAREIB 111, CONAFE carried out a qualitative study to determine the
priorities to be given to this program. Based on the findings of this study, the technical assistancewill be
targeted to 33,000 multi-grade primary schools, and will focus on strengthening teachers' didactic skills.
Funds to support technical assistance will be linked to the targeted schools, not to the ATRs, and
improved controls will be put in place to ensure that ATRs effectively assist the schools.              This
subcomponent will finance stipends for the ATRs, training materials and per diems for ATRs' visits to
project schools.

Subcomponent 2.4-Support and Training for the Parents Associations (APFs) (US$89.0 million with
contingencies). The objective of this subcomponent is to consolidate and strengthen the APFs through
training and financial support. Training will be focused on: (a) management of school funds transferred
to the APFs; (b) participatory skills to increase parent's involvement in school activities; and (c)
information on the achievements of students and ways in which parents can help improve their learning
achievements. The financial support to (Apoyo a la Gestidn Escolar, AGES),consists of annual grants
transferred quarterly to the APFs' school accounts, that vary from US$500 and US$700 per year
according to the size of the school. The use of these funds i s specified in the OM and i s the object of


                                                      42

annual financial audits, carried out for a random sample of schools. The targets for this subcomponent
are:

     (a) 15,322 pre-schools and47,629 primary schools will receive AGE grants; and
     (b) training will be providedfor 62,95 1APFs.

This subcomponent will finance the grants to the APFs and training expenses including stipends for
instructors, training materials, andtravel andper diem for the instructors.

Subcomponent 2.5-Peflormance          Incentives for Primary School Teachers (US$42.9 million with
contingencies). This subcomponent aims to contribute to retaining teachers in rural primary schools
located in isolated communities with difficult access; increase teacher attendance rates; reduce teacher
turnover; promote the use of after-school hours for tutoring students who are falling behind; and
encourageteachers to participate in school planning activities. The incentives consist of monthly stipends
linked to the schools and supervisedby the APFs. When a teacher leaves the school, the stipend remains
in the school. These norms are shared by the States and by SEP, which also provide performance
incentives to teachers. The incentives to be financed by PAREIB I11will not duplicate those financed by
other sources. This subcomponent will finance performance incentives to 12,600 targeted primary school
teachers each year.

Subcomponent 2.4-Support         for School Supervision (US$S.O million with contingencies).            This
subcomponent aims to strengthen school supervision at the primary school level. This will be achieved
through support provided to members of the school supervision team to enable them to visit the schools
more often. The main goal i s to transform school supervision into a vehicle for pedagogic support to the
schools, placing less emphasis on administrative matters. Training will include providing supervisors with
the skills they need to improve their pedagogic supervision skills. This subcomponent will finance travel
expenses andper diem for 710primary education sector chiefs and4,440 supervisors.

Component ?Institutional         Strengthening (US$56.2 million with contingencies). The objective of
this component is to continue strengthening the capacity of the SEPEsto plan, programandevaluate basic
education service delivery. This objective will be achieved through the subcomponentsdescribed below.

Subcomponent 3.I-Strengthening         of the Pedagogic Capacity of the SEPEs (US$2.0 million with
contingencies).    This subcomponent aims to contribute to service quality improvements by helping
develop the pedagogic capacity of the technical-pedagogic staff in each state. Technical assistance will
be provided through a series of workshops focused on: multi-grade education, in-service teacher training,
education evaluation, inter-cultural and bilingual education, effective use of education technology, and
education planning. The specific themes of the workshops will be selectedby CONAFE in consultation
with the states. Workshops will be conducted by national and international specialists, selected according
to the particular theme. This strategy for staff development differs from that of earlier phases, in so far as
it concentrates on areas of common concern, and provides for the interchange of experiences between
states. Three cycles of workshops are planned for PARED III;     each cycle consisting of a maximum of six
workshops (of 96 hours each), attendedby approximately 15 state level staff. Expenditures to be financed
under this subcomponent include rent of a suitable venue for workshops, honoraria for speakers and
facilitators, travel costs and per diem for speakers and facilitators, and meals for the participants during
the workshops. Each participant will cover hisher travel and lodging costs.

Subcomponent 3.2-Strengthening of the Administrative Capacity of the SEPEs (US$3.4 million with
contingencies). This subcomponent aims to continue strengthening the states' capacity to administer and
efficiently deliver basic education services. The technical assistanceto be provided will be tailored to the
needs of each state but will concentrate on the following main areas: school supervision, administrative


                                                     43

staff development, human resources management, management of physical resources, financial
management, monitoring and evaluation systems, and coordination between regular and compensatory
education programs. To determine the appropriate technical assistance for each state, the first year of the
program will be dedicated to a diagnostic of needs and the production of a state-specific technical
assistanceplan. These plans must ensure that the selected activities are not financed by other programs,
are relevant to existing systems and procedures, and will result in administrative improvements that are
sustainable over time. The states will share the costs of the technical assistance by providing in kind
contributions (such as office space, equipment and materials) as well as staff time. The diagnostics will
be prepared by consultants in collaboration with state staff specialized in planning, evaluation, and basic
education during the first year of PAREIB III.The technical assistance plans will be carried out and
evaluated during the second and third years of the project. This subcomponent will finance consultants'
services for technical assistance and trainingfor the SEPEs.

Subcomponent 3.3-Monitoring and Evaluation of the Project (US$4.1 million with contingencies). The
activities to be financed under this subcomponent aim to consolidate the monitoring and evaluation
systems for CONAFE's compensatory programs. Specifically, the following activities are contemplated:

    (a) Integrate the Project Monitoring System. CONAFE has in place an efficient system to monitor
         project operations that was used in PAREIB Iand II.For PAREIB 111, this system will be
         updated andimproved in order to: (a) cover all subcomponentsand activities of the project inthe
         same system; and (b) establish efficient feedback mechanisms that permit timely adjustments
         duringprojectimplementation.

    (b) Improve Education Planning. This activity will be carried out by the Directorate General of
         Planning, Programming and Budget of SEP (DGPPP) to complement the national geographic
         planning system supported by PARED Iand 11. The activity consists of creating an information
         system, basedon data available inthe national information system, to support the implementation
         of CONAFE's compensatory programs in each state.             The system links geographic and
         demographic data with education indicators and is expected to: (i) help identify the needs of each
         school and (ii)improve the articulation between regular and compensatory education programs.
         These data will be accessibleto the public through the SEPEs' websites.

    (c) Social Accountability. This activity consists o f (a) public dissemination of compensatory
         education programs; (b) data collection and analysis of information on the perceptions of project
         beneficiaries regarding program interventions; and (c) development and implementation of
         mechanismsto strengthen social participation in support of PAREIB.

    (d) Studies.The followingstudies areplannedfor PAREIB111:

                     Evaluation of the impact of compensatory education programs will be completed to
                     meet the Congressional mandate to evaluate federally financed programs yearly.
                     Studies will include rigorous impact evaluations usingtreatment and control groups,
                     results fromEstrindaresNacionales, and will assess all three phases of PAREIB;
                     A study highlighting what telesecundaria teachers must know to maximize the
                     learning benefits of usingcomputer equipment at school;
                     Assessment of the impact of the AGE grants on the relations between the members of
                     the school community (teachers, directors, students andparents);
                     A study on how the provision of education materials impacts teachingearning
                     practices;
                     Analysis of prevailing education supervision practices and how best to orient
                     compensatory interventionsinthis area;


                                                     44

             (vi)    Impact evaluation of the initial education program on the development of young
                     children, using random assignment, control and treatment groups, during the first
                     year of the program, to be carried out by the Directorate General of Evaluation of
                      SEP;
             (vii)   Analysis of the use of targeting criteria for compensatory programs; evaluation of
                     technical assistance provided by PAREIB I11 as to its quality, efficiency and
                     relevance for institutionaldevelopment of the SEPEs;
             (viii)  Impact of technical andadministrative capacity buildingof the SEPEs;
             (ix)    Impact evaluation of pre-school education; and
             (x)     Impact evaluation of primary school education.

The expenditures to be financed under this subcomponent include consultant services, dissemination
materials and operating costs.

Subcomponent 3.4-Administration       of the Project (US$46.7 million with contingencies). The project
administration will continue to be supportedby PAREIBI11to consolidate achievements made in the two
prior phases of the program with respect to program operational norms and procedures that ensure
efficient implementation. This objective will be achieved through training and technical assistance for
staff at national and Statelevels. The training program will strengthen staff skills inthe areas of financial
management, procurement, and monitoringandevaluation. Trainingwill also focus on the adjustments to
the program introduced in PAREIB III.Activities to be financed include honoraria and benefits for the
administrative staff of the project, consultants' contracts for training, travel expenses and per diem and
other incremental operational costs.




                                                    45

                                        Annex 5: Project Costs
                          MEXICO BasicEducationDevelopmentPhaseIII


Table la. EstimatedProjectCost by Component(US$ million)


      Component/ Subcomponent
1.Initial Education ( non-schoolbased)                          16.52           21.13
1.1Training inInitial'Education for
    Promoters, Supervisorsand
    Coordinators                                   22.00        4.40    17.10   5.70
1.2 Community Participation                        0.90         0.18    0.10    0.03
1.3 Trainingfor Parents of
     0-4 year old Children                         51.30        10.26   39.60   13.20
1.4 Educational Materials                          7.20         1.44    5.60    1.87
1.5 MonitoringandEvaluation                        1.20         0.24    1.oo    0.33

2. Support for Basic Education                    358.20        71.64  222.10   74.03
2.1 Educational Infrastructureand
   Equipment.                                      104.70       20.94   78.60   26.20
2.2 Didactic Materials                             88.90        17.78   46.10   15.37
2.3 Training andTechnicalAssistance for
    CTES                                           24.70        4.94    19.30   6.43
2.4 Supportand Training for Parents
   Associations(APF).                              89.00        17.80   74.10   24.70
2.5 PerformanceIncentivesfor Primary
    SchoolTeachers                                 42.90        8.58    3.40    1.13
2.6 Supportfor SchoolSupervision                   8.00         1.60    0.60    0.20

Institutional Strengthening                        56.20        11.24   11.50   3.84
3.1 Strengtheningthe Pedagogical
    Capacity of the SEPEs                          2.00         0.40    1S O    0.50
3.2 Strengtheningthe Administrative
   Capacityof the SEPEs                            3.40         0.68    2.70    0.90
3.3 Monitoring and Evaluation of the
    Project                                        4.10         0.82    3.20    1.07
3.4 Administration of the Project                  46.70        9.34    4.10    1.37
              Front end fee                        3.00         0.60    3.00    1.oo
                 TOTAL                             500.0        100.0   300.0   100.0
      11Numbersmay not addup due to round




                                                 46

Table lb. EstimatedProjectCostby Component(US$ million)


                                                  Local              Foreign                    Total
                                               US$ million          US$ million             US$ million2/

1.InitialEducation                                80.80                  1.80                   82.60
  1.1 Training inInitialEducationfor
       Promoters, Supervisorand
       Coordinators                               22.00                  0.00                   22.00
  1.2 Community Participation                     0.90                   0.00                    0.90
  1.3 Training for Parents of
       0-4 years year old Children                51.30                  0.00                   51.30
  1.4 EducationalMaterials                        5.40                   1.80                    7.20
  1.5 Monitoring and Evaluation                    1.20                  0.00                    1.20

                                                                         0.00
2. Support for Basic Education                   309.73                 48.47                   358.20
  2.1 EducationalInfrastructure and
       Equipment                                  78.45                 26.25                   104.70
  2.2 Didactic Materials                          66.68                 22.22                   88.90
  2.3 Training and Technical Assistance
       for the CTEs                               24.70                  0.00                   24.70
  2.4 Supportand Training for Parents
       Associations(APFs)                         89.00                  0.00                   89.00
  2.5 PerformanceIncentivesfor
       Primary SchoolTeachers                     42.90                  0.00                   42.90
  2.6 Support for SchoolSupervision                8.00                  0.00                     8.00

3. Institutional Strengthening                    56.20                  0.00                   56.20
  3.1 Strengtheningthe Pedagogical
       Capacity of the SEPEs                       2.00                  0.00                     2.00
  3.2 Strengtheningthe Administrative
       Capacity of the SEPEs                       3.40                  0.00                     3.40
  3.3 Monitoringand Evaluation of the
       Project                                    4.10                    0.00                    4.10
  3.4 Administration of the Project               46.70                   0.00                  46.70
               Front end fee                                              3.00                    3.00
                 TOTAL                            446.73                 53.27                  500.00

     "Foreign costs are estimatedas representingthe equivalent to 25% of total infrastructure and goods costs.
      Numbersmay not addup due to rounding.




                                                    47

Table2. EstimatedProjectCostby ComponentandProjectYear (FY) US$ million




                                                                -IBRD
                                                                 Total      Total [BRD Total IBRD Total
                                                                                  -                        IBRD
1.Initialeducation(non-schoolbased)                              27.7  20.8 30.0  233   24.9 I 19.2 I82.6 I 63.4
     1.1 Trainingfor ProgramStaff                                7.6   6.0  7.7    5.9  6.7    5.2   22.0   17.1
     1.2    Community participation                              0.5   0.04 0.2   0.02  0.2   0.01   0.9    0.1
     1.3 Trainingsessionswith parentsandchildren                 16.2  12.1 19.2  15.1  15.9   12.4  51.3   39.6
     1.4    Education andDissemination Materials                 3.0   2.3  2.5    2.0  1.7    1.3   7.2    5.6
     1.5    Monitoring and Evaluation of the InitialEducation   - -
                                                                 0.4   0.4  0.4    0.3  0.4    0.3   1.2    1.0
2. Supportfor BasicEducation                                     120.0 69.9 124.2 76.1  114.0 76.1 358.2   222.1
     2.1    Education Infrastructure.                            19.8  14.9 37.7  28.3  47.2   35.4  104.7  78.6
     2.2    Didactic Materials                                   40.4  21.3 29.3  15.2  19.2   9.6   88.9   46.1
     2.3    Training andTechnical Assistance for TechnicalSchool 9.3   7.2  8.3    6.5  7.1    5.6   24.7   19.3
     2.4    Training and Supportfor Parents Associations (APF).  29.9  24.9 29.6  24.6  29.6   24.6  89.0   74.1
     2.5    Teachers' Incentives                                 17.9  1.4  16.7   1.3  8.4    0.7   42.9   3.4
     2.6    Support for School Supervision                      - -
                                                                 2.7   0.2  2.7    0.2  2.6    0.2   8.0    0.6
3. Institutional Strengthening                                   20.6  5.3  18.3   3.5  17.3   2.7   56.2   11.5
     3.1 Strengtheningthe Technical-Pedagogic Capacityof State    1.o  0.7  0.6    0.5  0.4    0.3   2.0    1.5
     Secretariats of Education (SEPEs)
     3.2    Strengtheningthe Administrative Capacityof State      1.8  1.4   1.0   0.8  0.6    0.5   3.4    2.7
     Secretariats of Education (SEPEs)
     3.3    Project Monitoringand Evaluation.                     1.9  1.5   1.3   1.o  0.9    0.7   4.1    3.2
                                                                                       --tf"t"
     3.4    Administration of the Project                       -15.9  1.7  15.4   1.2  15.4   1.2   46.7   4.1
                           Front end fee                         3.0   3.0        -
                              TOTAL                              171.3 99.0 172.5 102.9
                                                                                  -     156.2 98.0 500.0   300.0




                                                                  48

                               Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements
                          MEXICO BasicEducationDevelopmentPhaseIII

Project implementation comprises two broad set of activities: (i) related to the implementation of
                                                                   those
the project and (ii) program monitoring and evaluation functions (M&E). The present annex focuses on
arrangements pertaining to the implementation of the project and M&E arrangements are described in
Annex 3.

Projectimplementation

Agencies, Roles and Responsibilities: The project would be implemented through the following
agencies:

Undersecretariat for Basic and Normal Education (Subsecretaria de Educacidn Bdsica y Normal-
SEByN): has the overall responsibility of the regulation of education services, plans and study programs.
At the SEByN, the General Directorate for Education Research (Direccidn General de Znvestigacidn
Educativa--DGIE), the General Directorate for Materials and Educational Methods (Direccidn Generalde
Materiales y MLtodos Educativos--DGMME), General Directorate for Indigenous Education (Direccidn
Generalde Educacidn Zndigena--DGEI) and General Directoratefor Normativity (Direccidn General de
Normatividad-DGN)       coordinate efforts to design the education model for multi-grade schools and to
review of the competenciesfor the telesecundaria modality. Inaddition, the General Coordination for In-
Service Teacher Training (Coordinacidn General de Actualizacidn y Capacitacidn para Maestros en
Servicio--CGAM) will be in charge of developing a strategy for the strengthening of the Centros de
Maestros y Recursos-CMR (Teachers' Resource Centers).

Undersecretariat for Planning and Coordination (SSPC): has the responsibility for programming and
budgeting of the administrative units that integrate SEP as well as the parastatal and "deconcentrated"
entities. The SSPC i s also responsible for carrying out the planning, design and application of the
evaluation instruments of the national education system. The General Directorate of Evaluation
(Direccidn General de Evaluacidn-DGE)       will be in charge of developing the necessary instruments for
evaluating students at preschool and primary levels, as well as for the evaluation of the Initial Education
Program.    Through the Direccidn General de Planeacidn, Programacidn y Presupuesto-DGPPP
(General Directorate for Planning, Programming, and Budgeting) SEP will consolidate the education
planninginstrumentsusedby the SEPEs with financing from the project.

Consejo Nacional de Foment0 Educativo (CONAF'E): will coordinate all project implementation
activities on behalf of SEP and will exercise its project coordination responsibilities through the Unidad
de Programas Compensatorios - UPC (Compensatory Programs Unit). The UPC would be responsible
for daily management of the project including the consolidation of the yearly work plan; program
execution yearly reviews; procurement; and monitoring of project objectives, goals, processes, and
timetables in coordination with SEP and the SEPEs (State Level Secretariats of Public Education,
Secretarias Estatales de Educacidn Pziblica). The UPC would also be responsible for coordinating with
normativeareas of SEPandcommunication with state-level offices.

Duringthe implementation of the project, CONAFEwould beresponsiblefor establishing andmonitoring
Coordination Agreements with the 31 participating states, providing technical assistance to states on
educational and managementissues.




                                                    49

State Level Secretariats of Public Education (SEPEs):The SEPEs, through the UCEs, plan andexecute
compensatory education activities according to national guidelines, which specify the targeted schools
and communities, the menu of supported activities, the educational norms to be met, and the procedures
to be used. Through the UCEs, the states prepare annual proposals for the compensatory programs. The
functions of the UCEs in each state include: to administer and execute the project according to the
operational rules and management and evaluation indicators; validate the information on the targeting
methodology used for the project, and the compliance with the targeting criteria; elaborate the annual
procurement work plan; carry out programmatic and budgetary operations; prepare project financial and
physical quarterly progress reports; and prepare progress reports at the closing of each fiscal year. In
addition the UCEs are in charge of establishing coordinating mechanisms that permit the municipal
governments, the APFs and CEPS tojoin efforts and collaborate in an organized and sustainedway inthe
execution of the project.

Procedures and Relationships: the processes and procedures governing project implementation are
outlined in detail in the Project Operational Manual (OM). Procedures governing the basic relationship
between the Government and the World Bank, mainly covering financial management and procurement,
are detailed in Annexes 7 and 8 of the PAD and in the OM. Norms and procedures guiding the daily
exercise of responsibilities of the UPC staff are also detailed inthe OM.

In order to respect Mexico's federal structure, project implementation shall be managed through a
Coordination Agreement signed by CONAFE and the following state authorities: the Executive Power,
the Comptroller and the Secretary of Finance of each state. Under this Agreement the 31 participating
states and CONAFE would agree on all the norms for the execution of the project. The Coordination
Agreements, together with their technical annexes, constitute the normative framework for the
participation commitment of the parties involved. Through this legal vehicle, the parties agreeto carry out
planning and targeting activities, as well as organization, execution, evaluation and control for the
fulfillment of the objectives of the Agreement.

At the state level, the UCEs are empowered to sign specific agreements pertainingto the execution of the
project activities. These include agreements between the UCE and: (a) the APFs, to regulate the annual
grants transferred to the APFs every trimester; (b) the targeted primary teachers receiving performance
incentives, which are witnessed by a representative of the corresponding APF, and establish the
conditions for the payment of the incentives which are monthly stipends linked to the schools and
supervised by the APFs; (c) the Zone and Area Supervisors, regulating the payment of travel expenses
incurred in supervision visits to project schools; (d) the Zone Coordinators, Module Supervisors and
Education Promoters covering the conditions pertaining to their participation in the Initial Education
Program, including their remuneration.




                                                     50

                   Annex 7: FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements
                            MEXICOBasicEducationDevelopmentPhaseI11

Country Issues. The Mexico Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) was completed in
October 2003. The CFAA focused on the national level public sector, which it considered to have
generally sound financial management (FM) systems and institutions. Country FM risk was rated as
moderate and all individual risk factors were rated low or moderate. Nevertheless, the impact of this
CFAA on the Project FM system i s low because project implementation will be handled by a national
development bank Nucionul Financiera, S.N.C. (NAFIN) and by the decentralized Consejo Nucionul de
Foment0 Educativo (CONAFE).

FinancialManagementAssessment. A FMassessment was conducted to evaluate the FMarrangements
for the proposed project and CONAFE's capacity to effectively manage and implement the project and to
provide the Bank with accurate and timely information. The FM assessment involved (i)              visits to
CONAFE; (ii)    meetings with CONAFE, NAFIN, SHCP and the general auditor's office, Secretaria de la
Funcidn Pu'blica (SFP); (iii)review of FMinformation on previous projects; and (iv) discussions with
                              a
the project team. It involved ensuring that project design allows for an appropriate level of transparency,
facilitating oversight andcontrol, while also supporting smooth implementation.

On the basis of the assessment carried out, the financial management team concludes the following: (i)
although some project-specific mechanisms will need to be implemented for PAREIB III,existing
financial management arrangements for the PAREIB I1(which i s currently under implementation by
CONAFE with Bank financing), are operational andconsidered to form a sound basis; and (ii)       while FM
risk is low, project implementation should be accompanied by close supervision that allows early
detection of financial management issues and ensures the proper use of project funds.

FMarrangements for PAREIB I1are operational and will be appropriate for the proposed PAREIB 111.
The most important FM elements are budgeting, accounting, funds flow, internal control, reporting,
external audit, written procedures, FMstaffing andinformation systems. The principal FMrisk lies inthe
fact that all project funds will be managed within CONAFE standardbudget, but a new FM system will
be implementedandnew written proceduresfor Bankprojects (guidelines) areunder development.

Implementing entity.        CONAFE is the project's implementing agency and will have overall
responsibility for the project with support from NAFIN, which was designated by the SHCP as the
financial agent for the project. The project i s a third phase of an APL which supports the Government's
compensatory education program, as outlined in the National Education Program (PNE) 2001-2006 and
the Education Development Program 1995-2000. Specifically, the objectives of PAREIB I11are to fine-
tuning the delivery mechanisms of CONAFE's compensatory education program, while extending the
successful components of the previous programphases. CONAFE will have responsibility for all project
financial management, and together with NAFIN, SHCP and SFP has been responsible for project
preparation. Both CONAFE and NAFINhave developed significant project management capacity with
previous andongoing projects, and other related programs.

Flow of Funds and Information. Bank loan funds will flow from the Loan Account to a Special
Account managed by NAFIN and established in US dollars at the Mexican central bank (Banco de
Mkxico). Alternatively, the Special Account may be established at NAFIN, or in a commercial bank,
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. CONAFE receives funds in Mexican Pesos via its
standardbudget from the National Treasury, which is reimbursed at the end of the cycle from the Special
Account.     As in previous phases of PAREIB, the counterpart funds for PAREIB I11 will part of
CONAFE's standard budget and will be used to complement Bank Loan funds to finance project



                                                      51

activities, according to the agreed financing percentages by cost category.                                      Both Loan funds and
counterpart funds will be registered in CONAFE's standard budget in two separated budgetary lines
earmarked for PARED3III.            The following chart shows funds flow:


              ......................................................
AUTHORIZATION I                                                       I f

            7 j                                                       I
                                                   REPORTS            !




                                                                                       0
                                                                                       I REPORTS

        REPLENISHMENT\    .,/                     II                                   j (SOES)

                         10


                                  REMBURSEMENT                                 (STANDARDBUDGET)

                                                                                   CommercialBank

                                             NATIONAL TREASURY
                                                    TESOFE                    /\

                                                                                                  TRANSFER


      NOTE
       -                                                             SUPPLIERS/
                                                                   CONSULTANTS,etc.


                                                                                             qc
                                                                        PAYMENT



                                                                                                 PAYMENT (small
                      Flowoffunds
       -----------+Flowofinformation                                                  Mx$        workse.g. schools)




CDD activities. The community will carry out activities as described in section B.4 of the main text of
this PAD. CONAFE transfers funds to the UCEs to cover activities under the CDD modality. These
activities include: (i)      construction works to rehabilitate or replace classrooms and other school facilities
in targeted communities; and (ii)             transfers to the APFs to pay for complementary school materials and
minor rehabilitation carried out by the APFs, known as school grants. Based on signed agreements, the
UCEs transfer funds to APFs according to two different modalities.                                  For school grants, funds are
transferred in advance bi-annually; for infrastructure, funds are transferred to communities in two
installments: first the community receives 60% to purchase construction materials and initiate works, and
after demonstrating substantial progress, the UCEs transfers the remaining 40% to conclude those works.
After works are concluded, the communities and APFs submit all supporting documentation to the
corresponding UCE.

Staffing. Key FM staff.               CONAFE's project team i s headed by an experienced manager (Public
Accountant) and includes staff from all administrative areas of CONAFE (accounting, treasury,
budgeting, information systems, etc.); this team was responsible to cany out all financial management
activities in previous projects financed by the Bank (including PAREIB 11, which i s currently under
implementation).         This administrative team will be supported by NAFIN and is financed through
CONAFE's standard budget. Evidence from past and on-going performance of this team denotes that
CONAFE's staff has the qualifications and public sector experience adequate to undertake the financial



                                                                    52

management tasks related by the proposed PAREIB 111. Additionally, CONAFE i s and will be closely
supervised by NAFIN. The main duties of CONAFE are to: (i)          prepare the project budgets, financial
statements and disbursement requests; (ii)supervise internal controls and ensure efficiency in the
execution of funds; (iii) coordinate with NAFIN, SHCP, SFP and the Bank on financial management
issues; (v) coordinate annual project audits; and (vi) prepare and submit FMRreports on a quarterly basis
via NAFIN. Considering these functions, the existing staffing arrangements in CONAFE are satisfactory
to the Bank.

Accounting Policies and Procedures. CONAFE will maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect,
in accordance with accounting practices compatible with International Accounting Standards and in
compliance with local requirements, its operations and financial condition, including records and separate
accounts for the proposed project. Similarly to the on-going PAREIB 11, for PAREIB I11administrative
procedures must be in place to ensure that financial transactions are made with consideration to
safeguarding project assets and ensuring proper entry inthe accounting and monitoring systems.

CONAFE's existing accounting systems, complemented with information systems, currently have the
capacity to record assets, liabilities and financial transactions of PAREIB I1 and produce financial
statements and reports useful to project management and meeting the Bank`s fiduciary requirements.
However Financial Monitoring Reports are produced mainly on spreadsheets (Excel).            CONAFE i s
responsible to keep files of all supporting documentation on project expenditures. This arrangements will
be used for PAREIB111and will be complemented with a new system and a set of written procedures and
guidelines.

The financial management section of the O M for PAREIB I11will provide details on accounting policies
andprocedures. An updated manual has beenpresented to the Bankfor review, and shall be adopted by
CONAFE before project effectiveness.

Information Systems.      CONAFE's information system will track every project transaction. Existing
systems, which are now being used for PAREIB 11, are considered satisfactory to the Bank. Those
systems will be complemented with the new systemSistemade Administracidn de Proyectos con Crbdito
Extemo. This new system will be able to produce Fh4 information on the format of the Financial
Monitoring Reports (FMR), as needed. The information technology team (IT) inCONAFEi s planningto
integrate the new system to existing systems. The purpose i s to improve links between CONAFE's
information and project implementation. The new system will be used for project management, and will
enhance controls, improve reports and reduce manual processes such as re-input of data. The CONAFE
IT team and staff directly involved inproject implementation are preparingthe terms of reference (TOR)
for the new system. The goal i s not only to ensure consistency with CONAFE's systems (e.g. accounting,
budgeting, treasury) but also to create proper links that provide for complementariness among systems.
The TOR will be submitted to the Bank for its commentsho objection.

Written Procedures. The project financial procedures will be documented in the guidelines and in the
OM, which will define the roles and responsibilities of CONAFE and NAFIN. A draft of this manual
(corresponding to an updated version of the existing Manual) has been submitted to the Bank and include,
among other financial procedures: (i)   accounting policies and procedures, including basis of accounting
and chart of accounts; (ii)the reportingrequirements from CONAFE to NAFIN; (iii) of the FMR
                                                                                       formats
for the proposed project; (iv) internal controls including NAFIN's criteria and procedures for processing
payments and transfers; (v) records management; and (vi) audit arrangements. The plannedarrangements
for some of these aspects are summarized below.

FinancialReporting. NAFINwill prepare every semester FinancialMonitoringReports (FMRs) in
accordance with applicable Bank guidelines. CONAFE, via and with support of NAFIN, will submit


                                                     53

financial reports which will sufficiently describeall project operations, including the Special Account, to
the Bank. These FMRs are additional to the audited annual financial statements which comprise Entity
andProjectfinancial statements.

The FMRs will not form the basis of disbursement, as it i s agreedthat Statements of Expenditures (SOEs)
will provide information on the disbursements made by NAFINand the use of those funds by CONAFE.
The format for the FMRs which is currently being used for PAREIB I1will be used for the proposed
PAREIB111.

The financial management section of the O M will include detailed information on reporting and
monitoring, including the format and periodicity for FMRs and for annual financial statements that will
be prepared by CONAFE satisfactory to the Bank. The annual financial statements will be audited, in
line with Bank policy andrequirements, as indicated below.

Internal Audit. CONAFE's internal audit department is responsible for permanent internal audit
reviews, however no internal auditor will be assigned specifically to the project. Each unit of CONAFE
involved in the project will make sure that proper internal control procedures are followed. The internal
audit function i s operational andrelatively independent; andreports are submitted to the SFP.

ExternalAudit. The audit process andaudit report will follow the Bank's audit guidelines, reflectingthe
new audit policy issued in July 2003. The annual audits will be carried out in accordance with auditing
standards, by independent auditors (a private firm) and under TOR acceptable to the Bank. The auditors
would performat least one interim visit per year to the project site.

As soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after the end of each audited year,
CONAFE will furnish annual audit reports to NAFIN, which in turn will submit them to the Bank. The
Bank will review those reports, evaluate its acceptability, andprovide comments andrecommendations, if
warranted.

As a consequenceof country characteristics, an audit report of the Special Account (SA) will be required.
This report is the responsibilityof NAFIN,as the project financial agent.

The Bank i s committed to building sustainable client capacity and reducing transaction costs for
borrowers, consequently the Bank, NAFIN,SHCP, CONAFE and the internal auditor of the SFP, agreed
that the audit report of CONAFE as continuing entity will include project information satisfactory to the
Bank. This approach will eliminate the need of the project audit report-as       it is currently produced in a
separatedaudit report/opinion on project financial statements.

Although final arrangements, including specific information on the activities supported by the loan that
need to be disclosed, will be agreed during FY04, the official agreement and new Memorandum of
Understanding, applicable for all projects financed by the Bank, will require additional time.
Consequently, it was agreedthat duringa transition period the external audits of the entity, the project and
the special account will continue to be required.




                                                     54

The table below summarizesaudit requirements (including transitionperiod):




                                                owing six mon

                                 from January the 1stto December 31st of 2004.




The O M will include a section on financial managementproviding detailed information on auditing.

Disbursement Arrangements. Method. Disbursements of Loan funds would be in accordance with
guidelines set out in the Bank`s Disbursement Handbook i.e. transaction-based disbursement procedures.
Similar to PAREIB 11, the proposed PAREIB 111will not use FMR-based disbursements. Although
report-based disbursements i s being discussed as countrykross-sector issue and that some new projects
will move to a report-based disbursements (under the Sector Wide Approach modality), the GOM prefers
that this repeater project uses SOEs for disbursement purposes. See the Flow of Funds section above for
further details. The "Disbursement Letter" to be issued by the Bank for the project will provide detailed
information on disbursement arrangements.

Statements of exuenditures GOES). Loan withdrawal applications will be supported by SOEs for
expenditures relating to contracts that are not subject to the Bank`s prior review. Reimbursement of other
expenditures would require submittal to the Bank of full supporting documentation. SOE information
will be provided by CONAFE to NAFIN, who will review them and incorporate the necessary
information in standard forms and will submit the SOEs to the Bank. Documents in support of SOEs
must be maintained by CONAFE andNAFINat least untilone year after the Bank has receivedthe audit
report for the fiscal year in which the last loan withdrawal was made. Such documents must be available
for review by the external auditors andBank staff at all times.

SpecialAccount (SA). NAFINwill establish a SA in US dollars inthe Mexican central bank, Banco de
Mkxico. Alternatively, the SA can be established at NAFIN or at a commercial bank, under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. NAFINwill be responsible for the management of the SA (including:
monthly reconciliation, 1903 Bank-form submission, and coordination with the Mexican central bank or
the chosen bank where the account i s established); NAFIN will also coordinate reporting (including the
incorporationof SA information in project FMRs), and be responsible for the yearly audit of the SA. For
replenishment of the advance to the SA, NAFIN will prepare monthly (in any case, no more than
quarterly) requestsfor reimbursement of expenditures made. Total advances to the SA at any given time



                                                      55

would not exceed an authorized allocationof US$30,000,000. However, unless the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the authorized allocation shall be limited to the amount of US$ 15,000,000 until the aggregate
amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special
commitments shall be equal to or exceedthe amount of US$60,000,000.

Other procedures. The proposed PAREIB 111, as in PAREIB 11, most likely will not require other
disbursement procedures. However, upon request from NAFINand subject to Bank's approval, payments
may be made: (i)   directly to a third party (CONAFE's supplier or consultant) for goods, works andor
services; (ii)
             to a procurement agent; or (iii) a commercial bank for expenditures against a Bank Special
                                             to
Commitment covering a commercial bank`s letter of credit.

Retroactive Financing (expenditures).         The project will be eligible to submit for retroactive
reimbursement, documentation on expenditures totaling up to 10percent of the loan amount, for eligible
expenditures incurred during calendar year 2004 but before the signing of the loan agreement. The
Government estimates that such expenditures total upto 15 percent of the Loan amount and has requested
the approval of an exceptional dispensation by Bankmanagementto that effect.

Allocation of the LoanProceeds

        Expenditure Category                 Amount in US$    FinancingPercentage
                                                million
1.Works                                                  73.0            75
2. Goods                                                 44.0            78
3. Consultant Services and Training                      95.0            78
4. School Grants                                         65.O            84
5. Consumable Student Supplies                            9.0            23
6. Teacher Incentives                                     3.0             8
7. Incrementaloperational costs                           4.0             8
Unallocated                                               4.0
Total Project Cost                                     297.0
Front-end fee                                             3.O            100
Total FinancingRequired                                300.0


Supervision Plan.      One FM supervision mission will be conducted each year during project
implementation. A Bank Financial Management Specialist will review the yearly audit reports (entity,
project and SA) and the bi-annual FMRs.




                                                   56

FinancialManagementActionPlan

                       Activity                             Responsible       Target Date

Organization and Staffing
Particivation of Project Financial Administration staff World BanW       Project launching
in Bank Disbursement and Financial Management CONAFEDTAFIN
Training

Project OperationalManual
Submissionof a draft manual for Bank review. This i s   CONAFE           Submitted
the updated version of the existing manual.       The




the FMRs).
Provision of comments and recommendations.              World Bank       By May 25,2004
Submissionof revised draft to Bank to provide its no- CONAFE             Prior to effectiveness
objection.
Provision of Bank No Obiection.                         World Bank       Prior to effectiveness

Financial Reportingand Monitoring
As part of preparing Project Operational Manual,        CONAEZ           Prior to effectiveness
format and content of the FMRs to be prepared by
CONAFE, whit support of NAFIN, shouldbe included.
This activity is the confirmation of the FMRs, which
are being used for PAREIB I1 for the proposed
PAREIB 111.

Financial Management System
Agreement on the FMsystem(new systemand its links World Bank             Prior to effectiveness
with existing systems) and the written procedures.      CONAFE




                                                       57

                                          Annex 8: Procurement
                           MEXICOBasicEducationDevelopmentPhaseI11

Procurement of Goodsand Works

Procurement of goods and small works under PAREIB 111financed by the Bank would be
carried out in accordance with Bank's Guidelinesfor Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits (the Guidelines, dated May 2004) and the provisions of this Annex. The executing
agency for the project will be the Consejo Nacional de Foment0 Educativo, Unidad de
Programas Compensatorios (CONAFE-UPC), the same institution that has implemented
PAREIB Iand I1 (Loans. 4333-ME and 7108-ME).                At state level, the UCEs will also
participate inimplementation of all PAREIB I11stateactivities.

Grouping of contracts: To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid
packages estimated to cost US$500,000 when these contracts are bid centrally by CONAFE-
UPC. Due to their size and nature, small works contracts procured under CDD procedures
(described below) will not be subject to packaging arrangements.

Notification,advertising, and publication: The General Procurement Notice to be published
in the Development Business on line (UNDB online) and in the Development Gateway's
dgMarket shall be updated annually for major procurement packages. A similar invitation to
bid will also be published in the Diario Ojkial de la Federacidn and COMPRANET. The
results of awards of all contracts subject to prior review by the Bank (see below) will be subject
to publication in the UNDB on line and in dgMarket (paragraph 2.60 of Guidelines) and in
COMPRANET.

Procurementmethods. The proposed procurement methods described below andthe estimated
aggregate amounts for each method are summarized in Table A. The thresholds for contract
values for the use of each method described below appear in Table B. The bulk of investment
costs in the project subject to procurement i s (a) goods (didactic materials, school supplies,
school furniture, and small purchases of computer equipment and printing services), (b) small
works under CDD, and (c) consulting services, representing approximately 25 percent of project
costs. Training costs include cost of logistics to carry out seminars, workshops, or similar
activities where subsistence, transportation, hotels expenditures will be incurred.




                                                      58

 Table A: Procurement Methods (inUS$ million equivalent)        ''

     Categories

                                                          97.8                         97.8
1. Works                                                 (73.4)                       (73.4)

2. Goods, including          39.8           9.9           7.8                          57.5
   didactic materials       (31.O)        (7.7)           (6.1)                       (44.9)


3. ConsultingServices                                     122.8                       122.8
   andTraining                                           (95.8)                       (95.8)

4. SchoolGrants                                           77.4                         77.4
                                                         (65.0)                       (65.0)

5. Student supplies          29.3           7.3            5.8                         42.4
                             (7.2)        (2.0)           (0.8)                       (10.0)

5. Teachers'                                              43.9                         43.9
   Incentives                                             (3.5)                        (3.5)

6. IncrementalOperating                                   55.2                         55.2
costs                                                     (4.4)                        (4.4)

7. Front-EndFee                                            3.O                          3.O
                                                          (3.0)                        (3.0)

           TOTAL:            69.1          17.2           413.7                       500.0
                            (38.2)        (9.7)          (252.0)                      (300.0)
Note:
   1. Abbreviationsmean: ICB (international competitive bidding); NCB (national competitive
       bidding);Other includes consultants' services, shopping for goods, grants for schools, primary
       teachers' performance incentives, andthree quotations for small construction works (CDD).
   2. Figures inparenthesisare the amountsto be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include
       contingencies.


Goods

All goods packageswill beprocuredcentrally by CONAFE-UPCunder ICB or NCBprocedures
as shown inthe Global Procurement Plan that has been prepared for the project. The principal
purchases inthe project will be didactic materials, school and classroom furniture, printingand
reproduction services of training and class materials, school equipment and small purchases of
school sound and computing equipment and software to support educational activities and
project administration. When contract values of packages of goods, school and classroom
furniture, didactic materials, student supplies or printing or reproduction of training materials
exceeds US$500,000 equivalent, ICB procedures will be used. For values below US$500,000
equivalent NCB procedures will be conducted. In both instances, CONAFE-UPC will use



                                                    59

standardbiddocuments as agreedby the Bank with the Secretaria de la Funcidn Pliblica (SFP).
Purchases of same inputs in the project, with values of less than US$175,000 equivalent per
contract, may be procured following shopping procedures, based on a request form for
quotations acceptableto the Bank (para. 3.5 Guidelines). The Bank would not finance vehicles.
Direct contracting only will be allow with Bank previous authorization.. All procurement of
goods should be according with the agreedProcurement Plan.

Small Works CDDInvestmentActivities
                -
Profile of Communities: The principal actors in the project will be organized groups
representing APFs, CEPS, municipalities (Ayuntamientos) that may be scattered- sometimes in
remote rural locations in project areas. These groups are or will be organized to ensure legal
personality andthus eligibility to apply to CONAFE for financing of their small works in school
communities as beneficiaries of the project.

Type of CDD activities: The small works transactions that these communities may engage in
under CDD procurement procedures (paragraph 3.17 of the Procurement Guidelines) will be
small with contract values not to exceed US$50,000 equivalent of a mix of inputs of
construction / rehabilitation and construction materials.    However, organized beneficiary
communities will contribute with at least 10% of labor by the community of the equivalent
value of the small works in their community. Communities would be responsible for using
simplified competitive procedures (shopping) when purchasing building materials and
contracting these small works, where it is possible.

Administrationand Supervision of the CDD Program. For the project, it has been agreed
that state UCEs will sign cooperation agreements with state regulatory entities, such as the
school construction entity (CAPCE) or the State Secretariat of Public Works (Secretaria de
Obras Pliblicas, SOP), in order to accompany communities in the technical implementation of
their infrastructure programs. Their technical contributions with their own staff may be in the
form of technical design or specifications or in supervision during constructiodrehabilitation.
In these agreements, regulatory entities are awarded an agreed percentage representing the
incremental costs that they incur in support of the PAREIB infrastructure program in the
communities. Collaboration agreements are also signed by UCEs with communities to execute
school infrastructure activities.    However, in terms of project implementation, it i s the
responsibility of state UCEsto safeguardfinancial flow of funds and application of expenditures
of both the regulatory entities and the communities, and to monitor and supervise the quality
and appropriatenessof procurement canied out by communities. The latter will be asked to use
simplified, streamlined procedures for contracting small works or purchasing materials, as well
for maintenance of account records and exercising controls, as they are detailed in the OM for
PAREIB 111. Auditing of CDD activity by the communities will be the responsibility of
CONAFE-UCPandNAFINunder specific procedures described inAnnex 7.




                                                    60

Employmentof Consultants

Consultant's services shall be procured in accordance with Bank Guidelines for Selection and
Employment of Consultant by World Bank Borrowers (the Guidelines) dated November 2003,
and the provisions of this section that will be further detailed in the Operational Manual.
Consultants services will be contracted under this project in skill areas such as: technical
assistance for the integration of technical-educational and state technical coordination teams,
identification of state institutional strengthening needs, impact assessment studies on
administrative strengthening, and studies on qualitative and quantitative assessment of project
subcomponents, and training for the implementation of state technicalassistance, among others.

Firms:     The bulk of consultant services to be carried out by firms i s estimated to total
US$118.0 million equivalent. Several of these consulting services contracts with values above
US$250,000 are expected in the project and will be contracted by Quality- and Cost-Based
Selection (QBCS) using the Request for Proposals (W)and standard contract for lump-sum
contracts that have been agreed by the Bank with the GOM. Short lists of contracts valued less
than US$500,000 equivalent may be composed of only national firms. Contracts below
US$250,000 equivalent may be contracted by Least-Cost Selection (LCS), (paragraph 3.6 of the
Guidelines) or Selection under a Fixed Budget (FBS), (paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines) (See
Table C).

Individuals: Full-time individual consultants, to assist in project promotion activities, core
staff in the UCEs and UPC and in other training and advisory services, would be selected by
comparison of qualifications of at least three candidates and hired in accordance with the
provisions of Chapter V of Consultants Guidelines andthe Procurement Plan.

ProcurementPlan.

The Global Procurement Plan has been prepared for the life of the project for all non-demand
driven investment activities. CDD procurement of infrastructure for small works will be agreed
annually with the Bank. A specific procurement planfor the first 18 months of the project will
be delivered to the Bank by Negotiations. This specific Procurement Plan should be updated
every year and should include at least the next 18 months of project implementation.

ProcurementResponsibilitiesand Capacity

A procurement capacity assessment (update) for the project was conducted by Lea Braslavsky,
Lead Procurement Specialist. The updated capacity assessment indicates that CONAFE-UPC,
both at its headquarters office and in the state UCEs, have seasoned staff with experience in
Bank procurement. The assessment also indicates that CONAFE has had successful outcomes
of its main procurement accountabilities, having demonstrated efficiency and economy in
delivering its annual procurement plans. The assessment carried out by the Bank conveys the
fact that the institutional organization and staffing in the ongoing project (PAREIB 11) i s
satisfactory and will remain intact duringexecution of PAREIB 111. An Action Planagreed at
Negotiations provides for additional staff trainingand capacity buildingby Bank staff. NAFIN,
as the financial agent for the project, will continue to supervise procedures and contracts,
including issuance of no objection to documentation and awards under the delegation the Bank
makes of its fiduciary responsibilities (ex-post review) not included in the prior review
arrangements.




                                                   61

 Operational Manual.        CONAFE-UPC updated the OM used for PAREIB 11, to include
 revisions derived from lessons learned during implementation of the ongoing phase, giving
 special attention to fine tuning procedures of CDD procurement by communities to ensure
 successful outcomes of this key area of the project, by ensuring that the simplified procedures
 are explained in user-friendly instructionbooks for communities, andare available for their use.

 Procurementmonitoring

 The Gerenciade Recursos Materiales (GRM) of CONAFE will continue to be responsible for
 preparingand updatingperiodically the Bi-AnnualProcurement Planapproved by the Bank, and
 will continue to usethe presentinstitutional capacity to monitor and control project procurement
 at central and statelevel.

                TableB: Thresholdsfor ProcurementMethodsandPriorReview.

     Expenditure                Procurement               ContractValue                    Contract
      Category                     Method                 Threshold(US$)            SubjecttoPrior
                                                                                           Review

 Works                      Community                                                        None
                            participation                       ~50,000

 Goods                      ICB                                >500,000                       All


                            NCB                                ~500,000                      None


                            Shopping                           ~175,000                      None


                            Direct contracting                     NIA                          All




                      Table C: ConsultantServices(inUS$ millionequivalent)



c                                                         I   (91.1)          1   (95.1)
                                           I              I                   I

 B-Individuals                                 4.8                                 4.8
                                           ,  (0.7)                                (0.7)

 Total                    I
                          I   5.2             4.8              112.8               122.8
                             (4.0)            (0.7)           (91.1)              (95.8)
 - FiguresinparenthesisaretheamountstobefinancedbytheBankLoan. Allcostsinclude
 11                                                                                 ~    ~~




 contingencies.
 QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
 I C = IndividualConsultants
 LCS-Least Cost Selection



                                                     62

Other Support andControlSystems

CONAFE-UPC i s subject to regular financial (prior and ex-post) audits, either by internal or external
control entities, as detailed in the statutes of SFP and internal directives of CONAFE-UPC. CONAFE-
UPC has also made provisions to ensure that all control areashnits in the institution are represented(with
voice) in the ad-hoc Procurement EvaluationCommittees for all contracts financed by the Bank. Details
on other controls andauditing appear inAnnex 7.

OverallRiskAssessment

The procurement activities under this project are straight forward. Thus the overall risk assessment is
considered low.

FrequencyofProcurementSupervision

One ex-post review supervision mission at least every 12months.

ProcurementResponsibilitiesand Capacity andRiskManagement

The main functions of the procurement staff at the CONAFE-UPC are to carry out the procurement
activities and supervise the procurement carried out by the UCEs and the communities. They will also
liaise with other agencies and relevant beneficiaries involved in project implementation. Relevant project
staff involved in procurement and financial management attended a special course designed for
procurement activities under the project. Technical unit staff attended training courses in procurement.
The procurement system will be updated to enable adequate monitoring, administration andproduction of
reports of World Bank-fundedprocurement activities basedon an agreedandacceptableformat.

ProcurementRecordsKeeping

Recordkeeping andthe filing systemfor the procurement activities under PAREIB I1are satisfactory and
will be used in PAREIB 111. CONAFE procurement staff are well trained and capable of implementing
and administeringthe procurement system without difficulties. Procurement reports inthe agreedformat
would be submitted annually to the Bank. This report includes updates and highlights of the current
status of the recordkeepingand filing system.

A proposedAction Planis shownbelow:

    (a) By Negotiations a general procurement planfor the project anda detailedprocurement plan for
        the first 18 months of project execution should be presented to the Bank.

    (b) Audit reports to be submitted annually to the Bank shouldinclude areview of the recordkeeping
         andfiling system.

    (c) CONAFE shouldassure that the procurement staff will be maintained; if staff substitution i s
        necessaryat any time duringproject implementation, the new staff shouldhave at least the same
        level of qualifications.

By effectiveness, CONAFE should have put into effect the OM for the project activities including
procurement procedures and model evaluation reports satisfactory to the Bank.



                                                     63

                               Annex 9: Economic and FinancialAnalysis
                           MEXICO BasicEducation Development PhaseI11

Economic Analysis

Summary of Benefits and Costs

A cost-benefit analysis of the programderivedfrom household survey data was carried out at appraisal of
Phase I.The economic rate of return was estimated at 18.2 percent based on private costs and 17.5
percent based on public and private costs. There were lower-bound results as the externalities expected
from education were not taken into account. While the necessary data to update the analysis i s not
available, there are strong indications of positive impacts that have continued, confirming the validity of
the underlyingassumptionsof the original analysis.

Project Unit Costs

The unit costs per component were estimated defining two different criteria: unit cost per component and
unitcost per educational level. Inboth cases, unit costs were estimated usingthree types of beneficiaries
(where applicable): school, parents and children. For every component only those beneficiaries that
receive the intervention were considered. For cost per component, the unit cost per beneficiary i s shown
in World Bank and CONAFE (2004). Inall cases, unit costs decrease annually as a result of economies
of scale. Component 1presents the higher unit cost, in particular the subcomponent initial education.
Component 2 has two important sources of cost: infrastructure and didactic materials; in both cases these
two subcomponents represents at least 50 percent of the total unit cost. Finally, Component 3 has the
lowest unit cost as a result of the coverage and impact of these components on the overall compensatory
program management. For unit cost per level of education (World Bank and CONAFE, 2004), Initial
Education presentsthe highest cost per student and per parent for the three years. Nevertheless, this unit
cost is reduced as a result of higher attention to demand. Given the reduced participation of PAREIB I11
in telesecundurius (PAREIB I11will not support this system in 2006) this level of education has the
lowest unit cost.

Finally, a total unit school cost was estimated to analyze the impact of compensatory program cost and
the total operative cost. In this case only two levels are considered: Initial education and primary
education. For initial education, the total operational costs will be financed by CONAFE with Bank
resources. On primary education, an update of SEP operational cost in rural schools gave a unit cost of
US$242 in2004. Ifthis cost i s addedto CONAFE's unit cost per school, the total annual unit cost would
be US$275 (see World Bank andCONAFE, 2004).




                                                     64

Efficiency and IncidenceIndicators

The reasons for investing in early childhood development (ECD) are numerous and interrelated. A
child's ability to think, form relationships, and live up to his or her full potential is directly related to the
synergistic effect of good health, good nutrition, and appropriate stimulation and interaction with others.
These inputs lay the foundation for healthy cognitive and emotional development, which translate into
tangible economic retums.         Evaluations of well-conceived programs designed to foster early child
development demonstrate that children who participate in these programs tend to be more successful in
school, are more competent socially and emotionally, and show better verbal, intellectual and physical
development duringearly childhood than children who are not enrolled inhighquality ECDprograms. A
large body of research has proven the critical importance of investing in the early years of a child's
development. It is becoming increasingly clear that the development of the brain in the early years i s a
pathway that affects physical and mental health, learning, and behavior throughout the life cycle.
Numerous longitudinal studies on the benefits of early childhood programs for children living in poverty
have been conducted in the United States of America, as well as a few in developing countries. these
studies clearly indicate their cost-effectiveness and demonstrate the profound impact that early
experiences have on adult life and productivity. Integrated programs for young children can modify the
effects of socioeconomic and gender-relatedinequities, some of the most entrenched causes of poverty.

The benefits of ECD interventions can be summarized:

                   Higher intelligence scores
                   Higher andtimelier school enrollment
                   Less graderepetition and lower dropout rates
                   Improved nutritional andhealth status
                   Improved social andemotional behavior
                   Improved parent-childrelationship
                   Increased earning potentialand economic self-sufficiency as an adult
                   Increased female labor force participation

Therefore, ensuring healthy child development i s an investment in a country's future workforce and
capacity to thrive economically and as a society (Young 2002).

The Mexico Initial Education Project represented an integral part of the Mexican Government's human
capital formation and poverty reduction program. The project objective aimed at alleviating poverty and
increasing human capital investment by improving the quality and efficiency of the non-formal initial
education program inthe ten poorest Mexican States.

The project evaluation concluded that its performance was satisfactory.            Initial education coverage
through the project was substantial. The project had been designed to benefit about 1.2 million children
aged 0-4 years. By the end of 1996, the actual accomplishment was 90 percent of the target. Almost
750,000 children in23,000 predominantly small rural communities of the 10project states, 70 percent of
which suffered extreme or very highincidence of poverty.


PreschoolEducation

Preschool education has been an important part of the Government's agenda over the last 15 years.
Nevertheless, few indicators have been developed to measure the impact of preschool education in
Mexico. Currently, the General Directorate of Evaluation of SEP i s developing some measures of student
abilities at this level. A first indicator to measure the evolution of preschool education i s the attention to



                                                       65

potential demand, where the indicator is the proportion of children between 4 and 5 years of age who are
covered by the preschool system.

Between 1990 and 2004, the percentage of children attending preschool education in Mexico increased
steadily, reaching 72.4 percent overall in 2004 (Table 1). The States supported by compensatory
programs reached a significant improvement in coverage at this level. In particular, Chiapas increased
coverage from 41.7 percent in 1990to 77.4 percent in2002, surpassingthe national average in2002.

  Table 1: Percentageof Children Covered by Preschool System, National Average and Selected States




 National                    55.6 56.0 54.5   58.0 61.0 62.4   64.1  64.8 65.3 66.1 67.1 67.9 72.4
 Campeche                    63.7 64.9    67.7 60.3 71.8 70.0 69.9 71.2 73.4    78.6 77.3 77.3 78.9
 Chiapas                     41.7 41.9 37.9 49.0 48.7    56.5 59.8 59.9 57.7    62.1 65.8 71.2     77.4
 FederalDistrict             72.6 70.4 71.1 73.2 75.7 74.2 76.6 75.9 76.9 78.3 78.1 77.7           81.2
 Durango                     53.8 57.2 59.7 59.0 62.1 62.5     63.0 66.4 66.5   65.8 68.7     67.7 74.1
 Guerrero                    59.1 59.1 50.5 52.3 63.6 67.0 68.8 66.4      67.5  68.1 70.0 70.2 73.3
 Oaxaca                      57.2 46.9 59.3 61.2 61.3 59.6     64.2 65.4  65.9 67.1 69.4 70.5 72.5
 QuintanaRoo                 57.4 60.0 62.1 65.9 72.3 72.1 71.3 69.5      70.9 74.6 74.7 74.2 77.4
 Tabasco                     61.4 66.5    63.0 62.0 65.3 66.3 69.8 73.2 73.7 75.9 78.1 80.9 85.3
 Tamaulipas                  58.7 58.8 58.9 60.1 62.7    64.1 63.8 58.6   64.6 65.4 66.1 64.1       69.1
 Tlaxcala                    66.3 67.5 63.2 63.3    64.8 64.6 64.0 64.0   66.0 70.8 73.7 74.9       84.4
 Veracruz                    52.7 57.9 47.6 59.6 62.9 64.8 64.2 66.7      65.0 64.7 65.5 67.2 72.2
 Source: SEP, Estadisticas Educativas 2004

At this stage, trends incoverageof potentialdemand are positive and permit one to infer that the program
could reach its goals. Nevertheless, this new demand could generate additional pressures on the public
finance system. Further researchof this economic impact i s needed.

Primary Education

Since the first operation in the early 1990scompensatory programs have improved coverage and quality.
Between 1990 and 2002, the primary education completion rate at the national level increased from 70.1
to 88.0 percent. Furthermore, in the States with compensatory programs, the completion rate increased
considerably compared with their base level. For instance, Chiapas presented a completion rate of 38.0
percent in 1990, the lowest in Mexico; but in 2002, Chiapas almost doubled its completion rate to 75.7
percent (Table 2).




                                                     66

            Table 2: Primarv Comdetion Rates. National and Selected States. 1990/91-2002/03

    National              70.1 71.6 72.9 74.2 77.7 80.0 82.8 84.9 85.8 84.7 86.3 87.7              88.0
    Campeche              56.4 58.5     61.6 67.4 75.7 77.4 80.2 83.2 80.9 80.5 82.8 84.7          85.7
    Chiapas               38.0 40.3 41.1 43.4 45.7 48.2 60.5 63.1 65.9 67.2 70.2 74.7              75.7
    FederalDistrict       88.8   89.6 90.9 91.5 95.6 95.9 96.3 99.0 95.8 94.3         94.3 94.6    93.9
    Durango               70.9 71.1 69.0 70.8 77.8 76.9 82.6 85.1         85.1  79.9 83.7   77.8   86.4
    Guerrero              52.9 52.0 53.5 54.1 58.3 61.1 63.8 66.9         77.3  75.1 74.2   81.0   79.2
    QuintanaRoo           76.9 78.3 79.2 81.1 85.6 89.0 96.2 97.4 94.2 91.9 93.2 95.9              95.0
   Tabasco                69.0 70.8 72.6 74.4 77.5 83.2 98.0 87.5         85.8 83.6 88.4 88.0      88.3
   Tamaulipas             78.1 81.1 82.0 85.6 81.5 87.0 86.8 90.5         89.9 90.0 90.5    93.6   91.9
   Tlaxcala               84.2 86.2 92.3 88.6 96.1 96.5 96.2 96.7 96.2 97.1 97.5 96.0              97.9
   Veracruz               55.4 58.0 58.9 60.2 64.6 68.0 71.2 75.3 80.6 76.7 79.3            80.7   82.6
    Source: SEP. Estadisticas Educativas2004

         Improvements in completion rates (Table 2) are linked to repetition and dropout rates.        In
particular, there has been improvement in repetition rates in all states, but there i s still room for
improvement. In the case of dropout rates, an important decrease occurred in all states. The national
average levels decreased considerably, from 4.6 to 1.5 percent from 1990 to 2002. Chiapas presents one
o f the most dramatic improvements in this area. Whereas in 1990 dropout rates in Chiapas were 15.1
percent inprimary school, in 2002 this rate decreased to 2.6 percent.

   Table 3: Primary Failure and Dropout Rates, National Average and Selected States, 1990/91-2002/03
     Mexicanstate         90/91 91/92 92/93 93/94 94/95 95/96 96/97 97/98 98/99 9/00 00101 01/02 02/03"
                                                   Failure Rates
 National Average           10.1     9.8   8.3  8.3    8.1   7.8 7.6  7.3    6.8   6.4   6.0   5.7    5.4
 Campeche                   13.7 13.4 11.7 11.0        1.0 11.0 10.9 10.3 10.1     9.6   9.1   8.5    7.9
 Chiapas                    15.1 15.2 13.3 14.2        5.0  14.7 12.5 11.5  11.7  11.3  11.1 10.8    10.0
 FederalDistrict              5.9    5.4   4.8  4.6    4.5   4.1 3.8  3.5    2.8   2.6   2.2   2.1    2.0
 Durango                    10.0     9.7   8.3  7.8    7.3   7.4 7.3  6.7    6.1   5.5   5.1   5.0    4.7
 Guerrero                   12.8 12.8 13.1 13.2        3.7  13.3 13.2 12.7 12.3   11.5  10.6 10.0     9.4
 Oaxaca                     17.6 17.1 14.2 14.2        4.2  13.5 13.3 12.8  12.4 11.9 11.3 10.9       10.2
 QuintanaRoo                13.5   12.6    9.5 10.4    9.5   9.2 8.8  8.3    7.7   7.2   6.8   6.7    6.2
 Tabasco                    12.0 11.9 10.1      9.7    9.1   8.5 7.9  8.0    7.2   6.4   6.6   6.3    5.8
 Tamaulipas                   8.2    8.1   6.0  6.8    6.3   6.1 5.4  4.9    4.7   4.1   3.8   3.7    3.4
 Tlaxcala                     6.9    6.8   5.7  5.0    4.9   4.7 4.5  4.1    3.8   3.5   3.2   2.8    2.6
 Veracruz                   12.6 12.2 10.3 10.7 10.3        10.2 10.1 9.9    9.7   9.5   8.5   8.0    7.5
                                                  DropoutRates
 National Average             4.6    4.1   3.6  3.4    3.0   3.1 2.9  2.4    2.3   2.1   1.9    1.6    1.5
 Campeche                     6.0    4.5   3.2  4.0    4.3   2.5 3.6  2.9    2.8   2.8   2.3    1.9    1.5
 Chiapas                    13.9     9.0   7.6 11.4   4.9    7.0 6.3  6.2    4.9   3.9   2.6   2.7     2.6
 FederalDistrict              1.5    1.7   0.3  0.5    1.0   1.3 1.1   1.4   1.4   1.6   1.0   0.7     0.6
 Durango                      7.2    4.8   4.0  3.5   4.1    1.2 6.5  3.1    2.9   2.6   2.2    1.3    1.1
 Guerrero                     8.1    8.2   9.6  6.2   4.4    5.2 4.8  3.5    4.4   3.5   3.8    3.2    2.8
 Oaxaca                       6.4    5.9   4.5  5.0    3.6   7.0 4.2  4.1    3.2   2.6   2.6   2.7     2.2
 QuintanaRoo                  1.3    3.1   1.2  2.1    1.0   1.3 1.3  0.9      1 0.8     1.1    1.2    1.2
 Tabasco                      6.1    3.9   2.8  3.3    2.6   3.0 3.0  2.5    2.4   2.3   1.8    1.2    1.2
 Tamaulipas                   3.4    3.6   2.2  2.7    2.1   2.2 1.2   1.9   1.5   1.1   2.1   0.8     0.6
 Tlaxcala                     1.4    1.5   1.1  1.3    1.1   0.8 1.0  0.6    0.4   0.4   0.4   0.2     0.5
 Veracruz                     6.9   7.0    6.5  4.8   5.0    4.4 4.1  3.2    3.3   2.8   2.1    1.5    2.1
 Source: SEP, EstadisticasEducativas 2004



                                                        67

Secondarv Education

Secondary education indicators at the national level increased steadily over the last several years. The
enrollment rate increased duringthe 1990s, reaching 91 percent of the secondary school-aged population
(14-16 years) by 2002. This representsan increaseof nearly 6 percent duringthese years. The absorption
rate increased by more than 12 percent since 1990, and repetition rates decreased from 27 percent in
1990, to 19percent in2003.

An important fact in secondary education is the increased enrollment in telesecundurias (Table 4).
Telesecunduriasincreased student enrollment by 75 percent from 1990 to 2003. This system presentsthe
more dynamic increase in student enrollment, above the general system (17.9 percent) and the technical
system (45.8 percent).     In relative terms, telesecundurias increased their participation in secondary
education from 15 percent in 1990to 21 percentin2003.

                        Table 4: Secondary Education Indicators, National Average

             Year             Absorption      Dropout Completion Repetition     Attentionto
                                   Rate         Rate    Rate        Rate           demand
              1990- 1991            82.3        8.8     73.9        26.5             85.1
              1991- 1992            82.9        8.4     75.3        26.3             85.9
              1992- 1993           83.8         7.4     76.4        26.4             86.6
              1993- 1994            85.8        8.2     77.5        24.7             88.2
              1994- 1995           87.7         7.7     76.2        23.5             88.4
              1995- 1996            87.0        8.8     75.8        23.7             88.6
              1996- 1997           86.7         8.9     74.8        22.8             87.6
              1997- 1998            87.8        9.7     73.8        22.3             87.9
              1998- 1999           90.0         8.5     76.1        21.1             88.0
              1999- 2000           91.0         8.7     75.1        20.7             89.3
             2000- 2001            91.8         8.3     74.9        20.9             89.5
             2001- 2002            93.4         7.3     77.7        19.7             90.4
             2002- 2003            94.1         6.9     78.8        18.9             91.4
             Source: SEP, EstadisticasEducativas2004

Impact on Learning Achievement

An analysis was carried out to estimate the impact of CONAFE's compensatory education programs on
learning (Shapiro and Moreno 2003). The Estdndares Nucionales test scores, a national test on learning
abilities, was used to estimate the impact on learning achievement for children in schools receiving at
least one of the compensatory education interventions managed by CONAFE. The analysis uses the
propensity score matching methodology to evaluate the effectiveness of CONAFE's compensatory
education programinMexico inimproving studenttest scores and lowering repetition andfailure rates.

The analysis finds that those schools that receive CONAFE's compensatory programs (treatment group)
are most effective in improving primary school math scores. In this case, the analysis concludes that
compensatory education can effectively improve short-term learning results for disadvantaged students,
butthat improvement varies by the subject of instruction andthe demographics of the students.




                                                     68

Results

A first result of analyzing the differences among schools i s to compare the trends and levels differencing
among types of school. In this case, five types of school can be identified: urban public schools, urban
private schools, rural schools, indigenous schools andcommunity centers. This first analysis compares a
cohort of students from 1998 to 2002 (Figure 1) by type of schools. This first approach indicates that
there are important differences among type of schools, and that in order to measure the evolution of
CONAFE schools i s necessary to identify only those schools with similar background that CONAFE.

    Figure 1:Test score levelandevolution by type of school, EstbnduresNucionulesglobal test score

     550
     530
     510
 2
 8 490
 v) 470
 I-"
 P  450
 .Em 430
     410
     390
     370
     350




In all cases, both CONAFE and non-CONAFE schools shows improvement in test scores for all
marginality groups and for all ENtest: global, Spanish and Math. This improvement can be measuredas
the difference in student school average between 2"d grade and 6" grade (Table 5).            In this case,
CONAFE's schools supported by compensatory programs improved in all groups of marginality showing
an increase of above 30 points in the test scores for all test scores, in particular some huge increases in
Spanish for all groups and Mathematics inthe most disadvantaged schools. This difference i s significant
for all CONAFE's schools using a t-test at 5 percent of significance (see Figure 2 for a summary of all
results).

A secondresult i s that, if CONAFE and non-CONAFE schools are compared, in most of the cases for all
groups, years and schools analyzed, CONAFE schools have a lower performance compared with their
counterparts. These results are statistically significant usinga 95 percent of confidence (Table 5).

Given the important rise in test scores for both CONAFE and non-CONAFE schools, the nature of the
analysis using p-score matching is to study if evolution in test scores is such that the gap among
CONAFE schools and their counterparts has reduced over the time. Usingthe results showed above, the
analysis concludes that at this stage, yet there has been an increase in test scores for all schools and a
reductionin the gap among CONAFE and non CONAFE schools for some groups-- this reduction has not
been statistically significant, and a difference between both schools, yet minor, remains. A final result of



                                                      69

this analysis is that mathematics for primary education seem to have a well defined effect in closing the
gap given that the trend in the difference betweenCONAFE and non-CONAFE schools has been reduced
intime, yet this difference exists.

 Table 5: Average studenttest score by school type and t-test score, CONAFE and non-CONAFE schools
                                                                                 Difference(6tn-  t-test
          Test Score SchoolType      20 - 19983" - 19994" 2000 5" 2001 60 2002
                                                         -       -       -       2&)             (6tb-2"d)
 Group 1  Global      Non-CONAFE        466.2     432.5   479.7   486.0   505.7        39.5        9.6
                      CONAFE            433.2     418.0   457.1   466.2   482.7        49.5        6.9
                      Difference          33.1     14.5    22.6    19.8    23.0        -10.1
                      t-test               4.4      4.1     5.0     6.9     6.5
          Spanish     Non-CONAFE        406.1     431.7   477.8   487.0   510.8        104.7      30.1
                      CONAFE            415.3     418.4   459.5   461.7   483.5        68.2        9.9
                      Difference          -9.2     13.3    18.3    25.3    27.3        36.5
                      t-test              -1.4      3.8    4.1      6.7     6.9
         Math         Non-CONAFE        466.1     432.0   481.5   485.0   499.3        33.1        8.3
                      CONAFE            433.8     415.1   454.8   468.1   481.7        48.0        6.2
                      Difference          32.4     16.9    26.8    16.9     17.5       -14.8
                      t-test               4.0      4.1     5.4     6.5     5.2
Group2 Global        Non-CONAFE         443.5     429.0   483.3   485.9   498.7        55.2        10.5
                     CONAFE             449.5     424.5   455.3   464.8   484.4         34.8       4.3
                      Difference          -6.0      4.5    28.0    21.1     14.3        20.4
                      t-test              -0.7      1.1     5.5     5.5     3.6
         Spanish      Non-CONAFE        424.1     425.7   482.5   484.3   503.4         79.4       14.3
                     CONAFE             409.1     421.1   454.1   463.4   485.1         76.1        9.3
                     Difference           15.0      4.6    28.4    20.9     18.3        3.3
                     t-test                1.7      1.3     5.7     4.6     4.1
         Math        Non-CONAFE         440.9     430.3   484.5   486.5   492.7         51.8        9.3
                     CONAFE             444.8     425.8   456.0   464.3   483.5         38.6        4.8
                     Difference           -3.9      4.6    28.5    22.2      9.2        13.2
                     t-test               -0.4      1.0     4.9     5.9      2.4
Group3 Global        Non-CONAFE         489.4     428.9   483.8   483.8   498.1         8.7         0.8
                     CONAFE             436.9     412.2   457.1   464.7   482.6         45.7       10.8
                     Difference           52.5     16.6    26.7    19.1     15.5       -37.0
                     t-test                4.7      3.9     4.2     6.1      5.0
         Spanish     Non-CONAFE         444.5     429.2   483.9   482.4    503.7        59.2        5.o
                     CONAFE             399.2     414.0   455.7   459.4    481.8        82.6       19.5
                     Difference           45.3     15.2    28.2    23.0     21.9       -23.5
                     t-test                3.8      3.8     4.6     5.8      6.3
         Math        Non-CONAFE         486.1     426.7   483.7   484.2    490.3        4.2         0.4
                     CONAFE             438.8     408.0   457.6   467.7    483.7        44.9        10.0
                     Difference           47.3     18.7    26.1    16.5      6.5       -40.7
                     t-test                4.2      3.7     3.8     5.6      2.1
Source: World Bankstaff estimations using, SEP "Esdndares Nacionales" data




                                                       70

             Figure 2: Impact on test score between CONAFE and Non-CONAFE schools
             Less DisadvantagedGroup (LDG)and More Disadvantaged Group (MDG)

        MathTest Score (MDC,)                                SpanishTest Score (MDG)
   520      1                                1 35    520                                       30
                                                                                               25
                                            -- 30    500                                       20
                                                     480                                        15
                                            -- 25    460                                        10
                                                                                               5
                                               20    440                                       0
                                                     420                                        -5
                                                                                                -10
   420                                      -- 15    400                                        -15
   400                                         10            20-   30-    40  -   50-  60-
             20- 30- 40- 50- 60-                             1998 1999 2000 2001 2002
             1998 1999 2000 2001 2002

1--cNoCONAFE
 I +Difference             +CONAFE                              +Difference
                           -Linear     (Difference)




        MathTest Score (LDG)                                 SpanishTest Score (LDG)

                                              50                                            I 50
                                                                                              --
5 1 0 i f                                     45                                           -- 45
                                                                                           -- 40
                                                                                           -- 35
                                                                                           -- 30
                                              25                                           -- 25
                                              20                                           -- 20
                                                        t 1
430                                           15                                           -- 15
410                                           10                                           -- 10
                                              5      410                                   -- 5
390             I      ,
                       I     I     ,,      / o       390         I      I      I     I      1 0
       ~                                                    ~




        20- 30- 40- 50- 60-                                  20- 30- 40- 50- 60-
        1998 1999 2000 2001 2002                             1998 1999 2000 2001 2002

+No     CONAFE           +CONAFE                     +No     CONAFE        -COME
+Difference              -Linear     (Difference)    --tDifference         -Linear    (Difference)




                                                   71

FinancialAnalvsis

EducationFinancing

Total spending on education increasedthroughout the 1990sand to 2003, reaching close to 6.8 percent of
GDP in 2003. This representsan increaseof about 2.8 GDPpercentagepoints since 1990. Inreal terms,
total spending on education increasedby 170percent since 1990. This increase in spending in education
in real terms from 1993 to 2003 was driven by an increaseinboth public spending (136 percent) and a
major increase in private participation in education (551 percent). By the end of 2003, private spending
accounted for nearly 1.3 percent of GDP, representing 20 percent of total spending on education. On the
other hand, public spending on education increasedover the last 15 years. SEP's share of spending varied
over the last several years. For instance, SEP education spending as a share of the Federal Budget grew
from 2.5 per cent of GDP in 1990 to 4.3 percent of GDP in 2003, whereas the share of both state and
municipal governments in total education spending remained constant during the period, yet both
increasedinreal terms (Table 6 ).

   Table 6. Structure of Total Spending of Educationin Mexico, (Thousands of Mexican pesos, in2003
                                                       terms)
                            National Spending                                      PublicSpending

Year                              Public                                 Federalby Level of Education
     National Total             Federal                     Private                                      State &
                                                                                         Tertiary  OthersMun.
                         Total   SEP       Other State Mun           Basic Secondary
1990 166,686 153,221 125,250 103,019 22,231 27,413 559        13,465 51,969     12,684      20,861 39,752 27,972
1991 196,768 186,456 156,158 130,985 25,172 29,742 557        10,312 63,005     14,196      25,376 53,581 30,298
1992 230,229 215,497 184,401 156,377 28,024 30,403 693        14,731 81,094     15,777      30,361 57,168 31,096
1993 265,305 249,894 218,453 185,158 33,292 30,740 701        15,412 102,968    19,269      35,448 60,768 31,441
1994 289,285 274,148 243,268 211,662 31,606 30,192 689        15,137 126,229    24,109      40,700 52,230 30,880
1995 222,909 212,392 191,028 169,430 20,531 20,888 476        10,472 99,609     24,524      34,217 32,678 21,364
1996 361,204 297,869 248,084 229,463 16,788 49,223 562 63,345 133,715           31,593      43,698 39,078 49,908
1997 305,672 251,929 211,352 197,277 14,075 40,128 449       53,743 119,661     24,294      34,758 32,639 40,577
1998 321,695 261,628 221,231 217,884 3,347 39,949 447        60,067 142,213     22,875      41,070 15,073 40,397
1999 350,384 282,335 233,985 231,238 2,747 47,872 478        68,049 149,427     23,432      42,426 18,701 48,350
2000 387,697 312,166 256,320 251,724 4,595 55,320 526 75,531 166,055            24,641      46,286 19,337 55,846
2001 417,114 337,015 275,660 270,383 5,277 60,789 566 79,799 176,499            28,303      52,613 18,245 61,355
2002 433,840 352,210 287,632 282,452 5,180 63,977 601        81,629 184,335     27,541      55,478 20,278 64,578
2003 449,895 362,298 295,430 282,688 12,742 66,136 733       87,597 191,210     27,803      55,766 20,650 66,869
Source:Presidenciade la Repdblica,"Tercer Informede Gobiemo", 2004

Public expenditure on basic education has increased over the last 15 years, mainly as a result of the
integration of lower secondary as a compulsory level of education.               In particular, basic education
spending more than doubled as a percentage of GDP from 1.3 percent in 1993 to 2.9 percent in 2003, and
now represents almost 53 percent of total public spending on education (Figure 3b).This distribution of
public spending on education i s strongly progressive at primary level; yet becomes increasingly
regressive at each higher level of education. One reason for this i s the higher dropout rates among the
lower income households. Public policy on education and compensatory programs are already decreasing
these dropout rates and, therefore, decreasing this regressive trend in public spending for higher levels of
education.




                                                         72

Figure 3a. Sources of Spending on Education inMexico, 1990-2003



    100%
     90%
     80%
     70%
     60%
     50%
     40%
     30%
     20%

     10%
      0%
         1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003

                     SEP    Other Federal  State   Municipal Primte




Source: Presidencia de la Repdblica, "Tercer Informede Gobierno", 2004




     Figure 3b. Uses of Federal Public Spending by EducationLevelinMexico, 1990-2003

            100%


             80%


             60%


             40%


             20%


              0%
                 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003

                                     Basic 0 Upper Secondary      Terciary   Other 1


Source: Presidencia de la Reptiblica, "Tercer Informe de Gobierno", 2004




                                                         73

FinancialSustainability

Financial sustainability depends on the capacity of the Government to cover the costs of the investment
after the program i s completed. For PAREIB 111, the following elements will ensure the long-term
sustainability of the program. First, PAREIB total cost burden i s small relative to available financial
resources. For 2003, for example, PAREIB total cost burden i s less than 0.05 percent of GDP and only
about 0.52 percent of federal education spending (Table 7). Second, Government ownership of PAREIB
runs deep, as evidenced by the following facts. The project is at the core of CONAFE's mandate and it
fits well with the Government's poverty strategy. Moreover, a large share of the total cost of PAREIB i s
currently financed by the Federal Government (43 percent) and CONAFE's budget (100 percent).
Furthermore; it helps considerable that Bank loan proceeds go to the Treasury rather than the project
executing agency. More importantly, the Government has an excellent track record over the past ten
years, showing sustained and increasing financial support of PARED and CONAEWs compensatory
programs (Table 7). Finally, there i s strong political support for PAREIB from Congress and other
stakeholders due to the well documented and noteworthy positive impact of the programon the education
of disadvantaged children.          CONAFE's compensatory programs has also effectively promoted
institutional networking and participationof parents, communities and state education authorities. Hence,
financing   of PAREIB i s not likely to be reduced by the Government during this administration. All this
bodes well for the continued sustainability of CONAFE's compensatory education programs.

             Table7: Budget for Compensatory EducationinMexico (miilions ofMexican pesos)
                                                   1998            1999      2000      2001       2002    2003/p
GDP Mexico                                     3,846,350     4,593,685   5,491,373 5,828,591  6,152,829 6,578,602
Total NationalSpendingon Education               229,088       280,256     337,881   379,525    417,248  449,895
Total Public SpendingonEducation                 186,313       225,826     272,056   306,644    338,740   362,298
Total FederalSpendingonEducation                 157,545       187,154     223,385   250,819    276,632   295,430
Compensatory Programs
   PAREB                                             884           987       1,165       572
   PIARE                                             429           550         694       561
   PAREIB                                            102           360         500     1,054      2,254     2,350
Total Costs                                        1,415          1,897      2,359     2,187      2,254     2,350
CompensatoryPrograms(Relativeto PublicFinance System)
 as % of GDP                                      0.04%         0.04%       0.04%     0.04%       0.04%    0.04%
 as % of totalnationalspendingon education        0.62%         0.68%       0.70%     0.58%       0.54%    0.52%
 as % of totalpublic spendingoneducation          0.76%         0.84%       0.87%     0.71%       0.67%    0.65%
 as % of totalfederal spendingoneducation         0.90%         1.01%       1.06%     0.87%       0.81%    0.80%
Source: Tercer Informede Gobiemo, Presidenciade laRepliblica,2004; CONAFE accountsandbudget, 2004.
p. preliminary


It was estimated during the appraisal of Phase I1that recurrent costs for the remaining two phases of the
program would amount to 37 percent of estimated total program costs. Assuming that recurrent costs
continue beyond the implementation period, covering replacement of materials, maintenance and
incentives programs, then recurrent costs would amount to MXN$0.96 billion per year, or 0.39 percent of
projected total federal expenditures in basic education for 2006. Further, it was assumedif 80 percent of
total project costs for Phases 2 and 3 would be continued beyond implementation, then recurrent costs
would amount to about MXN$0.21 billion per year, or about 0.09 percent of projected total federal
expenditures in basic education for 2006. Therefore, neither the counterpart fund requirements nor the
incremental recurrent costs are likely to impose a significant fiscal burden.




                                                          74

                               Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues
                        MEXICO BasicEducationDevelopmentPhaseI11
-
Social

CONAFEcarried out extensive consultations with key stakeholders on the future of its compensatory
education programs, with the aim of reorienting the design of PAREIB I11and forming the basis for
the next stage of CONAFE's compensatory education programs. In parallel, CONAFE reviewed the
external evaluations of the program, carried out in recent years, to extract from them the most
important lessons that could be incorporated in the design of phase III(Ezpeleta and Weiss 2000).
Participants in the consultation workshops were asked to view the program through a timeframe of
the next ten years, and to seek-within     each group-to    point out issues and suggestions for the
development of the programover the mediumterm.

The following paragraphs summarize the main conclusions drawn from the external evaluations and
the key themes discussed during the consultations. Consultations were held with state level program
coordinators, state education planning authorities, and national and international educational
specialists and academics, in three separate workshops of two days each. A common feature of these
consultations i s that they demonstrated the excellent ability that CONAFE has to seek and receive
feedback from civil society and from the principal actors involved inthe program.

Important lessonsdrawn from external evaluations (carried out duringthe 1994-2003period) include:

        (a) Targeting of beneficiaries and schools requires more attention to continue ensuring that
            compensatory interventions indeed benefit the poorest and most needy schools.
            Targeting should be better connected to programinterventions. Inother words, the actual
            needs of each school should determine the program interventions in that school
            addressingthose needs.

        (b) Program monitoring and the evaluation of its impact at the school level, should be
            strengthened. It i s important to balance the equity orientation of the program with the
            effectiveness of interventions. It i s also important to put in place a strategy for the
            continuous improvement of the program.

        (c) Institutional Strengthening of SEPEs. It i s important to continue strengthening the
            institutional capacity of SEPEs to deliver quality education services; to the extent this
            goal i s achieved, the effectiveness of the CONAFE's compensatory interventions will
            also increase.

        (d) Technical assistance provided to schools-through       a network of pedagogic advisors-
            needs to be strengthened to effectively support the work of teachers. More attention
            should be given to the leamindteaching process over the planningand control aspects of
            the education process.

        (e) Initialeducation program, in its pedagogic and operational models, should be improved
            to ensure the positive impact of the program in the development and future school
            performance of the children.

        (0 Parental Participation. is desirable that parent's involvement be expanded from the
                                      It
            current emphasis on care of school buildings and materials to substantive aspects of the
            education of their children.



                                               75

       (g) Performance Incentives for Primary Teachers. The amount teachers receive as
            incentive to stay in isolated rural and indigenous schools and dedicate more time to the
            teachindearning process of the students, should be differentiated according to the actual
            difficulty of access posedby each school.

       (h) Program evaluation. The model of participatory evaluation used by CONAFE in its
            community education program should be applied also inthe compensatory programs.

       (i)Logistics. Continueimprovingthedistributionofeducationalmaterialstoensuretheir
            timely arrival at the schools.

The State Coordinators of the program suggested several ideas for improvements to the normative,
administrative and operational aspects of PAREIB. These ideas include:

       (a) Targeting of Schools and Interventions: The targeting methods and criteria to select
            schools and to select interventions in each school need to be publicly explained and
            disseminated. To succeed in doing that, the participation of states and municipalities i s
            very important. It would be helpful to create a "school record" where the specific
            interventions made in each school are recording yearly. This "school record" could also
            include education indicators for each school, as for example enrollment, repetition and
            completion rates, to permit followingthe development of each school.

       (b) Monitoring.      The program monitoring system should be redesigned to cover all
            components of the program and to incorporate-explicitly-the          role of the state and
            municipal education authorities in carrying out each activity. This would lead to better
            integration between CONAFE's compensatory program and state and local education
            systems.

       (c) State Level Administrative Structure. Because the education needs are different in
            each state, it would be desirable to modify the uniform structure of the State Coordinating
            Units (UCEs) so that each UCE could better respondto the education needs of the state
            where it operates.

       (d) Program Norms. Some new norms shouldbe createdand others made more flexible. In
            general, all norms must be updated and amply disseminated. For example, a norm
            establishing physical standards for each type of school could be agreed upon; and the
            norms guidingthe operation of AGEScould be applied ina more flexible manner.

       (e) Technical Assistance to Schools. It would be desirable to develop a yearly technical
            assistance plan to better articulate the pedagogic assistance provided by the Asesores
            TLcnicos Rurules (ATRs) to help schools improve the teachingleaming process. For
           that, CONAFE should mobilize the collaboration of the UCEsandthe SEPEs.

       (f) InstitutionalStrengthening. This intervention at state level could be greatly improved
           through simplification of administrative procedures for contracting and financing, as well
           as by ensuring the availability of a roster of specialists that could be involved in
           providing technical assistanceandtraining at the state level.

       (g) Distribution of Education Materials could be improved by the coordinated
           participation of federal, state and municipal levels of government.


                                                 76

        (h) Incentives to Teachers would be more effective if the amount of the incentive is
            adjustedto the level of difficulty in accessingthe school.

The workshop with State Education Planningauthorities generatedvaluable suggestionsregardingthe
articulation of compensatory activities with the regular education program in each state. This
workshop also proved an invaluable opportunity for the sharing of experiences among the states. The
main aspectshighlighted are:

        (a) Targeting Strategy and Allocation of Resources. The success of the CONAFE's
            compensatory education program i s largely due to the fact that it targets small rural
            communities that are very poor and have limited development potential. On the other
            hand, there i s a riskthat the program mightbe seen as rewarding low performing schools.
            More intensive participation of state and municipal govemments could help clarify and
            improve the targeting criteria. The formulas used to assign resources and the application
            of the targeting criteria in each state need to be reviewed to ensure the optimal
            application of compensatory resources, taking into account changes related to migration,
            poverty levels, and substandardschool conditions ineach state. Moreover, it is necessary
            to begin thinking about how to address the compensatory education needs in urban
            marginalareas.

        (b) Evaluation of Program Impact. Regarding this issue, it is important to clarify what is
            the main objective of the program.         The multiple program objectives (improving
            education quality, equity, effectiveness, efficiency, reducing costs, and expanding
            coverage) do not allow for systematic impact evaluations. Second, it i s important to
            introduce evaluation techniques that allow comparing performance of the same school at
            different points in time-i.e.,   comparing the school with itself. This innovation would
            greatly help to motivate schools to improve education outcomes. Third, education
            indicators need to be perfected and expanded to include the pedagogic and social
            conditions that children have as they enter the school; these indicators should be analyzed
            along with those measuring student's learning progress. Finally, the large number and
            dispersion of the compensatory interventions increases the difficulty of measuring the
            overall impact of the program, especially since not all schools receive the same
            compensatory support.

        (c) New forms of institutional coordination.           In a number of areas-such         as the
            distribution of educational materials-new     forms of coordination between federal, state
            and local education institutions are needed to improve performance.               Also, the
            information required by CONAFE at the central level (provided by state level
            institutions), should better balance pedagogic and administrativeaspects.

        (d) Performance Incentives for Primary Teachers. To control of actual number of hours
            teachers work in each school i s a difficult task and the available information i s not fully
            reliable. Furthermore, to the extent teachers became dependent on the incentives one can
            say incentives might have a perverse effect. Nevertheless, isolated rural communities
            now see their teachers more frequently-even though this does not necessarily mean
            better education outcomes.

        (e) Social Participation. The AGEShave a direct positive impact on social participation, on
            the motivation of the community, and on the mobilization of resources in support of the



                                                 77

             school. The use of funds transferred to parents' associations could be made more
             flexible, taking into account that some school needs cannot be anticipated.

         (0 In-service Training of Teachers. The training and technical assistance initiatives to
             help teachers improve the teachindlearning process i s poorly articulated with other
             federal and state programs aimed at development of teachers. Ingeneral, teacher-training
             activities can have more impact in the classroom if integrated into a global training
             programunder the administration of each state.

         (g) Labor Relations. It is important to move towards improving relations between the
             teacher's union and the education authorities, eliminating perverse linkages between the
             two, and institutingnew, results-oriented modes of interaction that are more transparent
             and accountable. Inparticular, it's important to redefineeducation supervision, stressing
             its pedagogic function over administrative andunion functions.

         (h) Preschool and Initial Education. The out-of-school initial education program helped
             men accept that women participate in workshops, and contributed to improved child-
             rearing practices within the family-such    as better hygiene and activities that stimulate
             growth-that    contribute to the development and education of children. With respect to
             preschool, the legal obligation to provide this level of education poses planning and
             financial challenges and calls for education innovation.

In the workshop with national and international education specialists and federal education
authorities, the driving questions were:       (a) To what extent the design and operation of the
compensatory education programs ensure the desired impact on education outcomes and inequalizing
education opportunities? (b) How to foster education demand and improve the social underpinning for
learning? (c) How to improve the synergy of initiatives at federal, state and local levels directed to
improving education outcomes? And (d) what new directions should compensatory education
programs take, given the present national, regional and global contexts? The consensus of experts on
these issues i s summarized below:

         (a) Reorientation of Compensatory Education Programs. The interaction between the
             goals of justice, equality and equity form the core of the restructuring of compensatory
             education programs. Inthis respect, equality i s understood as respect for diversity. What
             i s neededi s a compensatory policy that ensures equality of opportunities within diversity.
             Programs should move from an approach of "adding inputs" to an integrated concept of
             resource allocation that combines formal andinformal education.

         (b) Targeting Populations andSchools. Often the targeting process is unduly complex and
             passiveto pressures from local and state authorities. Targeting should bejointly done by
             all levels of government according to shared criteria.

         (c) Impact of Compensatory Education Programs.                 The evidence indicates that
             compensatory programs have been successful in improving the image of the school,
             extending education coverage, and improving education indicators, especially at the
             primary school level. On the other hand, insome cases they have also had some perverse
             effects-participating   schools are often "tagged" as inadequate and almost stigmatized;
             expectations regarding the development of students i s sometimes very low, reflecting
             permissive pedagogic attitudes of teachers; participating schools are sometimes over-
             burdened because the compensated schools became the targets and preferred settings for
             experiments with multiple policies and initiatives.


                                                  78

(d) Social Participation. The Mexican State has taken over the function of providing
    education services as a way to achieve social equality and national integration. This
    resulted in the exclusion of policies to foster the responsible participation of civil society
    in the educational process.        Main social actors-parents,      students, teachers and
    directors-have    been largely marginalized in a centralized, authoritarian state education
    system.

(e) Future of Compensatory Education Programs. Informally the federalization of
    compensatory programs has beendiscussed. Ifthat occurs, it shouldbe done as a gradual
   process, takinginto account the advantagesanddisadvantages of each component. Some
    important considerations include:

        (i)Iftheadministrationofcompensatoryprogramsisfederalizedcarelessly,thereis
            a riskthat the programs mightnot be effectively implemented. On the other hand,
            to better articulate the three levels of government around compensatory education
            activities, requires strengthening education management at all levels, involving
            the key individuals concerned.

       (ii)Indigenous populations require specific forms of compensatory education
            programs that recognizes the fact that only one thirdof indigenous children are in
            the bilingual subsystem (indigenous schools) and two-third are enrolled in
            regular schools. Although interculturalhilingual education i s now recognized as
            high priority objective, the education strategies to achieve better education
            outcomes for indigenous children are not yet developed.

      (iii)The focus of compensatory education shouldretumto the school and their
            teachers. Educationbackwardness can be seen as the result of the poor operation
            of schools and as a reflect of the national education system. The compensatory
            strategy shouldplace more emphasis on the professional development of teachers
            and on the pedagogic and administrative management of the school. In that
            sense, the compensatory programs can be useful experimentalpoints of reference
            to improve current school teaching and management practices.

       (iv) The delivery of materials inputs to disadvantaged schools is important but does
            not, by itself, produce the teachinfleming transformation that needs to take
            place with the participation of students, teachers, directors and parents. If the
            goal is to improve student learning achievements, interventions should be
            centered around and on the school.

       (v) The program i s weak in its efforts to establish a network to provide pedagogic
            assistanceto the schools. Technical support at the school level must use different
            strategies and focus on specific problems of the day-to-day education practice. It
            also should be better integrated as part of the professional development of
            teachers and directors.

      (vi) Preschool education policies require further development and that goes beyond
            what CONAFE can do with compensatory programs. Preschool i s primarily a
            preparation for life, and should have a broader objective than simply making
            children ready to enter primary school. Although it i s clear that disadvantaged
            children tend to benefit more from preschool than other 3-5 year olds, positive


                                         79

                   results of preschool education improve performance inprimary school only to the
                   extend that preschool education i s of good quality.

             (vii) The initial education program should build upon what parents know and value.
                   The program needs to be continuous and comprehensive:               one year is not
                   sufficient to affect child-rearing practices. The program should also be closely
                   related to nutrition and health programs that operateinthe same community.

Enriched by the ideas generated from this process of consultation, CONAFE expressed its
commitment to reorient its compensatoryeducation programs along the following policy lines:

       (a) Continue contributing to raising education equity by expanding access to schooling,
           increasing the permanence of children in school, and enhancing the opportunities for
           success among the poorest children who are marginalized and disperse in isolated
           communities throughout the country. Similarly, aim to achieve a better fit between the
           education services provided and the needs of the poor, helpingrealize their rightto access
           quality basic education.

       (b) Make the program more transparent, disseminating to civil society and institutional
           partners the criteria that orient the targeting of beneficiaries of compensatory
           interventions. Emphasis will be placed on compensatory programs as a mechanism of
           socialjustice that i s the shared responsibility of the three levels of government under the
           vigilance of society interested inachievingeducation equity.

       (c) Give more emphasis to monitoring and evaluation of the program as a whole and the
           impact of its components on the schools.         In doing that, CONAFE recognizes that
           compensatory initiatives lead to new forms of interaction between social actors in the
           education process and that transforming these relationships is as important as increasing
           academic learningachievementsof students.

       (d) Improve the management of compensatory programs with the aim to initiate and sustain
           the federalized mode of operation. This will be done through continued strengthening of
           cadres at state level in order to guaranteethe success of the programfor its beneficiaries.

       (e) Balance better the educational and administrativefunctions of programoperations, giving
           priority to generating the conditions that maximize student learning achievements
           supported by an efficient administration.

       (f) Continue strengthening social participation inbasic education, understandingthis goal as
           an exercise in citizen's rights and as the development of a culture of individual and
           collective responsibilityamong parents and school communities with respect to education
           outcomes. Work with parents will focus on activities that strengthen the school and
           enhance the value of education of the children.

       (g) Contribute to redefining the relations between teachers and the community, moving
          towards higher levels of accountability.

       (h) Improve programtargeting andensure the correct application of the targeting criteria, by
          carrying out the followingpriority tasks:




                                                80

                    (i)Review     actual targeting practices in order detect difficulties and ensure that
                        resource allocation gives priority to those who have the most need, according to
                        the education conditions of eachstate;

                   (ii)Adopt, ontheshortrun,nationaltargetingcriteriaandincorporatestate-specific
                        mechanism to monitor these criteria, introducing more flexibility in the targeting
                        process. In doing so, CONAFE will take into account the view of education
                        authorities ineach of the 31 states, andthe accumulated experience of the UCEs.

                   (iii)Explicitly link the new targeting methodology with the monitoring and
                        evaluation procedures used to assess the operation and impact of the
                        compensatory programs.

    The design of PAREIB I11 incorporates the main lessons learned from these consultations and
    introduces changes in the strategies used to implement the program.           These adjustments and
    innovations are described for each component of the program.


IndigenousPeoplesDeveloumentPlan(IPDP)

Summary. This annex presents the Plan for Indigenous Peoples Development (IPDP) for PAREIB III.
The IPDPfirst reviews Mexico's legal framework for indigenous development and education; second, it
provides baseline data on indigenous peoples; third, it presents results of stakeholder consultations and
quantitative evaluation of CONAFE's impact on indigenous students and communities; fourth, it outlines
the strategy for local participation in PAREIB 111; fifth, it profiles CONAFE's institutional capacity;
sixth, it summarizes plans for monitoring and evaluation; and lastly, it reviews risks and risk-mitigating
strategies. This assessment generally finds that an effective program with extensive consultation and
responsiveness to indigenous peoples is already operating, and that the successful prior performance of
CONAFEbodes well for the future education of indigenous students.

Plan Overview. CONAFE's compensatory education programs target schools in disadvantaged and
isolated ruralcommunities, including all indigenous primary schools. Duringthe preparation of PAREIB
I,specialized staff identifiedlocalpreferencesearly onthroughdirect consultation.             Subsequent
consultations have been held for PAREIB II.     A recent social assessment carried out in preparation of
PAREIB 111found that indigenous peoples held quite positive opinions of CONAFE's compensatory
programs. Stakeholders supported expansion of several aspects of CONAFE's programs, in particular the
AGEScomponent. CONAFE designs culturally appropriate learning materials and plans educational
strategy in conjunction with Parents Associations (APFs) of indigenous parents. CONAFE offers didactic
materials in indigenous languages, in addition to recognizing both indigenous and mestizo cultural
heritage in educational content. CONAFE's strong institutional capacity, based on over 30 years of
operation and 13 years implementing programs with support from the World Bank and Inter-American
Development Bank, ensures its ability to execute this IPDP. CONAFE collects annual data on indigenous
student test performance, dropout, repetition and failure rates. An evaluation of the entire PAREIB
program, to be financed under PAREIB 111, will expand on already-existing monitoring and evaluation
structures.




                                                   81

LegalFramework

Constitutional Framework. The Constitution of the United Mexican States recognizes that Mexico has a
multicultural population of indigenous origins. It affirms that a duty of the law i s to promote the
"development of [indigenous] language, culture, customs, resources, and social organization, and to
generally guarantee to indigenous peoples full accessto the states' jurisdiction." InApril, 2001, Mexico's
Senate unanimously approved the Congressional Decree on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples and
Communities, which amended Mexico's Constitutionto further emphasize the right of indigenous people
to "preserve and enrich their languages, knowledge, and all elements that constitute their culture and
identity." This Constitutional Amendment also declared that Mexican authorities are obligated to improve
indigenous levels of schooling, favoring bilingualintercultural education, literacy and productive training
(Diario O$cial de la Federacidnde M&xico2001).

Legislative Framework. In 1993, Mexico approved the General Education Law (Ley General de
Educacidn), which explicitly sets guidelines for bilingual education and declared that in the first years of
schooling, indigenous education should use an indigenous language and then use Spanish only as a
second language (Diario Oficial de la Federaci6n de MCxico 1992). Several states of Mexico -
particularly Chiapas and Oaxaca - have legally recognized the obligation to offer bilingual-intercultural
education to indigenous students. Mexico's General Education Law of 1993 guides current developments
in Mexican education. That law emphasizes two national strategies for increasing the effectiveness of
indigenous education. First, it directs Mexico's General Directorate for Indigenous Education (DGEI) to
provide pre-service teacher training and to create opportunities for in-service training of current teachers.
Second, it directs the federal government to embrace decentralization and to expand bilingualism by
incorporatinglocal culture into pedagogical content (Moya 1998).

Federal Government Strategies. Recent federal plans have further emphasized the importance of
indigenous peoples in Mexico's development. Mexico's Comisidn Nacional Para el Desarrollo de 10s
Pueblos Indigenas (National Commission for Indigenous Peoples Development (formerly National
Indigenous Institute), a division of the federal government, has publishedan indigenous development plan
for the years 2001-2005 (IN12001). President Vicente Fox begins that planby saying: "It i s a priority of
my government to construct a new relation between the State, indigenous peoples, and Mexican society,
founded in the recognition of cultural diversity, in dialogue between cultures and in the respect and
recognition of differences." Mexico's Secretariat of Public Education, in its plan for the years 2001-2006,
emphasizes the central importance of providing good-quality education to vulnerable populations
including indigenous peoples (SEP2001).
                                                         IndigenousPopulation in Mexico
BaselineData

Indigenous     Demography. About           seven
percent of Mexico's population lives in a
household where       the    head    speaks   an
indigenous language, and Mexico's 6 million
indigenous language speakers fall into one of
62 indigenous language groups. The NAhuatl,
Maya, Mixteco and Zapoteco are the largest
groups, with 24 percent, 13 percent, 7 percent,                   195019601970 19902000
and 7 percent of Mexico's             indigenous
population, respectively. The states of Oaxaca,           I people(millions)
                                                               Indigenous
Chiapas, Veracruz,..Puebla and. YucatAn                   +Portion      of Mexicothat is indigenous
account for over 60 percent of Mexico's~~                 Source: DGEcensuses 1950,1960 and 1970 ;INEGI
indigenous language speakers. Over 60 percent of          censuses 1990and 2000


                                                     82

Mexico's indigenous people live in a locality of fewer than 2500 residents (INEiGI, 2000 Census). While
the indigenous population of Mexico has grown rapidly from 2.4 million in 1950 to 6 million today, the
portion of Mexico that is indigenous has dropped from 11 percent in 1950 to 7 percent today (Figure
"Indigenous Population").




  IndigenousCommunitiesinMexico

                                                    . .....
                                                      ..... ..".. ... .... .




                                                                            Source: Estxada2001.


IndigenousKnowledgeof
Spanish.                                          BilingualIndigenous Mexicans,1950-2000
Almost 80 percent of Mexico's                                    (%of indigenous population)
indigenous     people      identify
themselves as Spanish speakers.         100%

They leam much of this Spanish in
schools-among           indigenous      80%

children aged 5-9, 60 percent speak     60%
Spanish;    among       indigenous
children aged 10-14, 85 percent         40%
speak    Spanish,    and    among
indigenous children aged 15-19,         20%

over 90 percent speak Spanish. In         0%
2000, about 360,000 children aged                  1950              1960           1970      1990   2000




                                                   83

Indigenous Educational Achievement.
About 84 percent of Mexico's indigenous                       Average Years Schoolingof Adults
people aged 6 to 14 are enrolled in school,
and about the same portion of indigenous
people aged 8 to 14 can read and write in
Spanish. Literacy rates decrease with age,
and of the indigenous populationaged 15 and
older, only 66 percent are literate. In
Chiapas, Chihuahua, Guerrero and Sinaloa,
less than 60 percent of indigenous people
aged 15 and older are literate. Nearly a third
of indigenous adults have no schooling, and               Men        Women       Total
40 percent of indigenous women have no
schooling; only 10percent of Mexican adults      Source: INEGI2000
nationally and 12percent of Mexican women
nationally have no schooling. A ranking of municipalities by educational underachievement showed that
while a fourth of municipalities nationally had low or very low educational underachievement, not one
indigenous municipality did. Indigenous adults have on average 4 years of schooling, though that average
ranges from 3.0 years inChihuahua to 6.4 years inMexico City. Nationally, all Mexicans have an average
of 7.6 years schooling, nearly double the indigenous average (INEGI2000).

BilingualEducation.Bilingual education began informally inthe Chiapas highlands in 1920but did not
became a formal federal programuntil 1951.At that time, the NationalIndigenousInstitute (INI)received
funding from the Secretariat of Public Education to oversee bilingual education (Modiano 1988).
Bilingual instruction has rapidly expanded from
46 teachers in 1952 to 3,800 teachers in 1970 and
over 50,000 teachers today. Oaxaca, where 37
percent of residents speak an indigenous language,
offers a good example of that expansion. In the
1980s in Oaxaca, the number of students in
bilingual programs grew by 50 percent, the
number of bilingual schools grew by 32 percent,
and the number of bilingual teachers increased by
55 percent. Even with this growth, however, by
1991 only 22 percent of Oaxacan indigenous
students were enrolled in bilingual programs
(Hernandez 1993).

Federal Oversight of Education. In 1978, the SEP created the General Directorate for Indigenous
Education (DGEI) to oversee education for all indigenous students. Since 1983, staff hired at DGEIhave
been fluent inboth an indigenous language and inSpanish (Varese 1990). In2002, DGEIoversaw 50,000
teachers - 2,000 in initial education, 14,000 in pre-primary, and 34,000 in primary school - who taught
1.15 million indigenous students, giving an average distribution of 24 students per teacher (DGEI2003).

Biculturaland InterculturalInstruction.Bicultural education instructedindigenous students incontent
from both their own and from mestizo history. Intercultural instruction, which emphasizes the linkages
between indigenous and mestizo traditions, began in the 1990s. Intercultural education focuses on
relationships between social groups such as equity, overlapping social identities, shared cultural
traditions, and mixing of social values and norms (Hornberger 2000, L6pez and Viveros n.d.). Instruction
today occurs in an indigenous language for the first two years of primary school. Teachers introduce
Spanish inthe thirdgrade, and by sixth grade instruction i s primarily in Spanish (Schmelkes 2000).


                                                   84

Technical IdentificationofDevelopmentor MitigationActivities

Overview. Participatory stakeholder assessments in the early planning stages of PAREIB Iidentified
local needs and designed project components to respond to those needs. A series of quantitative
evaluations of CONAFE's effectiveness, using indicators on school participation and test scores, have
found that CONAFE improves the quality of indigenous education and generates measurable results in
improving indigenous student learning. Generally, these qualitative and quantitative assessments have
shown that indigenous students have benefited from CONAFE' s compensatory programs, and that
PAREIBhas no adverseeffect on indigenous people.

PAREIB IConsultation Arrangements. During the preparation of PAREIB I, and governmentBank
staff interviewed about 500 stakeholders in Oaxaca and Chiapas including students, teachers, parents,
government ministers, education researchers, members of Congress, and representatives of local NGOs.
In Oaxaca, these consultations covered, inter alia, education authorities and members of the education
committees of Mixteca, Mixes, and Zapoteca communities. They also covered community-based
organizations of Mixtecos, Zapotecos, Chocholtecos, and Chinantecos. In Chiapas, consultations were
held with supervisors of Escuelus Bilingiies Federules Tzeltales and Tzotiles, among other stakeholders.
Throughout implementation of PAREIB I,CONAFE carried out consultations with indigenous peoples
through the APFs in indigenous primary schools, and through the education authorities that are
responsible for indigenous schools.

PAREIB IConsultationFindings. Interviews found that students leave school becauseof (a) economic
reasons, such as the cost of transportation and uniforms or necessity of work; (b) family migration; (c)
parents who place higher value on work than on the education of children; (d) health problems, and (e)
teachers who are monolingual in Spanish and hence unable to communicate with indigenous children.
Parents who were monolingual in an indigenous language felt that indigenous education should be
bilingual, but considered that learning Spanish was essential for their children. Many also felt that
education was equally important for male and female students, and that existing gender inequality in
education attainment should not obstruct efforts to further help indigenous girl students. Parents often
offered their time to support local schools. Respondentsgenerally held positive opinions of CON-,       in
partbecauseof its emphasison community participation.

PAREIB I1 Consultations. During the preparation of PAREIB 11, the Indigenous Peoples Profiles
(World Bank 1999) and a study on indigenous peoples in urban Mexico (World Bank 2001) were a
primary source of information on indigenous education, needs and priorities. Results of those
consultations found that basic education i s a highpriority for indigenous peoples. Indigenous children are
not absent from schools becausethey and their parents do not value education, but because of poverty or
inadequaciesof the school system, which PAREIBseeks to address.

CONAFE Consultations. CONAFE also maintains a permanent dialogue with the School Councils of
indigenous schools. Based on consistent recommendations from those Councils, CONAFE makes
adjustmentsto strategy as neededduringproject implementation.

PAREIB I11 Consultations: Methodology. During preparation of PAREIB 111, specialists visited six
indigenous communities in the Mexican states of Oaxaca and MichoacAn to better understand the
perspectives of indigenous peoples towards CONAFE's compensatory programs. Interviewers spoke with
preschool students, primary school students, telesecunduriu students, parents of students attending
schools supported by PAREIB and teachers in schools supported by PAREIB. In Oaxaca, interviewers
visited communities inTlaxiaco; in MichoacAn, interviewers visited PurepechaandNahuatl communities.



                                                    85

PAREIB I11 Consultations: Summary Findings. All groups of stakeholders expressed very positive
opinions of the compensatory programs and emphasized their satisfaction with the achievements of
CONAFE. Members of the APFs repeatedly noted the importance of the AGE component support and
sought expansion of the program to provide them with more resources. Community members noted that
CONAFE's activities cause increasedlocal involvement in schools, though women more often participate
than men do. Communities with telesecundarias noted that students extensively used the materials that
CONAFE had providedto the telsecundarias.

PAREIB I11Consultations: Suggestions for Expansions and Modifications.Surveyed stakeholders
suggested several areas for expansion of CONAFE's program, especially in its support to APFs under the
AGE component. Some parentsthat participate in the initial education program suggestedthe convening
of regional workshops to learn from other communities' experiences. Others interviewednoted that when
children enter schools supported by PAREIBand begin learning to read and write, illiterate parents often
want to become literate, so the entrance of CONAFE into a community creates strong demand among
adults for literacy education. Some participants in APFs noted that in emergency cases, when there i s
urgent need to spend funds, more streamlined processes for spending funds are needed. Other
interviewees emphasized the positive effect of AGE support in strengthening community involvement in
schools, and so requested expansion of the AGE component. Additionally, some community members
expressed a desire to know more about CONAFE's activities, and suggested that CONAFE might
distribute more information materials about its work in local languages. Finally, some APFs members
requested that the AGE component be expanded to incorporate training on monitoring of program
effectiveness.

PAREIB I11 Consultations: Other Comments. Interviewees - particularly teachers in schools that
receive support from CONAFE's compensatory programs - commented on several aspects of schooling
that are not direct targets of CONAFE's work. Some non-CONAFE teachers had poor information on
CONAFE's compensatory programs and had varied reactions to the presence of CONAFE promoters in
the school community. Some APFs members sought remedy for the periodic absences of unionized
teachers. Others noted the poor conditions of many bathrooms in their local schools. Some teachers
requested improvements to their housing
units. Additionally,   some interviewees
noted that learning materials had in some                 I n d i g e n o u s M a t h S c o r e
cases arrived late. Finally, some CONAFE                              Im p r o v e m e n t
promoters reported having experienced
delays in processing of their payments,               5 0 0                                                 6 0
                                                                                                                0)
and requested more timely disbursement                                                                          0
                                                                                                                C

of remunerations.                                E                                                             f
                                                 ::
                                                 0    4 0 0                                                 4 5

PAREIB I11 Consultations: SEP and                5                                                             E
CONAFE. CONAFE's              compensatory            3 0 0                                                 3 0

programs     finance   infrastructure and                                                                      z2-
several inputs schools as well as support             2 0 0                                                 1 5
for commkity participation through-the       I                    1 9 9 9 2 0 0 0 2 0 0 1 2 0 0 2
APFs. Many of the suggestions offered by
stakeholders focused on work         areas    -a--lndigenous               s c o r e s - I n d - n o n i n d      diff

supported by SEP and not by CONAFE.
One potentially useful suggestion in this     Source: Shapiro andMoreno Trevino 2003. "Difference" is difference

regard was to offer more extensive            betweenindigenous scores andnon-indigenous non-CONAFE scores.

information in local languages covering       The black line is the trend of Difference.

activities that are part of the CONAFE
compensatory programs, as well as those


                                                    86

under the responsibility of SEP.

Early Bilingual Education Evaluation. Before CONAFE began experts (Modiano 1964 and Dutcher
1982) evaluated the effects of bilingual education in Chiapas using a matched experimental design with
two groups of Mayan students. Modiano identified similar Mayan students in bilingual and monolingual
education systems considering background factors such as principal family income sources, community
isolation, health, diet, size of locality, and local acceptance of public schooling. Inthird grade, Modiano
gave a Spanish aptitude exam to the 1600 identified students. The evaluation results show that Mayan
students in bilingual schools performed significantly better on the exam; they also declared their
preference for learning from teachers of indigenous backgrounds.

CONAFE Evaluation. A World Bank evaluation (2002) compared CONAFE-supported schools between
the years 1992 and 1995 infour Mexican states with similar schools inMichoach, which at that time did
not receive CONAFE support. The evaluation found that CONAFE intervention contributed to increase
test scores of indigenous students by 25 percent. Full implementation of CONAFE, the evaluation
concluded, could raise indigenous student scores by 45 to 90 percent. CONAFE interventions were also
found to lower dropout rates.

PARE Evaluation. Another evaluation (Paqueo and Lopez-Acevedo 2003) examined the effectiveness of
the Primary Education Project (Programa para Abatir el Rezago Educativo, PARE), a predecessor of
PAREIB,on improving test scores. That evaluation showedthat improving and increasing school supplies
inMexico couldsubstantially improve education quality.

Additional Evaluations of CONAFE. A separate evaluation (World Bank 2002) compared indigenous
student performance on the Evaluacidn de Educacidn PLiblica mathematics and Spanish exams between
1996 and 2000. That evaluation did not control for relevant background differences between indigenous
and non-indigenous students, but it found that indigenous students were catching up to their non-
indigenous peers by about 10 percent per year. A more recent evaluation (Shapiro and Moreno-Trevino
2003) used propensity score matching to identify the effect of CONAFE on test scores. Unavailability of
sufficient background data made results represent a lower bound on the positive effect of CONAFE
compensatory education programs. That study found that CONAFE contributed to significant
improvementsinprimary student mathscores andinrepetitionandfailure.

Strategy for localparticipation

Coverage. The project consists of a compensatory education program supporting initial education,
preschool, primary and lower secondary schools located in disadvantaged and isolatedrural communities.
A total of 250,000 indigenous children will benefit from the preschool program, and approximately 1
million indigenous students will benefit from the primary school program. Indigenous students at the
lower-secondary level attending telesecundaria schools will also benefit (the exact number cannot be
established because the classification of indigenous and non-indigenous students i s not applied after the
primary education level). In telesecundarias, content i s delivered via satellite television to remote
communities.

Funding to Parents Associations (APFs). The Mexican government has developed a program called
School Management Support (Apoyoa la GestidnEscolar, AGE), implementedby CONAFE. Under this
program, CONAFE provides a small cash grant to APFs in targeted preschool and primary schools. The
APFs have discretion to spend the grant on improvements to the school buildingand on complementary
school materials. Often the APFs also execute school infrastructure improvements under separate
agreements with CONAFE. The APFs participate in the School Council, where they contribute to the



                                                       87

overall planning and administration of the school. The AGE program, which has existed since 1995, has
proved to be an effective instrument in building deeper community involvement in schools and in
improving relationships between school officials and indigenous parents.

Response to Needs Assessments. PAREIB has incorporated several components that specifically
respond to needs expressedinconsultations with indigenous peoples. Those components include:

        Trained bilingualteachers
    0   Bilingual teacher guides
    0   Special attentionto indigenous migrant students
    0   Special attention to indigenous students attending general schools
   0    Support the expansion of the AGE component
   0    Continuous consultation by CONAFE with indigenous peoples to improve the content and
        delivery of CONAFE's compensatory mechanisms for indigenous peoples.

The support for adult literacy recommended by indigenous stakeholders does not fall within the purview
of CONAFE However, the Mexican government, through the National Institute of Adult Literacy
(INEA),does support adult literacy initiatives.

Program Scalability. CONAFE has developed several initiatives to address these needs; those initiatives
have now been streamlined as part of Mexico's national basic education policy. They include:

        Textbooks in 33 indigenous languages and 52 variants, covering the first three grades of primary
        school, are now providedat no cost by SEP through DGEI;
        Teachers are trained to develop teaching materials appropriate to locallanguages;
        SEP supplies region-specific books to school libraries at no cost to the school;
        SEP and CONAFE continue providing in-service training for primary school teachers; such
        training is particularly important when instructors in remote rural areas are unable to access
        teacher training through normal means;
        A PAREIB Ipilot program for migrant children has become part of SEP's policy for basic
        education andhas become a core component of CONAFE's community education program;
        The special attention to indigenous students attending general primary schools (piloted under
        PAREIB I) generatea multicultural approach to basic education, which was formalized in
                    helped
        the National Education Program as a guideline for basic education policy;
        The post-primary lower-secondary program, adjusted to rural communities (Posprimaria), has
        become part of CONAFE's regular community education program. Evaluation of that programby
        indigenous parents, education promoters, andextemal scholars has beenpositive.

Specific interventions. PAREIB 111 will train promoters and teachers, provide appropriate didactic
materials, and support APFs at the preschool level in indigenous schools. At the primary level, indigenous
students and schools will benefit from a variety of project interventions:

   0    Infrastructure   improvements,     including   additional   classrooms,    sanitary services   and
        complementary facilities for school supervisionand teacher training;
   0    Equipment, consisting in school furniture and sports equipment;
   0    Didactic materials, including student packages of school utensils and basic didactic materials for
        the classroom;
   0    In-service teacher trainingin multi-grade pedagogical techniques, inbilingual education, and ina
        multicultural approach to teaching and learning, in addition to training in selected national and




                                                    88

         regional courses. Teacher training i s also supported with technical assistance to teachers in the
         classroomprovided by technical rural assistants (ATRs);
    0    Improvements in school management through modernization of supervision and assistance to
         supervisors and sector chiefs to facilitate frequent school visits;
    0    Performance incentives for primary teachers provided for teachers working in targeted school
         who: (a) attend the full school calendar and keep specified class hours, as certified by the
         corresponding APF; (b) prepare jointly with the ATR specific learning activities for resolving
         student learning problems; (c) provide remedial education to students who are lagging behind
         their peers, inafter-school hours at leastthree days per week; (d) participate intrainingprograms;
         (e) collaborate with parentsassociations, and (f)develop education activities with the community;


Institutional Capacity

CONAFE.As early as 1971, CONAFEbegandeveloping innovative programs for reaching isolated rural
and indigenous students. CONAFE has extensive experience with indigenous education, and has
produced didactic materials with culturally appropriate content and linguistically appropriate materials.
CONAFE now operates in every state of Mexico and has received financial support and technical
assistance from the World Bank since the PARE project began in 1991. CONAFE i s a decentralized
institution of SEP and has the publicly declared support of Mexico's educational andpolitical authorities.
CONAFE's capacity has also been demonstrated through the successful implementation of the previous
phases of PAREIB.


Monitoring andEvaluation

Monitoring. SEP oversees Estdndures Nucionules, a national exam of reading and math performance,
applied to a sample of students at the primary and lower secondary levels. Results from that exam are
comparable between 1998 and 2002, and results will continue to become available each year through
2006. SEP also collects information on dropout, repetition, failure andterminal efficiency ratesby school,
including data for indigenous schools. Those statistics are all disaggregated by indigenous and non-
indigenous schools. Data are also available on the backgrounds of students and their communities by
schools, which allows rigorous evaluation of the effect of CONAFE interventions on the performance of
indigenous students.

Evaluation. PAREIB I11will finance a complete independent evaluation of the entire PAREIBprogram,
1998-2007. Test data will be available for all of those years. Also, since the PAREIB program
encompasses nine years, the evaluation will be able to follow a cohort of students through primary and
lower secondary school. That evaluation will also ascertain the sustainability of the program upon
completion of the third phase. These efforts build on previous and continuing impact evaluations
determiningthe effect of CONAFE on indigenous students.


RiskAssessment

Legal and InstitutionalRisks. Mexico's federal and state governments have passedextensive legislation
recognizing the central importance of indigenous peoples development. That legislation explicitly
identifies good-quality bilingual intercultural education as an important development tool. CONAFE has
extensive institutional capacity, demonstrated through over 30 years of compensatory education
experience and 13 years of work with the support of the World Bank and the Inter-American
Development Bank.



                                                       89

Additional Risks. A risk identifiedearly in the PAREIB program was the scarcity of bilingual instructors
with sufficient educational background and indigenous language experience. Inorder to mitigate this risk
the Government of Mexico has recently taken various initiatives such as the creation of specific
indigenous teacher training courses at the Universidad PedugogicuNucionul, the creation of the Bilingual
Intercultural Education unit at SEP, and the enactment of the Linguistic Rights Law. An additional risk
identified in the first phase of PAREIB was the potential unwillingness of indigenous communities to
form APFs and work in tandem with CONAFE. Since then, experience has shown that indigenous
peoples have embraced those APFs and eagerly worked with CONAFE on many aspects of their local
schools. To give one example, when the Zapatista indigenous movement in 1994rejected most services of
the federal government, the Zapatistas sufficiently favored CONAFE to allow CONAFE' s teachers to
continue working in all of Chiapas.

Expenditure

Designation of Project Fundsfor Indigenous Peoples

Based on actual figures for PAREIB11, CONAFE estimates that, of total project expenditure of US$235
million in 2003 on preprimary and primary schools, US$50 million was spent on indigenous schools. So
approximately 21 percent of CONAFE's expenditure on preprimary and primary schools is allocated to
indigenous peoples, which i s far higher than the 6.5 percent of Mexicans aged 5 to 14, according to
INEGI, who are indigenous.




                                                    90

Environmental Safeguards

The project Operations Manual (OM) mandates that all construction contracts include norms to safeguard
the environment. The OM (item 6.3.18 of the OM) also informs the state normative agencies, responsible
for supervising the construction and/or rehabilitation of education infrastructure, of these norms. The
norms to safeguardthe environment are:

    0   Security measures in dangerous areas. The contractor will post signs, make communications,
        and erect protection barriers-to    safeguard the security of construction workers and of members
        of the community who might be endangered the construction works. These measures will be
        taken by the contractor whenever works are carried out indangerous zones, such as zone prone to
        land slides, andinareas where trees are removed and construction debris are disposed off.

    0   Protect soil from erosion. The contractor will take measures during the rainy season to avoid
        soil erosion caused by rain waters in the construction site and in its surroundings. The areas
        affected by rain water should be well compacted-to            the satisfaction of the construction
        supervisor. The contractor will avoid carrying out works that tend to cause soil erosion, such as
        vertical earth cuts and landfills.

    0   Minimize damaged caused by water, dust and winds. The contractor will be responsible for
        avoiding by all means the damages caused by rains, winds, and dust affecting the works, its
        environs, and the equipment installed in the construction site. The contractor will exercise
        vigilance at all times to avoid damages, includingduringthe delivery of materials and equipment.

    0   Repairs. The contractor i s responsible for carrying out repairs to correct for damages caused by
        the works or as a consequenceof the works.

    0   Care inthe transport of materials. The contractor will program and carry out the transport of
        construction materials in such a way as to avoid any damages to the roads, streets, andother types
        of public and private assets that might result from the transporting o of materials from their place
        of origin to the construction site. Transport costs, including eventual repairs of "on-route"
        damages will be includedinthe unit price of the works.

    0   Removal of construction debris.        The contractor i s responsible for the removal of leftover
        concrete, stone, vegetation, and other construction debris; no extra payment will be allowed for
        this purpose.

    0   Disposal of construction debris. The contractor i s not allowed to dispose of construction debris
        inwater bodies; this type of materialcan only be disposed-off indry areas that are not liable to be
        flooded.

    0   Burning of debris. The contractor is not permitted to burn in open areas any type of debris,
        trees, plans, tires, plastic or any other type of materials that represent danger to human health.
        These debris should be deposited in sanitary landfills that are identified during the design of the
        buildingand havebeenproperly authorizedby the buildingsupervisor.

    0   Infiltration. The contractor will take protective measures to avoid fluids to slip in superficial or
        subsoil water bodies at the construction site and its areas of influence. Preventive measures
        should be applied to protect against flows of contaminated water, oil, and carbureted materials



                                                     91

steaming from the construction and/or from the transport of construction materials. Incase there
are accidental slippages, the contractor will inform the supervisor and will take measures to
counteract contamination of the site and its environs.

Protection of water sources. The contractor will take the necessary measures to protect subsoil
sources of water from slippages caused by the washing of aggregates, concrete mix, soils and
grease, in such a way as to collect fluids in safe containers, before they may slip into the subsoil.

Managingtoxic materials. The contractor will protect and secure any toxic materialthat might
be used in the construction, so as to eliminate the possibility that these materials might
contaminate in any way the natural superficial or subsoil drainage networks.

Buildingsanitary facilities and septic tanks. The contractor will ask the supervisor to approve
the selection of the site for buildingsanitary facilities and septic tanks, in order to protect surface
and subsoil water bodies from eventual contamination by sewer fluids.

Petroleum-based products. The contractor is not allowed to dispose of combustible or
lubricants in existing water courses.

Fumes, smoke, odors. The contractor is responsible for controlling the amount of fumes, smoke
and odors associated with the use of construction machinery and equipment-including
transportation equipment-as     well as for controlling dust, smoke from burning, and the use of
chemical products that are toxic and volatile.           All toxic material needs to be properly
coveredsealed when not inuse, and be kept inisolated areas.

Maintenanceof equipment.The contractor is responsible for the maintenance of equipment and
vehicles in order to ensure that they do not produce gas, odor, fumes and smoke while in
operation.

Minimizingconstruction dust. To reduce construction dust, the contractor will sprinkle water
over earth surfaces where pedestrians and vehicles pass, avoiding not only excessive dust but the
creation of puddles and mud. Likewise, the contractor will cover construction materials with tarp
to reduce dust and damage by rain.

Protectingworkers and school population. The contractor will take all necessary measures to
protect construction workers and the school population from construction site accidents.

Temporary sanitary facilities. The contractor will obtain a permit from the local education
authorities for the construction of temporary sanitary facilities to be used by the construction
workers.

BuildingMaterials. The design andexecution of education infrastructurewill give preference to
the use of construction materials originatedfrom the region where the works are being build.

Excluded Construction Materials. The design and execution of education infrastructure will
not make use of the following construction materials: paint with lead, asbestos, and wood in
regions where there i s scarcity of native timber.




                                              92

                           Annex 11:ProjectPreparationandSupervision
                         MEXICO BasicEducationDevelopment PhaseI11

                                                 Planned                    Actual
PCNreview                                     511212004                 1/29/2004
InitialPID to PIC                             5/27/2004                 3/24/2004
InitialISDS to PIC                            5/27/2004                 3/24/2004
Appraisal                                     1011812004                3/24/2004
Negotiations                                  11/15/2004                5/6/2004
BoardIRVP approval                            211512005
Planneddate of effectiveness                  6/30/2005
Planned date of mid-term review
Plannedclosing.date

Key institutions responsiblefor preparationof the project:
National Council for Educational Development- CONAFE(ConsejoNacional de FomentoEducativo)
Secretariat of Public Education(Secretariade Educacih Pliblica)
State Level Secretariatsof Public Education (SecretariasEstatalesde Educacio'nPliblica)
Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit (Secretariade Hacienda y Crkdito Pliblico)
National FinancingAgency -NAFIN(Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.)

Bankstaffandconsultantswho worked onthe projectincluded:
Name                         Title                                              Unit
Harry Anthony Patrinos       Senior Education Economist, Team Leader           LCSHE
MarkHagerstrom               Country Sector Leader                              LCSHD
Vicente Paqueo               LeadEconomist                                      LCSHS
Victor Manuel Ord6iiez       Financial Management Specialist                    LCOAA
ClaudiaMacias                Operations Officer                                 LCSHH
RajaBentaouet Kattan         Education Specialist                               HDNED
Anna Sant'Anna               Consultant (Sociologist)                           LCSHH
Lea D. Braslavsky            LeadProcurement Specialist                         LCOPR
Jorge Moreno Trevino         Junior Professional Associate                      LCSHD
Mariangeles Sabella          Counsel                                            LEGLA
Joseph Shapiro               Junior Professional Associate                      LCSHS
A h a Garduno Lozano         Language TeamAssistant                             LCSHD
Maria E.Colchao              Senior Program Assistant                           LCSHD
Tania Carrasco               Social Development Specialist                      LCSEO
RosaValencia Estrada         Procurement Analyst                                LCOPR

Peer Reviewers: Robert Prouty, Lead Education Specialist (HDNED); EduardoVelez, Sector
Manager (LCSHD); and Amit Dar, Senior Economist(SASHD)

8. Bank funds expendedto date on project preparation:
1. Bank resources:              100,000
2. Trust funds:                 ----
3. Total:                       100,000

EstimatedApproval and Supervision costs:
1. Remainingcosts to approval:           25,000
    Estimated annual supervision cost: 80,000


                                                   93

                                   Annex 12: Documentsinthe ProjectFile
                             MEXICO BasicEducationDevelopmentPhaseI11

A. PROJECTIMPLEMENTATIONPLAN

FirstYear ImplementationPlanandProcurementPlanOperationsManual

B.BANKSTAFFASSESSMENTS

CONAFE, 1998. "Plan de Implementacibn-FaseI."
Joseph Shapiro and Jorge Moreno Trevino. Compensatory Educationfor DisadvantagedMexican Students:
An Impact Evaluation UsingPropensityScore Matching.
Junho-Pena, Nahmad, Albano, Aranda & Nielsen, Draft June 1997. Evaluacio'nRbpida de la Educacidn
  Indigena en 10s Estadosde Oaxacay Chiapaspara el Proyecto de EducacidnBbsica IIIen Mkxico.
Harry Anthony Patrinos, Joseph Shapiro and Jorge Moreno Trevino. Compensatory Education for
DisadvantagedStudents: Evidence From an Impact Evaluation Study in Mexico.
Mexico: Basic EducationDevelopmentPhase I11- IndigenousPeoplesDevelopmentPlan.
Misidnde supervisi6n. ConclusidnFase I1y Preparaci6nde laFase I11delPAREIB, Febrero2004.
Misi6n de preparaci6nde la Fase I11del PAREIB. Costos estimados del Proyecto 2004-2006 CONAFE,
Febrero 2004.
Misi6nde Supervisi6nPAREIB 7108-ME Fase11,Agosto 18- 29,2003.
Preparaci6nde la FaseI11del PAREIB. Banco Mundial -CONAFE, Febrero2004.
World Bank, November25, 1996, updatedMarch 6, 1998. Mexico CAS -Report No. R-99-49.
             .October30, 1997.ICRMexico: InitialEducationProject-Ln-3518-ME. ReportNo.
  17192.
             .ProjectAppraisal Documentfor a Basic Education Development (PAREIB) Project. Report
NO.17535-ME. 1998.
             .January   20, 1998. ICRMexico: Primary Education Project-Ln-3407-ME. Report No.
  17303.
             . ProjectAppraisal Documentfor aBasicEducationDevelopment(PAREIB) ProjectPhase11.
Report No. 23295-ME. 2002.
             . "Anitlisis de 10s Programas Compensatorios del CONAFE: Una Primera Aproximaci6n."
Mtxico. 2003.

C. OTHER

BenemBrita Universidad Aut6noma de Puebla. 2002. "Informe Final de la Evaluaci6n de TBrmino del
ProgramaIntegral paraAbatir el RezagoEducativo (PIARE). BUAP, MBxico, 2002.
CONAFE. "Deteccibn de necesidades de Accesoria. Estudio cualitativo de la Red de Accesoria. para la
Calidad Educativa." 2004.
           .. 2003. "Plan de Accibn: Proyecto de Renovaci6n del Programa de Educaci6n Inicial no
              "Programa Institucional de medianoplazo: 2002-2006."

Escolarizada."
           ."Educaci6n Inicial." Direcci6nde Educaci6nInicial noEscolarizada.Febrero2004.
           .  "Evaluaci6n del Modelo Pedag6gico del Programa de Educaci6n Inicial no Escolarizado."
Febrero2004.
           .. "AnBlisis
             "Capacitaci6n y Accesoria a 10s ConsejosTBcnicosEscolares." Febrero 2004  .
                        y prospectiva de las estrategiasde operaci6n del programa de educaci6n inicial no
escolarizada." Diciembre 2003.
           ."Impact0 delapoyo alagesti6nescolaren lasrelacionesde lacomunidadescolar" Proyectode
Investigaci6n.Febrero2004.
           . Presentaci6n de las diapositivas "Centros de Maestros y Recursos en zonas rurales e


                                                        94

indigenas." 2003.
           .   "Reorientacibn de 10s Programas Compensatorios del CONAFE. Bases para una nueva
generacidnde acciones." Febrero2004.
           .."Fortalecimiento de laCapacidad de Gesti6nInstitucional." Febrero2004.
             "Resumen del EstudioCualitativo de la Redde Accesoriaparalacalidad educativa."
Rodolfo Ramirez Raymundo.Febrero2004.
           . Sintesis Ejecutiva del estudio: "Politicas educativas compensatoriaspara poblaci6n urbano
marginal: el cas0 Iztapalapa." Febrero,2004.
           . "Educaci6n Inicial, Direcci6ndeEducaci6nInicialnoEscolarizada." Febrero2004.
           .   "Infraestructura Educativa. Participacibn de la Entidad Normativa en la ejecuci6n del
ProgramaGeneralde Obras." Febrero 17 de 2004.
Concepcidn S. Ndfiez Miranda, Carlos Zaldivar. 2003.       "Evaluacih Cualitativa del Impacto de 10s
programascompensatorios(PAREIB) del CONAFE: Oaxacay Michoacdn."
Diario Oficial de la Federaci6nde Mtxico. 1992. "Ley Generalde Educacibn." 18May.
              .2001. "Decreto porelquese aprueba..." 14de agosto.
Direcci6n General de Educaci6n Indigena (DGEI). 1993. "Informaci6n de Alumnos, Maestros, y Escuelas
de Educaci6n Inicial, Preescolary Primaria Indigena por Entidad y Grupo 6tnico." Mtxico D.F., Mtxico.
Cited in Cummings, S.M., and Stella Tamayo. 1994. "Language and Education in Latin America: An
Overview." World Bank HROWorking Paper 13068.
              .2003. "Informaci6n BdsicaGeneral," http://www.seo.gob.m.
Dutcher, Nadine. 1982. "The Use of First and Second Languages in Primary Education: Selected Case
Studies." World Bank StaffWorking Paper 504. World Bank, Education Department, Washington DC.
Estrada, Sergio de la Vega. 2001. "fndice de Desarrollo Social de 10s Pueblos Indigenas." Mtxico D.F.
Instituto Nacional Indigenista and United Nations DevelopmentProgram.
Ezpeleta, Justa andEduardo Weiss (coordinators), "Programa paraAbatir el RezagoEducativo: Evaluaci6n
Cualitativa de Impacto Informe Final." Departamento de Investigaciones Educativas del Centro de
Investigaci6n y de Estudios Avanzados del Instituto Polittcnico Nacional [DIE-CINVESTAV-IPN].
MBxico, 1994 which focuses on the PARE and was later published as "Cambia la Escuela Rural:
Evaluacidn Cualitativa del Programa para Abatir el Rezago Educativo [DIE-CINVESTAV-IPN] Mtxico,
2000.
HernandezReyes, Raul. 1993.Educaci6ny Bienestar Social en el Estadode Oaxaca, 1980-1990.
INEGI. 2000. XII Censode Poblacio'ny Vivienda.TabuladosBfisicos. Aguascalientes,Mtxico.
Instituto Nacional Indigenista (INI).2001. "Programa Nacional Parael Desarrollo de 10sPueblosIndigenas
2001-2006. MBxico D.F., Mtxico.
L6pez-Ckdeiia, David, and Rubtn Viveros Alvarez. n.d. "Educacibn Intercultural y Pueblos Indigenas en
Mtxico. Elementos para Analizar Nuevas Metdforas del Sigo XXI." Mimeo, Direcci6n General de
Educaci6nIndigena, Mtxico DF,Mtxico.
              . 2003. "Educaci6n Intercultural y Pueblos Indigenas en Mtxico. Elementos para Analizar
NuevasMetdforasdel Siglo XXI." Working paper, DGEIISEP.
Modiano, Nancy. 1988. "Public Bilingual Education in Mexico." Intemational Handbook of Bilingualism
and Bilingual Education.New York: GreenwoodPress.
Moya, Ruth. 1998. "Reformas educativas e interculturalidad en Amtrica Latina." Revista Iberoamericana
de Educacidn 17.
Paqueo, Vicente, and Gladys Lopez-Acevedo. 2003. "Supply-Side School Improvement and the Learning
Achievement of the Poorest Children in Indigenous and Rural Schools: the Case of PARE." World Bank
Policy ResearchWorking Paper 3172, December2003.
Schmelkes, Sylvia. 2000. "Education and Indian Peoples in Mexico: An Example of Policy Failure." In
Reimers, Fernando. Ed., Unequal Schools, Unequal Chances. 2000. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University
Press.
Secretaria de Educaci6n Pdblica. 2001. "Programa Nacional de Educacidn 2001-2006." Mtxico DF.
MBxico.
SEPIPreescolarIndigenaNacional. 2003 ."Que se enseiia y que se aprende en preescolarindigena."
                     .2003 ."La producci6n de textos en la escuelaprimariade context0 indigena."


                                                        95

SEPIPrimaria MultigradoNacional.2003 ."Para que las niiias y 10s niiios escriban."
SEPIPrimaria indigena Oaxaca, Instituto de Educaci6nPublica Oaxaca. 2003    ."La producci6n de textos en
lenguasindigenas."

SEPIPrimaria Indigena Puebla, SEP. 2003. "La escrituraen laprimaria indigena."

SEP, Secretariade Educaci6nChihuahua, Primariaindigena Chihuahua.2003. "El dialogo, unrecursopara
el desarrollo de laoralidad en laescuelaprimaria indigena."

SEP, Secretariade Educaci6nChiapas, Primaria Indigena Chiapas.. 2003. "El desarrollo de habilidadesde
biisqueday seleccidnde informaci6n en laescuelaprimaria indigena."
SEP, PRONAP Primaria Tabasco. Talleres Generales de Actualizacidn 2002-2003. "El desarrollo de la
expresidnoral en laescuelaprimaria indigena."

                 . Primaria indigena. Talleres Generales de Actualizaci6n 2002-2003. "La narraci6n oral
indigena en el aula."

                 . Primaria Oaxaca. Talleres Generales de Actualizaci6n 2002-2003. "La narraci6n oral
indigena en el aula."

                 .Preescolar indigena.Talleres Generalesde Actualizaci6n 2002-2003. "La narraci6noral
indigena en el aulapreescolar."

                 .Primaria multigrado. Talleres Generales de Actualizacidn 2002-2003. "La comprensi6n
lectora en el aula multigrado."

                 .2003. "Estrategias parapromover la expresi6noral en lengua maternay segundalengua:
Del Colectivo docente a1sal6nde clases."
Secretariadel Sistema de Educaci6nPublica Hidalgo. 2003. "Las habilidadesde bdsquedas y selecci6n de
informaci6n en el aula multigrado" Primaria MultigradoHidalgo.
Secretariade Educacidn Tabasco. 2003. "La producci6n de textos orales y escritos en la escuela primaria
de context0 indigena."
Torres, Rosa Maria y Emilio Tenti Fanfani (2000). "Politicas educativas y Equidad en MBxico: La
Experiencia de la Educaci6n comunitaria, la Telesecundariay 10s Programascompensatorios en equidad y
Calidad en laEducacidn Btisica." Instituto Internacional de Planeamientode la Educaci6n (IIPEIUNESCO)
BuenosAires, Argentina.
Universidad Veracruzana. "Evaluaci6n de 10s Programas del Consejo Nacional de Foment0 Educativo:
Educaci6nComunitaria y ProgramasCompensatorios:Informe Final" UV, Xalapa. 2003.




                                                        96

                                                Annex 13: StatementofLoansand Credits
                                          MEXICO BasicEducationDevelopmentPhaseIII



                                           OperationsPortfolio(IBRDIIDA and Grants)
                                                         As OfDate06w2D004
    ClosedProjects     .174


IBRDIIDA'
 TotalDisbursed(Acbve)   1,40075
       ofwhichhasbeen rt 65 80
 TotalDisbursed(Closed) 27,99822
       ofwhichhasbeen ri 21,44330
 TotalDisbursed(Active+ 29,398 970,78977
       ofwhichhas beenrt 21,509,108,568 83
 Total Undisbursed(Acbve 2,19834
 TotalUndisbursed(Close 2 21
 Total Undisbursed(Acbvs 2,200,552,11120


 Active Prolects                                                                                                                      Difference Between
                                                     LastPSR                                                                          Expected andActual
                                                SupervislonRating                         OriainalAmountin US$Millions                 Dlsbursementsd '
ProjectID                                  Development Implementation
                               Name          Objectives    Propress   FiscalYear      lBR0         IDA      GRANT      Cancel. IJndisb Orig. FrmRev'd
PO35751                 MX CommunityFores#                    #          2004          21 3                                       213
PO60718                 GEF MX ALTERNATI\S                    S          2000                                 8.9               4416 42118
PO65988                 GEF MXConsolidatP S                   S          2002                                 16.1              69369 25092
PO59161                 GEF MX-ClimateMea S                   S          2003                                  5.8              52994   1999
PO66674                 GEF MX-lndigenous&lS                  S          2001                                  7.5              60988 29844
PO60908                 GEF MXMESO AMEf U                     U          2001                                1484               15341 61191
PO63463                 METHANECAPTLREHS                      S          2001                                 6 27              0 9312 -0 141 -0 8223004
PO50429                 M P MOZONEPRO1S                       S          1998                                   13              77961 -42044
PO57531                 MXBasic Ed APL II S                   S          2002          300                                      72732 72732
PO64887                 MXDISASTERMANAS                       S          2001        404.05                               200 18127 25722
P068290                 MXE-Businessfor SnS                   S          2004          58.4                                       584     78
P065779                 MX FEDERALHlGMnS                      S          2001          218                                      60516  55516
PO07610                 MX FOVlRESTRUCVHS                     HS         1999        505.05                                      1824   1824
P066938                 MXGENDER (LIL)     S                  S          2000          3.07                                     20167  20167 196666377
Po49895                 MXHIGHERED FINPS                      S          1998         180.2                                      7154   7154
P035752                 MXImgabon& DrainaS                    S          2004    303.030303                                     30303      30
PO44531                 MXKNOWLEDGE& I S                      S          1998          300                                      10523  10523 4 02730596
P060686                 MXMunicipalDevin FiU                  U          2003          400                                         396    196
PO74655                 MXRuralFinanceDebHS                   S          2003        505.06                                     30001 00094
PO70108                 MXSavlngs & Credit :S                 S          2003          64.6                                     36998   7398
PO60577                 MXSoutheastReg'lDIS                   S          2002             5                                     42322 26822
PO77602                 MXTmAdmin InsbtublS                   S          2002            52                                     51292 25662
PO07713                 MXWATER RESOURS                       S          1996         186.5                                54 30206 84206 152006428
PO66321                 MX IllBASICHEALTtS                    U          2001          350                                      321 17 12967
OverallResult                                                                    3856.2603                   72.41        254 22452    12436 203723121




                                                                             97

                                           MEXICO
                                STATEMENTOFIFC's

                      CAS Annex B8 p C ) for Mexico

                                      Mexico
                                 Statement ofPC's
                             HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                  As of3/31/2004
                                 US DollarsMiUions)

                                         Held                    Disbursed

FYApproval Company             Loan   Equity Quasi Pa&    Loan  Equity Quasi Partic
       1995 Aparco                7.2      o    o    28.8    7.2     o     o   28.8
       1998 Ayvl                 5.71      0    0       0   571      0     0       0
            BBVA-Bancome?       37.65      0    0       0  3765      0     0       0
1995199     BanngMexFnd             0   188     0       0     0   1.88     0       0
       1998 CIMA Mexico             0    48     0       0     0    4.8     0       0
       1998 CIMA Puebla          6.75      0    0       0   325      0     0       0
199rvO1     CTAPV                 0.4      0    0       0    0 4     0     0       0
            Chapar-Prop a h a       0      1    0       0     0   0.89     0       0
       1997 Comerciatzadora      153       0  109    188    153      0  109     1.88
       2001 Compwtamos               1  066     0       0     1   0.66     0       0
       2003 Copamex                50      0   25       0     0      0     0       0
       2002 Coppsl                 30      0    0       0    30      0     0       0
       1999 Corea                7.A3      3    0       0   743      3     0       0
       2001 Ecomex               4.75      0   1 5      0   275      0   1.5       0
       2000 Educacion             6.5      0    0       0    4 9     0     0       0
       1997 FondoCkapas             0   3 35    0       0      0  0.11     0       0
       1998 FogaMontaney         836       3    o    836    836      3     0    8.36
       2001 GFNotie                50      0     0      0     0      0     0       0
       1996 GIBSA                10.82     0    0   3638   1082      0     0  36.32
i996mo      GIRSA               35.36      0     0  47 14  3536      0     0  47.14
1998104     h p o c a t d i a      22      0    0       0      0     0     0       0
       1989 h p o FEMSA             0   285      0      0      0  2.85     0       0
       1997 h p o Mmsa           12.6      0     0   1797   126      0     0   17.97
1996199     h p o Posada6       22.37      0    10       0 2237      0    10       0
       1998 h p o S d a n d h    5 69      0     0     2 2  569      0     0     2.2
       2000 HospdalABC             30      0     0      14 1029      0     0    7.21
       2000 ITR                     11     0     0       3    11     0     0       3
       2000 Innopack                 0    15     0       0     0    15     0       0
            Interoyel               0   001      0       0     0  0.01     0       0
       2003 Lomas de Real        52.7      0    20  8346    141      0     0       0
       1998 MendalII            27.08      0     0  6175   2708      0     0  61.75
       2003 M e m d                  0     0    10       0     0     0    10       0
1995199     Mexplus Pucrtor          0  141      0       0     0  1.41     0       0
i9%1pgmomi NEMAK                     0     0  151        0     0     0  1.51       0
       2003 OcmdcntdMex            30      0     0      40    30     0     0 4 0
            Occhol                   0  9 99     0       0     0  9.99     0       0
       2003 POLOMEXS A               8     0     0       0     8     0     0       0
       2000 PanAmencan               0  6 39     0       0     0  6.39     0       0
       2001 Plata                 9.5      0     0       0   9 5     0     0        0
       2002 Puertas Fmas         12.19     0     0       0  1219     0     0       0
       2002 Quatta                   0   2 5   3 5       0     0   2.5   3.5        0
       2000 Rto Bravo            47.12     0     0   5411  4712      0     0   54.11
       2004 SSA Mexico              45     0     0       0    45     0     0        0
       2000 Saltdo S A           33.16     0     0   3912  3316      0     0   39.12
       2000 s m c i o s          8.25    1 9     0     7 5  825     1.9    0      7.5
       2001 SuCasita                 0 1062   162        0     0 10.62   1.62       0
       1997 T M A                 1.78     0  2x2    622    178      0  2.82    6.22
       2003 T M W C                  3     0     0       0     0     0     0       0
       2003 VaUe H m o s o       52.55     0    20   8392   196      0     0        0
            ZN  M ~ X X Dn           0    10     0       0     0  4.47     0        0
       1998 Z N Mxc EqtyFund         0  153      0       0     0  15.3     0        0

       TotalPo~olio:            697.45 93.66 9704 535.81 443.76  84.78 32.04 361.64



         Aqprovals PendingCommitment
                               Loan   Equity Quasi Partic
       2004 CalidraII                0   0    0    1     1
       1998 CimeHexnosfflo           7     0     0       0
       2003 Copamex                  7   0    0    6     0
       2001 Ecomex                3     5    0     0     0
       2000 Educecion             3.2      0     0       0
       2001 GFNolte-CL              50     0     0    100
       2004 IAMSA                   3   7    0           0
       2003 M c m a l                o     o     s 0     o
       2003 Polomex                  2     0     0       0
       2004 SuCasitaCLF          16.47     0     0       0
       2003 Tneyuca                25      0    10      30

   TotdPsndragComtmant          151 17     0    15    201




                                                98

                                                 Annex 14: Country at a Glance
                                  MEXICO BasicEducationDevelopmentPhaseI11
                                     Mexico at a glance                                                                          9/3/03




STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY
                                               1982        1992    2001         2002      Growthof investmentandGDP("h)
("A of GDP)
Agriculture                                      8.1        6.7       4.1        4.0      30

Industry                                        33.4       28.1     27.1        26.6      20
  Manufacturing                                 21.7       20.2      19.6        18.9     10
Services                                        58.4       65.2     68.7         69.4      0
Privateconsumption                              61.6       71.8     69.6        70.0     -io
Generalgovernmentconsumption                    10.5        9.9      11.8        11.8
Importsof goods andservices                     10.3       20.3     29.7        29.2                  -GDI           e G D P



                                             1982-92 1992-02       2001         2002
(averageannualgrowih)                                                                     Growthof exportsand imports (%)              i
Agriculture                                      0.7        1.7       3.3        -0.4
Industry                                         2.5        3.7      -3.5         0.0    20
  Manufacturing                                  3.0        4.3      -3.7        -0.6
Services                                         2.0        3.1       0.7         1.4     10


Privateconsumption                               2.7        2.9       2.7         1.2     0

Generalgovernment consumption                    2.1        1.5      -1.2        -1.3    -10
Grossdomesticinvestment                          2.5        4.7      -5.2         0.5               -Exports        e l m p o r t s
Importsof goods and services                     11.2      11.8      -1.5         1.6    1                                             I
Note:2002data are preliminaryestimates.
* The diamondsshowfour key indicatorsinthe country(in bold)comparedwith its income-groupaverage. If dataare missing,the diamondwill
  be incomplete.



                                                                     99

                                                                                                                 Mexico

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                         1982     1992    2001    2002
Domesticprices
Wochange)
Consumerprices                            58.9     15.5     6.4     5.0
ImplicitGDPdeflator                       60.9     14.4     6.5     4.6
Governmentfinance
(% of GDP, includescurrentgrants)
Current revenue                           27.4    23.7    21.8    22.6              97     98     99     w       01
Current budgetbalance                      -6.0     5.0     1.9     0.2    j
Overallsumluddeficit                     -14.1      1.4    -0.7    -1.2             -GDPdeflator        .'oICPI


TRADE
                                         1982     1992    2001    2002
(US5 millions)                                                               Exportand importlevels (US$ mill.)
Total exports(fob)                      24,055  46,196  158,443 160,813  /m,wo                                          II
 Oil                                    16,477   8,307   12,799 14,475           T

 Agriculture                             1,233   2,112   3,903   3,998
 Manufactures                           5,843   35,420  141,353 141,951
Totalimports(cif)                       17,011  62,129  168,396 168,949
 Consumergods                            1,517   7,744   19,752 21,178
 Intermediategoods                      10,991  42,830  126,149 126,778
                                                                                                                        I
 Capital goods                          4,502   11,556  22,496  20,992

Export priceindex (1995=100)               127       91     103     106             96   97    98   69    00     01

Importpriceindex(1995=700)                  74       91     103     104                    mExports       w Imports
Termsof trade (1995=100)                   171      100     101     102                                              O2



BALANCEof PAYMENTS
                                         1982     1992    2001    2002
(US5millions)                                                                Currentaccountbalanceto GDP(%)             c
Exportsof goodsandservices              28,169  55,387  171,103 173,374
Importsof goodsandservices             22,841   73,617  184,614 185,419
Resourcebalance                         5,328   -18,230 -13,511 -12,045

Netincome                              -12,261   -9,595 -13,835 -12,282
Netcurrenttransfers                      1,043   3,386   9,338   10,268
Currentaccount balance                  -5,890 -24,438  -18,008 -14,058

Financingitems (net)                    2,316   26,184   25,347  19,851
Changesinnet reserves                   3,574    -1,745  -7,339  -5,793
Memo:
Reservesincludinggold (US5millions)        914   18,975  44,814  50,607
Conversionrate (DEC, locaWS5)         5.64E-2       3.1     9.3     9.7

EXTERNALDEBTand RESOURCEFLOWS
                                         1982     1992    2001    2002
(US5 millions)                                                              1Compositionof 2002 debt (US mill.)
Total debt outstandinganddisbursed     86,081 112,315   158,291 153,923
  IBRD                                  2,692    11,966  10,883  10,596
  IDA                                        0        0       0       0               G: 18,000   A'


Total debtservice                       15,684  20,751   48,729  35,254
  IBRD                                     328    1,874   2,178   2,093
  IDA                                        0        0       0       0

Compositionof net resourceflows
  Officialgrants                            76       14
  Officialcreditors                      1,577      615   -669     -432
  Privatecreditors                      6,391     -531    3,198  -3,932
  Foreigndirect investment               1,655   4,393   25,334  13,627
  Portfolio equity                           0   4.783      151    -104                        F 116,503
World Bank program
  Commitments                              540    1,313     860   1,322      A IBRD                         E Bilateral
  Disbursements                           408     1,352     749   1,247      B IDA
                                                                              --      D Othermultilateral
                                                                                         -                  F Private
                                                                                                             --
  Principal repayments                     133      981   1,314   1,356      C-IMF                          G Short-term
                                                                                                                ~

  Netflows                                275       371   -565     -108
  Interestpayments                         195     892      864     737
  Nettransfers                              80    -522   -1,429    -845




                                                             100

                                     Annex 15: Targeting Methodology

                             MEXICOBasicEducation DevelopmentPhaseI11

Background. Compensatory education programs use various targeting methodologies to determine
beneficiaries. In the past decade, the Mexican Government has refined this methodology. The original
methodology began with geographical targeting to the four poorest states - Chiapas, Guerrero, Hidalgo
and Oaxaca - then focused on increasingly smaller geographic areas, to ensure inclusion of the neediest
and most remote schools and exclusion of schools not needing benefits. Inaddition, the Government used
specific criteria to target the program scope. Beginning in 1992 under the PARE project, all rural schools
in the four targeted states met the targeting criteria and received program support (rural schools are those
in localities with fewer than 2,500 residents). The initial education program (PRODEI) used the
CONAPO municipal poverty index to target the poorest rural and urban municipalities in ten Mexican
states. PAREB also focused on the poorest communities and introducededucational performance criteria
into the targeting formula. PAREB covered the 10 poorest states, four in PARE, and targeted
municipalities with the most widespread poverty and worst levels of primary school completion. The
compensatory programs now cover the poorest 476 municipalities in the country. PIARE covered the
states that neither PARE nor PAREB supported. IDB-financed PIAREproject targeted all single-teacher,
multi-grade schools, and those schools in the poorest municipalities with the highest rates of failure in
first grade. Every compensatory programincluded all indigenous primary schools inruralareas.

In 1996 the government refined these targeting methodologies, makingthe school the basic unit to be
targeted, in order to reach the poorest and worse-performing schools. The analysis consisted of a
comparison among all public schools in the country with respect to several education and socioeconomic
indicators, permitting the identification of the schools in the worst conditions. This refinement was
possible, due to significant improvements in the information base. The government introduced additional
indicators of education performance at the school level, resulting in a targeting methodology that
combines poverty and educational performance data into a single index.

PAREIB Targeting Methodology: Ranking of Schools and Communities by Poverty and
EducationalPerformance

The definition of the target schools in all phases of PAREIB uses a single set of targeting criteria for the
compensatory programs in all 31 states. Variables in the ranking index, chosen for their reliability,
consistency, availability and absence of autocorrelation, are as follows:

     0   Poverty: measured by the CONAPO poverty index, which reflects per capita income of the
         school's locality, infrastructure and housing characteristics, health conditions, literacy,
         educational attainment of the population, andthe availability of basic infrastructure;
     0   Organizational-administrative school characteristic: measured by the school population and its
         student-teacherratio;
     0   Educational perj4ormance: measuredby failure, repetition and dropout rates.

The first two variables (poverty and organizational-administrative school characteristics) measure the
communities in which the school is located, whereas the last one measures educational performance. The
objectives and interventions for a level of education determine the weights of these variables for that
level. To facilitate this weighting, the index converts all variables to standardized values. The following
paragraphs summarize variable characteristics.




                                                      101

Initial Education (non-school based).             Initial education interventions are targeted to the poorest
communities with preschool education services (indigenous or community pre-schools). PAREIB uses
the CONAPO (or the COESPO) poverty index to select the communities to be served.

Preschool. The efficiency indicators for the pre-school level are not relevant yet since the attendancewill
be mandatory until the school year 2004-2005. The preschool index combines the poverty index with the
student-teacher ratio and dropout rates at pre-school level.' Weights and value ranges of these indicators
are shown inTable 1.

Table 1:Weights and values of indicators usedinpoverty-performance index:
Pre-school level




      (student-teacher
      ratio)
      Education                          20                        0.5                        1.o
      indicators
                                         100                      1.45                        5.0

Primary. The primary level index combines all the above variables into a single index with the weights
shown inTable 2.

Table 2: Weights and values of indicators usedinpoverty-performanceindex:
Primary level




      population)
      Complexity (student-                   13.0                    0.25                       1.5
      teacher ratio)
      Failure rate                          17.40                    0.50                      2.0
      Repetition rate                       17.40                    0.50                      2.0
      Dropout rate                          17.40                     0.5                      2.0
                                            100.0                     2.7                     11S O

Secondary. The secondary level (grades 7-9) i s part of basic education, which is mandatory for all
children. Compensatory programs at this level focus on telesecundurius, which serve mainly rural areas
andhave the lowest levels of terminal efficiency and student performance. At the secondary level, simply
focusing on school population indicators and the student-teacher ratio may be misleading due to the
prevalence of specialized, part-time teachers. Therefore, an adjusted secondary level index takes these
circumstances into account, as shown inTable 3.




 Startingin school year 2004-2005 it will be possible to take into account dropout rates at the pre-school level and
only for the thirdgrade; the remaining grades (1" and 2nd)will be included later according to the reform introduced
to Article 3 of the Constitution; the formula to measurethis will be defined basedon the SEP norms.


                                                         102

Table 3: Weights andvalues of indicators usedinpoverty-performance index:
Secondary level

      Variable                        Weight             MinimumValue             MaximumValue
                                        (%a)
      Poverty                           29.3                    0.7                      3.0
      Density (student                   2.4                    0.3                       1.o
      population)
      Teacher to group ratio             9.8                    0.3                       1.o
      Failure rate                      19.5                    0.5                       2.0
      Repetition rate                    19.5                   0.5                       2.0
      Dropout rate                      19.5                    0.5                       2.0
                                        100.0                   2.8                      11.00

Application of the Targeting Methodology.

The appropriate index for each level sorts schools at that level by quartiles, with the fourth quartilebeing
the worst-off; sorting results are shown inTable 4.

Table 4: Number of schools Targeted inPhase3, by Level andQuartile

                                                                                                        1

       QUARTILE                 Pre-School                        Primarg                   Secondary




General Selection Criteria. Funding at all levels gives priority to the 250 micro-regions (constituting
476 municipalities) identified as priority zones for all government social development programs in2001.
Nearly all priority municipalities are indigenous and rural. The project will primarily focus on ruralareas,
which tend to have the highest poverty and lowest educational performance. The indices of Tables 1-3
guide selection of beneficiary communities and schools.

2. Summary

Initial Education. The initial education program (non-school based), is an eight-month training for
parents of children aged 0-4, during the school calendar year. The program targets ruralcommunities of
less than 2,500 inhabitants. To optimize the program's impact, the service will remain in the same locality
for three consecutive school years. Therefore, beneficiary communities must have access to an existing or
planned-to-exist pre-school. The presence of a preschool also increasesthe likelihood that parents' initial
education training will encourage parents' participation in their children's education. The communities
that lack the service but express interest in the Initial Education Program, may request municipal
authorities to provide them with the service.

Preschool(3 years). Of the 76,472 institutions offering pre-school, PAREIB will target 15,322 schools
or 20 percent, selectedas follows:



                                                    103

(a) Indigenous schools inquartile 3 and4;
(b) Non-indigenous schools inquartile 4; and
(c) All schools in the 250 priority micro-regions.

The program would include about 500,000 preschool students.

Primary(grades 1-6). Of the 99,463 primary schoolscountrywide, PAREIBwill target 36,000 or 36
percent, selected as follows:

(a) All indigenous schools in rural areas;
(b)All rural schools inthe 250priority micro-regions;
(c) Non-indigenousruralschools inquartiles 3 and4, and 50% of the rural schools in worse conditions in
     quartile 2;
(d)Marginalurban schools inquartile4 that havebeenreceiving benefitsunderprevious
     compensatory programs (1,597 schools). For the selection of primary schools, "urban"refers
     to localities of between 2,500 and 15,000 inhabitants; and
(e) All multi-grade schools Le. with incomplete organization (unitary schools, teachers with two, three,
     four and/or five teachers).

The program would include about 3.5 million students.

Sustainability Strategy for Primary Schools. In PAREIB 111, primary schools that have received
compensatory benefits in the past and now fall in the bottom half of quartile two would receive half the
ordinary compensatory support package, to help continue their improvements.

Lower-Secondary (grades 7-9) - Secondary telesecunduria. Mexico has 15,853 Telesecundarias. In the
first two phases of PAREIB, 11,411 rural telesecundariuswere targeted, and Phase I11will target a total
of 4,681 schools, selectedas follows:

(a) All rural telesecunduriasinpriority micro-regions; and
(b) Telesecunduriasinquartiles 3 and4 inother ruralmunicipalities (A school is rural if its locality has
     fewer than 2500 residents).

About 300,000 students inthese schools will benefit from improved infrastructureand/or provision of
computer equipment.

Total.The project will benefit approximately 5.5 millionchildren of preschool through secondary school
and about 545,361 children under four years of age. Ideally, this re-targeting strategy to identify the most
disadvantagedschools will enhancethe educational impact of the compensatory programs.




                                                   104

                                   Annex 16: GovernmentPolicy Letter
                           MEXICOBasicEducationDevelopmentPhaseI11



(Translated from the Spanish original)

                                                                                    Office of the Secretary
                                                                          Secretariat of PublicEducation

                                                                 Mexico, Federal District, February 20,2004



DR. ISABEL GUERRERO
Director,
The World Bank
Country Officefor Colombia and Mexico

                                                                            Subject: Education Policy Letter


Dear Dr.Guerrero:

         The purpose of this letter i s to put forward the global framework of the educational policy for the
third phase of the Basic Education Development Program (PAREIB), to be financed with national
resources and with a loan from the World Bank. The loan will provide the necessaryfinancial support and
continuity to the implementation of compensatory activities that, as part of the educational reform
process, have beendeveloped inthe last eleven years by the Government of Mexico to achieve equality in
initial and basic education, in our efforts to continuously improve the nationaleducation indicators.

         Duringthis period we have been able to create the necessary minimumconditions to provide the
required educational services such as: construction of suitable and sufficient classrooms; provision of
educational materials and related school supplies; economic support and advisory services to parents'
associations to promote their participation inthe schools; economic incentives andtraining of teachers to
improve their teaching skills; improvement in child-rearing practices in early infancy through initial
education outside the classroom, as well as strengthening the States' education teams.

         We are convinced that the supplementary programs represent a useful and indispensable
instrument for the redistribution of public spending, since they have made it possible to specifically serve
those populations with social and educational disadvantages located inruralandindigenous areas, to even
out educational opportunities and guarantee their right to education in terms of school access, retention,
educational quality and satisfactory academic achievement.




                                                      105

                        GENERAL     GUIDELINESOFTHEEDUCATIONAL               POLICY



        Article three of the Political Constitution of the United Mexican States establishes that every
person has the right to receive basic education. Furthermore, pursuant to Chapter I11-Equal Opportunity
in Education of the General Education Law, the Mexican State is responsible for generating the
conditions that promote the total exercise of this right and establishes that the Federal Executive Branch
and the States' educational authorities shall allocate additional resources to those schools suffering from
greater educational shortcomings.


        In addition, the National Education Program 2001-2006 (PRONAE) recognizes that there has
been an inherent inequality in the structure and operation of the educational system itself, since better
quality services and more resources have been concentrated in the regions with higher income, better
infrastructure and easy access; the focus in the classroom has been on those students with better learning
capabilities; and more resources have been assigned to those groups with greater management capacity.
Hence, efforts to achieve universal coverage with basic education services have not solved the
backwardnessproblems, and it i s crucial to adopt and strengthen measures aimed at improving the quality
of the educational institutions, giving preferential treatment to those locatedinrural and poor urban areas.
Inthis context, the Mexican government assumes the responsibility of promoting andoperating, through
CONAFE, supplementary basic education programs.


        The supplementary programs are aimed at strengthening the educational supply and demand and
to help stamp out the causes of educational disadvantage, offering advisory services to parents in initial
education outside the classroom and improving the opportunities of access, retention and success of all
children in the basic education systems. The policy of the federal government should continue to support
the regions with greater educational and social disadvantages, in accordance with the government's
financial capacity, untilthe educational indicators of such areas improve ina consistent manner.


     The five supplementary programs designed andimplementedinthe 1990sare the following:

     e   Primary EducationProject (PARE 1991-1996)
     e    InitialEducationProject (PRODEI1993-1997)
     e    SecondPrimary EducationProject (PAREB 1994-2001)
     e    IntegralProgramof Education (PIARE 1995-2001)
     e    Basic EducationDevelopment Project (PAREIB 1998-2006).




                                                      106

MainAchievementsofPhaseI1

        Unlike its predecessors, the Program to Reduce Disadvantage in Initial and Basic Education
(PAREIB) supports educational continuity of children frombasic upto secondary education, seeking their
retention in school until they successfully conclude their basic education. The PARED began to operate
in 1998and, to datehascompleted twophases.Following arethe relevant data of the secondphase:


    0   Inthe last three years, specific support hasbeenprovidedto improvethe quality of education in
        45,610 localities in 2,305 municipalities. This means that CONAFE has been present in 95
        percent of the municipalities inthe country.

    0   With the support of State educational authorities, the most extensive initial education service in
        the country seeks to improve child-rearing practices to promote better child development in early
        infancy. Almost half a million families have benefited from this programeach year.

    0   During this period, support has been provided annually to more than 60,000 basic education
        school centers (preschool, primary, and secondary distance learning), including the totality of
        indigenous primary schools.

    0   With the construction andrehabilitationof almost 27,000 classrooms and annexes, CONAFE has
        provided better conditions for the operation of educational services in the most disadvantaged
        areas.

        Approximately five million packages of school supplies have been distributed annually; this
        activity assists one third of the primary education enrollment of the country andhas significantly
        helped inincreasing school assistanceand retentionof students.

    0   The implementation of the school support management program, through which resources are
        allocated to almost 60,000 parents' associations, has strengthened a culture of social participation
        that encouragesand improves the conditions of school life.

    0   Approximately 20,000 teachers, supervisors, and sector leaders have received economic support
        to encourageand facilitate their performance.

        The third phase of the PAREIB, whose implementation i s plannedfor the 2004-2005, 2005-2006
and 2006-2007 school cycles, is presently being designed, maintaining the same structure of the two
previous phases but including changes derived from the different consultation and evaluation exercises
carried out on the compensatory programs. For example, initial education outside the classroom will be
strengthened and expanded toward the schools and preschool students in areas with high social and
educational disadvantage, thus complying with the mandate issued in November 2002 establishing the
compulsory nature of preschool education for five-, four- and three-year old children starting in 2004-
2005 and2008, respectively.

GeneralObjectiveof the ThirdPhaseof the PAREIB

        To define the objective, threekey elements of the country's educational policy framed inthe
PRONAE2001-2006 were considered, as follows:




                                                    107

             0   Ensure the same access, retention and educational achievement opportunities in basic
                 education to all children and youth throughout the country.

            0   Guarantee all children and youth enrolled in basic education the opportunity to acquire
                knowledge and develop intellectual capacities; to acquire the necessary values and
                attitudes to enjoy a fulfilling personal and family life; to act as competent and committed
                citizens; to participate inproductivework and to continue learningthroughout life.

                Reformthe educational systemat the federal and state levels to ensure the effectiveness of
                the design and the practices of these policies, to continuously evaluate them andensurethe
                efficient, transparent and justifiable use of the resources, focusing the policy in the
                classroom and the school.

        Thus, the objective of the thirdphaseof the PAREIBis the consolidationof the efforts focusing
on all ruraland urban schools located inthe 250 micro regions (defined by the federal government in
2001), andallthe indigenous schools of the country through the supplementary education programs.

Specific Objectives

    Inlinewith the strategyofCONAFE's Medium-Term InstitutionalProgram2002-2006, the following
specific objectives have been established:

    0   Contribute to improve the quality of initial and basic education outside the classroom (preschool,
        primary and secondary), through the continuity of supplementary activities such as the provision
        of educational materials, advisory services to schools, training, school and administrative
        infrastructure, School Management Support (AGE), Recognition of Teachers' Performance
        (REDES)and Strengthening of SchoolSupervision.

    0   Provide financial support andadvisory services to the priority projects of the national
        educational systemto consolidate the organization and managementof basic education.

    0   Strengthenthe operation of State education systems through advisory services and
        technical assistance.

        To appropriately implement this stage of the project, it is necessary to design the corresponding
strategies jointly with State education authorities, so as to generate the necessary conditions for the
schools receiving support to maintain and exceed the achievements made during the program's phase I
and I1in the last five years. In this regard, work will continue so that the States' Secretariats of Public
Educationassume a leadingrole inthe management of these programs.

Strategies

    0   Continuation of the acquisition anddistributionof educational materials for students,
        schools, household heads andeducational promoters inrural andpoor urban areas of the
        country.

    0   Application of the new work methodology and scheme in the training of the operational chain in
        initial education outside the classroom.




                                                     108

        Realignment of the activities of the Educational Quality Advisory Network to identify and meet
        the demand for advisory servicesandtraining of schoolteachers.

        Realignment of the activities to strengthen the management capacity of the States' basic
        education systems toward technical-pedagogical and administrative aspects.

        Improve the physicalconditions of educational areas inbasic education schools.

        Continue to encouragethe performance of teachers through the REDES program.

        Support school supervision activities.

        Promote and encouragedthe interventionof parentsin school matters, targeting specific demands
        andfosteringtheir participationinthe school community.

        Contribute to the consolidation of the Evaluation andTerritorial Planning Systems of the States.

        Define basic criteria to graduate those schools supported with supplementary activities that have
        shown improvement in their educational indicators so that they continue to be served by the
        States' education systems.

        In short, support will continue to be provided to basic education schools of the targeted
populations in phase 11of the PAREIB, with a view to continuously contribute to the reduction of school
drop-out, failure, andrepetitionindices.

        In order to proportionately distribute the resources and carry out adequatetargeting, one of the
strategies of CONAFE's Medium-Term Institutional Program 2002-006 was to establish up-to-date and
transparent criteria for the selection of communities and schools to be served, as identified by public
education secretariatsand institutes of State governments.

        After more than a decade of successful operation, the compensatory programs will be realigned
taking into account the changes in the socio-demographic and educational environment of the country
and, naturally, the results of the consultations andevaluations of the programs.

        The Mexican Government, through the Secretariat of Public Education (SEP), ratifies the
National Council for Educational Development (CONAEZ) as the agency responsible for the execution of
the PAREIB based on its extensive experience in this type of social projects, the successful results
obtained and foremost because of the commitment it has demonstrated inits efforts to achieve educational
equality inMexico.

SINCERELY




Reyes S. Tamez Guerra

Secretary of Public Education




                                                    109

ORIGINALLETTER




                  110

       2




111

112

113

114

       6




115

116

