Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7249-ME 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Basic Education Development Project 
–
Phase III) 
 
between 
 
UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated October 1, 2004
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7249-ME 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated October 1, 2004 between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and UNITED MEXICAN 
STATES (the Borrower), represented by its signatory on page 15 of this Agreement. 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received from the Borrower a letter dated April 28, 
1998, which letter describes the Borrower’s policies and strategies (the Program) with 
respect to the basic education sector in Mexico; 
 
(B) 
the Borrower has requested that the Bank support the Program through a 
series of loans to the Borrower over a period of approximately nine years; 
 
(C) 
on October 4, 1998, NAFIN (as defined below) and the Bank entered 
into a loan agreement, and the United Mexican States and the Bank entered into a 
guarantee agreement, to finance the first phase of the Program;  
 
(D) 
on September 30, 2002, the Borrower and the Bank entered into a loan 
agreement to finance the second phase of the Program; and 
 
(E)  
the Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, which Project forms part of the 
third phase of the Program, has requested the Bank to assist it in the financing of the 
Project; and 
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower, in support of the third phase of the Program, upon the 
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004) with the following modification (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
Page  3
-
2
-
The text in Section 5.01 which reads: “(a) on account of expenditures in the 
territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods 
produced in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b)” is deleted in its 
entirety. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Basic Education” means pre-school (i.e., three through five year-old 
children), primary (i.e., grades 1 through 6) and lower-secondary (i.e., grades 7 through 9) 
education levels;  
 
(b)  
“CONAFE” means the Borrower’s National Council for Educational 
Development (
Consejo Nacional de Fomento Educativo
); 
 
(c) 
“FMR” means each financial monitoring report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(d) 
“Implementation Agreement” means the agreement between the Borrower, 
CONAFE and NAFIN referred to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement;  
 
(e)  
“Implementation Letter” means the letter of even date herewith from the 
Borrower to the Bank, containing the indicators to be used in monitoring and evaluating the 
implementation of the Project; 
 
(f) 
“Initial Education” means the training of parents of children of ages 0 to 4 
or expecting their first child;  
 
(g) “NAFIN” 
means 
Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
,
a
Mexican development 
bank serving as the financial agent of the Borrower for purposes of the Loan;  
 
(h) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section 3.03 of this 
Agreement; 
 
(i)  
“Parents’ Associations” means any one of the Parents’ Associations 
(
Asociaciones de Padres de Familia
)
referred to in the Borrower’s 1993 General Education 
Law (
Ley General de Educación
,
published in the Borrower’s 
Diario Oficial de la 
Federación
 (Official Gazette) on July 13, 1993 (as amended to the date of this 
Agreement)), associated with a particular Project Public School; 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
(j) 
“Participation Agreement” means an agreement (
Convenio de 
Coordinación
)
entered into between CONAFE and a State pursuant to Section 3.05 of this 
Agreement; 
 
(k) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated April 
21, 2004 (and updated on July 2, 2004) covering the initial 18 month period (or longer) of 
Project implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month 
periods (or longer) of Project implementation; 
 
(l)  
“Project Public School” means a State-administered school in which all or 
some Basic Education  level classes are held, identified as a targeted school pursuant to the 
criteria set forth in the Operational Manual;  
 
(m)  
“School Council” means any one of the Social Participation School 
Councils (
C
onsejos Escolares de Participación Social
)
referred to in the Borrower’s 1993 
General Education Law (
Ley General de Educación)
,
published in the Borrower’s 
Diario 
Oficial de la Federación
 (Official Gazette) on July 13, 1993 (as amended to the date of this 
Agreement), associated with a particular Project Public School; 
 
(n) 
“School Grant” means any of the grants of up to $700 equivalent per year 
to be given to Parents’ Association under Part B.4 (a) of the Project for: (i) repairs and 
rehabilitation; (ii) minor infrastructure improvements; and (iii) supplementary 
educational materials; 
 
(o)  
“SEP” means the Borrower’s Public Education Secretariat (
Secretaría de 
Educación Pública
); 
 
(p) 
“SEPE” means a State’s Public Education Secretariat (
Secretaría de 
Educación Pública Estatal
)
or equivalent; 
 
(q) 
“SHCP” means the Borrower’s Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit 
(
Secretaria de Hacienda y Crédito Público
); 
 
(r)  
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement; 
 
(s) 
“State” means any of the thirty one geopolitical subdivisions (
Estados
)
of 
the Borrower; 
 
(t) 
“State Proposal” means each of the annual proposals to be presented by 
each of the States to CONAFE for the implementation of Part B of the Project;  
 
Page  5
-
4
-
(u)  
“UCE” means, for each State, the relevant Basic Education Coordination 
Unit and the relevant Initial Education Coordination Unit (
Unidad Coordinadora Estatal
); 
and 
 
(v)  
“UPC” means CONAFE’s General Unit for Compensatory Programs 
(
Unidad de Programas Compensatorios
). 
 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to three hundred 
million Dollars ($300,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.02.  (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan and in respect of the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement and any premium in respect of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar 
payable by the Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project cause NAFIN to open 
and maintain in Dollars a separate special deposit account on the Borrower’s behalf 
either: (i) in 
Banco de México 
on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) in 
NAFIN on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure and attachment; or (iii) in a commercial bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2007 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective 
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
Page  6
-
5
-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on May 1 and November 1 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
Page  7
-
6
-
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
 Section 
2.10. 
The 
Director
 
Internacional
 of NAFIN and any person or persons 
whom he or she shall designate in writing is designated as representative of the Borrower 
for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the 
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and to this end, shall provide 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project, and shall cause CONAFE to carry out the Project, in coordination with SEP, 
SEPEs, States, School Coun
cils, Parents’ Associations and municipalities, with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate educational, financial, social, 
environmental, technical and administrative standards and practices, as well as in 
accordance with the Operational Manual and the monitoring indicators set forth in the 
Implementation Letter. 
 
Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
(b) 
The Borrower shall cause CONAFE to update the Procurement Plan in 
accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank 
not later than 12 months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s 
approval. 
 
(c) 
Throughout the course of Project implementation, the Borrower shall 
cause CONAFE to maintain or cause to be maintained, in a manner satisfactory to the 
Bank, an annually adjustable data base of reference prices of the same technical quality to 
serve as a reference for Project procurement costing in those cases where direct 
contracting is allowed for goods. 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
Section 3.03. (a) Without prejudice to the provisions related to Project 
implementation set forth in this Agreement including, but not limited to, Section 3.01, the 
Borrower shall cause CONAFE to issue and carry out the Project in accordance with an 
operational manual satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include, 
inter alia
:
(i) special 
provisions to address the needs of indigenous peoples, as provided for in Section 3.09 of 
this Agreement; (ii) specific prohibition of construction of new schools, application of 
simple environmental design specifications for the rehabilitation of existing schools, and 
environmental guidelines for construction activities (e.g. materials procurement to avoid 
asbestos and lead paint, minimize use of scarce timber sources, proper solid and liquid 
waste disposal practices to be applied); (iii) the targeting criteria for the schools and 
communities that will benefit from the Project; (iv) the model form for Participation 
Agreements; (v) the model forms for the agreements to be entered into between 
CONAFE and the relevant State, municipality, School Council or Parents’ Association, for 
the execution of Part B.1 of the Project; and (vi) the model forms for the agreements to be 
entered into between CONAFE and the relevant Parents’ Association for the execution of 
Part B.4 (a) of the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall not amend the Operational Manual without the Bank’s 
approval. 
 
(c) 
In case of discrepancy between the provisions of the Operational Manual 
and those of this Agreement, the provisions set forth in this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
Section 3.04.  (a) The Borrower, through SHCP, shall enter into an agreement 
(
Contrato de Mandato) 
with CONAFE and NAFIN, satisfactory to the Bank (the 
Implementation Agreement), in which agreement:  
 
(i)  
CONAFE shall agree to  carry out the Project and coordinate the 
participation of the Borrower (through SEP) in the Project 
(including the carrying out of Part C.3 (b) and the collaboration 
in the carrying out of Part C.3 (d) (vi), C.3 (d) (ix) and 
C.3 (d) (x) of the Project); and   
 
(ii) 
NAFIN shall agree to: (i) represent the Borrower vis-à-vis the 
Bank for purposes of submitting Loan withdrawal applications to 
the Bank in form and substance sufficient to justify disbursement 
by the Bank to the Borrower of Loan proceeds; (ii) represent the 
Borrower vis-à-vis CONAFE for purposes of supervising the 
overall execution of the Project; (iii) maintain and operate the 
Special Account in compliance with the terms of this 
Agreement; (iv) ensure that the obligations set forth in Article IV 
of this Agreement are complied with as pertain to the Special 
Account (and, to that effect, shall agree to provide the relevant 
information to CONAFE); and (v) participate in the periodic 
reviews referred to in Section 3.10 (b) of this Agreement. 
Page  9
-
8
-
(b) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under 
the Implementation Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the 
Implementation Agreement or any provision thereof.  In case of any conflict between the 
terms of this Agreement and those of the Implementation Agreement, the terms of this 
Agreement shall prevail. The Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the performance of the Borrower, CONAFE 
or NAFIN of their respective obligations under the Implementation Agreement. 
 
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall cause CONAFE to enter into a separate 
agreement, satisfactory to the Bank and following the model form included in the 
Operational Manual, with each of the States, whereby: 
 
(a)  
CONAFE shall provide or cause to be provided, in a timely manner as 
needed, the funds, goods and/or services required for implementing the Project within 
each State, including: (i) the staffing of the relevant UCE throughout the course of 
Project implementation, with personnel in numbers and with experience and 
qualifications sufficient to carry out the coordination of activities between CONAFE and 
each State; and (ii) the provision of funds required by States, municipalities, School 
Councils and Parents’ Associations for Parts B.1 and B.4 (a) of the Project; 
 
(b)  
the State, through the relevant UCE, shall:  
 
(i) 
carry out, or assist CONAFE in carrying out, the Project within 
such State as detailed in the applicable annual State Proposals; 
 
(ii) 
assist CONAFE to allow full compliance with the obligations set 
forth in the CONAFE Agreement;  
 
(iii) 
participate in each of the annual reviews referred to in Section 
3.10 of this Agreement; and 
 
(iv) 
abide by all applicable Project provisions laid out in this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 3.06.  The Borrower shall cause CONAFE to enter into the following 
agreements, which agreements shall be satisfactory to the Bank and shall follow the 
model form included in the Operational Manual, through the relevant UCE:  
 
(a) 
agreements with Parents’ Associations to regulate the Parents’ 
Associations’ execution of Parts B.1 and B.4 (a) of the Project;  
 
Page  10
-
9
-
(b) 
agreements with individual teachers to regulate the performance 
incentives to primary education teachers referred under Part B.5 of the Project (including 
the supervision of said incentives by the relevant school’s Parents’ Association);   
 
(c) 
agreements with supervisors and sector chiefs to regulate the travel cost 
and per diem support provided by CONAFE under Part B.6 of the Project; and  
 
(d)  
agreements with education promoters, module supervisors and zone 
coordinators to regulate said promoters, supervisors and coordinators execution of Part A 
of the Project.  
 
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause CONAFE to: 
 
(a) 
coordinate Project implementation through the UPC, such UPC to be 
staffed throughout the course of Project implementation with personnel in sufficient 
numbers and with experience and qualifications satisfactory to the Bank;  
 
(b) 
with the collaboration of the relevant UCE, maintain records and 
separate accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the 
funds it (and/or any State, municipality, Parents’ Association or School Council therein) 
has received, allocated and/or spent in connection with the Project; 
 
(c) 
carry out, and/or cause any State, municipality, Parents’ Association or 
School Council therein to carry out, procurement (with funds received for Parts B.1 and 
B.4 (a) of the Project) solely in accordance with the relevant provisions of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement; 
 
(d) 
carry out Part B of the Project taking into consideration the relevant State 
Proposal prepared by each State, which proposal shall be in accordance with the 
provisions of this Agreement; and 
 
(e) 
cooperate fully with NAFIN so as to allow NAFIN to comply with 
NAFIN’s obligations referred to in this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall cause CONAFE to enter into agreements –
in accordance with the model set forth in the Operational Manual- with the relevant State, 
municipality, School Council and/or Parents’ Associations, under which agreements, the 
relevant State, municipality, School Council and/or Parents’ Associations shall agree to 
carry out all works under Part B.1 of the Project under the technical supervision of the 
relevant State and in accordance with technical criteria and general guidelines acceptable 
to the Bank.  
 
(b) 
In order for a School Council or Parents’ Association to participate in the 
carrying out of Parts B.1 and B.4 (a) of the Project: (i) the School Council or Parents’ 
Association shall have been established and registered with separate legal personality of 
Page  11
-
10
-
its own; (ii) the School Council’s or Parents’ Association’s existence, registration and 
legal personality shall be maintained throughout the course of its participation in the 
Project; and (iii) the School Council or Parents’ Association shall have entered into, and 
be in compliance with, an agreement with CONAFE (through the relevant UCE) 
whereby, in exchange for deposits by CONAFE of funds in a bank or other account 
controlled by the School Council or the Parents’ Association, said School Council or 
Parents’ Association agrees to use such proceeds solely for purposes of Parts B.1 and 
B.4 (a) of the Project, to abide by the relevant terms of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and 
to allow audits and review of records by, or on behalf of, CONAFE of the use of such 
proceeds. 
 
Section 3.09. With regard to Project components which affect indigenous 
communities, the Borrower, through CONAFE, shall ensure that such communities, 
through School Councils, Parents’ Associations or otherwise, participate systematically 
in the implementation, monitoring and evaluation of said parts of the Project.  Such 
monitoring and evaluation shall include beneficiary assessments, and the Borrower shall 
cause the results of such monitoring and evaluation to be made publicly available in a 
timely manner once such results are generated. 
 
Section 3.10. (a) Throughout the course of Project implementation, and without 
limitation of the provisions of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall 
cause CONAFE to, in a form satisfactory to the Bank, furnish to the Bank on March 30 
of each year a progress report on the implementation of the Project (based on the 
indicators set forth in the Implementation Letter) and the proposed action plan for the 
immediately subsequent fiscal year. 
 
(b)  
The Borrower shall participate, and shall cause CONAFE, and NAFIN to 
participate, in bi-annual reviews of Project implementation to be held in conjunction with 
the Bank and the Borrower on March 30 and November 20 of each year or any 
subsequent date as may be agreed upon between the Borrower and the Bank.  Each such 
review shall be based 
inter alia
 on the reports referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section. 
 
Section 3.11. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower, through CONAFE, shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare or cause to be prepared, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to 
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a 
plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
 
Section 3.12. The Borrower shall cause CONAFE to ensure that each Participation 
Agreement be duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered by, CONAFE and 
Page  12
-
11
-
each State and be legally binding upon CONAFE and each State in accordance with the 
relevant Participation Agreement’s terms. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause CONAFE to establish and maintain a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the 
Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall cause CONAFE to: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank) audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
Page  13
-
12
-
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in the 
audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section. 
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Article III of this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause CONAFE to 
prepare, and shall cause NAFIN to furnish to the Bank, a financial monitoring report, in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first semester after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the 
incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
semester; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
each subsequent semester, and shall cover such semester. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Effective Date; Termination
 
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
 
(a) 
the Operational Manual has been issued by CONAFE and put into effect; 
and 
Page  14
-
13
-
(b) 
the Implementation Agreement has been entered into. 
 
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Borrower (in its legal opinion), 
NAFIN (in a separate legal opinion satisfactory to the Bank, issued by NAFIN counsel 
acceptable to the Bank) and CONAFE (in a separate legal opinion satisfactory to the 
Bank, issued by CONAFE counsel acceptable to the Bank) indicate that the 
Implementation Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and 
delivered on behalf of, the Borrower, NAFIN and CONAFE and is legally binding upon 
the Borrower, NAFIN and CONAFE in accordance with the Implementation 
Agreement’s terms.  
 
Section 5.03. The date December 30, 2004, is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 6.01. The 
Titular de la Unidad
 
de
 
Crédito
 
Público
 of the Borrower’s  
SHCP is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
   Telex: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
   248423 
(MCI) 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
 
  64145 (MCI)  
 
Facsimile:  
 
Page  15
-
14
-
(202) 477-6391 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público 
 
Unidad de Crédito Público 
 
Palacio Nacional 
 
Patio Central 
 
3er piso, oficina 3010 
 
Colonia Centro 
 
06000 México, D.F. 
 
Facsímile:  
 
Telex: 
 
(52) 55 9158 1156 
 
1777313-SHOCME 
 
Page  16
-
15
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
 
By  /s/ Francisco Gil Díaz 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By  /s/ James Wolfensohn 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  17
-
16
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(1) 
Works (except as covered 
73,000,000 
75%  
 
by Category (4) below) 
 
(2) 
Goods (except as covered 
44,000,000  
78% 
 
by Categories (4)  and (5)  
 below) 
 
 
(3) Consultants' 
services 
95,000,000 
78% 
 and 
Training 
 
 
(4) School 
Grants 
65,000,000 
84% 
 
under Part B.4(a) of 
 
the Project  
 
(5) Student 
Supplies 
9,000,000 
23% 
 
(6) 
Teacher Incentives 
3,000,000 
  8% 
 
(7) 
Incremental Operating  
4,000,000 
  8% 
 Costs 
 
(8) 
Premia for Interest 
0 
Amount due under 
 
Rate Caps and  
 
Section 2.09 (c) of 
 
Interest Rate Collars 
 
this Agreement 
 
(9) 
Front-end Fee 
3,000,000 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
Page  18
-
17
-
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(10) Unallocated 
 
4,000,000 
 
__________ 
 TOTAL 
300,000,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
“Training” means the reasonable costs related to the carrying out of 
workshops, seminars and other pedagogic events under the Project (other than for school 
children) including equipment and facility rental, printed materials, travel and per diems 
(the latter two when not covered under Incremental Operating Costs);  
 
(b) 
“Student Supplies” means the reasonable cost of students’ basic 
consumable items such as pens, pencils, notepads, erasers or rulers;  
 
(c) 
“Teacher Incentives” means the reasonable cost of performance 
incentives to primary education teachers referred to in Part B.5 of the Project; and 
 
(d) 
“Incremental Operating Costs” means reasonable costs under the Project 
for salaries of temporary staff, office supplies and utilities, office and equipment rental, 
and travel and per diem costs (not covered under Training) that would have not been 
incurred absent the Project. 
 
3.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed forty five million dollars 
($45,000,000), may be made on account of payments made for expenditures incurred prior 
to the date of this Agreement but after twelve months prior to the date of this Agreement. 
 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Page  19
-
18
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
 
The objectives of the Project are to consolidate and expand quality improvements 
in Initial and Basic Education through infrastructure improvements, provision of didactic 
materials, increase in teacher training and school supervision, implementation of school-
based management strategies, and strengthening of States’s institutional capacity to plan, 
program and evaluate the delivery of Basic Education services. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree from time to time to achieve such objectives: 
Part A
:
Initial Education
1. 
Training of approximately 27,000 education promoters, 2,700 module 
supervisors and 820 zone coordinators in the provision of early childhood development 
services. 
 
2. 
Dissemination of this Part A of the Project within indigenous and low-income 
rural communities and development of coordination and support to the work of education 
promoters through the carrying out of visits by module supervisors and zone coordinators 
to said communities to contact key stakeholders.  
 
3. 
Provision of training in early childhood development to approximately 496,800 
parents of children of ages 0 to 4 or expecting their first child within approximately 
27,000 indigenous or low-income rural communities (benefiting approximately 545,361 
children).  
 
4. 
Development, design, printing, reproduction and distribution of new educational 
and dissemination materials for this Part A of the Project.  
 
5. 
Development of monitoring and evaluation systems for this Part A of the Project, 
including, 
inter alia
,
the continuous collection of data on monitoring indicators at the 
community level, the analysis of said data at the regional level by a team of regional 
coordinators and the carrying out of regional and national workshops to disseminate the 
results of said monitoring and evaluation activities and receive the relevant feedback.  
 
Part B
:
Support for Basic Education
1. 
(a) 
Carrying out subprojects consisting of the construction and furnishing of 
new classrooms within, and ancillary education facilities (including laboratories, 
workshops, sanitary installations, supervision offices and warehouses) to, existing Project 
Page  20
-
19
-
Public Schools, and rehabilitation and furnishing of existing Project Public School 
facilities, to meet minimum operating standards and the expanding enrollment in Basic 
Education. 
 
(b) 
Carrying out subprojects consisting of the rehabilitation, refurbishing and 
provision of equipment for teacher training centers to facilitate in-service training of 
teachers. 
2. 
Provision to Project Public Schools of teaching and learning materials (including 
computer equipment, library books, audio-visual equipment and educational software to 
be used in the Borrower’s 
Telesecundaria 
distance learning program), and student 
supplies.  
3. 
Provision of training and technical assistance for teachers in Project Public 
Schools to be provided by technical rural advisers during bi-monthly visits to the Project 
Public Schools (including 
per diems
 to said technical rural advisers for the referred visits 
to Project Public Schools). 
 
4. 
(a)  
Provision of grants to Parents’ Associations for subprojects consisting of 
school repairs and rehabilitation, minor infrastructure improvements and supplementary 
educational materials. 
 
(b) 
Provision of training to Parents’ Associations in: (i) financial 
management (to facilitate the management of the grants referred under paragraph (a) 
above); and (ii) participatory skills (to increase parents’ involvement in Project Public 
Schools’ activities).  
 
5. 
Provision of performance incentives to primary education teachers working at 
Project Public Schools, to motivate their full attendance and enhance their teaching 
performance. 
 
6. 
Strengthening of supervision of teachers in Project Public Schools through the 
provision of 
per diems
 to supervisors and sector chiefs to increase the number and depth 
of supervisory visits to individual Project Public Schools that offer primary education. 
 
Part C
:
Institutional Strengthening
1. 
Strengthening of the technical capacity of the SEPEs through the carrying out of 
workshops focusing on, 
inter alia
,
multi-grade education, in-service teacher training, 
education evaluation, inter-cultural and bilingual education, effective use of education 
technology and education planning. 
 
2. 
Strengthening of the administrative capacity of the SEPEs to administer and 
efficiently deliver Basic Education services through the provision of technical assistance 
Page  21
-
20
-
in, 
inter alia
,
school supervision, administrative staff development, human resources 
management, management of physical resources, financial management, monitoring and 
evaluation systems and coordination between regular and compensatory education 
programs. 
 
3. 
Consolidation of the monitoring and evaluation systems for CONAFE’s 
compensatory programs through:  
 
(a) 
the updating and improvement of CONAFE’s monitoring system to 
adapt it for this Project;  
 
(b) 
the creation of an information system linking geographic and 
demographic data with education indicators; 
 
(c) 
the development of a system of public accountability through: (i) the 
public dissemination of CONAFE’s compensatory education programs; (ii) the collection 
of data and analysis of perceptions of Project beneficiaries regarding the Project; and (iii) 
the development and implementation of mechanisms to strengthen social participation in 
support of the Project; and 
 
(d) 
the carrying out of studies and an impact evaluation of the Project 
including: (i) impact evaluations of compensatory programs; (ii) a study on the 
maximization of the use of computer equipment in the Borrower’s 
Telesecundaria 
program; (iii) impact evaluations of the grants to Parents’ Associations under Part B.4 (a) 
of the Project; (iv) impact evaluation of the provision of education materials under the 
Project; (v) an analysis of prevailing education supervision practices and how to orient 
compensatory interventions in this area; (vi) impact evaluation of Part A; (vii) analysis of 
the use of targeting criteria for CONAFE’s compensatory programs; (viii) impact 
evaluation of Part C.1 and C.2 of the Project; (ix) impact evaluation of  the Project in pre-
school education; and (x) impact evaluation of the Project in primary school education. 
 
4. 
Provision of training and technical assistance for the management of the Project.  
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2007. 
Page  22
-
21
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying: (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 Payment 
Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each May 1 and November 1 
 
 
Beginning November 1, 2009 
 
through May 1, 2019 
5% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
 
Page  23
-
22
-
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate.  
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
Page  24
-
23
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultan
ts’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this Section, contracts shall be awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding, and the following provisions:  
1. Domestic 
Preference
.
The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Procurement Guidelines, providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, 
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.  Said domestic 
preference will imply that the Borrower may acquire goods manufactured in the territory 
of the Borrower which are higher than the lowest bid by 15% or by the percentage of the 
import tax applicable to the relevant good (whichever is lower).  
2. Grouping 
of 
Contracts
.
To the extent possible, contracts for goods shall 
be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $500,000 equivalent or more each. 
Page  25
-
24
-
3. 
Notification and Advertising.
The invitation to bid for each contract and 
the relevant contract award shall be advertised in COMPRANET. 
 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. National 
Competitive 
Bidding.
Goods estimated to cost less than 
$500,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of National Competitive Bidding. 
 
2. Shopping
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $175,000 equivalent per 
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
 
3. Direct 
Contracting
.
Goods and works which the Bank agrees meet the 
requirements for Direct Contracting may be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of said procurement method. 
 
4. Community 
Participation
.
Goods, works and services required for 
subprojects under Part B.1 and B.4 (a) of the Project estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent per subproject may be procured on the basis of community participation in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank, which procedures may include, 
inter 
alia
,
that: 
 
(a) 
beneficiary communities shall contribute in kind with at least 10% of the 
required labor; and  
 
(b) 
both for the contracting of small works or the purchase of materials, 
beneficiary communities will seek three quotations.  
 
Section III.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B 
of this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than 
$500,000 equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
 
B: Other 
Procedures
1. 
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
.
Services for assignments which the 
Bank agrees meet the requirements of paragraph 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines and 
estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of a Fixed Budget in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Page  26
-
25
-
2. Least-cost 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Bank agrees 
meet the requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines and estimated to 
cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
3. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the 
requirements set forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines 
may be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the 
circumstances described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts 
may be awarded to individual consultants on a sole-source basis, subject to the prior 
approval of the Bank. 
 
Section IV.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.
 
If the Procurement Plan provides for prior review of contracts for 
the employment of individual consultants, the record of justification for such contracts, 
referred to in paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines, shall be subject to 
Prior Review by the Bank.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank.
 
Page  27
-
26
-
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6) 
and (7) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $30,000,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule; provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount of $15,000,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account, plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall equal or exceed the equivalent of $60,000,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall cause 
NAFIN furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of 
an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such 
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
Page  28
-
27
-
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall cause NAFIN, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish 
to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Page  29
-
28
-
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made 
only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
Page  30
-
29
-
WB77786 
M:\MEXICO\Basic edu III\LA negotiations -FINAL.doc 
May 10, 2004 4:55 PM
 
