IPP78
MEXICO: MX Basic Education Dev Phase III (P085851)
Annex 1 to the Project Information Document:
(a)     Social Assessment
(b)     Indigenous Peoples Development Plan
(a) Social Assessment:
1. CONAFE carried out extensive consultations with key stakeholders on the future
of its compensatory education programs, with the aim to orient the design of
PAREIB III and form the basis for a next stage of CONAFE's compensatory
education programs. In parallel, CONAFE reviewed the external evaluations of
the program, carried out in recent years, to extract from them the most important
lessons that could be incorporated in the design of phase three.' Participants in the
consultation workshops were asked to view the program in a timeframe of the
next ten years, and to seek-within each group-to point out issues and
suggestions for the development of the program over the medium term.
2. The following paragraphs summarize the main conclusions drawn from the
external evaluations, and the key themes discussed during the consultations.
Consultations were held with state level program coordinators, state education
planning authorities, and national and international educational specialists and
academics, in three separate workshops of two days each. A common feature of
these consultations is that they demonstrated the excellent ability that CONAFE
has to seek and receive feedback from civil society and from the principal actors
involved in the program.
The evaluations include: (i) Ezpeleta, Justa and Eduardo Weiss (coordinators), "Programa para
Abatir el Rezago Educatiovo: Evaluaci6n Cualitative de Impacto Informe Final." Departamento
de Investigaciones Educativas del Centro de Investigaci6n y de Estudios Avanzados del Instituto
Polit6cnico Naciona [DIE-CINVESTAV-IPN]. M6xico, 1994 which focuses on the PARE and
was later published as "Cambiar la Escuela Rural: Evaluaci6n Cualitativa del Programa para
Abatir el Rezago Educativo [DIE-CINVESTAV-IPN] M6xico, 2000. (ii) Torres, Rosa Maria and
Emilio Tenti Fanfani (2000). "Politicas educativas y Equidad en Mexico: La Experiencia de la
Educaci6n comunitaria, la Telesecundaria y los Programas compensatorios en equidad y Calidad
en la Educaci6n Basica." Instituto Intemacional de Planeamiento de la Educaci6n.
(IIPE/UNESCO) Buenos Aires, Argentina. (iii) Benemerita Universidad Autonoma de Puebla.
2002. "Informe Final de la Evaluaci6n de T6rmino del Programa Integral para Abatir el Rezago
Educativo (PIARE). BUAP, Mexico, 2002. (iv) Universidad Veracruzana. "Evaluaci6n de los
Programas del Consejo Nacional de Fomento Educativo: Educaci6n Comunitaria y Programas
Compensatorios: Informe Final" UV, Xalapa. 2003. (v) World Bank. "Analisis de los Programas
Compensatorios del CONAFE: Una Primera aproximaci6n." Mexico, 2003.



3. Important lessons drawn from external evaluations (carried out during the 1994-
2003 period) include:
a. Targeting of beneficiaries and schools requires more attention to
continue ensuring that compensatory interventions indeed benefit the
poorest and most needy schools. Targeting should be better connected to
program interventions. In other words, the actual needs of each school
should determine the program interventions in that school addressing
those needs.
b. Program monitoring and the evaluation of its impact at the school level,
should be strengthened. It is important to balance the equity orientation of
the program with the effectiveness of interventions. It is also important to
put in place a strategy for the continuous improvement of the program.
c. Institutional Strengthening of SEPEs.  It is important to continue
strengthening the institutional capacity of state secretariats of education to
deliver quality education services; to the extent this goal is achieved, the
effectiveness of the CONAFE's compensatory interventions will also
increase.
d. The technical assistance provided to schools-through a network of
pedagogic advisors-needs to be strengthened to effectively support the
work of teachers. More attention should be given to the learning/teaching
process over the planning and control aspects of the education process.
e. The initial education program, in its pedagogic and operational models,
should be improved to ensure the a positive impact of the program in the
development and future school performance of the children.
f. Parents Participation. It is desirable that parent's involvement be
expanded from the current emphasis on care of school buildings and
materials to substantive aspects of the education of their children.
g. Teacher Incentives. The amount teachers receive as incentive to stay in
isolated rural and indigenous schools and dedicate more time to the
teaching/learning process of the students, should be differentiated
according to the actual difficulty of access posed by each school.
h. Program evaluation. The model of participatory evaluation used by
CONAFE in its Community Education program should be applied also in
the compensatory programs.
i. Logistics. Continue improving the distribution of educational materials to
ensure their timely arrival at the schools.



4. The State Coordinators of the program suggested several ideas for improvements
to the normative, administrative and operational aspects of PAREIB. These ideas
include:
a. Targeting of Schools and Interventions: The targeting methods and
criteria to select schools and to select interventions in each school, need to
be publicly explained and disseminated. To succeed in doing that, the
participation of states and municipalities is very important. It would be
helpful to create a "school record" where the specific interventions made
in each school are recording yearly. This "school record" could also
include education indicators for each school, as for example enrollment,
repetition and completion rates, to permit following the development of
each school.
b. Monitoring. The program monitoring system should be redesigned to
cover all components of the program and to incorporate-explicitly-the
role of the state and municipal education authorities in carrying out each
activity. This would lead to better integration between CONAFE's
compensatory program and state and local education systems.
c. State Level Administrative Structure. Because the education needs are
different in each state, it would be desirable to modify the uniform
structure of the State Coordinating Units (UCEs) so that each UCE could
better respond to the education needs of the state where it operates.
d. Program Norms. Some new norms should be created and others made
more flexible. In general, all norms must be updated and be amply
disseminated. For example, a norm establishing physical standards for
each type of school could be agreed upon; and the norms guiding the
operation of AGEs could be applied in more flexible manner.
e. Technical Assistance to Schools. It would be desirable to develop a
yearly technical assistance plan to better articulate the pedagogic
assistance provided by the ATPs to help schools improve the
teaching/learning process.  For that, CONAFE should mobilize the
collaboration of the UCEs and the SEPEs.
f. Institutional Strengthening. This intervention at state level could be
greatly improved through simplification of administrative procedures for
contracting and financing, as well as by ensuring the availability of a
roster of specialists that could be involved in providing technical
assistance and training at state level.



g. Distribution of education materials could be improved by the
coordinated participated of federal, state and municipal levels of
government.
h. Incentives to teachers would be more effective if the amount of the
incentive is adjusted to the level of difficult in accessing the school.
5. The workshop with State Education Planning authorities generated valuable
suggestions regarding the articulation of compensatory activities with the regular
education program in each state. This workshop also proved an invaluable
opportunity for the sharing of experiences among the states. The main aspects
highlighted are:
a. Targeting Strategy and Allocation of Resources. The success of the
CONAFE's compensatory education program is largely due to the fact that
it targets small rural communities that are very poor and have limited
development potential. On the other hand, there is a risk that the program
might be seen as rewarding the low performance schools. More intensive
participation of state and municipal governments could help clarify and
improve the targeting criteria. The formulas used to assign resources and
the application of the targeting criteria in each state need to be reviewed to
ensure the optimal application of compensatory resources, taking into
account changes related to migration, poverty levels, and substandard
school conditions in each state.  Moreover, it is necessary to begin
thinking about how to address the compensatory education needs in urban
marginal areas.
b. Evaluation of Program Impact. Regarding this issue, it is important to
clarify what is the main objective of the program. The multiple program
objectives (improving education quality, equity, effectiveness, efficiency,
reducing costs, and expanding coverage) do not allow for systematic
impact evaluations.  Second, it is important to introduce evaluation
techniques that allow comparing performance of the same school at
different points in time-i.e. comparing the school with itself. This
innovation would greatly help to motivate schools to improve education
outcomes. Third, education indicators need to be perfected and expanded
to include the pedagogic and social conditions that children have as they
enter the school; these indicators should be analyzed along with those
measuring student's learning progress. Finally, the large number and
dispersion of the compensatory interventions, increases the difficulty of
measuring the overall impact of the program, especially since not all
schools receive the same compensatory support.
c. New forms of institutional coordination. In a number of areas-such as
the distribution of educational materials-new forms of coordination
between federal, state and local education institutions are needed to



improve performance. Also, the information required by CONAFE at the
central level (provided by state level institutions), should better balance
pedagogic and administrative aspects.
d. Incentives for Teachers. To control of actual number of hours teachers
work in each school is a difficult task and the available information is not
fully reliable. Furthermore, to the extent teachers became depend on the
incentives one can say incentives might have a perverse effect.
Nevertheless, isolated rural communities now see their teachers more
frequently-even though this does not necessarily mean better education
outcomes.
e. Social Participation. The AGEs have a direct positive impact on social
participation, on the motivation of the community, and on the mobilization
of resources in support of the school. The use of funds transferred to
parents' associations could be made more flexible, taking into account that
some school needs cannot be anticipated.
f. In-service training of teachers. The training and technical assistance
initiatives to help teachers improve the teaching/learning process is poorly
articulated with other federal and state programs aimed at development of
teachers. In general, teacher-training activities can have more impact in
the classroom if integrated into a global training program under the
administration of each state.
g. Labor Relations. It is important to move towards improving relations
between the teacher's union and the education authorities, eliminating
perverse linkages between the two, and instituting new, results-oriented
modes of interaction that are more transparent and accountable.  In
particular, it's important to redefine education supervision, stressing its
pedagogic function over administrative and union functions.
h. Preschool and Initial Education. The out-of-school initial education
program helped men accept that women participate in workshops, and
contributed to improved child-rearing practices within the family-such as
better hygiene and activities that stimulate growth-that contribute to the
development and education of children. With respect to preschool, the
legal obligation to provide this level of education poses planning and
financial challenges and calls for education innovation.
6. In the workshop with national and international education specialists and federal
education authorities, the driving questions were: (a) To what extent the design
and operation of the compensatory education programs ensure the desired impact
on education outcomes and in equalizing education opportunities? (b) How to
foster education demand and improve the social underpinning for learning? (c)
How to improve the synergy of initiatives at federal, state and local levels directed



to improving education outcomes? And (d) what new directions should
compensatory education programs take, given the present national, regional and
global contexts? The consensus of experts on these issues is summarized below:
a. Reorientation of Compensatory Education Programs. The interaction
between the goals of justice, equality and equity form the core of the
restructuring of compensatory education programs.  In this respect,
equality is understood as respect for diversity. What is needed is a
compensatory policy that ensures equality of opportunities within
diversity. Programs should move from an approach of "adding inputs" to
an integrated concept of resource allocation that combines formal and
informal education.
b. Targeting populations and schools.  Often the targeting process is
unduly complex and passive to pressures from local and state authorities.
Targeting should be jointly done by all levels of government according to
shared criteria.
c. The Impact of Compensatory Education Programs. The evidence
indicates that compensatory programs have been successful in improving
the image of the school, extending education coverage, and improving
education indicators, especially at the primary school level. On the other
hand, in some cases they have also had some perverse effects-
participating schools are often "tagged" as inadequate and almost
stigmatized; expectations regarding the development of students is
sometimes very low, reflecting permissive pedagogic attitudes of teachers;
participating schools are sometimes over-burdened because the
compensated schools became the targets and preferred settings for
experiments with multiple policies and initiatives.
d. Social Participation. The Mexican State has taken over the function of
providing education services as a way to achieve social equality and
national integration. This resulted in the exclusion of policies to foster the
responsible participation of civil society in the educational process. Main
social actors-parents, students, teachers and directors-have been largely
marginalized in a centralized, authoritarian state education system.
e. The Future of Compensatory Education Programs. Informally the
federalization of compensatory programs has been discussed. If that
occurs, it should be done as a gradual process, taking into account the
advantages and disadvantages of each component.  Some important
considerations include:
i. If the administration of compensatory programs is federalized
carelessly, there is a risk that the programs might not be effectively
implemented. On the other hand, to better articulate the three levels



of government around compensatory education activities, requires
strengthening education management at all levels, involving the
key individuals concerned.
ii. Indigenous populations require specific forms of compensatory
education programs that recognizes the fact that only one third of
indigenous children are in the bilingual subsystem (indigenous
schools) and two-third are enrolled in regular schools. Although
intercultural/bilingual education is now recognized as high priority
objective, the education strategies to achieve better education
outcomes for indigenous children are not yet developed.
iii. The focus of compensatory education should return to the school
and their teachers. Education backwardness can be seen as the
result of the poor operation of schools and as a reflect of the
national education system. The compensatory strategy should
place more emphasis on the professional development of teachers
and on the pedagogic and administrative management of the
school. In that sense, the compensatory programs can be useful
experimental points of reference to improve current school
teaching and management practices.
iv. The delivery of materials inputs to disadvantaged schools is
important but does not, by itself, produce the teaching/learning
transformation that needs to take place with the participation of
students, teachers, directors and parents. If the goal is to improve
student learning achievements, interventions should be centered
around and on the school.
v. The program is weak in its efforts to establish a network to provide
pedagogic assistance to the schools. Technical support at the
school level must use different strategies and focus on specific
problems of the day-to-day education practice. It also should be
better integrated as part of the professional development of
teachers and directors.
vi. Preschool education policies require further development and that
goes beyond what CONAFE can do with compensatory programs.
Preschool is primarily a preparation for life, and should have a
broader objective than simply making children ready to enter
primary school. Although it- is clear that disadvantaged children
tend to benefit more from preschool than other 3-5 year olds,
positive results of preschool education improve performance in
primary school only to the extend that preschool education is of
good quality.



vii. The initial education program should build upon what parents
know and value.   The program needs to be continuous and
comprehensive: one year is not sufficient to affect child-rearing
practices. The program should also be closely related to nutrition
and health programs that operate in the same community. In
general, it is important to sustain and expand the nutrition and
health policies that succeed in improving the social conditions
conducive to learning. Clear inter-institutional mechanisms to
coordinate these programs is the key not to over-burden schools
with ancillary activities.
7. Enriched by the ideas generated from this process of consultation, CONAFE
expressed its commitment to reorient its compensatory education programs along
the following policy lines:
a. Continue contributing to raising education equity by expanding access to
schooling, increasing the permanence of children in school, and enhancing
the opportunities for success among the poorest children who are
marginalized and disperse in isolated communities throughout the country.
Similarly, aim to achieve a better fit between the education services
provided and the needs of the poor, helping realize their right to access
quality basic education.
b. Make the program more transparent, disseminating to civil society and
institutional partners the criteria that orient the targeting of beneficiaries of
compensatory interventions. Emphasis will be placed on compensatory
programs as a mechanism of social justice that is the shared responsibility
of the three levels of government under the vigilance of society interested
in achieving education equity.
c. Give more emphasis to monitoring and evaluation of the program as a
whole and the impact of its components on the schools. In doing that,
CONAFE recognizes that compensatory initiatives lead to new forms of
interaction between social actors in the education process and that
transforming these relationships is as important as increasing academic
learning achievements of students.
d. Improve the management of compensatory programs with the aim to
initiate and sustain the federalized mode of operation. This will be done
through continued strengthening of cadres at state level in order to
guarantee the success of the program for its beneficiaries.
e. Balance better the educational and administrative functions of program
operations, giving priority to generating the conditions that maximize
student learning achievements supported by an efficient administration.



f. Continue  strengthening  social participation  in  basic  education,
understanding this goal as an exercise in citizen's rights and as the
development of a culture of individual and collective responsibility among
parents and school communities with respect to education outcomes.
Work with parents will focus on activities that strengthen the school and
enhance the value of education of the children.
g. Contribute to redefining the relations between teachers and the
community, moving towards higher levels of accountability.
h. Improve program targeting and ensure the correct application of the
targeting criteria, by carrying out the following priority tasks:
i. Review actual targeti targeting practices in order detect difficulties
and ensure that resource allocation gives priority to those who have
the most need, according to the education conditions of each state;
ii. Adopt, on the short run, national targeting criteria and incorporate
state-specific mechanism to monitor these criteria, introducing
more flexibility in the targeting process. In doing so, CONAFE
will take into account the view of education authorities in each of
the 31 states, and the accumulated experience of the UCEs.
iii. Explicitly link the new targeting methodology with the monitoring
and evaluation procedures used to assess the operation and impact
of the compensatory programs.
8. The design of PAREIIB III incorporates the main lessons learned from these
consultations and introduces changes in the strategies used to implement the
program. These adjustments and innovations are described for each component of
the program in the main text of the PAD.



(b) Indigenous Peoples Development Plan
Summary. This annex presents the Plan for Indigenous Peoples Development for Phase
III of Basic Education Development (PAREIB). The Plan first reviews Mexico's legal
framework for indigenous development and education; second, it provides baseline data
on indigenous people; third, it presents results of stakeholder consultations and
quantitative evaluation of CONAFE's impact on indigenous students and communities;
fourth, it outlines the strategy for local participation in PAREIB III; fifth, it profiles
CONAFE's institutional capacity; sixth, it summarizes plans for monitoring and
evaluation; finally, it reviews risks and strategies for mitigating risk. This assessment
generally finds that an effective program with extensive consultation and responsiveness
to indigenous peoples is already operating, and that the successful prior performance of
CONAFE bodes well for the future education of indigenous students.
Plan Overview. CONAFE's compensatory education programs target schools in
disadvantaged and isolated rural communities, including all indigenous primary schools.
During the preparation of PAREIB I, specialized staff identified local preferences early
on through direct consultation; subsequent consultations have been held for the second
stage of PAREIB. A recent social assessment prepared for PAREIB Phase III found that
indigenous people held quite positive opinions of CONAFE's compensatory programs.
Stakeholders supported expansion of several aspects of CONAFE's programs, in
particular the AGES component. CONAFE designs culturally appropriate learning
materials and plans educational strategy in conjunction with School Associations of
indigenous parents. CONAFE offers didactic materials in indigenous languages, in
addition to recognizing both indigenous and mestizo cultural heritage in educational
content. CONAFE's strong institutional capacity, based on over 30 years of operation and
13 years implementing programs of the World Bank and Inter-American Development
Bank, ensures its ability to execute this Indigenous Peoples Development Plan. CONAFE
collects annual data on indigenous student test performance, dropout, repetition and
failure rates. An evaluation of the entire PAREIB program, to be financed by PAREIB
III, will expand on already-existing monitoring and evaluation structures.
I. Legal Framework
Constitutional Framework. The Constitution of the United Mexican States recognizes
that Mexico has a multicultural population of indigenous origins. It affirms that a duty of
the law is to promote the "development of [indigenous] language, culture, customs,
resources, and social organization, and to generally guarantee to indigenous peoples full
access to the states' jurisdiction." In April, 2001, Mexico's Senate unanimously approved
the Law of Rights of Indigenous Peoples and Communities, which amended Mexico's
constitution to further emphasize the right of indigenous people to "preserve and enrich
their languages, knowledge, and all elements that constitute their culture and identity."
The Law also declared it the obligation of Mexican authorities to improve indigenous



levels of schooling, favoring bilingual intercultural education, literacy and productive
training (Diario Oficial de la Federaci6n de Mexico 2001).
Legislative Framework. In 1993, Mexico approved the General Education Law (Ley
General de Educaci6n), which explicitly set guidelines for bilingual education and
declared that in the first years of schooling, indigenous education should use an
indigenous language and then use Spanish only second (Diario Oficial de la Federaci6n
de M6xico 1992). Several states of Mexico - particularly Chiapas and Oaxaca - have
legally recognized the obligation to offer bilingual-intercultural education to indigenous
students. Mexico's General Education Law of 1993 guides current developments in
Mexican education. That law emphasizes two national strategies for increasing the
effectiveness of indigenous education. First, it directs Mexico's General Directorate of
Indigenous Education (DGEI) to emphasize teacher training and to create opportunities
for in-service training of current teachers. Second, it directs the federal government to
embrace decentralization and to expand bilingualism by incorporating local culture into
pedagogical content (Moya 1998).
Federal Government Strategies. Recent federal plans have further emphasized the
importance of indigenous peoples in Mexico's development. Mexico's Comisi6n
Nacional Para el Desarrollo de los Pueblos Indfgenas (National Commission for
Indigenous Peoples Development (formerly National Indigenist Institute), a division of
the federal government, has published an indigenous development plan for the years
2001-2005 (INI 2001). President Vicente Fox begins that plan, "It is a priority of my
government to construct a new relation between the State, indigenous peoples, and
Mexican society, founded in the recognition of cultural diversity, in dialogue between
cultures and in the respect and recognition of differences." Mexico's Secretariat of Public
Education, in its plan for the years 2001-2006, emphasized the central importance of
providing good-quality education to vulnerable populations including indigenous peoples
(SEP 2001).
II. Baseline Data
Indigenous  Demography.    About   six      Indigenous Population in Mexico
percent of Mexico's population lives in a
household  where the head   speaks an
indigenous  language, and  Mexico's  6          8
million indigenous language speakers fall       6-
into one of 62 indigenous language groups.  o X *
The Nahuatl, Maya, Mixteco, Zapoteco,    .6) = =
*O oE                              0
Otomi, and Tzeltal are the largest groups  S   o-  2                      -2
with 24 percent, 13 percent, 7 percent, and 7   0                        0 0*.
percent of Mexico's indigenous population,         1950 1960 1970 1990 2000
respectively. The states of Oaxaca, Chiapas,
Veracruz, Puebla and Yucatan account for     _   Indigenous people (millions)
over 60 percent of Mexico's indigenous        + Portion of Mexico that is indigenous
language speakers. Over 60 percent of
Source: DGE censuses 1950, 1960 and 1970; INEGI
censuses 1990 and 2000



Mexico's indigenous people live in a locality of fewer than 2500 residents (INEGI, 2000
Census). While the indigenous population of Mexico has grown rapidly from 2.4 million
in 1950 to 6 million today, the portion of Mexico that is indigenous has dropped from 11
percent in 1950 to 7 percent today (Figure "Indigenous Population").
Indigenous Communities in Nlexico
LL
N
Source: Estrada 2001.
Indigenous Knowledge of Spanish.
Almost 80 percent of Mexico's    pBilingual Indigenous Mexicans, 1950-2000
indigenous people identify                       (% of indigenous population)
themselves as Spanish speakers.    10
They learn much of this Spanish in  10
schools-among indigenous children   80%
aged 5-9, 60 percent speak Spanish;
among indigenous children aged 10-  60%
14, 85 percent speak Spanish, and   40%
among indigenous children aged 15-
19, over 90 percent speak Spanish. ,I  20%
2000, about 360,000 children aged 5-  0%
14 were monolingual in their              1950     1960     1970     1990    2000
indigenous language (INEGI 2000).
From 1950-2000, the portion of      Source: DGE censuses 1950, 1960 and 1970 E  INEGI
Mexicans that were monolingual in an  censuses 1990 and 2000
indigenous language relative to the portion that were bilingual in an indigenous language
and Spanish progressively decreased (Figure "Bilingual indigenous").



Indigenous Educational Achievement. About 84 percent of Mexico's indigenous
people aged 6 to 14 are enrolled in school, and about the same portion of indigenous
people aged 8 to 14 can read and write in Spanish. Literacy rates decrease with age, and
of the indigenous population aged 15 and
older, only 66 percent are literate. In
Chiapas, Chihuahua, Guerrero and Sinaloa,  10
less than 60 percent of indigenous people
aged 15 and older are literate. Nearly a third  8 -
of indigenous adults have no schooling, and  6                           o i Indigenous
40 percent of indigenous women have no  |      -      _        _     _    Non-indigenous
schooling; only 10 percent of Mexican
adults nationally and 12 percent of Mexican  2
women nationally have no schooling. A     0 L5k,                    _
ranking of municipalities by educational       Men     Wornen    Total
underachievement showed that while a
fourth of municipalities nationally had low  Source: INEGI 2000
or very low educational underachievement,
not one indigenous municipality did. Indigenous adults have on average 4 years of
schooling, though that average ranges from 3.0 years in Chihuahua to 6.4 years in
Mexico City. Nationally, all Mexicans have an average of 7.6 years schooling, nearly
double the indigenous average (iNEGI 2000).
Bilingual Education. Bilingual education began  Bilingual Education in Mexico, 1952-2003.
informally in the Chiapas highlands in 1920 but did
not became a formal federal program until 1951. At  Year      Number of   Number of
that time, the National Indigenist Institute (INI)             Teachers   Students
received funding from the Secretariat of Public     1952        3,800
1970        3,800
Education to oversee bilingual education (Modiano   1983       22,250
1988). Bilingual instruction has rapidly expanded   1993       33,000     800,000
from 46 teachers in 1952 to 3,800 teachers in 1970  2003       51,000     1,200,000
and over 50,000 teachers today. Oaxaca, where 37  Source: DGEI 1993, L6pez Cardefia and Alvarez
percent of residents speak an indigenous language,  2003.
offers a good example of that expansion. In the 1980s in Oaxaca, the number of students
in bilingual programs grew by 50 percent, the number of bilingual schools grew by 32
percent, and the number of bilingual teachers increased by 55 percent. Even with this
growth, however, by 1991 only 22 percent of Oaxacan indigenous students were enrolled
in bilingual programs (Hernandez 1993).
Federal Oversight of Education. In 1978, the Secretariat of Public Education (SEP)
created the General Directorate of Indigenous Education (DGEI) to oversee education for
all indigenous students. Since 1983, staff hired at DGEI have been fluent in both an
indigenous language and in Spanish (Varese 1990). In 2002, DGEI oversaw 50,000
teachers - 2,000 in initial education, 14,000 in pre-primary, and 34,000 in primary school
- who taught 1.15 million indigenous students, giving an average distribution of 24
students per teacher (DGEI 2003).



Bicultural and Intercultural Instruction. Bicultural education instructed indigenous
students in content from both their own and from mestizo history. Intercultural
instruction, which emphasizes the linkages between indigenous and mestizo traditions,
began in the 1990s. Intercultural education focuses on relationships between social
groups such as equity, overlapping social identities, shared cultural traditions, and mixing
of social values and norms (Hornberger 2000, Lopez and Viveros n.d.). Instruction today
occurs in an indigenous language for the first two years of primary school. Teachers
introduce Spanish in the third grade, and by sixth grade instruction is primarily in
Spanish (Schmelkes 2000).
III. Technical Identification of Development or Mitigation Activities
Overview. Participatory stakeholder assessments in the early planning stages of PAREIB
I identified local needs and designed project components to respond to those needs. A
series of quantitative evaluations of CONAFE's effectiveness, using indicators on school
participation and test scores, have found that CONAFE improves the quality of
indigenous education and generates measurable results in improving indigenous student
learning. Generally, these qualitative and quantitative assessments have shown that
indigenous students have benefited from CONAFE's compensatory programs, and that
PAREIB has no adverse effect on indigenous people.
PAREIB I Consultation Arrangements. In the preparation of PAREIB Phase I, Bank
and government staff interviewed about 500 stakeholders in Oaxaca and Chiapas
including students, teachers, parents, government ministers, education researchers,
members of Congress, and representatives of local NGOs. In Oaxaca, these consultations
covered, inter alia, education authorities and members of the education committees of
Mixteca, Mixes, and Zapoteca communities. They also covered community-based
organizations of Mixtecos, Zapotecos, Chocholtecos, and Chinantecos. In Chiapas,
consultations were held with supervisors of Escuelas Bilingties Federales Tzeltales and
Tzotiles, among other stakeholders. Throughout implementation of PAREIB Phase I,
CONAFE carried out consultations with indigenous peoples through the Parent School
Associations in indigenous primary, and through the education authorities that are
responsible for indigenous schools.
PAREIB I Consultation Findings. Interviews found that students leave school because
of (a) economic reasons, such as the cost of transportation and uniforms or necessity of
work; (b) family migration; (c) parents who place higher value on work than on the
education of children; (d) health problems, and (e) teachers who are monolingual in
Spanish and hence unable to communicate with indigenous children. Parents who were
monolingual in an indigenous language felt that indigenous education should be
bilingual, but considered that learning Spanish was essential for their children. Many also
felt that education was equally important for male and female students, and that existing
gender inequality in education attainment should not obstruct efforts to further help



female students. Parents often offered their time to support local schools. Respondents
generally held positive opinions of CONAFE, in part because of its emphasis on
community participation.
PAREIB II Consultations. During the preparation of PAREIB II, the Indigenous
Peoples Profiles (World Bank 1999) and a study on indigenous peoples in urban Mexico
(World Bank 2001) were a primary source of information on indigenous education, needs
and priorities. Results of those consultations found that basic education is a high priority
for indigenous peoples. Indigenous children are not absent from schools due to lack of
value for education, but due to poverty or to inadequacies of the school system, which
PAREIB seeks to address.
CONAFE Consultations. CONAFE also maintains a permanent dialogue with the
School Councils of indigenous schools. Based on consistent recommendations from those
Councils, CONAFE makes adjustments to strategy as needed during project
implementation.
PAREIB III Consultations: Methodology. During preparation of PAREIB Phase III,
specialists visited six indigenous communities in the Mexican states of Oaxaca and
Michoacan to better understand the perspectives of indigenous people towards
CONAFE's compensatory programs. Interviewers spoke with preschool students,
primary school students, telesecundaria students, parents of students attending schools
supported by PAREIB and teachers in schools supported by PAREIB. In Oaxaca,
interviewers visited communities in Tlaxiaco; in Michoacan, interviewers visited
Purepecha and Nahuatl communities.
PAREIB III Consultations: Summary Findings. All groups of stakeholders expressed
very positive opinions of the compensatory programs and emphasized their satisfaction
with the achievements of CONAFE. Members of the Parent-Community Associations
repeatedly noted the importance of the AGES support and sought expansion of the
program to provide them with more resources. Community members noted that
CONAFE's activities cause increased local involvement with schools, though women
more often participate than men do. Communities with telesecundarias noted that
students extensively used the materials that CONAFE had provided to the telsecundarias.
PAREIB III Consultations: Suggestions for Expansions and Modifications. Surveyed
stakeholders also suggested several areas for expansion of CONAFE's work, especially
in its support to AGES. Some affiliates of initial education programs suggested the
convening of regional workshops to learn from other communities' experiences. Others
interviewed noted that when children enter schools supported by PAREIB and begin
learning to read and write, illiterate parents often want to become literate, so the entrance
of CONAFE into a community creates strong demand among adults for literacy
education. Some participants in AGES noted that in emergency cases of urgent need to
spend funds, required processes for spending money can be obstacles. Other interviewees
emphasized the positive effect of AGES in strengthening community involvement in
schools, and so requested expansion of the AGES program. Additionally, some



community members expressed desired to know more about CONAFE's activities, and
suggested that CONAFE might distribute more informational materials about its work in
local languages. Finally, some AGES members requested that the AGES program
integrate training on monitoring of program effectiveness.
PAREIB III Consultations: Other Comments. Interviewees - particularly teachers in
schools that receive support from CONAFE's compensatory programs - commented on
several aspects of schooling that are not direct targets of CONAFE's work. Some non-
CONAFE teachers had poor information on the work of CONAFE's compensatory
programs and had varied reactions to the presence of CONAFE promoters. Some AGES
members sought remedy for the periodic absences of unionized teachers. Other school
affiliates noted the poor conditions of many bathrooms in their local schools. Other
teachers requested improvements to their housing units. Additionally, some interviewees
noted that learning materials had in some cases arrived late. Finally, some CONAFE
promoters had experienced delays in processing of payments, and they requested
consistent timely disbursement of remunerations.
PAREIB III Consultations: SEP and CONAFE. CONAFE's compensatory programs
provide infrastructure and finance support to several elements of schools and to members
of the communities in which those schools are located. Many of the suggestions offered
by stakeholders focused on work areas supported by SEP and not by CONAFE. One
potentially useful suggestion in this regard was to offer more extensive information in
local languages on which activities are overseen by CONAFE and which by SEP.
Early Bilingual Education Evaluation. Before CONAFE began, Modiano in 1964
(Dutcher 1982) evaluated the effects of bilingual education in Chiapas using a matched
experiment with two groups of Mayan students. Modiano identified similar Mayan
students in bilingual and monolingual education systems considering background factors
such as principal family income sources, community isolation, health, diet, size of
locality, and local acceptance of public schooling. In third grade, Modiano gave a
Spanish aptitude exam to the 1600 identified students. Mayan students in bilingual
schools performed significantly better on the exam; they also declared their preference
for learning from teachers of indigenous backgrounds.
CONAFE Evaluation. A World Bank evaluation (2002) compared CONAFE-supported
schools between the years 1992 and 1995 in four marginalized Mexican states with
similar schools in Michoacan, which at that time did not receive CONAFE support. The
evaluation found that CONAFE increased test scores of indigenous students by 25
percent. Full implementation of CONAFE, the evaluation concluded, could cause
indigenous student performance improvements on exams of 45 to 90 percent. CONAFE.
was also found to lower dropout rates.
PARE Evaluation. Another evaluation (Paqueo and Lopez-Acevedo 2003) examined the
effectiveness of the Program to Reduce Educational Underachievement (PARE), a
predecessor of PAREIB, on improving test scores. That evaluation showed that



improving and increasing school supply in Mexico could substantially improve education
quality.
Additional Evaluations of CONAFE. A separate
evaluation  (World  Bank   2002)   compared
indigenous student performance on the Evaluacion   Indigenous Math Score
de Educacion Piiblica mathematics and Spanish           Improvement
exams between 1996 and 2000. That evaluation did  500                      60
not control for relevant background differences  i
between indigenous and non-indigenous students,
but it found that indigenous students were catching  400                   45
up to their non-indigenous peers by about 10 |
percent per year. A more recent evaluation (Shapiro                        30 c
±                ~~~~~~0
and Moreno-Trevino 2003) used propensity score                                z
matching to identify the effect of CONAFE on test l     _
scores. Unavailability of sufficient background data  200  __ 2          - 15
made results represent a lower bound on the            1999 2000 2001 2002
positive effect of CONAFE. That study found that  I 
CONAFE    caused significant improvements in  __  Indigenous scores___Ind_nonind_dif
primary student math scores and in repetition and  Source: Shapiro and Moreno Trevino
failure.                                      2003. "Difference" is difference between
indigenous scores and non-indigenous
IV. Strategy for local participation         nnn-C\TNAPl conrprc Thp hlo1c linp ic
Coverage. The project consists of a compensatory education program supporting initial
education, preschool, primary and lower secondary schools located in disadvantaged and
isolated rural communities. A total of 250,000 indigenous children will benefit from the
preschool program, and approximately 1 million indigenous students will benefit from
the primary school program. Indigenous students at the lower-secondary level attending
telesecundaria schools will also benefit. In telesecundarias, content is delivered via
satellite television to remote communities.
Funding to Community Associations (AGES). The Mexican government has developed
a program called Support to School Management in which CONAFE provides a small
cash grant to a local School Parent Association. The Association has discretion to spend
the grant on routine school maintenance; Associations are also entrusted with purchasing
complementary school materials. Often the Parent Associations also execute school
infrastructure improvements under separate agreements with CONAFE. Associations also
participate in the School Council, where they contribute to the overall planning and
administration of the school. PAREIIB's institutional development component strengthens
government oversight of AGES. AGES, which has existed since 1995, has proved to be
an effective instrument in building deeper involvement in schools and in improving
relationships between school officials and indigenous parents.



Response to Needs Assessments. PAREIB has incorporated several components that
specifically respond to needs expressed in consultations with indigenous peoples. Those
components include:
Trained bilingual teachers;
Bilingual teacher guides;
Special attention to indigenous migrant students; and
* Special attention to indigenous students attending general schools.
Program Scalability. CONAFE developed several initiatives to address these needs;
those initiatives have now been streamlined as part of Mexico's national basic education
policy. They include:
Textbooks in 33 indigenous languages and 52 variants, covering the first three
grades of primary school, are now provided at no cost by SEP through DGEI.
Teachers are trained to develop teaching materials appropriate to local languages.
SEP supplies regionally-specific books to school libraries at no cost to the school.
. SEP and CONAFE continue providing in-service training for primary school
teachers. Such training is particularly important when instructors in remote rural
areas are unable to access teacher training through normal means.
A PAREIB I pilot program for migrant children has become part of SEP's policy
for basic education and has become a core component of CONAFE's community
education program.
The special attention to indigenous students attending general primary schools
that was piloted under PAREIB I helped generate a multicultural approach to
basic education, which was formalized in the National Education Program as a
guideline for basic education policy.
* The post-primary lower-secondary program, adjusted to rural communities, has
become part of CONAFE's regular community education program. Evaluation of
that post-primary program by indigenous parents, education promoters, and
external scholars has been positive.
Specific interventions. PAREIB III will train promoters and teachers, provide
appropriate didactic materials, and support School Parents Associations at the preschool
level in indigenous schools. At the primary level, indigenous students and schools will
benefit from a variety of project interventions:
. Infrastructure improvements, including additional classrooms, sanitary services
and complementary facilities for school supervision and teacher training;
Equipment, consisting in school furniture and sports equipment;
. Didactic materials, including student packages of school utensils and basic
didactic materials for the classroom;
. In-service teacher training in multi-grade pedagogical techniques in bilingual
education, and in a multicultural approach to teaching and learning, in addition to
training in selected national and regional courses. Teacher training is also
supported with technical assistance to teachers in the classroom provided by
technical pedagogical assistants;
Improvements in school management through modernization of supervision and
assistance to supervisors and sector chiefs to facilitate frequent school visits;



*  Performance incentives for primary teachers provided for teachers who (a) attend
the full school calendar and keep specified class hours, as certified by School
Parents Associations; (b) prepare jointly with the advisor specific learning
activities for resolving specific problems; (c) provide remedial education to
students who are lagging behind peers, in after-school hours at least three days per
week; (d) participate in training programs; (e) collaborate with parents
associations, and (f) development education activities with the community;
*  Institutional strengthening and implementation of the Basic Education Innovation
Fund by the states, which will improve basic education for indigenous and non-
indigenous children indirectly through development of more effective and
efficient local school systems.
V. Institutional Capacity
CONAFE. As early as 1971, CONAFE began developing innovative programs for
reaching isolated rural and indigenous students. CONAFE has extensive experience with
indigenous education, and has produced didactic materials with culturally appropriate
content and linguistically appropriate materials. CONAFE now operates in every state of
Mexico and has received financial support and technical assistance from the World Bank
since the First Primary Education Project (PARE) began in 1991. CONAFE is a
decentralized institution of Mexico's Secretariat of Public Education (SEP) and has the
publicly declared support of Mexico's educational and political authorities. CONAFE's
capacity has also been demonstrated through the successful implementation of the
previous phases of PAREIB.
VI. Monitoring and Evaluation
Monitoring. SEP oversees Esta'ndares Nacionales, a national exam of reading and math
performance, at the primary and lower secondary levels. Results from that exam are
comparable between 1998 and 2002, and results will continue to become available each
year through 2006. SEP also collects information on dropout, repetition, failure and
terminal efficiency rates by school, including data for indigenous schools. Those statistics
are all disaggregated by indigenous and non-indigenous schools. Data are also available
on the backgrounds of students and their communities by schools, to allow rigorous
evaluation of the effect on CONAFE on indigenous students.
Evaluation. PAREIB III will finance a complete independent evaluation of the entire
PAREIB program, 1998-2006. Test data will be available for all of those years. Also,
since the PAREIB program encompasses eight years, the evaluation will be able to follow
a cohort of students through primary and lower secondary school. That evaluation will
also ascertain the sustainability of the program upon completion of the third phase. These
efforts build on previous and continuing impact evaluations determining the effect of
CONAFE on indigenous students.



VII. Risk Assessment
Legal and Institutional Risks. Mexico's federal and state governments have passed
extensive legislation recognize the central importance of indigenous peoples
development. That legislation explicitly identifies good-quality bilingual intercultural
education as an important development tool. CONAFE has extensive institutional
capacity, demonstrated through over 30 years of compensatory education experience and
13 years of work with the World Bank and Inter-American Development Bank.
Additional Risks. A risk early in the PAREIB program was the scarcity of bilingual
instructors with sufficient educational background and indigenous language experience.
In order to mitigate this risk the Government of Mexico has recently taken various
initiatives such as the creation of specific indigenous teacher training courses at the
Universidad Pedagogica Nacional, the creation of the Bilingual Intercultural Education
unit of SEP, and the enactment of the Linguistic Rights Law. An additional early risk
was the potential hesitance of indigenous communities to form Parents Associations and
work in tandem with CONAFE. Indigenous peoples have embraced those Associations
and eagerly worked with CONAFE on many aspects of their local schools. To give one
example, when the Zapatista indigenous movement in 1994 rejected most services of the
federal government, the Zapatistas sufficiently favored CONAFE to allow CONAFE's
teachers to continue working in all of Chiapas.
VII. Expenditure
VII. Designation of Project Funds for Indigenous Peoples. CONAFE estimates that, of
total project expenditure of US$235 million in 2003 on preprimary and primary schools,
US$50 million was spent on indigenous schools. So approximately 21 percent of
CONAFE's expenditure on preprimary and primary schools is allocated to indigenous
peoples, which is far higher than the 6.5 percent of Mexicans aged 5 to 14, according to
INEGI, who are indigenous.
References
Diario Oficial de la Federaci6n de M6xico. 1992. "Ley General de Educaci6n." 18 May.
. 2001. "Decreto por el que se aprueba..." 14 August.
Direcci6n General de Educaci6n Indfgena (DGEI). 1993. "Informaci6n de Alumnos,
Maestros, y Escuelas de Educaci6n Inicial, Preescolar y Primaria Indigena por Entidad y
Grupo Etnico." Mexico City, Mexico. Cited in Cummings, S.M., and Stella Tamayo.
1994. "Language and Education in Latin America: An Overview." World Bank HRO
Working Paper 13068.
. 2003. "Informaci6n Basica General," http://www.sep.gob.mx.



Dutcher, Nadine. 1982. "The Use of First and Second Languages in Primary Education:
Selected Case Studies." World Bank Staff Working Paper 504. World Bank, Education
Department, Washington DC.
Estrada, Sergio de la Vega. 2001. "indice de Desarrollo Social de los Pueblos Indfgenas."
Mexico City. Instituto Nacional Indigenista and United Nations Development Program.
Hernandez Reyes, Raul. 1993. EDUCACI6N Y BIENESTAR SOCIAL EN EL ESTADO DE
OAXACA, 1980-1990.
INEGI. 2000. XII Censo de Poblacion y Vivienda. Tabulados Basicos. Aguascalientes,
M6xico.
Instituto Nacional Indigenista (INI). 2001. "Programa Nacional Para el Desarrollo de los
Pueblos Indfgenas 2001-2006. Mexico City.
L6pez-Cardefia, David, and Ruben Viveros Alvarez. n.d. "Educaci6n Intercultural y
Pueblos Indfgenas en M6xico. Elementos para Analizar Nuevas Metaforas del Sigo
XXI." Mimeo, Direcci6n General de Educaci6n Indigena, M6xico City, Mexico.
. 2003. "Educaci6n Intercultural y Pueblos Indigenas en M6xico.
Elementos para Analizar Nuevas Metaforas del Siglo XXI." Working paper, General
Directorate of Indigenous Education of Mexico.
Modiano, Nancy. 1988. "Public Bilingual Education in Mexico." International Handbook
of Bilingualism and Bilingual Education. New York: Greenwood Press.
Moya, Ruth. 1998. "Reformas educativas e interculturalidad en America Latina." Revista
Iberoamnericana de Educacion 17.
Paqueo, Vicente, and Gladys Lopez-Acevedo. 2003. "Supply-Side School Improvement
and the Learning Achievement of the Poorest Children in Indigenous and Rural Schools:
the Case of PARE." World Bank Policy Research Working Paper 3172, December 2003.
Schmelkes, Sylvia. 2000. "Education and Indian Peoples in Mexico: An Example of
Policy Failure." In Reimers, Fernando. Ed., Unequal Schools, Unequal Chances. 2000.
Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.
Secretaria de Educaci6n Publica. 2001. "Programa Nacional de Educaci6n 2001-2006."
Mexico City.
Shapiro, Joseph and Jorge Moreno Trevino. 2003. "Compensatory Education for
Disadvantaged Mexican Students: An Evaluation Using Propensity Score Matching."
Mimeo, World Bank. Washington, DC.



Varese, Stefano. 1990. "Challenges and prospects for Indian Education in Mexico."
Prospects 20(3): 345-56.
World Bank. 1999. "Indigenous Peoples Profile." Green Cover Report No. 18899-ME.
. 2001. "Indigenous Peoples, Ethnic Identity and Poverty in Mexico Urban
Profile: An Exploratory Study." Green Cover Report No. 22054-ME.
. 2002. "Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Loan in the Amount of
US$300.0 Million to the United Mexican States for Basic Education Development Phase
II." Report 23295-ME.



