Document of
Tne World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                       C
Report No. 9227
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
CUKUROVA REGION URBAN ENGINEERING PROJECT
(LOAN 2537-TU)
DECEMBER 21, 1990
'S.
Infrastructure Division
Country Department I
Europe, Middle East ano North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MEASURES AND EO'J VALENTS
1 hectare         -     10,000 square meters
-      2.47  acres
1 meter           -     39.37  inches
1 square meter    -     '0.76  square feet
1 cubic meter     =     264 US gallons
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CMTA  -  Cukurova Municipalities Training Association
CPA   - Cukurova Project Account
CUEP  -  Cukurova Region Urban Engineering P'oject
CUDP  -  Cukurova Region Urban Development Project
DSI   -  State Hydraulic Works
DSF   - Development Support Fund
GDTC  -  General Directorate of Title and Cadastre
HUDC  -  Housing and Urban Development Company
IB    - Iller Bank
KGM   -  State Highways Authority
MHF   -  Mass Housing Fund
MOI   -  Ministry of Interior
MGH   -  Mapping General Headquarters (of Turkish Armed Forces)
MOE   -  Ministry of Education
MOF   -  Ministry of Finance
MOH   -  Ministry of Health
MPWS  -  Ministry of Public Works and Settlement
PCR   - Project Completion Report
PCU   -  Project Coordination Unit (SPO)
PRIMU    Project Review, Implementation and Management Unit (Iller Bank)
PTT   -  Posts and Telecommunications Authority
SPD   -  State Personnel Directorate
SPO   -  State Planning Organization
TEK   -  Turkish Electric Authority
UEA   -  Urban Expansion Areas
UPPRG -  Undersecretariat Project Promotion and Research Group
(of the SPO)
WSC   -  Water and Sanitation Corporation
UNDP  -  United Nations Development Program



TH WOLtD &l41                   FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
WasH"'on. O.C. 20433
U.S A
Office of Dinsc -Goe     l
December 21, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:     Project Completion Report on Turkey
Cukurova Region Urban Engineering Project (Loan 2537-TU)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Turkey - Cukurova Region Urban Engineering Project (Loan
2537-TU)" prepared by the Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
with Part II contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has been made
by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
Th es Zu    _lbuooonwj d mbumr s abeu b     _"m   only  t Xworm
of sh  G"  oNN  10 =RU    r9 not otlm        be d_   wnbm W_UB     ,_xmm.



rUR Urrif-LL UML UINLX
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
CUKUROVA REGION URBAN ENGINEERING PROJECT
(LOAN 2537-TU)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface .    .........................................................  i
Evaluation Summary ..............................................    ii
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Background, Sector Development Objectives, and Policy
Context ......    . . ..........................           1
2.  Project Objectives and Description.                           2
3.  Project Design and Organization.                              3
4. Project Implementation.                                        5
5. Project Results.                                               9
6. Project Sustainability .12
7. Bank Performance .12
8. Borrower Performance .14
9. Project Relationships .14
10. Compliance With Covenants .15
11. Consulting Services .15
12.  Project Documentation and Data .16
13. Findings and Lessons .16
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Summary of Implementation Results .18
Performance of Project Agencies .23
Summary of Findings and Lessons Learned from the Borrower's
Perspective .26
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1.   Related Bank Loans/Credits .28
Table 2. Project Timetable .29
Table 3.   Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements          30
Table 4. Project Financing .31
Table 5.   Studies, Feasibility and Design Work .32
Table 5A. Project Costs .39
Table 6.   Statement of Compliance with Legal Covenants          40
Table 7. Missions .41
Table 8. Bank Staff Resources .43
Table 9.   Suimmary of Arrangements for Implementation,
Finance and Cost Recovery .44
r This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
CUKUROVA REGION URBAN ENGINEERING PROJECT
(LOAN 2537-TU)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) on the Cukurova Region
Urban Engineering Project in Turkey, for which Loan 2537-TU in the amount of
US$9.2 million was approved on May 9, 1985. The loan was closed on June 30,
1989 as planned. 99% of the funds were disbursed by the end of FY87 and the
last disbursement was made on January 20, 1989.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Infrastructure Division,
Country Oper .ions I of the EMENA Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation
Summary, Parcs I arn  III), and the Borrower (Part II)--because of the length
of this document, it was condensed without changing its substance, while the
full text can be found in the project files.
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final
supervision mission of the project, and is based, inter alia, on the
President's Report, Loan and Project Agreements, supervision reports,
correspondence files, internal Bank memoranda, and extensive interviews with
key staff and management.



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
CUKUROVA REGION URBAN ENGINEERING PROJECT
(Loan 2537-TU)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
INTRODUCTION PND BACKGROUND
I.       The economic setting against which the Cukurova Region Urban
Engineering Project (CUEP) was identified is discussed in the April 18, 1985
President's Report (PR, paras 4-25). The most salient development in the
urban sector was the Government's decentralization policy, adopted in 1984
(PR, paras 37-38). The Government's main objectives were to decentralize
respcnsibility for urban planning and certain services to municipalities,
improve the management of local administrations, provide adequate
infrastructure and services, and reduce housing shortages. Municipal revenues
had been growing rapidly since 1980. Support for the Government's
decentralization policy was the underlying rationale for the CUEP.
II.      When CUEP was appraised in November 1984, the Bank had experience
with two differing approaches to urban investment and institutional reform in
Turkey. Both single sector and integrated urban approaches had been attempted
in parallel operations during 1972 with the Istanbul Water Supply Project (LN
844-TU) and the Istanbul Urban Development Project (CR 324-TU). Although the
integrated approach was generally acknowledged as unsuccessful in Istanbul
while the operation in the water sector led to institutional innovation and
further investment, the merits of these two approaches were still a
contentious issue at the time the Cukurova project was proposed (para 1.01,
9.01). The Bank and the Government hoped to overcome the risks encountered in
the first urban loan through more thorough preparation utilizing heavy
external input financed with an engineering loan.
OBJECTIVES
III.     Intended:  The CUEP obiectives were first, to identify and design
investments for five municipalities in the Cukurova region which could
subsequently be financed under a follow-on Bank loan; and second, to develop
complementary policies and national, regional, and local institutional
mechanisms to support decentralization, achieve integrated regional and urban
planning, and improve urban efficiency.    Achieved:  CUEP was an innovative
concept, but subject to a high degree of risk due to its complexity and
ambitious institutional objectives. It required the active collaboration of a
large number of disparate government entities (31), sometimes with competing



- iii 
interests and. jurisdictions (para 4.02a). Although CUEP did result in
appraisal and subsequent approval of a follow-on Bank investment, the Cukurova
Region Urban Development Project (CUDP LN2819-TU), many of the objectives for
specific components and institutional reforms were not achieved.
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
IV.      Implementation experience with CUEP components is summarized belowi
a)       To review experience and make recommendations on appropriate
regional develoRment obicctives and organizational
arrangements. Since the Government lost interest in
establishing a regional planning authority, the
comprehensive analysis was not completed (para 5.02, 14.01).
b)       To design urban investments and suitable institutional and
financial arrangements to sustain them in water supply and
sewerage, solid waste management and composting, upgrading
"Gecekondu" or informal housing sites, development of urban
expansion areas (UEAs) and other possible urban investments
including wholesale markets and transport facilities. Final
designs and tender documents were produced for 11 municipal
investments during CUEP. Because of the increasing scale and
complexity of CUEP, design work was deferred to CUDP for
some comiponents including Gecekondu Upgrading and Housing
Management Areas (paras 5.01, 14.03). Of the investments
for which final designs were completed, two were of
q1uestionable value because they lacked commitment by the
municipalityy and two had to be dropped from CUDP due to
events which compromised their viability.Y Institutional
objectives necessary to support investments and improve
urban efficiency incl-ded the development of local
government reorganization Rlans and the establishment of
autonomous Housing and Urban DeveloRment Comnanies (HUDCs)
in each municipality to provide infrastructure and market
serviced sites in Urban Expansion Areas (UEAs). Municipal
reorganization plans were developed during CUEP and approved
by municipalities, but they were not approved by the
Government (paras 5.03, 14.05). HUDCs were established in
four municipalities, but did not generally fulfill their
intended role (paras. 5.04, 14.02).
Ceyhan sanitary landfill, Ceyhan Sewerage and Drainage (para. 5.02).
V     Adana Se-werage (para 5.02) and Adana Urban Expansion Area (para
5.04).



- iv -
c)       To identify. recommend. and assist in imRlementing
improvements in municipal accounting and financial
management. New accounting standards were designed, but
were not approved by the Government during CUEP (paras 5.03,
14.06).
d)       To develoR programs of local government staff training.  A
regional training institution, the Cukurova Municipalities'
Training Association (CMTA), was established by decree, but
the objectives and scope were overly ambitious and not fully
embraced by municipalities (paras 5.03, 14.08).
e)       To advance completion of the regional and national cadastral
surveys. Equipment was purchased for the regional cadastral
office, but the national cadastral component was dropped
from CUDP when a feasibility study completed during CUEP
indicated it was too ambitious (paras 5.02, 14.09).
f)       To prepare sDecial studies on the role of Iller Bank and the
Adana Transportation system. The study on Iller Bank was
completed, but was unsatisfactory and no agreemont was
reached with the Government on a reform program (paras 4.06-
07, 5.03, 14.10). The Adana transport component was
expanded and transport studies were carried out for each
municipality, but this component was dropped after appraisal
of CUDP in an attempt to reduce project complexity (paras
5.02, 14.11).
V.       The borrower complied with covenants. The final audit has not yet
been submitted (para 10.0)
RESULTS
VI.      The estimated cost of CUEP was US$10.71 million of which US$6.05
million equivalent were local costs. IBRD financed US$9.2 million or 85% of
the total appraised cost. The actual project cost was US$13.2 million (Table
5A). Planned Droject comrletion was December 31, 1988 (Table 2). Actual
Rroject comRletion was in October 1987. The loan closed on June 30, 1989.



v 
SUSTAINABILITY
VII.     The issue of CUEP sustainability can be addressed more meaningfully
in the Project Completion Report for CUDP, but results of CUDP to date have
not been encouraging. Civil dorks have not progressed, municipal finance and
organizational improvements have not materialized, and project managemer.t by
Iller Bank has not been effective. After 2 1/2 years since loan
effectiveness, about 1X of the loan has been disbursed. The Government and
the Bank concluded recently that the original design and objectives of CUDP
are not viable and have agreed on the need to restructure the project by
reducing its size and scope and changing the project execution arrangements.
FINDINGS AND LESSONS
VIII.    The PCR indicates that several specific aspects of the CUEP design
and organizational framework hampered results of both CUEP and subsequently of
CUDP. First, the project design was too complex, with five municipalities, a
large array of investments, and institutional innovations at the national,
regional, and local level (para 3.02a). Second, the increasing scope and
scale of CUEP over time detracted from project preparation efforts (pora
3.02b). Third, the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) was not sufficiently
accountable to project entities, contributing to these entities' weak
commitment to CUEP objectives (para 3.02c). Fourth, the lack of personnel and
institutional continuity between CUEP and CUDP had a negative impact on the
project (para 3.02d). Fifth, CUEP did not result in an agreed reform program
for Iller Bank prior to its appointment as executing agency for CUDP resulting
in an inconsistency between the project objectives and that of the institution
expected to implement them (para 3.02e). Finally, Bank analysis and
conclusions presented in Part I of the PCR differ in spirit and substance from
the Borrower prepared PCR summarized in Part II of this report. While the
Bank's assessment is that the project was beset with problems, the Borrower's
conclusions would suggest that either there were no problems or that if there
were, they were quickly resolved.
Several lessons may be considered for future operations:
(a)      Bank support for municipal strengthening is appropriate in
Turkey, but the single-sector project approach (eg. water
supply and sanitation) has been more effective than the
integrated urban approach in furthering this important
objective. A phased approach to municipal development aimed
at one sector limits the number of institutional contact
points, thereby simplifying the tasks of coordination and
consensus-building, and is better tailored to the current
implementation capacity of municipalities in Turkey, which
lack the experience, financial systems, or personnel
required to implement complex multi-sectoral projects with
complicated financing and cost recovery mechanisms.
Integrated urban projects also imply a heavy commitment of
Bank resources for supervision, a factor which should be
taken into account when budgeting resources for such
operations.



- vi -
(b)      For urban projects to succeed, strong government commitment
at the central and local level and coordination between the
two are necessary. In order to engender project "ownership"
and sustained commitment to objectives, entities which are
to be affected by planned institutional reforms or
investments should be fully involved in the formulation of
such pl.,ns. The Bank should have devoted more attention to
discussion of the cor-lusions of important studies prepared
during CUEP at appros iate levels with the entities that
were to be affected to ensure that recommendations were
understood xnd consenrus reached.  Some staff working on
CUEP have noted that language constrained staff/consultant
effectiveness in this area.
(c)      Institutional continuity between project preparation (eg.
CUEP) and implementation (eg. CUDP) is highly desirable.
For very complex projects, it may be advisable to use the
same consultants for engineering and technical supervision
of engineering.
(d)      Like other Bank investments in Turkey, engineering loans
should encourage the Government to finance local costs to
the extent possible and share at least a portion of those
costs with final beneficiaries. Some cost sharing with
municipalities during CUEP combined with mechanisms to
ensure their effective input into the preparation process
may have prompted cancellation or revision of certain
components or withdrawal by some municipalities, but it
would also have encouraged preparation of a demand-driven
project in which participants demonstrated commitment to
objectives.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
CUKUROVA REGION URBAN ENGINEERING PROJECT
(LOAN 2537-TU)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BAN1ZIZS PERSPECTIVE
Project identity
-Project Name:           Cukurova Region Urban Engineering Project
-Loan Number:            LN-2537-TU
-RVP Unit:               EMIIN
-Country:                Turkey
-Sector/Subsector:       Infrastructure/Urban
1.       Background. Sector Development Objectives. and Policy Context
1.01     When CUEP was appraised in November 1984, the Bank had experience
with two differing approaches to urban investment and institutional reform in
Turkey.  Both single sector and integrated urban approaches had been attempted
in parallel operations during 1972 with the Istanbul Water Supply Project (LN
844-TU) and the Istanbul Urban Development Project (CR 324-TU). According to
the 1983 Audit Performance Report (4872-TU) for the Istanbul Urban Development
Project (CR 324-TU), the Bank's goals were in the abstract appropriate, but
the project was overly ambitious, lacked sustained government support,
suffered from poor coordination, failed to achieve integrated metropolitan
planning, and resulted in no investments. Although the Istanbul Water Supply
Project was delayed due to institutional and firnancial constraints, it was
eventually implemented, contributed to institutional development in the
establishment of the Istanbul Water and Sewerage Authority as an autonomous
entity, and by 1982, led to a second project (Istanbul Sewerage; LN 2159-TU).
The merits of these two approaches were, however, still a contentious issue at
the time the Cukurova project was proposed (para 9.01).
1.02     Interest in a second integrated urban loan to Turkey coincided with
the completion of the Bank's Urban Sector Review (4631-TU) in 1983. The most
salient development in the urban sector at that time was the Government's
decentralization policy (President's Report, paras 37-38). Municipal revenues
had been growing since 1980. The Government's objectives, articulated in
1984, were to devolve responsibility for urban planning and certain services
to municinalities, improve the management of local administrations, provide
adequate infrastructure and services, and reduce housing shortages. CUEP was
conceived as an innovative response to the need to strengthen local
governments' capabilities to respond to these new challenges and reshape the
supporting role of central government institutions such as Iller Bank.    The
concept for the Cukurova project was presented to the Government during the
discussions of the Urban Sector Review, which provided the conceptual
framework and institutional objectives. Although the Urban Sector Review
itself raised many fundamental policy issues for the Government to consider



and Vhitch subsequently were incorporated into CUEP (e.g., reform of Iller
Bank), these issues may not have recei':.-d the attention they deserved as
participants preferred to focus on identifying possible iivestments.
1.03     The Bank and the Governmenlt were cognizant of the failure of the
IstanbuAl Integrated Urban Development (p4ra 1.01), ano hopvd to limit the
risks of a second fajlure through more thorough preparation, Because the
requirements for preparing the Cukurova project were expected to exce6d the
resources available through the Bank's Project Prvaparation Facility (PPF)
which had already been tapped, the Government requested an engineering loan to
prepare a pilot inv2stment project for five municipalities (Adana, Mersin,
Iskenderun, Tarsus, Ceyhan) in November 1984.  The Cukurova region was
selected as a pilot area because of its rapid urban population growth and
munici-al service deficiencies. b'
2.       Project Obectives ad DescrintioD:
2.01     CUEP was a project preparation loan.  Its objActives were first, to
identify and design investments for financing under the follow-on Cukurova
Region Urban Development Project (CUDP; LN2819-TU) and second, to develop
complementary policies and national, regional, and local institutional
mechanisms co szopport decenitralization, integrated planning, and improved
urban efficiency. The total planned cost of CUEP was US510.7 million. 90% of
project costs were budgeted for consultants to manage preparation activities
and carry out institutional, feasibility, and design work. Components
included waser suply and qgverage, solid waste ntanagem=r., urban grangport
upgrading infrastructure and services in infgrmal hgu_s5in  aga (i.e.,
Gec.ekondus), design of on- and off-site infrastructure for Urbar_Exngnsion
Areas (UAEs) and establishment of municip4l Housing and Urban Development
Companies (HUDCs) to market serviced land in these areas.
2.02     In addition to the municipal infrastructure and related
institutional components such as creating separate water authorities within
municipalities, CUE? aimed to develop  e        ztion plans for_local
wove.rnment, design and implement new  un-ictal aceoLnrinp: stAndards and
eatablish a new r-egionalRlanain  authority.  Funds were also budgeted for
staff training, technical assistance and equipment for the national and
regional cad&stral programs V, and a study to examine the role of 111  .Bank.
Population in the five major municipalities increased 6.2% p.a. from
1980-85 and over half lived in unplanned gecekondu settlements in 1985.
Half of the total area of 2000 ha. wias to be developed for low income
families. 
The objectives of the regional cadastral component were ti advance
survey completion from 15 to 3 years including mapping 25,000 km2,
title registration in 2,300 km2 villages, and surveys of 68,000 plots
in municipalities.



-3-
While CUEP was expected to result in new infrastructure and managerial
improvements for five municipalities in the Cukurova region, the Bank's
underlying justification for CUEP was considerably more ambitious. The
underlying objective was to establish a technical, managerial, and financial
basis for implementing national decertralization policies.
3.       Proiect Design and Organization
3.01     The State Planning Organization (SPO) was executing agency for CUEP.
It established a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) staffed by consultants in
Adana to oversee the three phases of work, including; phase I (4 mos.), for
sub-project identification and pre-feasibility studies; phase II (8 mos.) for
feasibility studies; and phase III (7 mos.) for detailed engineering and
preparation of tender documents. Institutional reforms such as establishing
HUDCs, new municipal accounting systems and municipal reorganization plans
were to be initiated during CUEP while the study on Iller Bank would set the
stage for reforms to be implemented under the follow-on loan.
3.02     Several specific aspects of the CUEP design and organization
hampered results:
(a)   The CUEP design was too complex.  The project design combined five
municipalities, a large array of investments, regional planning,
and institutional innovations at the national, regional, and
municipal level. In order to achieve its obiectives, CUEP
required the active collaboration of a large number of disparate
government entities (31), sometimes with competing interests and
jurisdictions.y It envisioned financial input for CUDP from
several different sources on varying termsV and adoption of seven
distinct cost recovery/financing instruments.Y This panoply of
implementation entities with varying financing sources and cost
recovery mechanisms wece too difficult for the Government or
municipalities to manage (Table 9). The wide scope of the project
also led to fragmentation of responsibility and authority, hence
difficulty in coordination. The PCU in Adana, staffed exclusively
V'    In addition to five municipalities, their Water and Sanitation
Corporations (WSCs or ASKI in Adana), Housing and Urban Development
Companies [4] and the Cukurova Municipalities Training Association
(CMTA), 16 central government entities were involved. See para 14.12
for a listing.
11    World Bank, Development Support Fund, Municipalities (5], Iller Bank.
The Central Government, Posts and Telecommunications Authority (PTT) and
Turkish Electricity Authority (TEK) were to provide some complementary
facilities/infrastructure in Urban Expansion Areas.
Municipal Taxes, land prices for UAEs, Improvement Levies, tariffs and
charges, Iller Bank income, Legalization charges, Central Government
Budget.



- 4 -
by consultants, had the responsibility for ensuring the active
collaboration of all entities, yet it lacked authority necessary
to achieve this objective. Municipalities also lacked experience
in planning and implementing their own investments and were unable
to assimilate such an ambitious and multi-sectoral institutional
reform program in the timeframe that was envisioned.V
(b)   The large scale of the investment program detracted from the
preDaration of CUDP. The size of the CUDP investment program
doubled during CUEP from the original US$211 million investment
program that consultants recommended as feasible and affordable by
municipalities at the end of phase I to US$420 million (para 4.02-
03). This expansion and increasing demands for consultant reports
to support the complex operation detracted from the results of
preparation, thus many components remained incomplete or at a
relatively early stage of preparation despite intensive consultant
input. Several factors affected the desire for a large project.
Bank staff working on the project mention that it was felt that a
large project (approximately US$500 million) would be needed to
capture the attention of policy makers thereby enhancing the
prospects of replication. The limited number of operations in
Turkey in a given year and inability to finance local costs may
also have played a role in determining project size.
(c)   The PCU was not sufficiently accountable to Rroiect entities.
contributing to their weak commitment to objectives. To ensure
the participation of all agencies concerned, national and regional
project Steering Committees were to be formed according to the
loan agreement for CUEP, however, these committees did not
function effectively. The PCU developed investment plans and
reform packages affecting municipalities and key government
agencies such as Iller Bank and the Ministry of Interior, but with
insufficient input from, or accountability to their leadership.
The failure of the PCU to build a consensus for the program they
recommended strained relations with these entities. The
opposition to CUEP which developed within the Iller Bank and the
Ministry of Interior reflected to some extent differences on the
scope and pace of decentralization, a policy spearheaded by SP0
and the underlying rationale for CUEP.
(d)   Lack of personnel and institutional continuity between CUEP and
CUDP had a negative impact on the project obiectives. Premature
demobilization of the PCU and departure of all its staff,
selection of new consultants to assist the new Project Review and
Implementation Unit (PRIMU) established in Iller Bank to execute
CUDP, leadership changes in SP0 and Iller Bank, and reassignment
The Government's decentralization policy was still in its infancy when
CUEP was designed. Iller Bank had been responsible for financing and
executing most infrastructure investment on behalf of municipalities in
the past.



of all Bank staff that had been involved in CUEP during the Bank's
reorganization led to a loss of momentum and control during the
critical transition period from CUEP to CUDP. (para 4.09) Most
importantly, control over CUDP was trarsfer-e. ^rom SPO to Iller
Bank, an agency with conflicting purposes an, Known antipathy
toward the project objectives.
(e)   CUEP did not result in an agreement on reform of Iller Bank.  From
the inception of CUEP, it was clear that Iller Bank was the key
institution which could be used to support and strengthen the
Go-ernment's commitment to decentralization.  It was also clear,
however, that the CUEP concept of municipalities taking control
over the planning, design, and implementation of their own public
works from Iller Bank while shifting Iller Bank into position as a
financial intermediary was antithetic to Tller Bank's traditional
objectives, which included retaining central control over public
works engineering and implementation while keeping municipalities
dependent on its subsidized finance. The basic inconsistency
between the project objectives and those of Iller Bank was widely
recognized, but the Bank's strategy was te carry out a study of
Iller Bank's functions and management during CUEP and hope that
during project preparation there would be a political opening to
initiate the reform process. This strategy was unsuccessful for
several reasons; first, the CUEP study on Iller Bank was inferior
and poorly received by Iller Bank management; second, the PCU did
not involve Iller Bank sufficiently in CUEP; and third, the
Government did not firmly commit itself to a reform program in the
face of strong opposition from Iller Bank.
4.    Proiect Implementation
4.01     Loan Effectiveness and Proiect Start-Up.  Eight months elapsed between
the Government request for an engineering loan in November 1984 and CUEP
effectiveness. US$600,000 from the Project Preparation Facility was provided
in the interim to cover expenses and later refinanced.  SP0 selected a local
consulting firm in late 1984 to provide the administrative framework for the PCU.
The PCU staff were, however, selected by the SPO and engaged by the consulting
firnm at their behest. The consultant's contract was effective in February 1985
and was expected to be completed in December 1987 -- a period of 35 months. The
PCU then selected a joint venture consulting firm to identify subprojects,
undertake feasibility and institutional studies, prepare final designs and tender
documents for municipal investments. The joint venture consultant team mobilized
in April 1985, but the contract was not signed until July 12, 1985.   CUEP
implementation was thus underway before CUEP was declared effective on July 24.
1985.
4.02     ImDlementation: Phase I.  The joint venture consultants during Phase
I identified subprojects, completed 16 working papers and pre-feasibility
studies on municipal finance, regional development, water supply, sewerage,
solid waste, electricity and telecommunications, gecekondu upgrading, urban
expansion areas, and prepared 8 Terms of Reference for major studies on Iller
Bank, household surveys, orthophoto mapping, housing finance, and national



- 6 -
cadastral surveys. (See Table 7 of Part III for list of consultant output for
each phase.) Based on this preliminary investigation and affordability
estimates, they recommended to the PCU an investment program of about USS211
million equivalent (1985 prices) over the period 1986-90. Phase I was
completed in August 1985, shortly after the date of effectiveness for CUEP.
4.03     Phase II:  The scope of work agreed in October 1985 for phase II was
expanded beyond what was envisaged in the original terms of reference for the
consultants. This was due to requirements for additional studies, a decision
to accelerate preparation of tender documents for on- and off-site
infrastructure for three UAEs from phase III to phase II, the decision to
implement accounting and organizational reforms in several municipalities
during Phase II, and most importantly, the increasing scale and complexity of
the investment program. The joint venture consultants were requested to
continue to identify and prepare sub-projects up to a maximum of USS420
million.   Despite the increase in the scope of work which occurred during
Phase II, the time frame for completion of CUEP was not extended resulting in
an expansion of man-month requirements and an increase in the scale and
complexity of the operation.12
4.04     Phase II was completed as planned in May 1986 (8 months).  The
consultants produced 70 studies on a broad range of issues and investments
(Table 7) including housing, municipal finance, institutional development and
town-specific feasibility studies on water, sewerage, solid waste, urban
expansion areas, and housing upgrading. In transport, only the Adana study
had been envisioned originally, but expansion of the scope of work led to four
separate town studies for transport. Only feasibility studies were completed
for the UAEs with final design again deferred to Phase III.
4.05     Contract signature for Phase III was delayed by 7 months because the
Government objected to the consultant's estimated man-month requirements. The
consultants requested that the Government reduce the number of subprojects for
detailed engineering if the budget was limited, but the PCU insisted on
maintaining the larger size and scope.  In agreeing to complete the necessary
inputs for this investment program, the consultants obtained a supplemental
contract for phase III from the Government. This was signed in November 1986
to cover additional studies and work requested by the client. The original
contract for phase III was amended and signed with the consultant joint
venture in December 1986. The Bank had appraised CUDP in November 1986 with
total costs estimated at US$467 million.
4.06     During this same period (November 1986), the management study of
Iller Bank carried out during phase II was completed by one of the joint
venture partners. This study had a negative impact on the future of CUEP and
the follow-on CUDP investment, for which Iller Bank was made the executing
MM/    The consultant's contract covered all three phases, but only phase I
was a lump sum amount. The firm negotiated unit costs for the
remaining phases since the scope of work was to be defined during the
first phase. Man-month requirements were then submitted and negotiated
prior the each subsequent phase.



agency. Consultants recommended a rapid and fundamental transformation of
Iller Bank from a public works agency under the Ministry of Public Works and
Settlement (MPWS) to a commercially-run financial intermediary within the
banking system. Although this generdl concept had some support within the
Government, Iller Bank management strongly resisted any attempt to reduce its
traditional role in engineering services and construction supervision. Iller
Bank management felt threatened by consultants' sweeping recommendations
including restructuring its Board of Directors and governing General Assembly,
reducing technical service staff from 600 to 200, and phasing out subsidies.
Although the Bank also wished to see Iller Bank begin to function more like a
financial intermediary for municipalities, staff doubted whether it was wise
or feasible to attempt to implement all of the report's proposals in the short
time envisioned and felt that the report diagnosed only Iller Bank's
weaknesses, neglecting strengths which could be capitalized on in building the
institution. Unfortunately, consultants rejected the Bank's suggestion that
priorities and more limited reform objectives be established for Iller Bank.
4.07     The drastic reform of Iller Bank proposed by consultants may be seen
in retrospect to have severely reduced the possibility for CUEP or Bank staff
to work in a collaborative manner with Iller Bank management to strengthen the
institution along lines acceptable to its management. Consultant failed to
build a consensus for their recommendations within Iller Bank. Their
expectation that the Government would be able to force rapid reform on Iller
Bank was a tactical misjudgment with high costs for CUDP, for which Iller Bank
became the executing agency (para 4.09). The study on Iller Bank required 14
man-months of consultant services compared to the 45 estimated at appraisal
and the team completed the study in only three months. Given the critical
nature of the Iller Bank study to project success, greater resources and long-
term attention should have been devoted to it during preparation.
4.08     Phase III:  During Phase III, about 60 studies were completed and 11
subprojects prepared to tender stage. Phase III was completed in July 1987 in
line with the original 7 month work estimate, but 6 months late due to the
protracted contract negotiations (para 4.05). The three phases together
consumed a total of 27 months of actual calendar work time by consultants, 42%
more than the 19 months Enticipated at appraisal. The appraisal estimate of
consultant input requireA to complete CUEP was 109 staff years. The
consultant joint venture billed the client for 172 staff years for the three
phases as a result of escalation in work program and man-months agreed to
during phases II and III. The consultant's own estimates indicate that they
provided 205 staff years to complete the work, but the client was not billed
for this higher amount since man-month requirements were fixed at the start of
each phase. In addition to joint venture consultant's services, consultant
input for the. PCU was estimated at 33 staff years at appraisal.
4.09     After completing CUEP, the Bank expected the PCU in Adana to continue
to operate under SPO and be responsible for overall project administration of
CUDP. This arrangement was to ensure continuity between the two operations.
Since SPO is primarily a planning agency, it reduced PCU operations following
the negotiations for CUDP in April 1987 and closed the office in October 1987
when full implementation responsibility was transferred to Iller Bank. Iller
Bank's management was relu ant to take on responsibility for CUDP because of



disagreements over key project ob4ectives, including its own reform, but
accepted the Government's decision. Since neither Iller Bank nor their new
consultants had been directly involved in CUEP, they were not well prepared to
take over the complex operation, even if Iller Bank management had been
motivated to do so.111 Iller Bank initially appointed weak management to the
Project Review and Implementation Unit (PRIMU) it established to implement
CUDP. The lapse in effective and committed project management resulted in a
loss of control over key project activities (e.g., HUDCs). The actions of two
municipalities, Adana and Ceyhan, also contributed significantly to the loss
of momentum during the transition period between CUEP and CUDP. Both had
grown disenchanted with CUEP and felt that as a result of the financing plan
which passed on the foreign exchange risk of borrowing under CUDP to
municipalities and a perceived attempt by the project to curtail the
availability of subsidized finance from Iller Bank, participation in CUDP
could prove to be too "expensive".  The Mayors of Adana and Ceyhan considered
withdrawing from the project on different occasions including at the
negotiations for CUDP. IV Although they eventually decided to participate,
both municipalities delayed signing onlending agreements thereby delaying CUDP
effectiveness for all municipalities by six months (until January 1988).
4.10     Procurement:  Consultants for the project and equipment were procured
according to Bank guidelines. A local firm with government equity participation
was engaged by SPO under sole source arrangements to house the PCU.   The
consulting joint venture hired by the PCU to carry out identification,
feasibility, and design work was selected from a shortlist.  The main joint
venture partner was given a separate sole source contract to carry out the
transport and cadastral studies while the other foreign partner was hired under
sole source arrangements for the Iller Bank study. All equipment for CUEP was
procured under LCB since individual packages were not expected to exceed
US$250,000 equivalent or local shopping for smaller items. Invitations to bid
for cadastral equipment and the transfer of procured items were delayed because
SPO had to procure on behalf of the National Cadastral Office.
4.11     Proiect Costs:  The estimated cost of CUEP at appraisal was US$10.71
million. The final cost estimate was US$ 13.2 million (23% overrun; see
Tables 4 and 5A). IBRD financed US$9.2 million while SPO covered the balance.
The major cost overrun was for feasibility, institutional, and design studies
Consultants and staff for the new Iller Bank Project Implementation
Unit (PRIMU) in Adana had still not been fully mobilized by April 1988,
though CUDP became effective January 1988. (Table 2)
12.    All mayors attended negotiations for CUDP in Washington during April
1987. After their return; the Municipal Assemblies of Adana and
Ceyhan, which together were to receive 46% of the Bank loan, voted to
withdraw from CUDP. These decisions were reversed in October (Ceyhan)
and November (Adana) 1987 when both municipalities agreed to
participate.



- 9 -
and special studies. Appraisal estimates for these items were US$7.6 million
compared to actual costs of US$11.14 million paid to the main consulting joint
venture or its partners individually.
4.12     Disbursements and Loan Allocation:  The Bank financed 85% of CUEP's
estimated US$10.71 million costs though US$6.05 million equivalent were
estimated as local costs. There were no significant deviations from appraisal
estimates of the disbursement schedule. The last disbursement was made on
January 20, 1989 and the loan closed on June 30, 1989 as anticipated. (Tables
2 and 3)
5.       Project Results.
5.01     Consultants produced final designs and tender documents for 11
municipal investments including on- and off-site infrastructure for UAEs
(Adana, Tarsus, Mersin), water and sewerage infrastructure (Adana, Iskenderun,
Ceyhan, Tarsus), and sanitary landfills (Iskenderun, Ceyhan). (Table 5)
Because of the increasing scale and complexity of CUEP, consultants had to
defer work on a number of key components to CUDP, which thus remained at an
early stage of preparation. Feasibility studies were completed for gecekondu
upgrading and housing management components, but no final designs. These
unfinished tasks were to be passed on to the new Upgrading Units which were to
be established in each municipality as part of the master plan for municipal
reorganization. Unfortunately, the reorganization itself was never approved
thus progress on these two components was halted (para 5.03).
5.02     Several components or investments were reduced in scope or eliminated
during CUEP. The objectives of the regional urban growth management component
were revised when the Government lost interest in establishing the proposed
new regional planning authority and adequate consultant resources could not be
allocated due to the increasing scope and complexity of preparation efforts at
the municipal level (para 14.01). The national cadastral component was
dropped when a pre-feasibility study indicated that the task was overly
ambitious (14.09). Feasibility studies were completed for transportation
improvements for four municipalities, but this component was deleted from CUDP
in an attempt to simplify it (para 14.11). A serious problem was the
unwillingness of Iller Bank to share information with the PCU on its ongoing
or planned investments in the project municipalities (para 14.04) The final
designs for Adana Trunk Sewers were rendered useless by a competing design
that Iller Bank had simultaneously prepared during CUEP and offered to finance
on concessional terms. Despite agreement with the Adana municipality on the
location of a proposed sanitary landfill and completion of preliminary
designs, the municipality used the land for another purpose (14.04). Ceyhan
disagreed with the CUEP final designs for investments in a Sanitary Landfill
and Sewerage and Drainage system (para 14.04).



- 10 -
5.03     Results of CUEP's major institutional objectives were disappointing.
The study on the role and function of Iller Bank resulted in no consensus or
agreed reform program during CUEP.13 Given the strong opposition of Iller
Bank to any fundamental changes in its operations, the Bank lowered its target
from reforming Iller Bank to that of establishing a Project Review and
Implementation Unit (PRIMU) within the institution which would test its
ability to function as a financial intermediary for the Cukurova region.
Unfortunately, by appointing weak management and insufficient staff to the
PRIMU after CUDP negotiations and not giving PRIMU authority over all Iller
Bank-financed works in the Cukurova municipalities as envisioned under CUEP,
Iller Bank undermined the effectiveness of PRIMU. The objective of
implementing a new municipal accounting system on a pilot basis was also not
achieved because the new system that was designed under CUEP was not approved
for implementation. Three municipalities that implemented portions of the new
accounting system during CUEP in parallel with their traditional system were
subsequently forced to revert to the old system on instructions from the
Ministry of Interior (MOI) thus incurring unnecessary costs and contributing
to municipalities' disenchantment with the project (para 14.06). Municipal
staff that had been trained in the new accounting standards were eventually
moved to other positions.W/ The credibility of CUEP with municipalities was
further eroded when the Government failed to approve the local government
reorganization Rlans designed under the project after their approval by
municipal assemblies, a factor which had negative repercussions for several
components, particularly upgrading and financial management. Like the
accounting reforms, municipalities such as Iskenderun that began to reorganize
without MOI or State Personnel Directorate (SPD) final approval incurred
unnecessa.ry expense since they were subsequently instructed to dismantle the
reforms (para 14.05).i.I The MOI did not clarify the reasons for its failure
to approve these key project components. The local government staff training
component did result in the establishment by decree of Cukurova MuniciRalities
Training Association (CMTA), an innovative regional training institute to be
financed and managed by the municipalities, but the objectives and scope of
13/   The SAR for CUDP noted that the Government had agreed during
negotiations to decide on role and functions of Iller Bank by December 31,
1987, without specifying the direction of change or making this a condition
of loan effectiveness. Iller Bank has maintained its strong opposition
to changes in its operations and the Government has not yet made any
decisions regarding this issue.
,LU/    The SAR for CUDP also notes that it was agreed during negotiations that
the new accounting system would be approved by September 30, 1987, but
this was also not included as a condition of loan effectiveness.
The SAR for CUDP noted that the MOI and Department of Personnel were
expected to approve the local government reorganization plans designed
under CUEP "shortly", but approval was not granted before CUEP closed
and was not made a condition of effectiveness for CUDP.



- 11 -
CMTA were overly ambitious and the concept was never fully embraced by
municipal leadership.ie
5.04     Four municipalities established new Housing and Urban Development
Companies (HUDCs) during CUEP to provide infrastructure and market sites in
urban expansion areas (UEAs). Unfortunately, establishing these institutions
proved easier than influencing their growth and development. Although the
role of HUDCs was restricted in the Policy Statements agreed to under CUP? to
land development and marketing, some began to contract for housing
construction even before site plans and infrastructure designs were completed
thus defeating the objectives of planned development of urban expansion areas
(para 14.02). Much of the housing did not adhere to building standards,
income criteria, or cost recovery targets established under CUEP (para 14.04).
In Adana, the UEA component was dropped from CUDP despite the fact that final
designs had been prepared when it became evident that cost recovery and
affordability standards were not being met by its HUDC. Iskenderun was unable
to acquire sufficient land for its UEA (para 14.02).
5.05     The institutional and other studies carried out under CUEP increased
the Bank's knowledge of the sector, but the volume exceeded the
municipalities' absorptive capacity and contributed to their loss of interest
in the project. Most reports prepared during the first two phases, the
critical period for building consensus on project objectives, were produced
only in English, with Turkish summaries (Table 5) thus making results
inaccessible to key municipal staff. The volume of reports and feasibility
studies is so large (165) that only a relatively small proportion underwent
adequate review by local authorities or were discussed at appropriate levels
of the Government. Only a small sample could be reviewed in preparing this
PCR. A large multi-disciplinary Bank team or outside consultants would be
required to review all reports and pass professional judgement on their
quality.
5.06     The financing concept for CUDP developed during CUEP was too
complicated and did not have the full support or understanding of the Iller
Bank or the municipalities. In addition to municipalities' owni funds, there
were three major sources of finance for the project including IBRD, Iller
Bank, and the Development Support Fund (DSF), all with differing terms and
conditions.)V IBRD, Iller Bank, and DSF funds were to be channelled through
the Cukurova Project Account (CPA) to be established within Iller Bank and
managed by PRIMU. The flow-of-funds and on lending arrangements
MMi    Municipalities and WSDs were expected to pay .5% of their revised
budget expenditures each year to support CMTA. 285 man-months of
consultant input was to be utilized during CUDP to supplement permanent
CMTA staff, which would provide courses for 4800 trainees between 1987-
92.
UY     In addition, the Government, the Turkish Electricity Authority (TEK),
and the Ports and Telecommunications (PTT) were to contribute resources
separately to facilities and infrastructure in the UAEs.



- 12 -
recommended under CUEP for CUDP were also complicated, involving the IBRD
Special Account (managed by Treasury), the CPA with five municipal accounts
(managed by Iller Bank), and municipal sub-accounts for each HUDC. Iller
Bank's contribution to the project and its non-CUDP investments (ongoing and
new) in each of the municipalities were tc be channelled through the CPA, a
requirement designed to prevent recurrences of the situation in Adana sewerage
when Iller Bank used its subsidized resources to compete with a CUEP-designed
investment (para 5.02). Iller Bank, however, never accepted the principle
that its PRIMU unit should manage all its resource flows to these
municipalities. Moreover, there were seven distinct cost-recovery instruments
applied to different components including tariffs, tax revenues, land sales,
improvement levies, and income on Iller Bank lending. This panoply of
implementation entities with varying financing sources and cost recovery
mechanisms were too difficult for the Government or municipalities to manage
(Table 9).
5.07     There were also several problems with the assumptions underlying the
financing plan for CUDP. Firqt, some municipalities never fully embraced the
concept that they would bear the foreign exchange risk of borrowing under
CUDP. Second, the SAR assumptions for CUDP on interest rates and amortization
terms for Iller Bank cofinance were less than the legal rates prevailing at
the time that CUDP was negotiated, a factor which the Bank did not uncover and
that Iller Bank failed to clarify, but which would have affected the
affordability of the investment program which the Bank appraised.MM Third,
Iller Bank failed to clarify that it could not legally provide Cukurova
municipalities with resources at 0% interest from the Municipal Fund, as was
assumed at appraisal of CUDP because these concessional funds were only
available for Iller Bank-designed and tendered works, not investments
implemented by municipalities as required under the project.
6.       Project Sustainability
6.01     The issue of CUEP sustainability can be addressed more meaningfully
in the Project Completion Report for CUDP, but results of CUDP to date have
not been encouraging. Civil works have not progressed, municipal finance and
organizational improvements have not materialized, and project management by
Iller Bank has not been effective. 2 1/2 years since loan effectiveness,
about 1% of the loan has been disbursed. The Government end the Bank
concluded recently that the original design and objectives of CUDP are not
viable and have agreed on the need to restructure the project by reducing its
size and scope and changing the project execution arrangements.
7.       Bank Performance
7.01     The Bank correctly diagnosed the critical need to address
deficiencies in municipal infrastructure and management at a time when high
level political support for decentralization prevailed. The Bank was,
MMi    Iller Bank's interest rate was changed from 16% to 30% on January 1,
1987, following the CUDP appraisal in November 1986, but prior to loan
negotiations which took place in April 1987.



- 13 -
however, overly optimistic about the pace at which decentralization could
occur including the Government's ability to promote institutional objectives
such as municipal reorganization, new accounting systems, and reform of Iller
Bank. The Bank also overestimated the capacity of the municipalities to
implement such a complex project. The Bank should also have adjusted the
objectives and scope of CUDP and its administrative arrangements to reflect
the high risks it identified before and during CUEP.
7.02     In reviewing CUDP, the Bank's senior management felt that the project
design developed under CUEP was too ambitious and that fewer conponents could
still provide the desired municipal focus. It recommended excluding the UEA
component, since evidence during CUEP indicated that there was no agreement on
the role of HUDCs. The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) on CUDP also clearly
identified the serious project risks which had been identified during CUEP
including the difficulty of making simultaneous improvements in several fields
in five municipalities, the risk that PRIMU would not be able to fulfill its
key roleSU, and the political risks relating to municipalities' commitment to
project objectives and Central Government commitment to decentralization. The
SAR went so far as to postulate that if the decentralization process slowed,
the project might need to be restructured. While these risks were recognized,
it was felt on balance that reducing the number of components or the size of
the project would compromise the operation's urban identity, the scale of the
Bank loan, or the need for a highly visible operation to increase the
probability of replication. Deleting the UEA component might have jeopardized
some mayors' interest in CUDP given their strong interest in housing
investments.
7.03     The Bank may have been reluctant to conclude that CUEI was operating
in an overconstrained environment and therefore reluctant to reassess its
overall commitment to CUDP because substantial resources had already gone into
project preparation and SPO continued to support the project. The Bank
should, however, have delayed its approval CUDP until key institutional issues
such as reform of Iller Bank, municipal reorganization plans, and municipal
accounting changes were fully resolved. Although this was considered, it was
felt at the time that such a delay would risk the interest of municipalities.
If such key institutional objectives were to be deferred from CUEP to CUDP,
agreements on these items should have been maintained as conditions of loan
effectiveness for CUDP rather than dated covenants. The Bank should not have
agreed to Iller Bank as executing agency for CUDP in the absence of adequate
Government oversight and an agreed reform plan for Iller Bank.
7.04     The Bank provided adequate staff resources for CUEP.  Supervision by
multi-disciplinary teams was carried out every 3-4 months. 273 staff weeks
were expended in moving CUDP to the appraisal stpge, including supervision of
CUEP and inputs attributed to preparation of CUDP (Table 8). Indeed, Bank
2G/    PRIMU weaknesses were to be overcome first, by recruiting professionals
on contract terms to supplement Iller Bank; and second, through
intensive Bank supervision and monitoring. Unfortunately, it was not
recognized at the time that Iller Bank is not permitted by law to
engage staff on contract terms.



- 14 -
supervision and involvement during CUEP was so intensive that the borrower
assessed this as a negative factor affecting preparation since considerable
time and effort was necessary to respond to mission requirements (para 14.12).
Because the complex operation required large number of studies, Bank attention
during supervision was often directed toward ensuring that outputs required
for appraisal were completed according to the agreed timetable, budget, and
quality. This left insufficient time for discussion of the conclusions and
recommendations of studies at appropriate levels with the entities that were
to be affected and reaching necessary agreements on reforms. Some Bank staff
working on CUEP have noted that language constrained effectiveness, and that
of expatriate consultants, in this area.
8.       Borrower Performance
8.01     The PCU failed to operate through the regional or national Steering
Committees which had been established to control CUEP. Its attention was most
often directed at obtaining the multitude of clearances and central directives
to expedite project preparation. In this process, it managed to satisfy the
Bank's requirements for appraisal, but it also alienated some project
entities. Although the PCU did not devote sufficient energy during CUEP to
the process of building consensus on CUDP objectives among project entities,
it should also be noted that it was not in a strong position to do so given
that it was staffed entirely by consultants with no permanent institutional
ties to any of the project implementing entities and it was over burdened by a
complex project. If the Steering Committees had operated as anticipated, it
may have encouraged greater commitment or "ownership" of CUEP by the project
entities.
8.02     The PCU should have required consultants to revise their study on the
role of Iller Bank as suggested by the Bank and should not have continued
preparation of UEA components while HUDCs were violating agreed Policy
Statements and project objectives. In addition, the PCU should have halted
the consultants' planning for the Adana sewerage investment after it became
known that Iller Bank would not collaborate and was preparing a competing
design. Proceeding to the final design stage despite these unfavorable
circumstances was a waste of resources.
8.03     The Government never approved municipal reorganization plans, new
accounting standards developed during CUEP, or a specific reform plan for
Iller Bank, thus compromising key institutional objectives. The decision to
demobilize the PCU and transfer full responsibility to Iller Bank was
premature, particularly in the absence of an agreed reform program or
oversight for Iller Bank itself.
9.       Project Relationships
9.01     From its inception, the project design for Cukurova engendered
serious discord, a factor which had a material impact on its results. Senior
leadership in the State Planning Organization (SPO) and Ministry of Public
Works and Settlement (MPWS) supported the concept of a large, multi-sectoral
approach with ambitious institutional objectives and decentralized
implementation. The Bank's relationship with SPO, the executing agency for



- 15 -
CUEP, was very good throughout implementation. The Treasury, however,
considered the operation inadvisable. It doubted municipalities'
creditworthiness, commitment to cost recovery, and capacity to implement such
a large and complex project given their brief experience with
decentralization. Government disagreement over the project concept was
paralleled by the Bank's internal disagreements. Recalling the earlier
failure with the Istanbul Urban Development Project (para 1.01), some
divisions agreed with the Treasury that the operation would be inadvisable and
argued for an incremental or phased approach based on single sector
investments 'eg. Water Supply and Sanitation). Ultimately, the Bank and the
Government agreed to proceed with the operation, but utilizing an engineering
loan (CUEP) which was expected to ensure that the project was thoroughly
prepared thus limiting the risk of another failure.
9.02     The relations during CUEP between the PCU and the leadership of Adana
ar_' Ceyhan municipalities as well as between the PCU and Iller Bank were
strained, a situation which led to a lack of cooperation and contributed to
weak commitment by these project entities to CUEP objectives.
10.      Compliance with Covenants.  The Government generally complied with
legal covenants during CUEP including the requirement to establish and
maintain tiie PCU and employ qualified consultants to carry out the project
(Table 6). The requirement that national and regional project Steering
Committees be established may have been complied with from a legal standpoint,
but these were committees in an informal sense and did not play the
coordinating/controlling function for which they were intended. The
requirement that the borrower make available to consultants all information
necessary for successful execution was met except in cases where Iller Bank
refused to provide information on ongoing and planned investments in project
municipalities (e.g., Adana sewerage). Final audited accounts have not yet
been submitted.
11.      Consulting Services
11.01    The local consulting firm hired to house the PCU provided no
technical input as such, but served mainly as a channel for hiring staff on
contract rates. A joint venture of consulting firms was hired by the PCU and
was responsible for the major identification, feasibility, and design work
under CUEP. The main joint venture firm admits that not all
components/investments that they intended to prepare to the final
design/tender stage were completed (e.g., gecekondu upgrading), but they
maintain that their efforts were diluted as a result of the increase in the
scope of work and requirements for additional studies. Local partners of the
joint venture assisted through recruitment of local personnel.
11.02    Consideration should have been given to retaining the same
consultants during CUDP to complete the unfinished engineering and carry out
technical supervision of the designs it prepared. In such complex projects,
the benefits of continuity are likely to be significant. If the consultants
lacked the requisite expertise in finance or institutional development to



- 16 -
assist PRIMU with CUDP, this weakness might have been overcome through a
joint-venture with a management consulting firm or alternatively by separating
the technical and institutional supervision tasks and hiring two firms.
11.03    Two consultant studies prepared during CUEP contributed to
unsatisfactory performance for key components. These studies on the role and
functions for Iller jank and the design and implementation of the new
municipal accounting system were overly ambitious in their recommendations and
not sensitive to the need to establish priorities and phase in reforms in a
manner acceptable to agencies that they affected. The Consultant's
theoretical conception of a development bank's optimal role in financial
intern.ediation was acceptable in the abstract, but not within the realistic
confines of Iller Bank management's capacity or willingness to accept such
drastic changes over the time frame envisioned.
12.      Project Documentation and Data:  Project documentation and data was
sufficient for the analysis.
13.      Findings and Lessons
13.01    The PCR indicates that several specific aspects of the CUEP design
and organizational framework hampered results of both CUEP and subsequently of
CUPD. First, the project design was too complex, with five municipalities, a
large array of investments, and institutional innovations at the national,
regional, and local level (para 3.02a). Second, the changing and increasing
scope and scale of CUEP over time detracted from project preparation efforts
(para 3.02b). Third, the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) was not sufficiently
accountable to project entities, contributing to these entities' weak
commitment to CUEP objectives (para 3.02c). Fourth, the lack of personnel and
institutional continuity between CUEP and CUDP had a negative impact on the
project (para 3.02d). Fifth, CUEP did not result in an agreed reform program
for Iller Bank prior to its appointment as executing agency for CUDP resulting
in an inconsistency between the project objectives and that of the institution
expected to implement them (para 3.02e). Finally, the analysis and
conclusions of Part I of the PCR differ in spirit and substance from the
Borrower prepared PCR summarized in Part II. The conclusions of Part I
indicate that the project was beset with problems in design, organization, and
implementation, including contractual arrangements and inter-agency relations.
Part II would suggest that either that there were no problems or that if there
were, they were quickly resolved.
Several lessons may be considered for future operations:
(a)      Bank support for municipal strengthening is appropriate in
Turkey, but the single-sector project approach (eg. water
supply and sanitation) has been more effective than the
integrated urban approach in furthering this important
objective. A phased approach to municipal development aimed
at one sector limits the number of institutional contact
points, thereby simplifying the tasks of coordination and
consensus-building, and is better tailored to the current
implementation capacity of municipalities in Turkey, which



- 17 -
lack the experience, finanlcial systems, or personnel
required to implement complex multi-sectoral projects with
complicated financing and cost recovery mechanisms.
Integrated urban projects also imply a heavy commitment of
Bank resources for supervision, a factor wlich should be
taken into account when budgeting resources for such
operations.
(b)      For urban projects to succe'd, strong government commitment
at the central and local level and coordination between the
two are necessary. In order to engender project "ownership"
and sustained commitment to objectives, entities which are
to be affected by planned institutional reforms or
investments should be fully involved in the formulation of
such plans. The Bank should have devoted more attention to
discussion of the conclusions of important studies prepared
during CUEP at appropriate levels with the entities that
were to be affected to ensure that recommendations were
understood and consensus reached. Some staff working on
CUEP have noted that language constrained staff/consultant
effectiveness in this area.
(c)      Institutional continuity between project preparation (eg.
CUEP) and implementation (eg. CUDP) is highly desirable.
For very complex projects, it may be advisable to use the
same consultants for engineering and technical supervision
of engineering.
(d)      Like other B33nk investments in Turkey, engineering loans
should encourage the Government to finance local costs to
the extent po3sible and share at least a portion of those
costs with ficoal beneficiaries. Some cost sharing with
municipaliL:ies during CUEP combined with mechanisms to
ensure their :7ffective input into the preparation process
may have prcmpted cancellation or revision of certain
components or withdrawal by some municiralities, but it
would also ha-ve encouraged preparation ,f a demand-driven
project in wh..sih participants demonstrated commitment to
objectives.



- 18 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
CUKUROVA REGION URBAN ENGINEERING PROJECT
(LOAN 2537-TU)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE rU
14.      Summary of ImDlementation Results: Implementation results are
summarized for each CUEP component:
14.01    Regional Urban Growth Management.  The initial objective of this
component was to advise the Government on the functions, staffing and
institutional location, responsibilities and authority for a regional planning
unit to be established in the Cukurova region. The consultant resources
necessary to undertake the detailed analysis required could not be allocated
due to the increasing necessity to focus on the problems at the municipal
level. This component was therefore redesigned to provide a regional
framework for the five project towns and findings were discussed at a workshop
held in Adana during Phase III.
14.02    Urban Exansion Areas (UEAs).  The Urban expansion area component
comprises the development of land with infrastructure and social facilities on
approximately 2,000 hectares of land owned by municipalities for sale to
developers and individuals for housing, ancillary commercial, and small scale
employment activities. Municipalities have acquired this land by utilizing
funds amounting to 10.5 billion T.L. lent from the Development Support Fund
(DSF) On-site works would be implemented by Housing and Urban Development
Companies (HUDCs) which have been established in Adana, Mersin, Tarsus and
Iskenderun. The Structural Plans, Development Plans and Parcelation Layouts of
Urban Expansions Areas of Project municipalities were completed and approved
by the relevant Municipal Assemblies. Except for Iskenderun, which was unable
to acquire sufficient land due to insufficient access to credit from the Mass
Housing Fund (NHF), municipalities completed necessary land acquisition.
Premature construction activities, however, particularly in Adana and Mersin,
caused deviations from project objectives. In Adana, basic cost recovery
principles were ignored and municipal funds were used to subsidize the initial
housing schemes. Serious bottlenecks in Adana also occurred when housing
construction took place before the arrangements for infrastructure were
complete. Similarly, Mersin constructed housing before infrastructure plans
were complete, but adhered to cost recovery principles. Despite alterations
by Mersin of some infrastructure designs prepared under CUEP, Mersin UEA
program currently stands as the largest housing project activity in Turkey,
largely as a result of CUEP. Tarsus adhered to all CUEP principles and
objectives. There was less progress in Ceyhan due to its delayed
LO/    Part II is a condensed version of the PCU's full report on CUEP, which
it prepared according to the old guidelines for preparation of PCRs.
The substance of the Borrower's original document has not been changed.
The full version of the Borrower's report is included and is available
in the project files.



- 19 -
participation in this component and its overall lack of commitment to CUEP.
Altogether, over 10,000 housing units affordable to the low income groups
(unit costs within the limits of the MHF credits) were constructed during
CUEP.
14.03    Management of Informal Housing Areas.  The component involves three
major sub-components, namely Upgrading, Housing Management and Serviced Site
Development. ZY  The upgrading sub-component comprises the rehabilitation
and/or installation of infrastructure in informal housing areas which are
already developed to a high density, reparcellation of informally sub-divided
land, and legalization in terms of planning and building legislation through
preparation and application of Improvement Plans. Services will be provided
for about 144,000 households in the five project towns during CUDP. The
housing management sub-component involves reparcellation of the informal sub-
divisions prior to development so that planned development will take place.
The provision of infrastructure will then follow. Housing Development
Management Areas and Upgrading Areas Strategy represented on town-wide maps
with priorities were adopted by municipalities. Applications for parcellation
were also begun in collaboration with local Cadastral Offices. Over 6,000
titles were distributed during the CUEP. With regard to the performance of
individual municipalities, Iskenderun and Tarsus displayed increasing interest
and performance, mainly due to their timely municipal reorganization.
Mersin's performance was affected by the absence of technical staff to
coordinate the activities in this component, but did invite proposals for
consultancy services. Adana approved the town-wide program and individual
schemes, but did not show the expected performance during CUEP. After its
decision in November 1987 to actively take part in CUDP, Adana showed an
increasing interest in the upgrading and management programs.
14.04    Municipal Engineering Services.  Sub-components included preparation
of feasibility and design for municipal water supply, sanitation, solid waste
management, drainage, roads and transport and institutional strengthening, the
latter which resulted in shifting of primary responsibility for water and
sewerage investments to new Water and Sanitation Corporations (WSCs) in the
municipalities (the Adana Water and Sanitation Authority (ASKI) in the case of
Adana). The main difficulty in engineering studies was to define the project
in relation to ongoing Iller Bank works. Municipalities also seemed reluctant
to accept proposed engineering standards. In Adana, the ongoing trunk
sewerage construction carried out under Iller Bank contract was continued by
the municipality without considering the cheaper alternative proposed by CUEP
and despite previous agreement on the location of the sanitary landfill site
?J1    The serviced site development sub-component includes only Ceyhan, where
there is no informal housing or squatting, and a small site (36 ha,
1750 dwelling units) has been acquired by the municipality for
servicing and sale to lower income households on a sites-and-services
basis. The initial proposals for the Ceyhan project were unaffordable.
The component was redesigned and a revised proposal including
preliminary designs, costs, estimates of financial and economic
viability, and proposals for implementation was prepared in December,
1986.



- 20 -
and completion of preliminary designs, it utilized the land for other
purposes. The Adana HUDC also started construction in the UEA with new
designs, increasing the standards which had been proposed by CUEP. In Mersin,
it was agreed that ongoing Iller Bank construction and the water and sewerage
project proposed under the CUEP would be done in close coordination. The
Mersin HUDC, however, also changed designs to start construction in the UEA
with increased standards. In Tarsus, a remarkable level of coordination was
achieved with the municipality and the HUDC with respect to design standards.
The Municipality also stopped ongoing Iller Bank design and tender process for
trunk sewerage with the intention of tendering trunk sewerage construction
with the designs proposed under CUEP. In Iskenderun, full cooperation in
engineering studies was also achieved. There is no ongoing Iller Bank works
in Iskenderun and the municipality is determined to tender water, sewer and
sanitary landfill construction with the designs and tender documents prepared
under the Project. Cevhan continues to disagree with the CUEP proposals on
the scope of sewerage construction and sanitary landfills.
14.05    Municipal Reorganization:  The main CUEP achievements were
establishing Housing and Urban development Companies (HUDCs) to develop and
market UEAs, bringing all water and sanitation activities into the newly
established Water and Sanitation Corporatiors in four of the municipalities
(ASKI in Adana), and rationalizing municipal departmental structures through
the establishment of separate units for, inter-alia, (i) investment planning,
programming and budgeting; (ii) urban planning and licensing; (iii) Gecekondu
upgrading and housing management; (iv) solid waste management; and (v)
manpower development. The Reorganization Master Plans prepared for each
municipality were accepted by all relevant Municipal Assemblies during Phase
II. Reorganization activities in Phase III included the reorganization of
Mersin, Tarsus and Iskenderun. The iob descriptions for key posts in the
reorganized departments were prepared and the process of preparing
departmental regulations covering the structures, functions and operation of
the project-related departments are under way. Cadre requests for Mersin,
Tarsus and Iskenderun were officially submitted to the Ministry of Interior
for processing in February 1987. The MOI has shown a basic interest in
replicating the reorganization activities elsewhere in Turkey. Mersin has
shown a basic interest in reorganization activities, yet refrained from actual
implementation on the grounds that without the appropriate amendments in the
existing legislation, the legal basis for the new municipal structure would
not be justified. Ceyhan, although reluctant to fully participate in
reorganization activities, reflected the CUEP proposals in its cadre request
from the MOI. Despite the decision by its Municipal Assembly regarding the
acceptance of the proposed organization chart, the municipal officials in
Adana remain uncooperative on issues pertaining to organizational development.
14.06    Municipal Financial Management.  During CUEP, financial status of the
municipalities was assessed in great detail. All assets and liabilities were
listed and revalued. Based on these figures and projections, affordability of
the investment program to municipalities was evaluated. A new municipal
accounting system was developed and introduced in municipalities except Adana
and Ceyhan. Tarsus and Iskenderun Municipalities have actively participated
in and contributed to municipal finance activities. Mersin also performed
well yet the delay in reorganization activities in Mersin have adversely



- 21 -
affected the municipal finance activities. Cevhan showed fluctuating interest
in activities to improve its financial management. Adana, as a continuation
of its lack of interest for developing its institutional and financial
capacity, has not cooperated on this component.
14.07    Computerization:  Computer software and hardware needs, staffing
requirements and training needs were assessed for all municipalities except
Adana and Mersin (Mersin already had a computer system operating properly).
Hardware needs of Iskenderun, Ceyhan and Tarsus municipalities were met for
the years 1986-87 from the CUEP budget. Micro-computers for municipalities
(except Adana) were purchased by the SPO in 1986 after obtaining three price
quotations and subsequently installed. Computer software developed under the
Project includes, inter-alia, (i) "Projcost", which applies the physical and
price contingencies to project costs; (ii) "Income Model", which forecasts
future income of the municipalities; (iii) "Urban Expansion Model", which
analyzes and calculates on-site and off-site infrastructure costs for each
dwelling unit, and assesses recoverable and non-recoverable costs in the UEAs;
(iv) "HUDC Model", which assesses the financial status of the HUDCs (based on
the Urban Expansion Model); (v) "Munsum", (standing for "municipal Summary"
which utilizes other models for carrying out affordability analysis; and (vi)
other software developed for analyzing the financial mechanisms of the
Cukurova Project Fund and the adjusted World Bank model for water and
sanitation operations.
14.08    Municipal Staff Training.  This has been one of the most successful
components involving the establishment of the Cukurova Municipalities Training
Association (CMTA) to provide specialized training to local government staff,
creation of manpower development departments [thus far in Tarsus and
Iskenderun] and technical assistance to introduce new ftnctions and techniques
to municipalities. All municipalities participated as founding members of the
CMTA during Phase II, a remarkable innovation which had positive repercussions
throughout the local administration in Turkey. The bidding documents
pertaining to the engagement of a team of local and expatriate consultants to
provide technical assistance during the start-up phase of CMTA were prepared
and approved. The CMTA's initial training program will be based on
operational manuals produced during Phase III of CUEP. Courses are to be
develo'ed and offered on a continuing basis between 1988 and 1992 to about
4500 trainees. The training activities during CUEP were carried out through
counterpart training and a continuous series of workshops and seminars. The
terms of references for different technical assistance components including
contract supervision, waste water management, leak detection, road
maintenance, financial management and institutional development were also
prepared and finalized.
14.09    Cadastral Program.   The regional cadastral component was carried out
in close cooperation with the General Directorate of Title and Cadastre (GDTC)
and its local offices. The GDTC established a regional directorate to support
CUEP activities. Cadastral application and updating are underway in
municipalities utilizing equipment procured under CUEP. The SPO issued
invitation for bids for the cadastral equipment in October 1985. Survey
vehicles, electronic tachometers, drafting and aerial films and main computer
terminals terminal control unit were transferred to the Cadastral Office in



- 22 -
January 1987. The delay in the transfer of equipment occurred because only
SPO had any claims to the Bank loan proceeds thus the GDTC was unable to call
for bids on its own behalf. The remaining cadastral equipment, namely the
data processing and automatic drafting units for which no satisfactory bids
were received, were retendered by the SPO in March 1987 and equipment was
transferred to GDTC in September 1987. The Regional Program is expected to be
completed in 1989. The Ministry of State which controls the National
Cadastral Office suggested that the HAKAR study prepared by TUBITAK would
provide adequate basis for preparing the national cadastral program without
the need to engage consultants under CUEP thus the national cadastral study
was suspended.
14.10    Iller Bank Study.  14 man-months of consultancy services were
provided to carry out a study of Iller Bank. The objectives of the study
were: (i) to review the current role and functions of the Iller Bank; (ii) to
examine the effectiveness of existing Iller Bank operations; (iii) to make
recommendations on the future role, objectives, functions and policies of
Iller Bank in the light of government policies; (iv) to decentralize
responsibility and authority for local services to local governments; (v) to
strengthen urban development; (vi) to explore Iller Bank's potential as the
development bank of municipalities; and (vii) to recommend a phased strategy
for implementing new function and policies, including an Action Plan for
strengthening the management and operation of Iller Bank, and to draft terms
of reference for studies, consultancies and in-house work to formulate details
and to implement those improvements. The Consultant's study on Iller Bank
commenced in March 1986 and Draft Final Reports were submitted in June 1986.
Suggestions and comments of Iller Bank, MPWS, SPO and the World Bank were
incorporated in the Final Report which was submitted in November 1986. The
Study in general was regarded by concerned agencies to be weak in defining the
existing financial status of Iller Bank related to Banking activities which
was also reflected in the proposals for future functions. A major common
concern pertaining to the implementation of the Study's recommendations was
the lack of comprehensive proposals on the transitional stage in Iller Bank's
institutional development.
14.11    Adana Transport Study.  Approximately 35 man-months of consultancy
services were provided to carry out a study of transportation systems and
policies of the Project municipalities (except Ceyhan) and to develop a
program to meet their transportation requirements. The consultants commenced
work in May 1986 and was completed the work in September 1986. The
performance of the consultants was remarkable and the Study was carried out
and completed without significant delays. The Urban Transport Planning and
Road Maintenance Study actually comprised two separate studies. In the first
study, emphasis was given to transport-related investments through relevant
feasibility studies. Requirements for new roads and/or major improvements in
existing ones were investigated for the period 1986-1992 in relation to all
factors pertaining to traffic and land use. An investment program for
transport was proposed in four municipalities, encompassing the construction
of 41.6 km. of new roads and the improvement of junctions in main roads. In
the second study, an extensive road maintenance program was developed for the
five municipalities.



- 23 -
Performance of Proiect Agencies
(a)      The Undersecretariat of State Planning Organization of the
Prime Ministry (SPO) was the coordinating agency for the
CUEP. The Undersecretariat Project Promotion and Research
Group (UPPRG), on behalf of the Undersecretary, was
responsible from all activities of PCU. A Project
Coordinator, a member of the UPPRG, was the key person in
Ankara as far as the contact of PCU with government entities
was concerned. The Undersecretary of SPO himself was in
very close contact with the PCU, personally solving or
speeding up the solution of several potential problems
through intragovernmental contacts. All related departments
within the SPO, especially Social Planning and Economical
Planning departments, provided substantial assistance and
support to CUEP through the UPPRG.
(b)      The Undersecretariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade of the
Prime Ministry was the body of the Government communicating
with the World Bank. The interest of the Treasury in the
Project grew substantially after the visit by Deputy
Undersecretary to the Project Office in Adana in June 1986.
(c)      The Ministry of Interior (MOI) is the responsible for local
governments. Consequently, the MOI was very much involved
through its General Directorate of Local Authorities in the
reorganization, training, and accounting system components
of CUEP. Such crucial and delicate components of the
Project were accomplished under the very supportive approach
of the MOI. The General Directorate of Security within MOI
also cooperated closely in the planning of the construction
of police stations in the UEAs and Upgrading Areas.
(d)      Ministry of Public Works and Settlement (MPWS). Two
components of CUEP, namely the UEAs and Upgrading, were
directly related to MPWS. In order to reflect the pilot
character of the project and arrive at meaningful standards
reflecting economic criteria, the MPWS -xempted the project
from the by-law on urban land-use planning standards.
Further, the MPWS initiated a study to review these
standards for Turkey. Since Iller Bank is under the
responsibility of the MPWS, several very useful mettings
were held with high level officials of the MPWS on issues
pertaining to Iller Bank.
(e)      Iller Bank is the major body of the government dealing with
urban infrastructure. Iller Bank currently uses standard
design criteria for water and sewerage networks. CUEP,
basing the engineering designs on affordability criteria,
introduced a new approach to be implemented on a pilot basis
during CUDP. The actual and potential technical and



- 24 -
political problems between the project objectives and Iller
Bank tradition were resolved through the close cooperation
among SPO, MPWS, the General Directorate of Iller Bank, and
the PCU. Integration of ongoing Iller Bank projects with
Cukurova Project designs was accomplished.   Iller Bank
established the Project Review, Implementation and
Management Unit (PRIMU) to execute CUDP. It is anticipated
that the positive experience of the CUEP will be passed on
to Iller Bank by the pilot operations of PRIMU so that Iller
Bank can replicate the project results throughout Turkey.
(f)      State Hydraulic Works (DSI).  Two studies required the
involvement of State Hydraulic Works. The first study was
Mersin Water Treatment Plant. CUEP concluded that doubling
plant capacity would be sufficient and could be achieved by
increasing the capacity of filters and changing the filter
to favor an increase the capacity of all units. In the
Adana Water Supply Project, agreement was reached that CUEP
consultants would work on rehabilitating existing wellfields
and constructing new wellfields, water reservoirs and
distribution network, and the DSI would concentrate on
development of long term surface water sources.
(g)      Post and Telecommunications Authority (PTT).  PTT in Ankara
and its Regional Directorate in Adana were extremely
cooperative in directing and supervising the designs
prepared by CUEP Consultants. The PTT modified some of its
procedures and standards based on the experience gained in
the Cukurova Project. The initial intention of the
Government was to propose a contribution from the World Bank
for PTT and TEK investments in the related CUDP components.
In due course, however, the Government decided to implement
the components of the PTT and TEK activities with local
funding.
(h)      The State Electricity Authority (TEK)/ Cukurova Electric
A.S. (CEAS) Both TEK and CEAS, which has a concession for
power generation and overland transmission in the Cukurova
region, were involved in CUEP. The UEAs and Upgrading
components had to be designed ac-ording their standards.
(i)      Thke Directorate of Mass Housing and Public PartnershiR
Administration (commonly referred to as the Mass Housing
Fund or MHF) was the lending agency to the municipalities
for the purchase and/or expropriation of land in the UEAs.
The MHF was very supportive of the CUEP concept of
establishing HUDC's. During CUEP, the MHF started to place
more emphasis on the development of land with infrastructure
affordable to the low income groups. Certain adjustments in
MHF regulations were made to reflect this trend.



- 25 -
(j)      Mapping General Headquarters of Turkish Armed Forces (MCH).
MGH produced ortho-photo maps of four municipalities, the
first civilian use of orthophoto mapping in Turkey and which
stimulated other agencies to utilize such technology (e.g.,
Istanbul metropolitan Municipality). In March 1987, CUEP
recommendations were considered in amending the related by-
law concerning private sector involvement in the field of
air photography to enable the private sector to produce air
photographs larger than 1:5000 scale, suitable for urban
planning and engineering designs.
(k)      Ministry of Education (MOE).  CUEP developed several new
designs for educational facilities in UEAs and Upgrading
Areas. These were approved by MOE, although it is inclined
toward standard designs for Turkey. The MOE's investment
programs for the coming years were also revised to
incorporate Cukurova project activities.    Educational
components in CUDP will be funded by local sources. (1) The
Ministry of Health (MOH) was involved in CUEP since health
centers are an integral part of the social infrastructure in
UEAs and Upgrading Areas. The MOH was supportive of CUEP
and revised its investment program to incorporate Cukurova
project activities.
(m)      The Ministry of Finance (MOF).  The proposed new accounting
system is currently under review by the MOF officials.
(n)      The General Directorate of Title and Cadastre (GDTC) was
involved in CUEP through the central agency and its local
offices in the provision of up-to-date and accurate
information on cadastral base and on landownership patterns
in the Cukurova Region to aid in successful design and
implementation.    In close cooperation with the GDTC, CUEP
recommendations concerning legal arrangements with respect
to upgrading and management areas were integrated into Act
No: 3290, enacted in May 1986. The provision with special
importance (Article 20) is the new arrangement proposed by
CUEP which gives power to the municipalities to undertake
planning actions in "threatened areas" in line with
"affordable standards" criteria. Project proposals
regarding two important aspects of financial arrangements,
namely (i) establishment of an Upgrading Fund in the
municipalities; and (ii) power of municipalities to
expropriate squatter areas, were integrated into a further
amendment to the Act which received the Parliament's
approval. Cadastral application and updating are underway in
Project towns in accord with the Project's priority areas
and program, utilizing the modern equipment procured under
the project. In order to secure rapid and coordinated
implementation in UEAs, new arrangements in land registry
were introduced. A pilot application was initiated in
Mersin, utilizing computer otitputs in land registry process.



- 26 -
(o)      The State Personnel Directorate (SPD) played a key role in
reviewing the cadre request forms prepared by the
municipalities pursuant to the municipal reorganization
activities. Despite the SPO's and MOI's official requests
for the SPD to take into account the pilot character of the
project, the SPD was reluctant to forward the cadre request
forms to the Council of Ministers for timely approval and
tended to make significant amendments in the cadre requests.
(p)      The State Highway Authority (KGM) was very receptive to the
CUEP proposals under its domain. The cooperation of KGM was
especially significant for those municipalities where the
new (proposed) express way will cross-cut the major UEAs.
(q)      The World Bank has shown a great interest to the Project and
provided a remarkable support to the project preparation
activities. Through numerous missions, CUEP progress was
closely monitored at its various - and most critical stages.
Notwithstanding the merits of the Bank's close involvement,
a significant drawback has emerged despite the intentions of
all parties to sustain the pace of progress. The project
preparation activities were virtually "frozen" thtoughout
the duration of the Bank missions, which were rather lengthy
and frequent. The time allocated by the consultants for
briefing the mission members and providing them with
relevant (generally revised) data barely left any time and
energy for the continuance of the work during the visits of
the Bank missions.
15. Summary of Findings and Lessons Learned from the Borrowers' Perspective
15.01    The CUEP made significant contributions to the refinement and
implementation of the Government's decentralization policy. It had a strong
impact at the national level with respect to the revision of the urban
perspective, culminating in the amendment of pertinent legislation and
promotion of institutional development. Important achievements in developing
and implementing the new urban policies and programs were made during CUEP.
At the local level, HUDCs managed to develop over 10,000 housing units
affordable to the lowest income groups in UEAs. Investments are underway in
these areas to develop infrastructure also affordable to the low income
families. Systematic approaches were developed for guiding the growth of
spontaneous settlements and for providing them with basic services in a
coordinated manner. The legalization act-vities initiated in the
municipalities facilitated the distribution of over 6,000 individual titles.
Lower cost planning and design standards were adopted for on-site
infrastructure in the area-based programs and for the design of water and
sewerage systems. Sewerage charges were introduced, progressive water tariffs
adopted, and water tariffs increased significantly.
15.02    Continuous technical advice and support was provided to the concerned
municipalities to assist them to manage growth and overcome service
deficiencies, and invest, operate and maintain services on a self-sustaining



- 27 -
decentralized basis. In this respect, innovative approaches to support
efficient urban growth were developed and maintained not only in terms of
appropriate design standards, but also in investment programming, financial
management practices and staff development activities.
15.03    An indlrect contribution of the Project manifests itself in the form
of mushrooming consultancy organizations. In fact, there is an apparently
increasing desire on the side of the municipalities and other public agencies,
not only in the region but throughout the country, to make use of consultancy
services in their operations. The CUEP evidently played a significant role in
the development of this new trend.
15.04    Arrangements have been made to enable a relatively smooth transition
from the CUEP to the CUDP. In order to ensure the continuity of the project
management and coordination, a period of overlap is envisaged in the
operations of the PCU and the PRIMU. Furthermore, the incorporation of some
of the PCU expertise into the PRIMU has been achieved. On the side of the
municipalities, however, the position of Adana is problematic.
15.05    After receiving a letter from the Treasury urging the municipalit.ies
to make their final decisions on whether or not to proceed with CUDP, all
municipalities expressed their intention to participate. The Mayors and some
other officials of the five Project municipalities, accompanied by Government
officials and PCU members, went to Washington in April 1987 for negotiations.
On their return, however, despite the consensus reached in Washington on
outstanding issues, the Municipal Assembly of Adana Metropolitan Municipality
decided to withdraw from the CUDP. Ceyhan, however, revised its decision to
withdraw in early October 1987 and restated its intention to be part of CUDP.
Adana also reversed its decision to withdraw in November 1987.
15.06    A major lesson that must be avoided in other similar projects
pertains to CUEP and the associated local finance by the central agencies.
The relatively passive involvement and the lack of enthusiasm on the side of
the municipalities basically stemmed from the fact that they did not pay for
project preparation activities. This weakness should be overcome in future
projects by making the municipalities pay for the preparation of their own
projects and thus ensure their keen interest in how their money is spent.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
CUKUROVA REGION URBAN ENGINEERING PROJECT
(LOAN 2532-TU)
PART III
STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1. RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
Loan/Credit Title                                     Purpose                             Approval    Status
Istanbul Urban             To inprove metropolitan planming, transport/land use and           1972          Closed
Development                prepare investments in gecekondu upgrading, sewerage, and
(Cr.324-TU) 1/             traffic control.
IstanbuL Water             To expand water treatment, transmission, pumping and               1972          Closed
Supply (LN844-             distribution system for the Istanbul metropolitan area.
TU)
Istanbul                   To expand and improve sewage collection in Istanbul; to            1982          Closed
Sewerage I                 reduce water pollution in the Golden Horn and the Sea of
(LN2159-TU)                Marmara; and to strengthen the institutional framework of
ISKI.
Izmir Water                To assist in establishing an autonomous water and sewerage    1987               Active
Supply &                   authority for Izmir; to encourage appropriate cost
Sewerage                   recovery policies; to correct deficiencies in and expand
(LN2818-TU)                the capacity of Izmir's water and sewerage systems; and to
bring about environmental improvements and reduce health
hazards by eliminating open flows of untreated sewage in
the city and the discharge of untreated sewage to Izmir
bay.
Cukurova Region            To improve urban efficiency and finance investments in             1987          Active
Urban                      water supply, soLid waste management, upgrading formal
Development                housing areas, development of urban expansion areas for
Project (CUDP)             five municipalities.
(LN2819-TU) _/
Istanbul Water             To improve and extend sewerage service to 70X of the               1987          Active
Supply and                 population of Istanbul by the end of 1994; to provide for
Sewerage                   appropriate treatment and disposal of sewage to protect
(LN2888-TU)                the water and shorelines of the Sea of Marmara and the
bosphorus; to reduce unaccounted-for water; and to
strengthen ISKI's operation and maintenance and industrial
waste management capabilities.
Ankara Sewerage            To eliminate the discharge of untreated sewage to the              1989          Active
(LN3151-TU)                Ankara River and its tributaries flowing through Ankara;
to extend sewerage to approximately 850,000 unserved
persons; to reduce flooding during heavy rainstorm; and to
improve ASKI operations and maintenance.
1/      Preparation loan resuLted in no major investment operation.
2/       The Cukurova Urban Engineering Project (LN2537) was a preparation loan for this operation.



- 29 -
Table 2. PROJECT TIMETABLE
Date              Date               Date
Item                                          Planned            Revised            Actual
-Identification S                                                                   02/18/84
-Preparation                                                                           09/84
-Appraisal Mission V                          11/19/84                                 11/84
-Loan Negotiations                                                                  03/25/85
-Board Approval                               05/09/85                              05/09/85
-Loan Signature                                                                     05/29/85
-Loan Effectiveness                                                                 07/24/85
-Project ComLetion                            12/31/88                              12/31/8t
-Loan Closing                                 06/30/89                              06/30/89
LN2537 and LN2819 identified simultaneously.
No separate appraisal report was prepared. See President's Report (p-3935, April 18, 1985).



- 30 -
Table 3.  CUJLATIVE LITIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
(US S MIn)
FY       1985           1986           1987        1988           198?
Appraisal Estimate 1/                                 1.7               6          8.6             9           9.2
Actual                                                  0            5.01          8.48         9.06           9.2
Actual as X of Estimated                             0               83X            99X        1O12          100l
Date of final Disbursement    01/20/89
I/ From President's Report. There is no separate appraisel report.



- 31 -
Table 4. PROJECT FINANCING
P.evised
Source                         Planned      05/27/87           Final
IBRD:
EAcenditure Categories:
Consultant Services              6.5         7.508              8.132
Equipment                       0.83         0.68               0.668
Special Account i/                 1         0.611                   0
Refunding Project
Preparation Advance            0.6          0.399              0.399
Unallocated                      0.27             0                  0
Total IBRD                   9.2          9.2                9.2
Government:                      1.4         4.0 2/             4.0
Total                       10.7         13.2               13.2
J/    To prefinance Bank's share of eligible expenditures.
2/    Includes partial financing from PPF.



- 32 -
Table 5.  Studies. Feasibilitv and Design Vork Carried Ouc Under CRE?p
PHASE I Reports Precared by Consultants (April-August 1985)
Reports:
1.    Project Summary and Report (2 volumes)
2.    Town Report: Adana
3.    Town Report: Ceyhan
4.    Town Report: Iskenderun
5.    Town Report: Mersin
6.    Town Report: Tarsus
Working PaiLers:
7.    Regional Perspective
8.    Regional Perspective Supplement
9.    Regional Urban Growth Management
10.   Municipal Finance
11.   Water Supply
12.   Sewerage, Stormwater and Sewage Disposal
13.   Solid Waste Management
14.   Electricity and Telecommunications
15.   Urban Expansion and Gecekondu Upgrading Strate-
16.   Economic Considerations
TORs
17.   Iller Bank Management Study
18.   National Cadastral Study
19.   Cadastral Equipment ?rocuremene
20.   Emplovment and Urban Growth
21.   Household Surveys for phase II and III.
22.   Orthophoto Mapping
23.   Other Muncipal Projects and Housing Finance
24.   Telecommunications Master Plan and Training Study



- 33 -
cont. Table 5. Page 2 of 7
-  PHASE TT Documencs (September 1985-December 1986)'
General (by Category):
Proiect Management and Finance
1.    Project Responsibilities
2.    Financial Plans and Forecasts
3.    Economic Considerations and Project Appraisal
Housing
4.    Housing Finance Case Studies
5.    Household Surveys (2 volumes)
6.    Real Estate Enquiry
7.    The Potential for Extending Credit to Building Materials Suppliers
8.    Urban Expansion Marketing
9.    Utban Expansion Areas; Policy Statement on HUDCs
10.   Informal Housing Upgrading and Expansion
Municipal Engineering Components
11.   Engineering Standards and Criteria
12.   Policy Statement on Water and Sanitations Cor: rations (WSCs)
13.   Water, Sanitation, and Solid Waste Operations  nd Maintenance, Equipment
Specifications and Schedules
14.   Program for Water and Sanitation Leak Detect-  and Data Base
15.   Solid Waste Management
16.   Procurement of Solid Waste Services
17.   Geotechnical and Topographical Surveys
Municioal Finance
18.   Municipal Assets Valuation
19.   User Charges and Cost Recovery
20.   Accounting Systems Manual *
21.   Professional and Advertisement Taxes
22.   Property Tax
23.   Iskenderun Payroll/Personnel System
24.   Iskendbrun Purchasing and Stores Svstem
25.   Iskenderun Vehicle Management System
26.   Iskenderun Financial Ledger and Costing System
27.   Computer Systems, Iskenderun General Systems Examined
28.   Iskenderun Water Billing System
29.   Iskenderun Co-mputer Strategy
!Including 7 month period at the end of phase II when consultants
continued to work, however, phase III contract was being negotiated.



- 34 -
cont Table 5: Page 3 of 7
Inscitutional-Devel ooene and Planning
30.   Municipal Organization and Management
31.   Resource Management in Municipalities
32.   Iller Bank Managment Study (3 vol)
33.   Muncipal Manpower Development
34.   Sub-Regional Plan
35.   Review of Upgrading Plan
36.   Informal Housing Upgrading
37.   Municipal Organization Master Plan
TORs Preoared for:
38.   Nationwide Training Study
39.   Health Impact Study
TOCWN-SPECIFIC REPORTS
Adana:
40.   Adana Transport Study
41.   Water Supply
42.   Sewerage and Drainage
43.   Solid Waste
44.   Urban Expansion Area Feasibility Study
45.   Informal Housing Upgrading*
46.   Municipal Organization Master Plan *
Iskenderun:
47.   Iskenderun Transport Study
48.   Water Supply
49.   Water Resources:Hydrogeological Appraisal
50.   Sewerage and Drainage
51.   Solid Waste      a
52.   Urban Expansion Area Feasibility Studv
53.   Municipal Organization Master Plan*
54.   Informal Housing Upgrading*



- 35 -
Cont Table 5: Page 4 of 7
Tarsus:   -
55.   Tarsus Transport Study
56.   Water Supply
57.   Sewerage and Drainage
58.   Solid Waste
59.   Urban Expansion Feasibility Study
60.   Informal Housing Upgrading*
61.   Municipal Organization Master Plan*
Ceyhan:
62.   Sanitation
63.   Water Supply, Operations and Maintenance
64.   Solid Waste
65.   Housing Development Management*
66.   Municipal Organization Master Plan *
Mersin:
67.   Mersin Transport Study
68.   Water Supply
69.   Sewerage and Drainage
70.   Solid Waste
71.   Urban Expansion Area Feasibility Study



- 36 -
cont Table 5: Page 5 of 7
PHASE II! Reoorts (January-July 1987)
General
1.    Post Appraisal Project Update
2.    Project Cost:Software and Users Manual*
3.    Water and Sanitation Model:Software and Manual*
4.    Urban Expansion Area  '-el:Software and Manual*
5.    Housing and Urban Development Company (HUDC)Kodel:Software and Manual*
6.    Municipal Affordability Summary:Software and Manual*
7.    Regional Urban Growth Management Workshop Manual*
8.    Tendering Procedures Workshop Manual*
9.    Good Citizen Public Relations-Operations Manual No. 2*
10.   Plant and Vehicle Maintenance-Operations Manual No. 11
11.   Solid Waste Management-Operations Manual No. 12
12.   Project Appraisal, Implementation, Control and Monitoring by
Muncipalities, Iller Bank, and PRIMU*
13.   Community Facilities Building Design for Health Centers/Prim. Schools*
14.   Informal Housing Ugrading and Devt Mgmt. Areas-General Engineering*
15.   Management of Water/Sewerage O/K-Operations Manual No. 3*
16.   Road Maintenance:Operations Manual No. 5*
Huncioal Finance:
17.   Inzome Database Guidelines*
18.   Income Collection Efficiency Guidelines*
19.   Cost Recovery:Recommendations for Improved Practice and Legislation*
20.   Municipal Accounting Manual*
21.   Management Accounting-Operations Manual No. 8-c
22.   Income Model:Software and Users Manual*
23.   Working Papers on Financing and Affordability    Housing*
Institutional Devylooment and Planning
24.   Progress Report on Municipal Reorganization in Iskenderun, Mersin, Tarsus*
25.   Manpower Development Workshop Manual*
26.   Procedures for  Municipal Planning Units*
27.   Cukurova Municip4lites Training Assoc. (CMTA) Constitution*
28.   CMTA Six Year and Annual Plans*
29.   Corporate Planning-Operations Manual No. 1*
30.   Urban Planning and Control-Operations Manual No. 7*
31.   Manpower Planning, Training, and Personnel Mgmt-Operations Manual No.9*



- 37 -
cont Table 5:Page 6 of 7
Town Studi&&:
32.   Adana Short Term Housing Strategy (87-92)*
33. Kiremithane Housing Devt. Mgmt. Area Improvement Plan *
34.   Kiremithane Housing Development 8gmt. Community Facilities Brief*
35.   Kiremithane Informal Housing Upgrading Area Improvement Plan*
36.   Kiremithane Informal Housing Upgrading Community Facilities Brief*
37.   Hydrogeological Study
Final Designs and Tender Documents:
38.   Urban Expansion Area On-and Off-Site Infrastructure*
39.   Water Supply*
40.   Sewerage, Trunk Sewers and Treatment Plants*
Iskenderun
41.   Iskenderun Housing Strategy (87-92)*
42.   Yildirimtepe Housing Devt. Mgmt. Area Improvement Plan*
43.   Yilderimtepe Housing Devt. Mgmt. Community Fa: Lities Brief*
44.   Yildirimtepe Informal Housing Area Improvemen- ?lan*
45.   Yildirimtepe Informal Hsgn. Upgrading Communi-  Facilities*
46.   Meter Adjustment and Repair Shop Report*
47.   Resource Mgmt:Iskenderun Water and Bus Operat: ns*
Final Designs and Tender Documents:
48.   Sanitary Landfill Site Development
49    Water Supply, Extracting and Pumping, Sanitati'n & Drainage Secondary
and Tertiary Networks
50.   Resevoirs
CeXhan
51.   Urban Expansion Area Feasibility Study
52.   Sewerage/Drainage Gazi Osman Pasa Preliminary Design Report
a
Final Designs and Tender Documents:
53.   Sanitary Landfill Site Development*
54.   Sewerage and Drainage*



- 38 -
cont Table 5:Page 7 of 7
Tarsus    -
55.   Tarsus Short-Term Housing Strategy (87-92)*
56.   Yanimahalle Housing Development Management Area Improvement Plan*
57.   Yenimahalle Housing Development Mgmt. Community Facilities Brief*
58.   Gaziler Informal Housing Upgrading Area Improvement Plan*
59.   Gaziler Informal Housing Upgrading Community Facilities Brief*
60.   Bahce-Barbaros-Girne Informal Housing Upgrading Framework Plan*
61.   Bahee-Barbaros Informal Hsng. Upgrading Community Facilities*
Final Design and Tender Documents:
62.   Urban Expansion Area On- and Off-Site Infrastruture
63.   Trunk Sewers, Waste Treatment Plant, Secondary/Tertiary Networks
Merlin
64.   Mersin Housing Strategy (87-92)*
65.   Demirtas Informal Housing Upgrading Area Impr' ement Plan*
66.   Demirtas Informal Housing Upgrading Communit.  acilities Brief*
67.   Osmaniye Housing Development Mgmt. Area Impro- tent Plan*
68.   Osmaniye Housing Development Mgmt. Ccmmunity   :ilities Brief*
Final Designs and Tender DQcuments:
69.   Urban Expansion Area On- and Off-site Infrastr:cture
*Turkish and English versions
.



- 39 -
Table 5A
PROJECT COST
(US S Million)
IeA                          fAppraisal Estimate                        Actual
Local    Foreign                          Local
costs    costs        Tota1     IBRD      Funds  Total
1. Project Coor. Unit
(PCU)                     1.43     0.39          1.82 A/  1.11      0.25    1.36
2. Institutional
Feasibility & design
studies                   3.21     2.52          5.73      6.72     3.4    10.12
3. Cadastral Surveys/
Equipment                 0.14     0.85          0.99      0.88     0.16    1.04
4.  Special Studies           0.27      0.27         0.54 h/  0.5       0.18    0.68
5.  Physical Contingencies   0.35       0.22         0.57
6. Price Contingencies        0.65      0.41         1.06
Total Project Cost            6.05      4.66        10.71      9.21      3.99   13.2
a/   Partially financed with $600,000 advance from project preparation facility.
h/   Adana Transport and Iller Bank studies.
c/   Based on weighted average exchange rate for 1986-87 disbursement period of
US$1-757 TL.
Counterpart funds from State Planning Organization.



- 40 -
r3ble 6. Satatnt of Crltince with Leal Covenants
LA SeCtion   CovnUtS                                                     Deadtlin  for
Cotiiice                      Status
3.02 Cii)   fatabtish/meintain Project Coordination unit                                  Established; demobilized
in October 1987 when llter Bank
began to execute CuoP
3.32 Ci)    Estabtish/meintain regional/notionat                                          Established, if at atl, in name only
project sttering comaittees                                                  and considered not to have
functioned effectively.
3. 4 Ca)    Borrower shall aploy consultai.ts to                                          Satisfactory.
assist in carrying out project
3.04 (b)     Borrower shall make available to                                             Nostly satisfactory though it
consultants  ltL such information                                            was not always possible to coordinate
as may be necessary for                                                      project pltars with ongoing
successful execution.                                                        investmant plans by other
goveramental agenies.
3.C4 tc)     Borrowr shall furnish to the Bank copies of                                  Satisfactory.
doctumnts prepared by consultants.
4.0I  ii0)    Furnish audited anntul accounts                            6 mos            Finat audited accovnt due June ;  ;-
after FY



aole ?.  MISSIONIS                                        - 41  -
Stage of                    month/      Number      SW             Specialization             Perfortance          Types
Project Cycle                Ve         Persona  in Field          RePrtsented                Rating Status 2/ of  -:oleems
Through Appraisal
:Zentification    1/        3/84             7          11         Deputy Chief,EMPU"
Economist
municipal Engineer
Loan Officer
Financial Analyst
2 (uniknox affiliation)
Identification    1/        5/84             4          10         Economist
Municipsl Engineer
Sanitary Engineer
Financial nalyst
Identification    1/        6184             5          10         Economist
Municipal Engineer
Economist
Sanitary Engineer
Consultant(unic. Finance)
Oreparation                 9/84             5            9        Economist
Deputy Chief
Muncipal Enginee-
Financial Analys
Consultant(gmt. i
Appraisal                   11/84            7           14        Municipal Engineer
Economist
Sanitary Engineer
Training Specialti,
I consuLtant Civi -ng
(2) Unknown
I/ CUOP identified atorn with other potential urban investments.
2/ Ratings: first ntufer luProblm free or minor; 2aModerate; 3smajor
second nuiber l-lmproving; 2aStationary; 3xoeteriorating



- 42  -
cont. Table 7.
Stage of                    Month/     MueSbr       SW             Speciatization            Performance          rypes
Project Cycle                Year      Persons  in Fleld           Represented  4/           Rating Status    of Problems
SUPERVISION
Supervision  1              4/85            2            2         Economist
Municipal Engineer                         nore
Supervision 2               7/85            3            2        Economist                  1/2              none
Sanitary Engine r
Municipsl Engineer
Supervision 3               9/85            4            6        Economist                  1/2              Financial
municipal Ernineer
Financial Analyst
Sanitary Engin  r
Supervision 4               11/85            4           4         Deputy Chief                               nor
Economist
Urban Plarner
Engineer/Pta   r
Supervision 5               1/86             6          10         Economist                 1/2              none
Urban Planner
Municipal Engineer
Engineer/Planner
Deputy Chief
Engineer
Supervision 6   3/          5/86             8          20         Economist                                  none
Loan Officer
Deputy Chief
Engineer/Ptanner
Financial Analyst
Engineer
Urban Planner
Engineer
Attorney
Supervision 7   4/          6/87             5          14         (M)Econamist              1                none
Engineer/Ptamer
1/ Consultant(Munic.  fnance)
Consuttant (Enliree-)
Supervision 8   4/          9/87             3           7         Economist
Sanitary Engineer
Engineer/Ptanner
3/ Combined preparation mission for CUOP (LN2819).
4/ Also supervised start-up of CUOP Ml2819), which was not yet effective.



-43 -
Table 6. "NK STAFF IRIIWCES ASSOCIATED WITH CUKUROVA
anag,nnt Infornmtion
Loan Titte              Syste Classification        Staffweks
Expenses
CRUEP 1/                Preparation (LEMP)                   0
CRUEP                   Pre-Appraisal (LOP)               8.6
CRUEP                   Apprisl.t (LENA)                  32.4
CRUEP                   Negotiations (LEMN)               6.2
CRUEP                   Supervision (SPM)                30.1
CUOP 2/                 Preparation (LEMP)                 164
CL0DP                   Pre*Apprsisal (LOP)              32.2
Subtotat     273.5 stwks(5.25 staffyears)
CUDP                    Appraisal (LENA)                  82.4
CUOP                    Negotiations (LENN)                6.8
TOTAL        362.7
1/ Cukurova Region Urban Enginerir.g Project MLN2537)
2/ Cukurove Urban DOevlop ant Project (LN2819)



- 44 -
Tab le 9
ettudV  URAM OIVILOPuET P*epJeT
SUMARY 3f AIIANGIENITS FOR IMPLEMENT1NG FINANCE ANO COST REt1VERY
9mpl..et ing                cost Recovery
Aa.nev     ~    Fl.M*.jMi<rU           qmenittnt
I. MU"C
A.Ura   waie   ra
1. LigN                                                 DSP         *Land Price
(I) Site preparation              NIUOC              to. to. n            Land Price
(iti Water & Sanitation           4Wu0C               to, We. M            Land Price
(tii) Roads. footpatns              mUOC               iS. bO. M            Land Price
drainage
(iv) Ftre stations.                N                  n. tS                14. Taxes
comunity Ologs.
3. Ofsite tnfpagtructurp
(a) Water and Sanitation             wSO                to. We. N            Land Price. T/C
(b) toads                                               t oU, Iw. n          Land Price. N. Tame
4. oneav.mmt facilities
(Schtools. healtn. police)       SPA                                     G e. Sudget
S.  Iatt^  util1tteq
(a) 'eecaOMnic3tXIS                  PTT                PT-
.~    r.g *;lt                        .-,*r  ln>n
1. Water. Sanitation  *etworIks       wsp                N.  3*. "a
* 'tet-3ries           5so                               :a. -      3a     t. Lee. .
2. RoaaS. Sewalks * 4etwor:           4                  N, t. wi             N. '1J
rertiaries                                             l e. wS e bC      e. Levy. L.C..
2. Government facilities. Nattonal
Utilittes                          as for Urba  Exasion Areas
C.   nia&I Enen.rne
1. Water and Sanitation               wSO                M. le. w             T/C. I. Levy
2. Solid waste                                           M N. tS. we          M. Taxes.
3. DratnaeN                                                 l. 13. WN         m. Taxes
4. loads                                                    i .1. A4          M. Taxes. t. Levy
O. minttiaai FtaaMe and Nannamt          IS. N              N, to. W4            1t. N. Tames
tY.    ATt*EL AM. *ItfluI*L
1. Training                           CNTA               N. in. we            N. Taxes/G. Budget
2. MIaer Sank                         to                 le, la                to Inco
III. ESUJMZJ*fIft
1. PtwU                               toS                1. .st I  tncom
WM9ll: CNtA - Cukurova umnicipalitigs Training Associatioen. oSr - Oevelopnt Support Fund. G
- Government. HUOC - Hoasing and Urban Oevelopment Corporattons. tO - Iller Sank. 1. Levy -
tInrovOnent Levy. L.C. - Leg1azation Charges.   - Mnicipalities. 1N. T"as -  ICtmipal taxes
PTt - Posts and tAltca_ications  uthority. SAP - SeIal ProviCIal Administration. tK. -
Turkey nlectrtCity Authority. T/C - Tariffs and Charges. wM - asicipal Wator and Sanitatiop
0epartment.



