E n v 1 3 rL) 1,111 1--II.i  b-A rIII I   - ----- 
Asses si-ui1,                i s
Report E0052
F'ji-an   rovincial
Highway Project
EA Category A
Environmental Impact Statement
3 of 6
September 1992
This report has beeni prepared by the Borrower or its Consultant



SUMMARY OF ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT STATEMENT
FOR QUANZHOU-XXIAMEN EXPRESSWAY SECTION
OF FUZHOU- XIAMEN HIGIWAY
Fujian Provincial
Environmental Protection Research Inslitite
*                      Fujian Provincial Fuzhou-Xiamen-Zhangzhou
Expressway Constiuclion Directorate Office
Feb * 4, 1993



CurMnCy nre= Rmnminbi CNIB)
Currency unit = Yun(V ) :100 fen
VEIGH13 MI) *iSIBM
1 mter bml                  =3.28 feet (ft)
1 ki laeter (i.)            = 0.62 mile rim)
I square mter me)             10.76 square fet (sq ft)
I square ki lomter (ke)     = 0.4 squre miles lsq ml)
I hectare (ha) = 0.01(kme)   = 2.47 acresCac)= 15 mu
1 w          =666.7 sqm       0.0667 ha
I kilogram  lud             = 2.2046 Pouncs llbs)
ILon                       1=WO kg
I metric ton i ton)           2204 Pounds (hbs)
PRICIPAL AB8REVIATIONS AND ACRONYS IUSD
FA           Fwnrtn;enmtA1 Atsessment
EIS      -   Frvi;r3nmanLal lwvact Statament
El           Enviorronmental Impact
FtP  - -   - Envioroenbal Arction Plan
P.P.I--  Tne Peo; le's Republic of Lnni a
S18 --       State tnviranmental Protection PAlrWu
X1C-    Ninistrv of QCozications
WfPC         FuJian Provincial Orfice of Freeway CotrucLiCn
FPEPRI  -    Fujian Provincial Environmental ProtecUion Research Inmititute
I?PlDI       Fujian Provincial Comnications Planninr and Desixr IntituLe
SS - ~           Suspended Sediment in Vater
M.    --  Five-day Biohmical Oxvwen ro3nd
T.S.P        Suspwend Particles in Air
iIIC Total Hydrocarbon Content
* Ne &scribinm Water Dual ity.Defined as A -mesosaprobic ZkanR Yhich
Contains Organic Pollutants
GB           State Standard Gode of P.R.C
COD          Oheical (hanxen Demd
.eq          Equivalent Sound Level
Yl1.,1-      Vibration Level



Summary of Environmental Impact Statement
for Quanzhou-Xiamen Expressway Section of Fuzhou-Xiamen Highway
Contents
1.  Introduction
1.1 Time and Staff. Assigned to EA Work
1.2 The Scope of the EA Work
1.3 The Laws.Regulations and Standards Applied in EA
1.3 The Main Methodology Applied in EA Work
2. Project Description
2.1 The Route Strike of the Expressway and the Main Works
2.2 Comparison and Selection of the Engineering Alternatives
3. The Status Quo of the Environment
3.1 Natural Environment
3.1.1 Meteorology
3.1.2 Terrains and Topographic Features
3.1.3 Soil Category and Distribution
3.1.4 Vegetation
3.1.5 River System
3.2 Social Environment
3.2.1 Population and Cultivated Land
*      3.2.2 Socioeconomic Structure
3.2.3 Agri-cultural Production Conditions
3.2.4 Traffic Conditions Along the Route
3.2.5 Cultural Relics and Landscape
3.3 The Status Quo of Environmental Quality
3.3.1 Atmosphere
3.3.2 Noise
3.3.3 Water Quality
3.3.4 Vibration
4. The Projection of Environmental Impact
4.1 The Projection uf Atmospheric Environmental impact
4.1.1 The Analysis ol Atmospheric  Environmental  Impact  in
the Constructinn Phase
4.1.2 The Projection of Atmospheric Environmental Impact in
the Operation Phase
4.2 The Projection of Noise and Vibration Environmental
Impacts
4.2.1 The   Analysis  of Noise Environmental Impact  in



the Construction Phase
4.2.2 The Projection of Noise Environmental Impact in
the Operation Phase
4.2.3 The Analysis of Vibration Environmental Impact in
the Construction Phase
4.2.4 The  Projection of Vibration Environmental Impact in
the Operation Phase
4.3 The Environmental Impact Projection of Soil Erosion
4.3.1 The Status Quo of SoiL Erosion along the Route
4.3.2 Contributing Factor Analysis of Soil Erosion Caused by
the Highwav Construction
4.3.3 The Analysis for the Sections and Areas Sensitive to
Soil Erosion along the Route
4.3.4 The Projection of the Potential Soil Erosion Caused by
the Expressway
4.3.5 The Potential Impact of Soil Erosion on the Ecological
Enviornment
4.4  The Impact Caused by the Expresswav on the Ecological
Environment along the Route
4.4.1 The Impact on the Ecological Environment along the
Route in the Construction Phase
4.4.2 The Impact on the Ecological Environment along the
Route in the Operation Phase
4.4.3 The Impact on the Wild Animals and the Protective
Measures
4.5 The Projection of Water Environmental Impact
4.6 Public Participation
4.7 The Impacts on the Hydrology
4.8  The Impacts on the Traffic on the Existing Roads.
4.9 The Impacts on the Cultural Relics and Landscape
5. Environmental Management Plan
5.1  The Objectives of Environmental Management
5.2  Environmental Management Organizational System
5.3 Environmental Management at/before the Stage of
Construction
5.4 Environmental Management at the Stage of Operation
5.5 Environmental Monitoring and Training Programme
5.5.1 Environmental Monitoring Plan
5.5.2 Training Program
6. Conclusions and Countermeasures
6.1 Conclusions
6.1.1 Status Quo and Impact Forecast of Various
Environmental Factors
6.1.2 The Conclusions of Comprehensive Assessment
2



S_t  Nap of Loation of Fuzhou-Xlim.n Eprem
ffi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Fg I   
.A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1.
0~~~~~
}  }  n it+~*   z7
g2R;° 7 < n~Sming X 
., *7  ,,  /,.Se
4-     -    g   FUIA                  - yv ,,
.*. .)Xiameo        __-_t_a_                  !
ts   '.    1                                                Lad un
9e:;  \.                                                T \he first phase
Z   's-  'S   <7 CZ                         ~~~~~~~~of th  project
-0  0  46 60 KMme of the   project
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  ,._ _ __o .     p   '     I



6.2  Countermeasures and Suggestions for the Environmental
Protection
6.2.1 Traffit.  Management Plan During the Construction
Period
6.2.2 Plan for the Protection of Clutural Relics during the
Construction Period
6.2.3 The Protective Measures for Ambient Air Pollution
6.2.4 The Protective Measures for Noise and Vibration
6.2.5 The Protective Measures for Soil Erosion
6.2.6 The Protective Measures for Ecological Environment
6.2.7 The Protective Measures  for Water Environmental
Pollution
6.2.8 The Protective Measures for Construction Camps
6.2.9 Suggestions for the Afforestation along the Route
6.3 The Plan for the Displacement of the Local People
1.  Introduction
1~  3



1.1 Time and Staff Assigned to EA Work
In accordance with the relevant regulations stipulatied in
"Environmental Protection Law of P.R.C". "Management Guildline on
Environmental Protection of Construction Projects' and "Measures
for Environmental Protection Management of Transport Construction
Projects", Fujian Provincial Office of Freeway Cons- truction
*               (FPOFC) entrusted Fujian Provincial Environmental Protection
Research Institute (FPEPRI), which was awarded licence A for
environmental assessment,to conduct the environmental assessment
work for Quanzhou-Xiamen Expressway in September. 1991. Highway
Science Reasearch Institute of MOC of P.R.C. which was awarded
licence A for environmental assessment,also participated in this
environmental assessment work.The environmental monitoring was
conducted by such local statutory unites for environmental
monitoring as Quanzhou Environmental Protection Monitoring
Station. Tong'an County Environmental Protection Monitoring
Station,Material Structure Research Institute of the Chinese
'Academy of Sciences. Quanzhou Gage Station. Xiamen University and
Fujian Agricultural College etc. The units involved in the
environmental   assessment  work  made   field  survey   in
September,1991, and Prepared "Outline of EA " in October, 1992.
and submi.tted it to the State Environmental Protection Bureau
(SEPB) for review,which passed the-examianation sponsered by the
SEPB in February, 1992. The precies of "Environmental Impact
Statement -of Quanzhou-Xiamen Expressway Section of Fuzhou-Xiamen
highway was prepared by in March.1992. In July.1992.the field
survey and monitoring were completed. The complilation of
Environmental  Impact Statement  (EIS)  of Quanzhou-Xiamen
Expressway Section of Fuzhou-Xiamen Highway was finished, which
was submitted to MiOC and SEPB for review in August.  1992. 86
man/month was spent in the whole process of environmental
assessment work.
1.2 The Scope of EA Work
The EA work includes:
Quanzhou-X.iamen Expressway with a length of 81;4 km: the
link road (7.57 km in length) from Tiancuo to Jimei (Class I
automobile accommodation Road) and 6.26-km-long link road from
Wuling to Shedian in Jinjiang County(Class II highway 1.
a: Assessment contents comprise the survey and assessment on
the status quo of the environment in the key areas along the
proposed expressway and its link roads. the projection of
environmental impacts during the construction and operatinn
periods and environmental protection countermeasures and
suggestions to be made.
b: As for the atmospheric environmental impact. the scope of
the assessment covers an area 500 meters from each side of the
central line of the proposed expressway. And as for the noise and
vibration environmental impacts. the scope covers a belt area up
to 500 meters from each shoulder of the expressway.
1.3 The laws , Regulations and Standards Applied in EA
(1). Laws and Regulations:
a. Environmental Protection Law of P.R.C.
b. Atmospheric Pollution Abatement Law of P.R.C.
'4



c. Water Pollution Abatement Law of P.R.C.
d. Management Guildline on Environmental Protection of
Construction ProJects . NO.003 (86) issued by the SEPB.
e. Measures for Environmental Protection Management of
Construction Projets,NO.117 (86) issued by  Ministy of Urban and
Rural Construction and Environmental Protection.
f. Measures for Environmental Protection Management of
Transport Construction ProJects .NO.17 issued by MOC of P.R.C.
(2). The Criteria-for Evaluation:
a. Atmospheric Background Quality Standards (GB3095-82).
b. Lead and Inorganic Compounds Hygienic Standards of
Atmosphere (GB7355-B7).
c. Environmental Quality Standards of Surface Water (GB3838-
88).
d. Ambient Noise Standard for Urban Areas (GB3096-82).
e. Noise Criteria for Construction Sites (GB12523-91).
f. Envionmental Vibration Standards in City Regions
(GBI0070-88)
The detailed criteria for evaluation for the areas can be
seen in Table 1.
1.4 The Main Methodology Applied in EA Work
The methodology applied in EA work comprises field
monitoring.  collection  of  data.  analogical  survey  and
computerized simulation.
The field monitorings were carried out for the status quo of
atmospheric environment. water environment. acoustic environmient.
vibration environment and aquatic organism environment.The
meteorological and hydrological data were secured from local
meteorological observatories and hydrologic stations. and some
supplementary observations were made. The ecological environment
was carried out in the form of field investigations and suirveys
on the basis of which the assessment and projections were
conducted.
In order to Let more local people participate in the
assessment work . the sampling surveys of the residents living
along the route were carried out . forums held and visits paid to
some families and individuals.
In the environmental prediction, the first place was given
to the computerized simulation. at the same time . in combination
with analogical surveys. The mathematical models adopted were the
mature ones both in China and abroad. The  details will be given
in the subsequent sections . The technical  line and program
adopted in EA work can be seen -in Fig. 1.
2. Project Description
2.1 The Route Strike of the Expressway and the Main i orks
The starting point of the proposed expressway will be
located in the vicinity of Xifu village in the eastern suburb of
Quanzhou city, extending southward from Xifu , its origin, the
route passes through Yt.Dapingshan. Mt. Xiaoyingling and Mt.
Damaoshan and crosses over Jinjiang River, Xixi River, Nanqi
Channel. Guangxun River, -Jiuxi River and Jiushijiuxi River. to
5



end up at Guanglingtou in Xinglin Town. with a total length of
81.4 kilometres. Under the project there are two link roads Class
II road from Wuling to Shedian in Jingiang County, with a length
of 6.26 km and Class I automobile acommodation road from Tiancuo
to Jimei in Xiamen, 7.75 km in length. The main works of the
expressway project can be seen in Table 2. The route alignment
can be found in Fig.2.
2.2 Comprison and Selection of the Engineering Alternatives.
As the design department responsible for the project. Fujian
Provincial[ Communications Planning and Design Inqtitute(FPCPDI)
devoted every effort to keep the alignment away from such
sensitive spots as the residential areas and schools for the
purpose of reducing disturbance and protecting natural landsape
in the location survey. In the starting section of the expressway
. the selected line was adopted for the purpose of keeking the
alignment awav from the Overseas Chinese University,and making
less disturbance to the railway under construction and causing
less soil erosion. In the terminal bection of the expressway .
the alternative alignment was selected simply because it would
pass through fewer villages and there would be no sensitive spots
and facilities with less disturbance, land acquisition and
demolition.
3. The Status Quo of the Environment
3.1 Natural Environment
3.1.1 Meterology
It's obvious that there is a subtropical maritime monsoon
climate with moderate- temperature and humidity along Quanzhou-
X.iamen expressway . Summers are long and winters are short. All
year long. predominant wind is east -wind. But in summer south
wind prevails and in winter east wind is prodominant char-aterized
by low frequency of stagnant air and great average velocity of
wind. The period from July to September is the typhoon season. a
disastrous weather. In the zones along the route. the annual
average temperature is 20.4-21.0 Deg.C . the annual average
rainfall is between 1090 mm and 1478mm. mainly concentrated in a
period from May to September.
3.1.2 Terrains and Topographic Features
The alignment of the expressway passed through the southeast.
region of Fujian Province. in which the red soil tarraces and low
hillocks account for-two thirds and river network. alluvial
deposit, diluvial deposit and maritime deposit account for one
third. On the whole, the region is characterized by a terrain
which is higher in the west and lower in the east with a stepped
incresase  from east  to west.  The alighment  has a i-ittle
longitudinal undtilation with an average ground slope below 20
degree. Of the terrains in the zones through which the alignment
will pass. the plains account for 16% nf the total lengih nf -the
route. tarraces and hills account- for 84% and the differen-e of
relative altitudes is only 10 meters, advantageous to the
construction of the expressway.
3.1.3 Soil Category and Distribution
The soil along the expressway may. in the main. be divided
into:
1. Laterite Red Soil: It is mainly distributed in the
6



section between Puli and Luntou. part of it is located from
Hou'an to Hunei.
2. Coarse-Textured Red Soil: It is mainly dispersed in the
steep terrains along the expressway, for instance, near Mt.
Dapingshan and Mt. Xiao;vingling Road Tunnel.
3. Paddy Soil: It is mainly dispersed in the open and flat
terrains along the route with better water conditions. In the
sections from Guokeng to Yulan and from Xingdian to Neikeng.
there As a large distribution of paddy soil.
4. Red Soil: It is mainly distributed in the sections
between Liushi and Cidian and between Neikeng and Puli.
3.1.4 Vegetation
The plant cover in the area along the expressway is
secondary and planted vegetation.
3.1.5 River and Water System
The big rivers over which the expressway crosses are
Jingiiang River . Jiushijiuxi River. Jiuxi River. Xixi River and
Guangxunxi River.
3.2 Social Environment
3.2.1 Population and Cultivated Land
There are 98 natural villages within 250 meters froi each
side of the expressway with 16300 households and a population of
66118. The cultivated area is 40700 mu, amrng which 21000 mu is
irrigated land and 19600muu is nonirrigated land. Per capita
cultivated farmland is 0.61 mu.
3.2.2 Socioeconomic Structure
The township enterprises along the proposed expressway are
developing rapidly. The proportion of industrial output value in
total  outptit value of agriculture and  indurstry  is increasing
annually. According to the statistic data secured from 64
administrative villages along the proposed expressway in 1991.
the output value of industry accounted for 64 percent of the
total output value of agriculture and industry. while the outptit
value of agricuilture, was 36 percent of the total .among which the
otltput value of farming industry accounted For 74% of the total
output value of agriculture. animal industry 12.. fisheries
industry 7%. forestry 0.7% and others 6.3w.
3.2.3 The Agriculture Production Conditions
The regions along the Proposed expressway. is an importanL
rice and fruit base in the southern part, of Fujian. Rice and
siigarcanes predominate in the agriculture productioi,. containing
a certain ratio of peanuts. fruitflongan) and fresh water
cultivation.
3.2.4 Traffic Conditions aiong the Proposed Expressway
Mlost of the sect-ions alo:sg the expressway are close to the
existing Fuzhou-Xiamen Highway.Since  the expressway  .ntersects
the existing highway at several points and is connected with such
routes as National Route No.319 and Provincial Route No.13-2U5
.No.13-306. resulting in the convenient traffic.  T'he buses can
even raech the interior among Mt. Dapingshan. Mt.Damaoshan and
Mt. Xiaoyingling. providing--a favourable condition for the
construction of the expressway.
3.2.5 Cultural Relics and Landscape -
There are a lot of cultural, relics and scenic spots in and
around Xiamen and Quanzhou. Gulangyu Island , located in Xiaaen,
7



bears the name of Garden in the sea. and Riguangyan is a famous
scenic spot. Besides those, there are other scenic spots as
Zhongshan Park,Nanputuo Tample,Aoyuan Garden, the Museum of the
Overseas Chinese etc. In Quanzhou, there are many scenic spots,
for example. QingJin Temple, Kaiyuan Ancient Temple. and
Mt.Qingyuan. Besides these,.there are many historical remains and
cultural relics about the foreign traffic in ancient times. A
historical museum of international traffic is located in the
city. Along the route there are some other cultural relics such
as Tongmin'an Pass on Mt.Xiaoyingling.
3.3 The Status quo of Environmental Quality
3.3.1 Atmosphere
According to three types of geographic features such as
communications lines, the locations of towns and villages. and
urban areas in Quanzhou. Tong'an and Xiamen along the route. 9
monitoring points were set up to monitor T.S.P. NOx. CO. THC and
Pb in the air. the results of the monitorings show that the
atmospheric environmental quality in the assessment areas along
the proposed expressway is all up to' Class I State Standard of
atmospheric environmental quality except for THC (See Table la).
Pb content is also in conformitv to State Standard 'GB7355-87).
THC surpasses the Standard to some extent when compared with the
standard of the former Soviet Union, because there isn't a THC
standard in China. Even so, the instantaneous values don't exceed
the standard. . Judging from this, there is great atmospheric
.environmental capacity to be-developed in the areas along the
proposed expressway.
3.3.2 Noise:
Around-the-clock measurements of traffic noise at Hou an.
L.untou and Puli on the existing Fuzlhnui-Xiamen Highway. and at
Yuanqian on Quanzhou-Xiutu highway . and at Xindian oni Otuanzhou-
Jlinjiang Highway and at Wulinig on Jinjiaing- A3nhai highway and at
Guianglintou on Xiamen-Zhangzhou Highway show that the average
equivelant sound level in the day differs frc.m ihat at night by
3-10dB. 7dB below the average. which shows that the ambient noise
background at night is somewhat higher. As cnntrast-d with Siat.-
Standard. the sound levels in most zones canl meet State Standard
for Categoty II M ixed Area. At some-monitoring poiints. the sound
levels surpasses State Noise Standard at night.
3.3.3 Water Quality
In order to have an understanding of the curiarit state of
water quality along the exprssway. six sample sectinns were
arranged on the main rivers over which the express-xay would
crross. i.e. Jinjiang River. Nanli Channiiel. Xivi Rivpr. .Jiiivi
River to moniter respectively PH.SS. permanganate indexes. BOD5.
Oils and Pb in water hodies in ihe rivers mentinecd ahove. The
results of monitcrings show that. PH vaiue.BOD5 and Pb meet Ci3ss
I water quality standard  in all sectIi's: i)emangatizite  index'-.
meet Class 11 water quality standard  in four sectinnlq  Inrated'
respectively in Jingiiang River and Xixi River.etc. and meet
Class lIIIwater quality standard in two sections located
respectively in Nanqu Channel and Jiuxi River. and oils meel.
Class IV water quality standard in two sections in Nanqu Channel
and Jiuxi River. The water quality in four sections in Jinjiang
River and Xixi River is in conformitu with Class I water quality.
.



The findings of investigations on hydrobios in six sections
mentioned above indicate that the pollution level in Jinjiang
River was B-us, and the organic pollution in Nanqu Channel was
severe and the water body of Xixi River was less organically
polluted. The concluisions mentioned above conformed to the
results of the investigations on water quality.
3.3.4 Vibration
In order to reflect the status quo of vibration environment
in residential areas, some monitoring points were established
respectively at Guanglingtou , Putou Village, Shixun. Xiashaxi.
Puli, Zengcun Village. Xindian, Quanzhou-Xiutu Highway, Xlfu etc.
to measure the current status of vibration environment in the
sensitive areas, moreover, one monitoring points was set up at
Neikeng town for comparison to reflect the vibration background
in the zones along the proposed expressway. In addition, some
monitoring points were arranged in the vertical sections of the
existing Fuzhou-Xiamen Highway to measure the existing vibration
impacts on the relevent zones of the proposed expressway and the
existing road. The results of the measurements show that as
concerns the arithmetical mean value of the vibration environment
in the sensitive zones. VLIO is equal to 74.8dB in the daytime
and 69.2 dB at night, i-eaching the standard for the mixed areas.
commercial areas. indurtrial areas and the areas on both sides of
the traffic artery; VLIO. as far as the vibration background at
Neikeng town in the contrast area is-concerned, is equal to
65.9dB up to the standard for residential and edcation quarters.
The results of vibration monitoring in the auxiliary zone at
Hou'an indicate that the current status of vibration in the areas
50 meters from each side of the existing highway can meet the
standard for the areas on both sides of the traffic artery.
4. The Projection of Environmental Impacts
4.1 The Projection of Atmospheric Environmental Impacts
4.1.1 The   Analysis of Atmospheric Environmental  Impacts at the
Construction Stage
The flying dust caused by excavation, filling and hauling.
loadinig. unloading of the materials and the harmful gases emerged
from mixing. hauling and spreading of bituminous mixture in the
construction phase will pollute the atmosphere and influence the
workers and the residents in the vicinity.
4.1.2 The Projection of the Atmospheric Environmental  Impact  in
the Operation Phase
The atmospheric environment pollutant sources in the
operation phase are mainly from NOx..THC and Pb dust. etc. which
are in the waste gasesemitted by motor vehicles.
The projection using the model of line source proposed by
Environmental Protectinn Agency. U.S.A in different expressway
sections. locations and basic years of traffic volume indicates
that the pollutants of various kinds will produce limited impact
on the atmospheric environment in the short and medium Lerms clue
to the open and flat landform, great average  wind velocity and
good ventilation along the route.  However,  the areas near the
road sides and the interchanges   will  be noticeably affected by
NOx under conditions of the breeze and stagnant air in the long
term..
4.2 The Projection of Noise and Vibration Environmental Impacts
9



4.2.1 The Analysis of Noise Environmental Impacts at the
Construction Stage
In accordance with the field monitoring and analysis of
noise sources in Environmental impact assessment  for Beij ing-
Tianjin-Tanggu Expressway project, the noise from the utilization
of constructionsplants and cutting the mountains, quarrying.
blasting will influence the residents and workers within 200
meters around the construction sites in the construction phase.
4.2.2 The Projection of Environmental Noise Impact at the Stage
of Operation
1. The Projection of Traffic Noise Environmental Impacts on the
Expressweay Sections
Calculations are respectively carried out by using the model
proposed by Federal Highway Administration, USA (FHWA) according
to such factors as the day and night traffic volume of differenrt
vehicles in various year. various sections of the expressway. the
distance of average maximum sound level of various vehicles from
reference point as well as the parameters about the road
designing. the acoustic absorption attenuation of mulch, acoustic
barriers and structures. the impacts of wind directions, wind
velocity and air absorption on the noise., etc. to obtain the day
and night sound levels in different years and sections and at
different distance from the roadside. the results indicate that
the sound level along the road rises constantly with the increase
of traffic volume, and its influential range also increases
constantly. Before 2000, in the area within 20--30 meters from
the road. nighttime sound level exceeds the State Standard. After
2000*, it will extend to 30--40 meters and by the year 2015 up to
50 meters. In 2015. the daytime sound level will also go beyond
the standard within 30 meters from the road.
2. The Prediction of Interchange Traffic Noise Environmental
Impacts
The result of noise testing in the vicinity of Jimei
Interchange indicates that the average equiivalent sound level
below the bridge approach is .72.3 dB. 50 meters away from the
bridge it is 64 dB. and 200 meters away from the bridge. ii
reduces to environment background value. So the above prediction
value can be used in the assessment. The protection distance of
the interchange is 50 meters.
3. The Prediction of Noise Environmental Tmpact of Roadside
Sensitive Spots
The noise prediction results with environment background
value added of 26 noise-sensitive residential quarters along the
route by: 2015 indicate that from Xifu to Guokeng the range of
sound level satisfying standard requirement is 30 meters outside
the road in the daytime and 90 meters at night. In Yuanqian it is
*           30 meters in the daytime and 80 meters at night. In Chengzhou :t
Is 20 meters in the daytime and 40 meters at night. In Xindian.
Guokeng it is 25 meters in the daytime and above 180 meters at
night.  In Cidian it is 20 meters in the daytime and some 90
meters at night. Thus it can be seen that sound level overranging
is rather severe. especially at n.ight.
4.2.3. The Analysis of Environmental Vibration Tmpacts in the
Construction Phase
10



Vibration testing results of various construction plants in
Japan reveal that the vibrations caused by various constructin
plants during the expressway construction period will influence
the residential areas within 20 meters from the site. [ The
source: The Monitoring of Noise and Vibration by the Association
of Measuring Control. August, 1986 ].
4.2.4. The Prediction of Environmental Vibration Ispacts in the
Operation Phase
The rubbing between the ground and the motor vehiles running
on the expressway and the mechanical transmission will cause
vibrations in the operation period. According to the traffic
voluse prediction. the vibration prediction in the operation
phase is carried -out using the prediction model proposed by the
Construction Ministry of Japan. It shows that, in sensitive
areas, within two belts 10 meters wide on both sides of the road.
the environmental vibration level exceeds 72 dB of the nighttime
standard of traffic artery and 75 dB of the daytime standard.
specified in the State Standard 10070-80 'Environmental Vibration
Standard in City Area".
4.3. Forecast of Environmental Impact of soil Erosion
4.3.1. Status Quo of Soil Erosion Along the Route
According to field investigation and data provided by
relevant County Offices of Water and Soil. there exist no large
areas of soil erosion or intensive erosion in the zone along the
expressway rotite. Only in some hills and mountain areas such as
Mt. Dapingshan. Mlt. Xiaoyingling and Mt. Damaoshan. due to large
gradient. poor vegetation coverage and large area of surface
exposure ensuing from quarriying. soil erosion is relatively
severe in the form of surface erosion and gully erosion. but such
area constitutes a small  per cent of the zone along the
expressway. So generally speaking. roadside soil erosion is nnt
serious. and in most sections not obvious or at a low degree.
4.3.2. Analysis of Cause of Soil Erosion Following Highway
Construction
(1) Rainfall
Rainfall. the power source of water erosion in soil, is an
important factor affecting soil and water loss in the zone along
the expressway. The rainfall season in the zone along the route
is from  April  to Septenbla'  each  year , and  the  high*a.y
construction in this period can cause water and soil loss.
'2) Vegetation
Vegetation is a positive factor resisting soil erosion.
Highway construction will clear vegetation by cutting trees.
eliminating bushes and sods ini right-of-way and soil bank. This
will result in direct soil exposure of the construction area.
thus increasing the possibility of soil and water loss.
(3) Topography 
Topography is an important factor affecting soil and water
loss. Within the 'construction area,  filling and cutting of
subgrade will change original microtopography. thus causing easy
11



soil and water loss.
(4) Soil
Soil is the target of rainfall wash, whose intrinsic
attributes such as soil texture and organic content are high
correlative to soil erosion. Analysis of 11 profiles of soil
samples along maJor road sections shows that in the same profile,
the soil surface has a lower clay content and distinctly higher
organic content, suggesting good erosion resistance. while the
bed horizon has a low organic content, high clay content and poor
permeability. subject to surface runoff following rainfall. When
the top soil is stripped during the construction period, the
exposing bed will be fall
a prey to soil erosion.
4.3.3. Analysis of Erosion-Sensitive Sections or Areas along the
Route
(t) Cutting Section
According to the construction investigation of the like. the
section whose cutting depth is above 10 meters is sensitive
section resulting in water and soil loss. There are totally 17
sections with cutting depth above 10 meters in this Expressway.
but among them there are seven cuttings are located at entrance
or exit portal of the tunnel. These areas are of granite hill
topography with a shallow weather layer ( generally no more than
2 m). The cutting slope is mainly composed of stone slope. Soil
slope accounts for a small per cent. Soil erosion is small due to
a small area which could be eroded. The topographic condition in
Ganshi. Houba. Front M1ountain of Zhengqian Village is the same as
above described. so the construction will not cause.too much
water and soil loss. Only in such sections as Gaotuo. Niushan.
Kuishanyan. shaxi. Kangdian. Hunei. etc.. soil layer is deeper.
so larger area of soil slope will be exposed after cutting. Hence
more soil and water loss. So these six sections are erosion-
sensitive areas. See Table 3 for details.
(2) Filling Section
According to the investigation. the section whose filled
enbankmenit is above 8 meters iserosion-sensitive section. There
are totally 22 such sections in this expressway. See Table 4.
(3) Deposit Area
The amount of cuts is smaller than that of fills in this
expressway construction. so there is no surplus soil on the
whole. Only in the construction of Shantou Tunnel and Xiashaxi
Tunnel. there may be some surplus piles. But these excess
materials are mainly composed of waste rocks with silt accounting
a small Part. hence little soil and water loss during [lie piling
period.
(4) Borrow Area
There are totally 18 Proposed borrow areas for this
expressway construction. See Table 5 for the detail. There will
leave an exposing area of v(eather crust after borrowing.When it
rains. most rain water will change into surface runoff. causing
large amount of soil and water loss. So these borrow areas are
key soil and water loss areas following the expressway
construction.
12



4.3.4 Forecast of Potential Soil Erosion Amount
It could be easily concluded from the above analysis that
the borrow area is the primary source of soil and water loss. The
soil erosion amount of borrow areas can be calculated as 6717
ton/year by the Prediction Model of Soil and Water Loss proposed
by Agriculture Department, U.S.A. According to the construction
investigation data of Guangzhou-Shenzhen Expresswav. the soil
erosion amount caused by construction in subgrade-sensitive
sections alQng the route is about 6140 ton/year. During the
construction period, soil borrowing, together with cutting and
filling in subgrade will yield a total loss of 12.857 tons per
year. averaging 634.17 tons per kilometer in four years. So it
can be seen that soil and water loss caused by the expressway
construction is rather serious. It will produce an adverse impact
on surrounding ecological environment along the route.
4.3.5 Potential Impact of Soil Erosion on Ecological
Environment
(1) Impact on Farmland
Soil and water loss resulting from the expressway
construction will affect farmland in two ways. First. in the
vicinity of right-of-way and borrow area, silt of rainfall will
directly flow into cropland and deposit, hence a phenomenon that
cropland is covered by silt. and it will be difficult to
cultivate. The other influence appears in the cropland relatively
far from right-qf-way and borrow area,   where small grains nf
erosion silt wili go into farmland in the form of 'mud water"
following water flow, thus doing harm to the growth of paddy
rice.
(2) Impact nii Reservoir
There are many reservoirs along the route. but these are far
F*rnm the road and located up stream of the construction area. St,
the soil and water loss caused by the expressway construcct iin
wouldn't affect these reservoirs.
13) Impact on Irrigation Channel
When the silt of rainfall erosion flows into farmland. some
of them will  inevitably deposit  in the irrigation channel.
interfering with normal operation of the irrigation and drinase
system. Nanqu Channel. located in Jinjiang Road Secti-on from
l!K+500 to 15K+600. is subject to soil, and water loss even more.
4.4 Impact of Expressway on Roadside Ecological Environment
4.4.1 Impact on Roadside Ecological Environment durinx lit
Cnnstruction Period
Ill Impact on Land Utilization
The area along the route is highly populated but farmland is
insufficient averaging only 0.61 mu culvated land per capita.
10.587 mu land will be under requisition for expressway. most of
which is fertile agricultural land. This will intensify the
contradiction of -more people. less farmland".
(2) Impact on Production. Life and Inter-relationship of
13



Roadside Residents
Some people will have to be displaced due to the expressway
construction. The settlement location and living area will not
likely to fully satisfy them all. Moreover, the access-controlled
expressway will break down the connection between living quarter
and farmland, causing traffic barriers among residents and
between the residential area and farmland. But 39 grade
separations. 167 underpasses and 6 interchages. averaging 2.58
per kilometer, have been designed on the Drawings for the
residental transportation along the route. It could basically
satisfy the need for transportation, production and life of
roadside residents.
(3) Impact on Roadside Drainage System
According to investigation, calculation and analysis. water
logging is unlikely to happen in most roadside low-lying sections
.^ by reason of embanknent construction. But attention must be paid
to two places. one is between 10K4750 and 11K +500 of Jiniiang
Chidian, the other is between 33K+800 and 34K+400 southeast of
Xiwei Bridge.
(4) Impact on Freshwater Aquiculture
a: The expressway construction will exproprite piscinas.
decreasing freshwater aquiculture areas.
b: Most of the road sections bypassing these piscinas are
high-fill embankment. Erosion soil ensuing from construction in
raining season will shallow piscinas and make water more muddy
unfavorable for the growth and generation of the fry .
c: Waste water from repair  stations of construction
machinary contains such pollution materials as oil . SS. CODcr.
ammonia. nitrogen etc. If such polluted sewage doesn't be
disposed of appropriately and is discharged into nearby piscinas.
water will be polluted and the fry poisoned.
(5) Impact on City Planning
The expressway construction will break down old planTing nf
cities and townships along the route to some degrees. causing
some problems. in which the land utili7ation is outstanding. .
4.4.2. Impact on the Roadside Ecological Environment during the
Operation Period
(1) Analysis of Pb Distribution and Contamination in Roadside
Environment
Along the existing Quanzhou-Xiamen Section of Fuzhou-Xiamen
Highway. the soil, paddy rice. cane and vegetables were sampled
for analysis using the method of analogy.. The result reveals that
within 20 meters roadside ecological environment wil! be pn!luted
by lead in tail gas during the expressway operation period.
especially within 50 meters. Pollution level is relative La
distance and Plant species. declining as distance incrcases.
Vegetable is more subject to pollution than paddy rice.
(2! Impact of Pb Contamination nn Crnop Growth during 'he
Operation Period
Prediction analysis of roadside Pb sediment during the
expressway operation period shows that soil Pb pollution will not
affect crop growth. Air Pb pollution will also not affect- the
growth and output of Paddy rice. So Pb contamination during
operation period will no-t have adverse impact on roadside crop
14



growth, but would likely to cause elevated Pb concentration in
the edible parts of crops exceeding standard provided for by
health department, thus doing harm to people's health. It is
suggested not to plant vegetables within 100 meters from the road
and food crops within 50 meters. After the expressway comes into
operation, only when the findings of the long-term monitorings
indicate that the Pb content in the plants along the road does
surpass the Standard stipulated by the State. the above mentioned
suggestions and measures shall be put into practice.
4.4.3. Impact on and Protection of Wildlife
Expressway construction should comply with the state
regulations concerning wildlife conservation. Don't arbitrarily
capture and kill those animals protected by the central and local
governments . In densely-populated roadside area of high land
utilization ratio. no habitat of wildlife or rare birds has been
found which needs protecting.
4.5. Forecast of Water Environment Impact
The water pollution caused by expressway comes from lead and
oily materials in tail gas emitted by motor vehicles. surface
runoff pollutant forming after sendiment and rainfall washing.
and high density oily pollutant from wash water of parking
station. oil station, repair station. These pollutant is
discharged into nearby waterbody, causing pollution of water
environment. The main water bodys affected are Jinjiang River.
Nanqu C-hannel. Jiuxi River and Xixi River. Other small streams
are drought during most of the time except rainy season. They
will have little impact on environment.. All reservoirs are
located at up reaches of pollutant pick-up rivers and will not be
affected by the expressway sewage discharge. So this assessment
only forecasts and analyzes water quality-of Jinjiang River. Xixi
River using one-dimensional water quality dynamic model. The
water quality of Jiuxi River and Ji-ushojiuxi River will he dealt
with by the model of dilution under the conditinn of complete
mixing. The results reveal that the construction of expressway
will produce certain impact on the ecological environment along
the route. but there exists no large water pollution source
during the operation period. So it contributes little-to the
concentration increment of pollutant in the rivers. In respect of
the influential range. pollutant cancentration near bridges of
expressway is a bit higher. dropping as the disiance rises. Jiuixi
River in Nan'an County is subject to more pollution among several
rivers. Comparatively speaking. oil pol lutionn is morns:'vere than
that of BOD5 and COD, especially in the sections near city
proper. It can be seen that oil is the key factor- ur iifluence
caused by expressway on the water quality of nearby rivers.
4.6. Public Participation
The environmental assessment work in China is for the
purpose of protecting the living environment of the people. In
conformity with this. The EA work should be carried out with the
involvement of the local people. First the news about the
15



expressway construction was released by relevant departments
through such news medium as newspapers. broadcasting and
television. Then the EA assessors made a direct investigation of
residents along the route , which was an active assessment. The
EA assessors held face-to-face talks with the local people to
inform them of the potential environmental'problems and hear the
opinions and requirements of the local residents.
In the process of the sample surveys,  130 households were
investigated, among which the displaced accounted for 40 percent.
All the people investigated   are adults,  among which women
account for 10%. Most of the people investigated are heads of the
households. The investigations were carried out in the form of
visits to families and individuals and fact-finding meetings.
The results of the investigations are as follows:
(1) The popularity about the news of expressway construction
amounts to 92.9%. Residents along the road, especially those
living far away from the interchanges, think that the expressway
doesn't play an important role in the local economic development
and the improvement of local traffic conditions. It is not
convenient for most of local inhabitants. It benefits the whole
society and the people living in the areas near the interchange.
(2) As concern the impacts the expressway may have on the
environment, the local residents think that the impacts in the
construction phase will be. in,the main. noise. then the
atmosphere. vibration and water quality.
(3) As far as the attitude of the local resi'dents toward the
construction of the expressway were concerned. the investigation
revealed that those who were for the expressway construction
accounted for 59%, those who adopted an indifferent attitude
accounted for 23% and those who were against the expressway
construction accounted for 185.
(4) The investigatioin of the families to be relocated
showed that those to be resettled had a lot of complainits. mainly
worrying about such problems as compensation for their
resettlement  and  demQlition.  land. acquired  to  rebuild
theirhouses. relocation sites and future employment. The findings
of the investigations also revealed that most of them were
willing to be resettled in the neighboring areas. Among the
people to be resettled, only 18.2% was willing to relocate their
.new houses 2 KM away from their old houses. i.e. on both sides of
the-existing Fuzhou-Xiamen Highwav. They wanted to change their
accupation and be engaged in business.
4.7. Impacts on Geohydrology
The expressway will break down the old natural water course
and old drainage system. blocking the drainage. especially. in
low-lying sections with the elevation of 0-10 meters. Butt taking
local historical flood data irilo account. the Drawings have
provided for enough bridges and culverts. of-which the flood
discharge capacity in peak time is not lower than local flood
control standard. Thus the old partial geohydrology condition
will keep unchanged, and could satisfy the requirements for flood
discharge and farmland irrigation.
16



4.8. Impacts on Traffic of Existing Highway
The main impacts the construction of the expressway may
exert on traffic of existing highway are as follows:
(1) At intersections, of expressway and existing Fuzhou-
Xiamen Highway or other highways,' the traffic of existing
highways will be disturbed during the construction period.
(2) The material transportation for highway building will
increase vehicle streams and traffic loading of existing highway.
4.9. Impacts on Cultural Relics and Landscape
The current outcomes of the surveys show that no historical
sites and ancient tomb groups have been found along the proposed
expressway route except Tongsing'an Pass on Mt. Xiaoyingling.
which is an antiquities preservation unit at county level. But
there are a lot of scenic spots in Quanzhou. Xiamen City and
their vicinity. The expressway construction will be beneficial to
the development of tourism in these scenic spots due to
improvement in traffic condition except Tongming'an Pass on
Mt.Xiaoyingling under which a road tunnel is to be cut.
5.Environmental Management Program
5.1. Goal of Envir-or.iental Management
Through environmental management it is aimed to make
expressway construction meet the requirement of " Three
Synchronization" policy proposed by the State Council. namely
synchronizing plan. development and action of economical
development. urban and rural construction. environmental
construction. It is also aimed to strive for the consistency of
economic benefits. social benefits and environmental benefits.
5.2. Organization System of Environmental MaRnagement
The State Environmental. Protection Bureats is the suprume
Environmetal Manager of this project. who will be in charge of
the examination and approval of " Outline of Environmental Impact
Assessment' and ' Environmental Impact- Assessment". Fujian
Provincial Environmental Protection Rureau is responsible for .the
unified supervision and management nf environmental protection in
Fujian Province. The organizations of environmental protection
management and supervisioti uf this orojec.t alre as rollows:
17



I  Fanzhou     i       i Fnvironmental Prntmitinn,
r---   Environmental    t             rr--  Breau of Lichen i)istrin!t
Protection BureaI
.  I     I            '   I   I-r-                  .-    I
Fujian         i   i                                     ii ji Jiang EvironmenIl.I
Provincial     *       *             i                     Protection Bureau
Environmental          I i      janzhou       1
Protection     i           Environmenl;a   I
Bureau         ;         bonitoring Statin             iEnvironmental Protetim
I  ____________-__'__i_              _ur  u  of  N _n_an     _ountv
FuIan !I|-,*   - 
incial                          Xiamen        I          nvironmental    I        Wnit4orine
Env  *-Environenta   -    Protection Bureau           Station oF
Ibnitoring     i         | Protection BureuI          of Tong'an County         Tonb an County!
Central                 -
Station        I                                  l   .__.__             _
J  f                    I    ~~~~~~~Fnvironcental
Xiaen                 Protectin Bureau
mEnvironmental          of Xinling District
i onitoring Stat.in Io



Xiamen and Quanzhou Municipal Environmental Protection Bureaus
are competent units of environmental protection under the
leadership of Xiamen and Quanzhou Municipal Governments. who are
responsible for the unified environmental protection management
and monitoring within the area under their jurisdiction.
Environmental protection Bureaus at county level are responsible
for the environmental quality in their own counties. and should
take measures to improve environmental  quality.  Provincial
Environmental Monitoring Central Station and its branches in
cities and counties consist of a monitoring network. and will be.
responsible for the envionmental minitoring management within the
area under their own jurisdictions.
Fujian Provincial Office of Freeway Construction is
responsible for drawing up and implementation of the
Environmental Protection Action of this project. Local Municipal
and. county environmental monitoring stations will be entrusted
with regular monitoring.
5.3 Environmental Management before Cotistruction and During the
Construction Period
(1) designing phase: The designing department should take
environmental protection measures into account proposed in the
"Environmental Impact Assessment". Construction units should
organize the examination of environmental protection plan with
the involvement of environmental protection department.
.(2) bidding phase: Construction unit should make
Environmental Management Regulation During Construction Period
and Environmental Protection Action Plan a part of bidding
documents. The Contractor should take environmental protection
into consideration in his tender and submit Environmental
Protection Action Plan.
(3) Environmental Management during Construction Period
a: The construction unit should assign certain people for
the environmental management during the construction period. who
will investigate and supervise the measures for construction
noise. sewage discharge, construction dust, atmospheric
pollution, water and soil loss and ecologica.l environment etc.
and shall submit a report on them.
b: At the same time. the environmental protection department
should examine and supervise the implementation of Environmental
Protection Action Plan adopted by each constrator during the
construction Period. collecte waste discharging fees. investigate
and dispose of accidents resulting in severe soil erosion or
18



pollution and if necessary bring them to law.
c: Each construction team should employ an environmental
protection man, who should act, supervise and manage in line with
the appoved Environmental Protection Action Plan according to
environmental problems in hts section.
(4) Acceptance Phase: The acceptance of expressway should
include such environmental  protection  facilities as antinolse
wall, sewage disposal installation. road greening, revegetion in
borrow area , water and soil conservation etc.
(5) Resettlement
Construction unit should be responsible for examining
whether all of the resettlement expenditure is allocated to the
household displaced and disposing of those resettlement
requriements expressed by the household displaced in time. Local
environmental protection department should examine environmentaL
plan of law concentrated living quarter for household displaced.
5.4 Environmental Managemen-t during Operation Period
When the expressway construction is completed. the existing
expressway construction unit will be changed into Expressway
Management  Bureau.  which  will  be  responsible  for  the
environmental protection management during operation period.
Local environmental protection departments will mainly be
responsible for supervision and management works. The
environmental protection wnrks during operation period are as
follows:
(1) Provincial Expressway Management Bureau will be
responsible for drawing. up expressway environmental protection
ordinance and submitting for reviewing and approval to Provincial
Transportation Departuent and Provincial Environmental Protection
Bureau. The ordinance will be issued by Provincial Transportation
Department and the implementatinn of it will be under the
supervision of Provincial Expressway Management Bureau
(2) To prevent Pb contaiiiiation on roadside agriculttiral
products. local environmental protectio01 burean is responsible
for conducting propaganda among the planters. suggesting  that
within 50 meters from-the road ready-to-eat agricultural products
should not be planted and should be substituited with economic
crops. Tt will also be responsible for imposing those who violate
environmental protection ordinance.
(3) Provincial Expressway Butreau will be responsible for
cleaning road at regillar intervals. especially cleariing
pollutants of accident leakage. and fnr routtine maintenance of
environmental protection facilities.
(4) Provincial  Expressway Bureau should  entrust  Incal
environmental prntectinn drepartments with rctular monitoring of
atmosphere.. water and tioise vibration.  Tf problems  arise.
measures should be takeni tn dispose of them in time.
5.5. Environmental Monitoring  Plan and Training Program
5.5.1. Environmental Monitoring Plan
(1) Environmental Monitoring Plan during the Construction
Period
a. Noise Monitoring-
19



Noise sonitoring shall be carried out according to State
Standard --- Noise Criteria for the Construction Sites(GB 12523)
for sensitive areas and Quanzhou City proper( near Chengzhou)
once a month.
b. Monitoring of the Atmosphere
Periodic&l monitoring should be carried out for the waste
gases emitted from asphalt mixing plants, the flyash in the
construction. key sensitive areas and sections  In which
considerable complaint is heared from the local people.
c. Monitoring of Water Quality
In the area of soil erosion. particularly the river course
down Jiasha Large Bridge, the monitoring of suspended
solids(silt) should be carried out once a month until the
construction activities end.   The   main   monitoring   programs
are  oils. COD and suspended solids.etc.
(2) Environmental Monitoring Plan during the Operation
Period
a.Monitoring of Atmosphere
For routine air monitoring of Quanzhou-Xiamen Expre7ssway.
five sampling spots should be set up to carry out the monitorings
of NOx. T.S.P. Pb in   the dust and  CO in the air with a
monitoring frequency of four times a year. i.e. January. April.
July and October. Each time five days will- be spent to carry out
the monitoring  with a frequency of 4-5 times a day in fine
weather.
b. Monitoring of Water Quality
Eight sections will be set up  in Jinjiang River.Nanqu
Channel. Jiuxi River and Xixi River.etc. In addition. one-
monitoring.point will be established at. the outlet of the sewer
system in Puli Service area to carry out the monitoring of PH.
oils. -SS. CODcr. BOD5. Pb and permanganateAindex in the water
body. Such monitorings will be conducted two times a year. i.e.
in high-water period( from May to June) and drought peroidl fron
December to January)  . Each time,  the monitorings will  be
conducted two times. As for the key river reaches.  the lower
reaches of Jiasha Large Bridge and Ptuli service area. monitorings
should be carried out once a month.
c. Monitoring of Soil and Biological Monitoring
The Pb in the soil. rice and vegetables in rice-growing zone
at Cidian. vegetable-growing zone at Tong'an County and Longan-
growing zone in Jinjiang County will be monitored once a Year.
Samples should be taken when rice and fruit are ripe and
harvested. Meanwhile. soil cores of the top soil should be taken.
d. Monitoring of Noise and Vibration
It is proposed that the monitorings of vibration and noise
be conducted for the villages within the range of 100 meLers fr,ii,
.the road with a fr'-quency of twu times a year. Such nperatinn
will be divided into two parts. i.e. in the daytime( from 6:00
a.m. to 8:00 p.m.) and in the nighttime( from 8:00 p.m. to 6:Ol
a.m.) or the monitorings will be carried out continuous.ly and
automatically.-
e. Accident Monitoring
In the operation period. if severe traffic accidents occur
to result in environmental contamination. monitorings shall be
carried out to track down oils and harmful materials.
20



It is suggected that the future FPEAB should exercise the
strict traffic control in compliance with the managerial
approaches for the operation of the expressway and the
regulatoryregime for the road safety issued by FPTD. The traffic
police in charge of the traffic management of the expressway and
the environmental protection personnel in the future FPEAB should
be on patrol every day on the expressway so as to take timely
countermeasures for the oils and harmful materials leaking out of
the vehicles and report to the  local environmental protection
bureaus without any delay to carry out careful and skillful
handlings after the accidents.
5.5.2 Training Program
The training for the environmental administractor should be
listed in the environmental management plan. Such a training can
be carried out in China and abroad as well, and  should be
awareness and technical aspects of environmental protection
training for administractors and those leading environmental
protection for the expressway.
6 Conclusions and Countermea.sures
6.1.  Conclusions
6.1.1 The Assessment of Status Quo and Impact Forecast of Various
*       Environmental Factors
(1) Atmospheric Environment
a. Current States of Atmospheric Environment
The monitoring of the current states of the atmosphere
indicates that atmospheric environment on both sides of the
proposed expressway section is fair and within Class 1I
Atmospheric Background Quality Standard except for some busy
sections on the existing Fuzhou-Xiamen Highway.
b. The Projection of the Atmospheric Environment
After the expressway is open to traffic. the atmdspheric
environmental quality will not surpass Class 11 within 100 meters
from the roadsides in short-and medium-terms and will not exceed
Class II Standard beyond 100 meters. In long term, NOx will
surpass Class TI Standard within 200 meters in the breezes and
probably stirpass Class IIT Standard within 100 meters. The
interchanges will be more severely polluted as contrasted with
the road sections . NOx and CO may surpass the standard.
(2) Water Environment
a. The Current States of later Environment
The main rivers over which the expressway will cross -arc
Xixi River in Jinjiang County, Jiuxi River and Nanqu Channel with
their water quality to reach Class IN- Standard except for oils.
Due tn the impacts from the upper reaches of them.. the water
quality in Nanqu Channel and Jiuxi River reaches Class IV
Standard. The water quality in other sections reaches Class I
Standard. The.- findings of investigation on hydrobios are in
concordance with the above conclusions of the sonitorings.
b. The Projection of Water Environment
In normal times. the expressway has no impact on the
environment. In the course of rains, the surface runoff will
21



exert an influence on the river reaches nearby. However, at this
time, the water discharge in the rivers is greater. contributing
little to the pollutant concentration in the rivers . The impact
of the sewage from Pull service area on Jiuxi River in Nan'an
*               County will be within the range of the standard provided that it
is treated.
(3) Acoustic Environment
*                    a. Status Quo of Acoustic Environment
Presently, the ambient noise along the route is at the range
of 46-61 dB with an average sound level of 56 dB(A). On average.
the sound level in the evening is 50 dB(A). 6-7 dB(A) lower than
that in the daytime. Compared to the State Standard. the sound
level is lower in the daytime and higher in the evening.
b. Forecast of Acoustic Environment
With the growth of traffic stream. the sound level alnng.the
route will increase and the influence areas be enlarged
uninterruptedly. The sound level will be 10 dB(A) above the
Standard at 26 points sensitive to noise along the route in the
evening. It's predicted that residents living within 30-50 meters
from the roadsides will be severely affected. and shnuld be
relocated or acoustic barriers should be built.
(4) Vibration
On the whole. the monitor values L10 of the current states
of vibration environment are less than 70 dBtA). and .its
influence areas are mainly within 30 meters from the roadsides
after the completion of the expressway. The anti-vibration
ditches should be cut for the areas along the route which need
particular protection. In the ordinary areas. the drainage
ditches constructed by use of some vibratinn insulatinn methods
on both sides of the rnad will meet the need.
(5) Soil Erosion
At present.the soil  is well conserved with good vegetation
along thr rnute. The slnpes are. on the whole.  terraced.
whichwill cause little soil erosion.  In the process of rhighway
construction. soil erosion may occtr. but the severity depends on
the protective measures in cutting. After the completioIl of the
highway. soil erosion may be restored to the former siate so long
as reclamation and afforest.t ion are made for the construction
sites.
6.1.2. Conclusions or Overall Merit
(1)The zones along Quanzhou-Xiamen Highway is an area with
the fully developed economy in Fujian Province. The traffic
congestion often occutr on  the existing Fuzhou-Xiamen Htihway.
resulting in frequent road, accidents and low travelling speed.
Such being the case.  +he cnnstruction nf Quanzhxuu-Xiamnen
Expressway Section is essential and very important to traffic
rehabilitation and promotion of national economic development.
(2) The construction of Quanzhou-Xiazen Expressway Section
will have some impacts on the environment.. However. since the
expressway attracts a great amount of traffic stream on the
existing Fuzhou-Xiamen Highway. it will reduce the environmental
pollution along the existing Fuzhou-Xiamen Highway. Moreover. the
discharge capacity of pollutants of the single vehicle is less
than the discharge capacity of pollutants at present. Taking all
22



Into account, the construction of the expressway is benefitial to
the environment.
(3) It Is considered as appropriate  that every effort was
devoted in the route selection to keep the alignunet of Quanzhou-
Xiamen Expressway far away from the residential areas and
environmentally sensitive points and to minimize demolition. In
consideration of this , the route alignunet is rational.
(4) The results of the survey on the residents along the
route reveal that the local people would give their support to
the construction of the expressway.
(5) The outcomes of the comprehensive assessment on the
environment ippact stemming from the proposed highway by
tabulating method  (See Table 6) reveal  that the sun of the
favourable impact values in the operation phase stands at + 22.
and that of the adverse impact values at - 9, the favourable
impacts during the construction stand at + 1. while the adverse
impacts at - 9. indicating that the adverse impacts only exist in
the cnstruction phase. After the cojupletion of the expressway.
favourable factors will surpass the unfavourable ones. So.
provided that the following environmental protective measures are
ta.ken, the construlction of the expressway is environmentally
acceptable.
6.2. Countermeasures and Suggestions for the Environmental
Protection
6.2.1. Traffic Management Plan in the Construction Phase
(1) Before the cnmmencement of the project. temperary access
roads must be cnnstructed in the sections  toi intersect  the
existing Fuzhou-Xiamen Highway and traffic arteries. The
construction period must be minimized in every pnssible way to
avoid the interruptinn of the normal traffic on the existing
road.
(2) The construiction access roads must be connstructed tn
transport a great amount of earth and stone.
(3) Other raw materials such as sand and crushed gravels.
etc. should be secured from the material yards nearby so as to
reduce the impacts on the traffic on the existing roads.
(4) The completed subgrade of the expressway and the
construction access roads can be used for the transportation of
the aggregates. cement. and bitumen. etc. to be used in the
construction of the pavement.
(5! The ruish job of transportation of lji,:k commodities
should not be donie in the rush hnurs. which may cause traffic
cosngestion.
6.2.2. Plan for the Protection of H4istoricai Relics during the
Constriuction Period
(1) Particular attention should be paid  in the protection
of Tongming'an Pass in the design and the construction of Mt.
Xiaoyingling Tunnel. Bulk blasting should be forbidden for fear
of damaging the historical site.
23.



(2) Persons in charge of the protection of antiquities in
the construction will be sent by each construction unit to study
in the Cultural Relics Research Institute.
(3) Prior to the construction, all persons involved in the
*               construction should secure the education about the protection of
the antiquities along the route.
(4) In the construction of the expressway, the construction
*               activities should be stopped immediately whenever coming across
the ancient tombs and potential historic sites. Report to the
Antiquities Preservation Units and ask them to deal with them.
6.2.3. Environmental Protection Measures for Atmospheric
Pol lution
(1) In order to mitigate dusty atmosphere in the
construction phase, the construction sites such as sections under
construction, access roads and borrow areas etc.  should  be
sprinkled with water four times each day from 9:00 a.m. to 6:00
p.m, especially in dry season.
(2) The heating of asphalt and the mixing of the asphalt
mixture should be carried out in.the enclosed-type asphalt mixing
plants equipped with dust arresters.- which shouild be located 1000
meters away from the populated areas on the lee sides of the
wind.
(3) During the operation period, the vehicles running on the
expressway must be clean.
(4) No new schools and. residential quarters will be built
within 100 meters from each side of the expressway.
6.2.4 Environmental Protection Measures fnr Noise and Vibration
(1)In the Construction Phase:
The construction sites shall be kept over 50 meters from the
residential quarters when the construction planits producing great
noise and vibration are used. The construction activities should
be stopped from 22:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m. next day in the  places
where such noise and vibration can not be controlled and every
possible effort should be made to stagger the use of the
construction plantbs producing noise and vibration.
(2) During the Operation Period
a. The noise-proof measures should be taken for the
residential quarters where the noise in the nighttime in the
areas on both sides of the expressway may surpass 55 dB. the
standard. Such measures should be put into practice step hb step
with the passing of the time and increase of the traffic stream .
The list of the villages for which the noise-proof measures
should be taken in the first stage (19971  is presented in 1able
6-1. and the list nf the villages  for which  the anti-nToise
measures should be taken in the second stage(2005) can be found
in Table 6-2.
b. The anti-noise measures comprise the construction of
noise barriers and planting of trees. (details may be seen in E-
clause of the Third Point of Section 6.2.9). and some   houses
need to be relocated
c. The use of horns should be forbidden and travelling speed
be limited and the road surface   be   smooth and even in the
24



sections less than 50 meters from the residential quarters.
d. The land use plan and division of the function areas
should be strict to prohibit the creation of new points sensitive
to noise.
e. In-normal conditions,  the areas in which the noise man
reach the Standard is the areas where vibration can also reach
the Standard. In some areas which need particular protection
against vibration, the anti-vibration ditches may be cut.
The above points are the suggestions for the environmental
protection. The detailed environmental protective measures and
the excuting agencies are presented in EAP.
6.2.5 Environmental Protection Measures for Soil Erosion
(1) Mechanical Practice
a. Various drainage systems shouLd be first built before the
construction of subgrade to channel the water into the natural
rivers, and to minimize the water accumulation in the subgrade
which may intensify the soil erosion.
b. In rainy season, when the oarth is cut . it should be
transported, paved and compacted in the continunus operation.
c. According to the various conditions of engineering
geology. such protective measures as rubble retaining walls.
slope protections. etc. should be used for the embankments and
cuts in combination of slope sodding to stabilize the side slopes
and prevent scour and collapse of the side slopes.
d. The drainage ditches should be set up around the hbrrow
areas  to minimize the catchment areas and reduce  the soil
erosion. The surface of the borrow sites should be as gentle as
possible with their grades to be controlled within 4-8%. When
silt produces a severe impact on the ecological environment at
the lowe<rreaches. sediment settling tanks should be built and
cleared periodically..
(2) Biological Process
After the completion of the project, such reclamation wnr1K
as turfing, tree-planting and rehabilitation tcf farming etc.
should be done for the subgrades. cuts and borrow areas in whic'
soil erosion may easily occurs.
6.2.6 Protective Measures for Ecological Environment
(1) During the CnnstrtJction Period
a. It's preferable to moving and disposing of the pluughledi
soil with a thickness of 0-20 cm to a place nearby so that it i-Y
be reused latter for the highway planting and rehahililation '
vegetation in the borrow areas.
b. The liquid waste stemming from the construction sh'!-:'.'
not be discharged directly into the ponds, rivers courses.
ditches and the demolition waste shonild not be dispnsPd nf in thn
pools and on the banks of the rivers.
c. The design of the bridges and culverts slhoilid ensure ill
every possible way keeping original river morphology.
d. The disposal areas should be set up for the waste from
the tunnel construction. The relevent drainage ditches around the
disposal areas should be built.
(2) In the operation phase:. Seeing  that  the poll.e:
sourses of the ecological environment on the roadsides   t
mainly from the exhaust -gas emitted by the vehicle,  i             st iS
25



Th! Cite'ria fAr EvalIuat ion AdcjpI.-d far- J-X S~ection of' F-X Fximresswav
Table1
Factor   in  Um ssessuent                                                                   CRemrkisaio
Classification  Factors    wi i . I                                         irude   Pec ii mtn.  Starenihar, values
10iri uetr'w tram thet r-oad siut-     3        any LiSD--------
"Ox  mg/m:I                                                                     OB 30-82~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U 3
(la 1ly aversei.      U.10
othw_         __ _                n   tme015_2_
others           2                  -~~~~~~~ay   [me -- 1
6. Duo
100 mutres trom the? road stdde        3 
any t im'         201).U
CIO    Mg/K2              .. .....      .-...  ...6 3095-82
tisiliy averaeW       I.DI
Atmoshere                                          shr                             - .--           .
. ~~~.. --               . .~~~~~~~~any L i13.'      iIj.i).
I                     ~~~~~~~~~U. 50
any L ia?           1.Su
daiily                0.30gL
-omthe rs  oati.s- .-.    .  f5..
Pb     .,."        2WU meters tromtero   ii                      (kinily Uvera   ~    d.ut15          Q  *357,
IUY*                 lOUI meters  or.i- the- road side.               any t.im w                      Stanc.hd ofthe
carbon  ,*:9                                .               I     ~~~~~~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~5. 'X0  SovieLt Union
Vater 4m I ty                                 adijacet rivers                                                            GB __  1 3838-88
6:00-22:0(J          70?
Noise         Leq     dB(A    on both uides of the Lruffle arteries              -----1                               1830J6-R8
Vibration       Yu,       dB.tie irn1t. ireo route                      I  . -                                                1j070(1:0



Ambient Air Quality Standrad
(GB3095-82)
Table la
I  * ^       I             Concentration Li.it(me/standard cu.)
I Pollutants                    I -                                         I
I            I Sampling Time  I   Class I    I  Class 11  I  Class i   I
I            I                  I     St.            S st.    I    St.      I
I    SPM     I  Daily Aver.    I      0.15      I    0.30    1    0.50    1
I            I    Any Time    I       0.30      1    1.00    I    1.50    1
I    TSP     I  Daily Aver.    I                I             I             I
I    Any Time    I                I             I             I
I         *                 .               .             . 
-      I  Annual Daily  I                I                            I
I            I      Aver.      I      0.02      1    0.06    I    0.10    I
I    S02     I  Daily Aver.    1      0.05      1    0.15    I    0.25    1
1             I    Any Time    I      0.15    .1    0.50    1    0.70    1
NOx     I  Daily Aver.    I     0.05      1    0.10    1    0.15    I
I    Any Time    I      0.10      1    U.15    1    0.30   -I
Co     I  Daily Aver.    I      4.00     1    4.00    1    6.0o      I
'   I    Any Time    I    10.00   1   10.00    I   20.00    I
I    (03J    1                  I     0.12      1    0.16    1    0.20    1
Pb     I                            0.0015                           1
|  ~      ~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ .



9-
,Qintities of Mjor Iwks
Table 2
I                                  ,            .           I 
Item               I    Unit    I iatity I                 Rewks
I I                                 I            I      -    I        -
I     Total Earth-Rock Vark      I 10000 cu.    1070.74  1  Includinw  113.16 for Link Road  I
Duainae md Protection Wark  I lOOO cu.s  1  43.40   1   Includitu 2.60 for Link Road   I
I                                 I    I          ---*-- --.-.--i
I   Soft Orwd Strersleing        I     km      1  15.77   1 Including 3.3U kufor Link Road  I
1      -             -  -  -     --I-_ __                                       _  _ _ 
I           Pavet                I 10000 sq.m I  195.79 -*-   iriuiding 23.41 for Link Rua.: ;
Culvwrts            I    nas      I   292    1  lc,u,:;int u 6nos fwink Road
Undrpasses            I    nas      I   175    1  1ni1uinK . rm.sor Link ,Rad
I        SlEtil Brice            I dgeos  .       6 $1135  1 Inc:udinie 54/ mnos for Linsc R;ad 
Mediwu Bridges         I   utnos    'I  W7S2;    Imlu;.n : -2  irnas far !-.ink it-, 1
* _ _ ~I t--_--t-----                                                 -- t
:        La   Bridyes                u!nos    I  791i4 1
-ltra lart! Brib          I   ana       !    9/-  
-I..  -           I-     -
;       lijade &ipert iorni      j   .nos      !    39    i  1 :- .z'K;-;.,: .rS    i.:t L ;
I  _-    _-  _ -     - _ *   _ ___            _                               -.
Lkan& Ld.nar.            i    nos      .          i
. -            nnels                 u,nab     13i20x2/
land kquisiLion         I     mu          9      ! nII: mu fior i.  ina *.: ;
I House Demolition and Relocation I    sq.M    I  172621    i In-. m.:ni  shI.z f,: ink Roa:
. _  _  _. _  .  _  _ ... . __ ...........           .     . .   _      -.
_                                      :~~~~~~~~~1



CuLLir4 Sections With Over 10O Depth or he FwPremsm
Table 3
I  Chminage   I            LAxmtion            I cutting Volume  I Langth or Siope I Gradient I
I                                                       0 I                                    I3)
I K5.30D-0  I Entrnoe of Dapindlu  Twmel  I .   50.000             1      32        1  1:0.75  1
I          I~~ I                                               I .I-I
I 16550-570  I Exit of Dapinrwn Tunrnel        1       14.800      1       25       1  1:0.75  1
I K1162D420   I            GUDcUO              1      115.200      1      17.0      1   1::1    I
l  ~      ~      ~         I                                   I                            I
I K201300-20    I         Liusgmn              I      69.120.    1        16.5      1   1:1    i
I~~~ I                                                         I I;- -
1 K26'700-920  I          Guarnshi             I      96.000       1      20.0      I  1:'.5   I
I      I       +.                              I-__                I- ._-.-I                __
1 K30-W280  I            Kuishna               I      80.640       1     25.0       1 i:1    i
I              +                               I                   I                I          I
I K37*100-150  I          Kansdian             I      28.000       I      13.0 u        II:    I
I              I                               I-- I-  
I K39*410-510  I   Entrance of Sucuo Tunnel    I      30.000       1     20.0       1   1:1
I~    I1I                                                      I                I         ._j
I K31.787-807  I      Exit of Sucuo Tunnel     I       18.100      1 .             1   1:1    I
I              I                               I                            
1 K40+250-313    I  Entne of Shantou Tunnel   I       40.W01 I           2.1:0.75
|~~~ I-                                                  -----.-~             ___ i . __ 
I K40-60-750  I    Exit of Shiantou TwueI      1       46.200             22.0         1:0.75
I K41+42D-520  IFront tuntain of Zhengqianchun 1      55.000       I  1    3. 4          :I
I          I~~ I                                  -        -'      __      .    t-- -- -1   ---*
I K44.200-290  I           Xiahouba            1      49.500       1      1:3.4     i  1:0.75
I K44*80850  I Eitrance of Xiaoyingirg Tumiel I1      22.500       i      5..      !   I:i
I          I                                                                           ---* 
I K45-90-K46+30 I         Shangsai             1      23.920       t      16.U      i   l:i
I K465700-740  I           Xiaoshaxi            i      22.560      I      13.i      I  1:0.75  i
I              I                                I     3_-  6              4. 6__ _ -..-
1  Kc77*10040  1-           Hunei;                    312.566i     ;     14.6it( 1    I  :i     ;
I~~ ~~~~~~~~~               -~



Filling SewLia,i Vith Over 8  Filling
Height of the  pfessm mid Their Fillins Volmuu
Table 4
C hinme          I    L tion    IFililnx Volum    I Lenth of SideI gadient I
I         I                        I       e        I  Slope (      I             I
I    --          1--               1                                * -
I Left 1890-O10   I    Yulang      I      80         I     16.5     1   1:1.5     1
I                                  I                I              I
I Right K3*860-880 I   Yulang      1      8000      1      16.5     1   1:1.5     1
F  -1-                        1|  I                            I
ILeft K4200-314 I   Dnira          I      5500      I      27.'4    I   1:1.5 
i    -     .     I            _    I                I    .II
I Ri8ht K4190-304I    Doniing    1       85500      1      27.0     1   1:1.75 
I     -          II_                                II  
I  K12.140-160   I      Cufu       1      8200      1      15.3     1   1:1.5     1
I                I                 I                I*-- ._I_
I  1(15-340-360   I    Jiasha      1      5400      1      16.2     I   1:1.5     1
I                I                 I                                              A-.i  I
I  K1542D540    I    Jiasha        1      8200     .1      18.0     1   11.6      1
I                I.I                                I-I-
I  K15*870-80   I    Jiasha        I      8800      1      19.3     1   1:1.5
I  -    I                ~~                ~~I  V          -t        --1
I 1(17090-1 10   I   Shantou       1      5400      1      16.2     1   1:1.5     1
I           ~I                I-                I- _.-I  
I  K21*200-530   I   Tanglin    1        110352     1      15.5     i   1:1.5
I~~~I                                         ---1  ---- - i-            ---1
I  1K22+150-380   I    VZuling     I     72542      1      14.4       1 I:1.E    I
I   (25+230-350        C Ciyuan    I.   432U               :4.4          1:1.5    1
I K26.480-500   I    Ganshi        I.    3200       !      14.4       ,:l.5
I  [35-350-76,   I      vuli       1     90720      1      18.8     1   1:1.75    1
I           -I           -I    ---t--   --r---1
I  K38+600760   IGCmercial Far. 1        79580       i     31.4     1   1:1.75    I
FI                            -1--                        ---I-4----
I  K37.400-560   I    Kanglong    I    28800         1     14.4     1   1:1.5     ;
I  K53'490-55.'       Z erZkun          ;208       i       4.4
I  MO640-700G          Shixur.           28545       1     A 4           1:L5
I  K(61.600-660   i Shixun Bride   1     28945       .       .4          i:1. .7    i
I  K62.150-200   I  Putou Bridge  1      20750       1     18.4      1   1:1.75    1
I I              I                 I  
1 77+900w-K78000 I    Hunei        I     53401       I     ;2.6      1   1:1.5
I                     KI                             1-       5     i
I  [C80.274-614   I    kengvei     I   -101764       1     21.5      i   1:1.5
.       .                 .                 .               .~~~~~I 



*                Locations of Ihir Borrowing Areas and Their Area Alons Lhe Route
Tabie 5
*            I  ChairMe   I   Plces    IDistnoe froo the Route  I Area (3)  I
I    [0.380    I   Houren    I    Risht  50 a          I 250x ID    I
I              I              I                        I       .    I
I    1(0.K00    I   Shipu     I      Right 200 a          200x120  1
I 111+700    I  Chitau        I    Left. Right 50      I i  800x150  1
I-  I                         I- !~-.1-
1   [13+060    1   Keninxi    I       Risht 50 it      i  600x150  I
K 20800    I  Niu*rt    I             Right 5i0-       1  800X200  I
I     ,.I-                                        _ +
K [27250    I   Xiayun    I           Left 250 a.    I  IOOx Io   I
!    3000    I Binglarushn 1         Right 250 a       I  lOXIO0   I
!              I                                     - 
I   K35-.00    1     Puli     I       Left I50 a       i      j x J 00
K48*500    I Tiwan   I            Right 00 m       t  i  x 15D  I
*     ___ +                         I- 1-- t-
i   K53+500    I  Zenglin    I       Right 220 a       1  200x00  I
t ~~~I I -.*t  -                           ---- .      --
I   K56+800    I  LINIShan    I       LefL 2M              80 x 31x.J   I
I   K59+700    I Liwiexi             Riiht 160 a       ,    jx;e7   I
K62;280(0    I   Putou    I      RighL i4J 11 a       MilU  i
i ~ ~   ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I  
K64+0iO    I  Jianqian   I        Lef . 2W a          , 5t,x150  I
1   [65+100    1   Daitou    I       RighL 2    a      '  200x30   i
,         __ I                   --- _   -_ _ .  -    ,  -
I   K67 30Lu    I  Hoidun    I       RighL. 3W         .  250Ixi   I
i   K75'01    I   Hunei                       a              xG : 5 ;
* ___i.t.--------  -i--                       -      - -        ---
-              K en_i 



Lwtions or MIjor. Bwrwins Arek s and Their Area Alon  Lhe Route
Table 5
I   Chnaine   I    Places    I Distance rram the Route I Are  ()   I
I    K[0380    1    Houren    I    Right 50 .           I 250xl10    I
I    [0410     I   Shipu       I      Ri8ht 200a        I  200x120  1
I   Kl1+700    I  Chitag    I    Left. Risht50 a    I  80ISx150  1
I      I       1               i                      ---            _i
I   [13+050    I   Kenlxi    I         Right 50 o       I  600x 150  1
I   K2.800    I  Niu*n         I       RighL 250m .     I  800 ;xO i
I   K27+250    I   Xiayun    I         Lert 25.0 *         IOO)XIOO   I
I              1                                 -1:  .               I 
I   K30MO0O    I BinglanriWn  I       Right 250.        !  10OxID0  I
I                             I-              -~-+--
l       K35400    1  Puli      I       Lft 150 a           2fJ0x2    !
I   K48-0rM    I Tianzrgan   I         Richt 800 a        I 15x150  l
I   K53500    I  Zenglin    i         Risht 220 i       i       20200  i
K56.800    I      nn       I       u.rt 200.. m                   I8; x
I   K59.700    I  Longiiexi           Right 16O .       *  Z0Ux97   I
K62-800    I    Putou             RigILi4U, mtJ:'1Ou   I
K [64-0 . I   Jianqian    I         LerL 2OUu i       ;   50 x 15*   I
I   K655100    I   Daitou    I        Right-206 a       1  200 i 3    i
I   K67M30     I  Hongk.m      !      R.ight. 300       .  250 x',
K75iX      I    H-unei            iLlA .AI3U a           Ux ;55
K Ur .        _uu    I _ _engve  i    ! Ra '                A .6 _.._



t OvS ull Evalw'tlin on the Bnvlnmnt. :'ur 4-A $tn .::1 Lho *Eomwwa.
Table 6 ' .
Influmirm             Standed of             -i  won         ".t    O            I
rfator            Ic wa      n     ralVSfU,blU          !avaumble I  lev.r  I.a..dva
1.Nolmlw Iwt             f   80-2    _                           =,_
I.Sjda of the7 -wm
2.si5d  or eistLin       {                            I .                    Ii        .       O,  di^Icl@ str
F-X hishwwi                                                   ;         
. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_ ,__.,___ ___ ._  . _~._
U.AtUhe I t                              . 3095-8                          !
waE.03     ~~~~~~_ ___    -.- .     
2.Side ofthe Fssint                -                          .          .=-=                    vuihiclsi .trua
|________I________  .
F-X hi                                              .          1.I
Vhld- animi.                                              i                     ;aohn  no  ras tn tdtlch
Iffn ndX6se                                    
W.TBmllclt               I the sbtes quo             i                  _ 3  _      :_
Traffic uralcirp     I      _  P_ ;_.._Li3
VI Id  nim I                                                                Passng no  mes I   whic
XTraffic saety                      j.                                 j -L..,..._
2 nSrdw o                                     _. the .x jt___
tHt~~ot h       ie of                                               -I               etuiatt.icno ut both sides1
V.Soejal economic                                    I    _ i  _._ ____ .... _._
Ewloim.t                                                 i        -I                         I i--
Cojrte _  _-
Tcanoic dewelopent    I_____
TmVffLmmha.e ic2   sreenictL fr                                                                     i
j   .Soci    ic          I                                                       _  ,          _
*   .                hl    Ulter lity        ______;_;                                              i I
bainse              ____*_             -I     I- *        ~I -I             I
Iettl                       1        1---        1        - '-''''           -       ''
Total _t_                          .
Dra                                  _                         _e



The 1.1st aof Villages Requiring Sournd Rnrrriqrs
Along 0uen;'ho'i-Yiamen S.ctlon of Fuz.ou-iiapen Highway
*l'o Be Comnletea in First Stage i n , :jl .7
ThhIe fi-)
Ser iaI i     Nlame of      ! Length o1- Souna-  oN"m f StAke           -Remarks
i N4umber I Natural Village  I proof      :mI
;   I    ;  Yulang        :        15U            .-3     .5
I     Dnntxin;x inZ  .JI                            4 A
3    .1    Chenzhou       I     2lx2 ,,r;. 75- i. j5   i
I - ; , '---                         I -  -                  -
4    i     ZenRcun        i        00            i.i    -13._   I
5    i      Gnuwei        i      200x .         . i34.-34.4
i;    I    Kanglong               2 00          K::. 65- 37.85  1 Prime School  i
7 1    5 .  Shantou.             150 x 2       ;         -fi.5-4.1   i
*,~ ~ -______  - ...-   ,-.                 -- '~*~~             -#.----1--
*        I ,   Xiahouba                               4 40O  - '44.-1 4.5   I Prime School  I
i  9           Xiashaxi                150           K4i5.6- 46.75  i
-4-4--
10   I      Daitou        I       100          I Kt;4.9- 65.0   1 Prime School  I
*        j                    j.                                      
11   I      Tulou                I 0 0x 2         W 168.7- 68.8   1
12   1      Liucuo        I         00x 2      I K74.9- 75.0   1
Total               2 2700.
I The construction  tf Pach meter of sound barrier  I
i                    ; requires ROB 40U YuAr.with a total  investment of I
I                    I RMB 1.080 million.
-. .J..                                                   _ ._ _____
S    



The List of Villages Along Ouanzhou-Xiamen Section
of Fuzhou-Xiamen Highway for Which'Anti-Noise Measures Will Be Thken
(To Be Completed in Stage 11 in 2005)
,  r. t!jF    
I Seri i        Name of        i i.entn  of Sound- 1nAms iof Sto.we  I                 I
i Numrer i flatural Villagr   pronf         ai  
I 1    ,    Zhuangren     I         Oli        ,    .,3- 0.5
Yuanhou                20f0            K. 8- 7.0                       I
:~~~~~~-  P-- --                                          -  -      --i
t   zi    Gukens  '   200           K12.25- 13.45  !
4           Shantou'      I        IU(         I i'i5.5-15.B   ;                   I
H----.                       !- - -.-  -.                                   .   . 
I   6    I    Shanvulong               200          1 K21.3- 21.5   I
6 6 3            Banvei        i       100          ; K22.3- 22.4   1                  1
* 7  -- I    Dazhii       1        250         i K23.6-23.85  1                    1
I   .9    :      Ciyuan                100       . 325.25-25.3' i                      I
I~_             __       _     -*-1-*-    -                             - i--
I   9           Houshan       i        300         1 i_5 -28.35  I
10   I       Louzi        *        250            K   6 5- 32.9  I
i   11   i        Dapu         :OU                 i K42.n- 42.2   1
I I                            I                   I-; -                  -      ._
1   12   i      Mixianhu       i       200            K52.1i- 52.2   1                 i
I I                         ;--_-  i                                        -      i~
S   io   |   Guoxi        ;        2'JO        I  i.tid- l--.2    I                i
1   14   i      Dongcai                1 511       1  VA.s- 79.05  1
t   .          ~I .                  I                 I --    ._._
1   15         Xishanxia                ! 150       i K2. 7- 79.85
*  I     '       Total Gi1Uoi
I~~~~                             ~~~.  . .-.- .,_..  .-.-  -   __  .  _ __ _   -.  .  ;
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



1k
Guarwidiui
Pnd ,f IJw I~iprnssuw                                      Tit'am GnuntY
I (     F.nd or                                .pI AIP    PuWLM    le.d;
'ldl ai.,I           Itr    0                             iJ*L~
4'--, _-ulk.-. -Cr:-;>5  68 'tj*'                          r,,, InIIo Iriv,
AIIt:nanI. .,r Xlm. :.-7thrp7,n4.!.  1.NsrPr-viYi\                                    '
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ \  ii .,                                    .'.e-n' 
;E    \                 X,AI, S ~~~I.,\ ffl \|4f]t,sG1,                    )/               S~
2           -- ..... ~~~ljintgu    I
- \'s;               _    ;} \    LL(IMFJ 1I g                       ./        | 250;
*y( /   -    ^  )   'Ig X        f              A._\.,xi r
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~x:



*s Stations of lolso and Vlllirtlon of                                                                               Fig     Oi5
Sortlen Extpressway of PuAou-Xlar.n Illihvny
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A '                                            m\ *n\.o
J > {\ 7 ~~~~~~Fbi*vwwXlon.6:n IApra \\4,
BriddaX riv-:mle                                                       j
/FASE   X                        X          . ~~~~~~~~~~~~"!t I  /   Sol.pQ.>M!lY-;sl> -tins Poitnt
1@01;bn                       u;4             §            -t n i,                ;l       w     O't,SmEnl. [               t
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MN':' C!tY\  ,IIyJirn' slei
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t Ir law .                       .e.
| s .I,ara.e   zttWt ....   KitAiinslt spot Or Awimt sbiv
* ; ) - i ~Tunnel            .      . ' :iWr ing SpeL -if Trarrie  oi:st
Scale                                                                                           L'l                           s cjn)    .u.s :t . .t;e-l e «.- ... r Aw)jn"



