Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12267-CRA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
FUJIAN PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
NOVEMBER 17, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No:         12267 CHA
Type: SAR
Transport Operations Division
China and Mongolia Department
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by reipients only in the perfonnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of July 1993)
Currency name = R.enminbi
Currency unit    =  Yuan (Y) = 100 Fen
$1.00             =  Y 5.75
$0.174            =  Y 1.0
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                       =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                  =  0.62 mile (mi)
1 square meter (m2)               =  10.76 square feet (sq ft)
I square kdlometer (kIm2)         =  0.4 square miles (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha) = 0.01 (kin2)      =  2.47 acres (ac) = 15 mu
I mu                              =  666.7 sq m = 0.0667 ha
1 kilogram (kg)                   =  2.2046 pounds (lbs)
1 metric ton (m ton)              =  2,204 pounds (Ibs)
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADT    - Average Daily Traffic                 HPDI - Highway Planning and Design Institute
CTF     - Consultant Trust Funds               HSRI - Highway Scientific Research Institute
E&M       Electrical & Mechanical              ICB   - Intemational Competitive Bidding
EA      - Environmental Assessment             JST   - Joint Supervision Team
EAP    - Environmental Action Plan             LCB  - Local Competitive Bidding
EIRR    - Economic Internal Rate of Return     MOC  - Ministry of Communications
8FYP    - Eighth Five-Year Plan (1991-95)      MOF  - Ministry of Finance
FHCEI  - Fujian  Highway  Consulting           NPV  - Net Present Value
Engineers, Inc.                      NTHS - National Trunk Highway System
FP      - Fujian Province                      PCC  - Provincial Construction Commission
FPECDO - Fujiian  Provincial  Expressway       pcu   - Passenger Car Unit
Construction Directorate Office      PMS  - Pavement Management System
FPEPB   - Fujian  Provincial Etvironmental     PRC  - People's Republic of China
Protection Bureau                    PRCIS - Provincial Road Construction Industry
FPEPRI - Fujian  Provincial Environmental              Study
Protection Research Institute        RAP  - Resettlement Action Plan
PPHAB  - Fujian   Provincial  Highway          RDB  - Road Data Bank
Administration Bureau                RDP  - Road Development Program
FPTD    - Fujian   Provincial  Transport       RNIP - Road Network Improvement Progran
Department                           7FYP - Seventh Five-Year Plan (1986-90)
FPTPDI - Fujian Provincial Transport Planning  SAA  - State Audit Administration
and Design Institute                 SPC   - State Planning Commission
FYRR   - First-Year Rate of Return             TA    - Techn.ical Assistance
GOC    - Government of China                   TCU  - Technical Coordinating Unit
GOVAI - Gross Output Value of Agriculture      TOR  - Terms of Reference
and Industry                         vpd   - Vehicle per day



r                                                                            FOR OMCIL UR ONLY
CHINA
FUJIAN PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
LoAN     PROJECT SummRY
Borrower:          People's Republic of China
Beefciary:         Fujian Province
Amount:            $140 million equivalent
Terms:             20 years, including S years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate
Project Objectives: The project has been designed to (a) support the continued
development of road infrastructure in Fujian Province to facilitate
mobility and increase the efficiency of ro4d transport in the interest
of stimulating economic activity; (b) develop an action plan for the
strengthening of the provincial road construction industry; (c) assist
in the development of institutional capabilities for transport planning
and investment prioritization; and (d) ficilitate the transfer of
highway construction and maintenance technology through staff
training and the provision of equipment.
Projet Dsripton: The project comprises:  (a) the construction of the Xiamen-
Quanzhou four-lane divided, access-controlled highway (81.4 kn);
(b) a Road Network Improvement Ptogram (RN1P), including the
upgraang (58.3 EIn) and paving (202.7 kn) of seven rural arterial
roads; (c) construction supervision of the Xiamen-Quanzhou
Highway and the civil works included in the RNIP; (d) purchase of
equipment for highway operation and maintenance, road
laboratories, a road data bank and a pavement management system,
(e) a study of the provincial road construcdon industry; and (f) staff
taning.
Project Beneits:    The main quantifiable benefits associated with development of the
highway and the seven rural arterial roads include savings in vehicle
operating costs, travel time, and road maintenance costs, and
savings through reduction of taffic accidents. Benefits from the
projects would accrue to road users, including the operators of
freight and passenger transport services, enterprises and farmers, in
the form of reduced vehicle operating costs. The Province would
This document has a rstricted disttibution and may be used by tecipients only in the performance
Iof their ofciaW duties. !ts contents may not otherwise be disclose without World Bank authorization.



-ii
benefit from reduced cost of road maintenance, and a broad
segment of the community would benefit from the reduction in
traffic accidents. Benefits, particularly from the RNIP, would
accrue from improved access to remote areas through fostering
accelerated economic growth and greater mobility for social
activities. Institutional benefits accrue from the involvement of
local personnel in project preparation, requiring partcularly
rigorous treatment of economic and environmental assessments,
engineering design, technical specifications and construction
practices. Such exposure will provide benefits far beyond the
implementation peiod of the proposed project through the
expence gained by the persomnnel involved. The specific attention
given to the road construction industry in Fujian Province to
encourage its transition to market-orientated operations is also an
initiative with good potential for long-term benefits.
Pisks:            Based on the experience with ongoing highway projects, the main
risk i implementation delay, paricularly for the highway
component. Because of the difficult subsoil conditions along some
of the highway alignment, the relatively high number of tunnels and
bridges to be constructed and the extensive rock excavation
involved, there are major risks of delay in the timely completion of
the highway. Since the Fujian Province is a first-time borrower for
a major Bank-financed highway project, the lack of experience in
executing major Bank-financed highway projects adds an element
of risk to smooth project implementation. However, project
preparation has benefitted significantly from the Bank's previous
expeience in similar highway projects in China, the participation
of foreign experts in the design of the highway and the preparation
of the bidding documents and technical specifications, the stringent
prequalificaton of contractors, and the careful fonnulation of
supervision to ensure regular monitoring and effective quality
control.



-in -
Nvjed Costs:                                      jg      EDrwgn  Inta
-   ($ million) -
A. Works
1. Hlighway                                     188.9     126.0  314.9
2. Electrical add Mechanical Works                1.3       5.2    6.5
3. Road Network Improvement Prograir.                      _U    I2Q
Subtotal                                   21=       13f.Q2   3A
B. $Suoion
1. Highway                                        5.9       2.5    8.4
2. Road Network Improvement Program                         u      -,
.suibtotal                                                    L LI
C. Egidpment
1. Highway Opeations and Maintenance              0.2       2.1    2.3
2. Labortories                                    0.1       0.4    0.5
3. Road Data Bank/Pavement Management System      DA        DA     Q
Subtotal
D. Sdy & Trining
1. Road Consttion Industry                        0.1       0.2    0.3
2. Staff Training                                           Q       v
Subtotal                                     Q                LD
Base7.                                 3             146.1U 3.
fXSitngencie
1. Physical La                                   21.7      14.2   35.9
2. Price                                                   15A S   4h2
Subtotal                                   111.       22    14A
Land acquisition                                   24.6       0.0   24.6
Total    1 175. 7 S28.
La Ten percent of Items A and Bl.
1k Identifiable ta  and duties are about Y 106.4 million ($18.5 million). Taxes and
duties would not be financed from the proceeds of the loan.



- iv -
E1andag P1n:                                      LQca1   Foreign  oItal
--  ($ million)
Pwvincial government          304.4      35.7  340.1
Centrl government              48.7       -     48.7
IBRD                            -       140.0  140.0
Total Finacn             =53.      175.  528
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank For                19924   1995     k   122    1226   1222   19
-------------($ million) --
Annual                     18     9      15    20      30     34     14
Cumulative                18    27      42      62     92    126    140
Poverty Categary:       Not Applicable.
Economic !Ytate of Retum: 25 percent



. v -
1   The Tisport Sector  .................             .      . .         1
A.  Introduction                                              .      1
B.  Traffic .. . ... ..                                              1
C.  T¶ransport Reforms ..    . .      .............                  2
D.  Bank GroupParicipation  ........                                 3
E. TheHighwaySubsctor....   S
2   FujanProvinceTransport Sector.....                                  12
A. Geographic andEconomicSetting          . . .12
B. Transport Network                    . . .    13
C.  TrafficCharacteistics andGrowth . ..................            14
D.  Transport Administration ..........................             15
E.  The1Vehicl eFeet ......      .........................          15
F.  The Truckng ndustry  ...........................                15
G.  Road Safety ..................................                  16
H. Highway Development                ...16
3 The 1ProJect                . . .18
A.  Project Formulation and Preparation  ..18
B.  Project Objectives and Rationale for Bank Involvement .......   18
C. Project Scope   ..20
D. Environmental Assessment.                                        25
E.  Land Acquisition and Resettlement ....................          26
This report is based on the findings of a July 1993 appraisal mission comprising Otto
Raggambi (Senior Highway Engineer, Task Manager), Rita Pasi (Financial Analyst), Han-
Kang Yen (Research Analyst) and Dongchang Dai (Operations Officer). Consultants
Elizabeth Rankdn (Economist), Ruwani Jayewardene (Resettlement Specilist), William L.
Lane (Environmental Specialist), Jianfei Zhang (Transport Specialist), and Jonathan R. van
Daveer (Construction Industry Specialist) contributed to the preparation of the project.
Peer reviewers for the project were Carlos Alvarez (Transport Engineer), Jean-Marie M.
Lantran (Senior Construction Industry Specialist) and Renato Schulz (Senior Economist).
The Division Chief is Paul Stott (acting) and the Departnent Director is Shahid Javed
Burld.



- vi -
F.   Cost Estimates ....................   * .                        27
G.   Financing  .           ................................. .       28
H.  Implementation ...      .............................    29
I.   Procurement           ..................................         31
J.   Disbursements  ......................... . . . ... .             33
K.  Auditing ............................... . . . .    34
L.  Project Supervision, Reporting and Monitoring  ............       34
4   Economic Evaluation  ...............................    35
A.  Xiamen-QuanzhouHighway . .......................                  35
B.  Road Network Improvement Program       ..................         38
C.  Main Benefts and Beneficiaries    ......................          39
D.  Project Risks .................................    39
S   Agreements Reached and Recommendatio.................                 40
TABLES
1.1  Freight Traffic Intensities and Road and Railway Network Density in
Selected Countries ..... ............................                42
1.2  China: TransportInvestmentvs. Economic Output.                       43
1.3  China: Investment in the Transport Sector.                           44
1.4 China FreightTrfflcby Mode...                                         45
1.5  China: Passenger Traffic by MIeode ..........    .       ...         46
1.6  China: Bank Group-Financed Transport Projects.                       47
1.7 China: HighwayDesignStandards                         ...49
1.8 China: Vehicle Fleet .. .....   so
1.9  China Highway Freight Trnsport   .....................           ,   51
1.10 China: Bank Group-Financed Highway Projects ...............          52
2.1  Fujian: RoadNetwork, 1980-92 ........................                55
2.2  Fujian: Freight and Passanger Trffic by Mode, 1985-92                56
2.3  Fujian: Freight and Passanger Transport by Mode, 198092  .....      57
2.4 Fujian: VehicleFleet, 1980-92 .........................               58
2.5  Fujian: FreightTransport byRoad, 19892 .................             59
2.6  Fujian: Highway Network Development Plan, 1990-2000     .........    60
2.7  Fujian: Highway Development Program, 1991-95  ...  . ........        61
3.1  Staff Traning Program  .........................                     62
3.2  Equipment to be Procured  ......     ......................          64
3.3  Inplemetaion Scheide ......       ................. .                66
3.4  Disbursement Schedule         ..............................         67



vii -
4.1  Xiamen-Quanzhou Highway: Projected Traffic in the Corrdor   ......    68
4.2  Xiamen-Quanzhou Highway: Estimated Economic Cost ... .......          69
4.3  Xiamen-Quanzhou Highway: Shadow Price Conversion Factor    .....      70
4.4  Xiamen-Quanzhou Highway: Vehicle Operating Costs on the Existing
Road and the Highway  ....       ..........................           71
4.5  Xiamen-Quanzhou Highway: Summary of Economic Evaluation and
SensitivityAnalysis  .....................................            72
4.6  Xiamen-Quanzhou Highway: Economic Evaluation and Sensitivity
Analysis - Section 1 ...            ..     ...........................    73
4.7  Xiamen-Quanzhou Highway: Economic Evaluation and Sensitivity
Analysis - Section 2 ................................                 74
4.8  Xiamen-Quanzhou Highway: Economic Evaluation and Sensitivity
Analysis - Section 3 ................................5
ANNE=
1.  Bank Group Particpation in the tansport Sector ....... .......         77
2.  Highway Management ...............................                     79
3.  Road Network Improvement Progrm (RNIP) ......           ..........     93
4.  Highway Construction Industry - Provincial Road Construction Industry
Study ard Nationwide Survey ..........................    108
5.  Environmental Assessment and Action Plan Summary  ..... ......    118
6.  ResettlementAction Pan Summary  ......        ................    137
7.  Supervision Mission Plan .............................    147
8.  Toll Rate Study for Xiamen-Quanzhou Highway ..............      .    150
9.  Selected Documents Available in the Project File ..   ............    152
CARTS
1.  FujianProvinceTransportOrganizations  ...................    153
2.  Organization of the Fujian Provincial Highway Administration Bureau  .    154
MAS
1.  IBRD 25227
2.  LBRD 24666
3.  IBRD 24667



1.               SPORT SECTR
A. IRODUCfON
1.1        The transport system in China has grown considerably over the last four
decades. Between 1952 and 1992, the lengti of the highway system increased by a factor
of nine and the lngt of the railway network more than doubled.  Despite this
development, the transport network is one of the sparsest in the world compared with the
area and populton it serves (Table 1.1). The main reason for this is China's low level
of tasport investment, which averaged only 1.3 percnt of GNP during 19892 (ables
1.2 and 1.3), as compared with 2-3 percent for other countries such as India, the Republic
of Korea and Brazil.
1.2        The transport system is also chracterized by a high intensity of freight
traffic. To produce one dollar of economic output, China handles 50 prcent more ton-
klometers (ton-km) of taffic than India and Brzi (Table 1.1). The major reasns behind
China's high freight traffic intensity are a rlatively large heavy-industry sector, reliance
on coal as the major source of energy and a large volume of other bulk products. These
fators have resuted in a gap between transport supply and demand, which is manifested
by the eitence of tranwport botleneclk, the adminive rationing of limited tansport
capacity, the poor quality of sevices and losses to the economy.
1.3        The economic system in China is undergoing a major transition tward a
market orientation and this transition will involve many reforms in the tnsport sctor,
designed to increase efficiency and improve its response to market forces. These reforms,
which std  in 1979, are now acceleating due to government policies announced in 1992.
D. TRAlC
1.4        Since the adoption of an ope-door policy in 1979, China has exerienced
rapd growth of tfic, consistent ith fast expansion of the economy, which averaged
about 9.5 prcent a year during 1980-90. This growth trend tpered off in recent years
as the supply constraints became more conspicuous and the growth of the economy slowed
down in 1989/90. However, resumption of high economic growth since 1991 has brought
about   rponding surge in tansport demand, which has staied the capity of the
transpot system.
1.5        Traf   Growth. Despite capaty constints and related bottlenecks,
during 1982-92 total freight traffic grew at 8.1 percent per annum altd total intercity
pasenger traffic at 9.7 percent per annum. Highway freight taffic grew at the  gest
annual rate, 14.7 percent, compared with 6.6 percent fo railway taffic and 9.5 pcnt



- 2 -
for coastal and inland waterway taffic C(able 1.4). Despite its rapid growth, intercity
passenger travel per capita in China remains very low, at about two thirds of the level for
India. This is due primarily to severe capacity constraints. Civil aviation traffic, which
grew at 21.2 percent per annum during 1982-92, is still very limited, and most long-
distance journeys are made by rail.
1.6         Transport Demand and Modal Split Trends. Although the railway's share
of taffic has declined over the last decade as the share of road traffic has grown, rail
trasport stI dominates freight and passenger traffic in China. In 1992, 57.3 percent of
freight (Table 1.4) and 45.5 percent of passenger traffic (Table 1.5) were moved by rail,
and the rest was moved by road, inland waterway, coastal shipping, pipeline, and civil
aviation. This preeminence of the railway is dne in part to the past dependence of the
Chinese economy on heavy industry and in part to the relatively long transport distances.
In the case of passenger transport, dominance of the railway is partly due to inadequate
provision of intercity bus serrices, the virtual absence of private automobiles, and the
limited use of civil aviation. The movement toward a market economy will increase
demand for market-responsive transport services, favoring a shift to road transport, but still
leaving a growing market for the reladvely low-cost rail transport system.
C. TRANSPOR REFRM
1.7        In the past decade, China's economic reforms have aimed to increase
economic efficiency through measures designed to reduce national government intervention
in the production and distribution process, reduce the Government's deficits and subsidies
to state-owned entefprises, and open the economy by expanding trade and allowing further
prtcipation of private and collective enteprises. In the tansport sector, several reforms
have been undertaken in line with these objectives. Notably, the Government has:
(a) reduced the extent of commodity price distortions by (i) decreasing the
volume of commodities produced in the State Plan; and (i:1 raising the
in-plan prices of commodities closer to market levels;
(b)   increased the tariffs charged by state transport enterprises, including
railway, highway and waterway, to levels approaching their long-run
marginal costs;
(c)   encouraged provincial governments to develop many local railways, which
now total some 4,400 route-km and intercomnnect with the natioit 1 standard-
gauge network;
(d)   allowed private individuals and collective and township enterprises to
provide passenger and freight transport services on roads and inland
waways, and encouraged provincial and national authorities to develop
trsort systems with private sector financing;



- 3 -
(e) carried out major structural reforms in the organization and management of
civil aviation and in the ports, leading to increased financial autonomy and
accountability and to less central government control, and paving the way
for introduction of competitive services;
(t)   reduced operating and capital subsidies for major inftastructure services,
through higher cost-recovery and increased reliance on user-funded capital
construction; and
(g)   encouraged the intruction of more modern technology in the transport
system, pdmarily by improving rolling stock technology in the railway
subsector; enhancing container and bulk-handling capacity in the port
subsector, improving road pavement design and geometric standards for the
ewpansion of motorization in the highway subsector; and increasing the use
of computerized data processing and plnning techniques in operations in all
modes.
In undeang many of these transport reforms, the Government has relied on the Bank
as a key source of advice, through a number of cooperative studies and programs.
D. BAN  GROUP PARTICIPATION
1.8        The Bank Group has supported initaves by the Government in the tansport
sector though loans and credits totaling $4.0 bilion for 27 projects and is now preparing
ational projects in the sector (Table 1.6 and Annex1I. These projects have included:
(a)   Ralways. Expnon of rail capacity, moderizon of locomotives and
roFlling sock, manuf ng facilities, modenization of track maintenance,
modenization of telecommunications and information systems, plus many
technical assistance and taining programs ($1,805 million in seven
projects);
0)   Highways.  Cunstruction of 1,760 kn of high-quality national and
provincial roads, upgrading of 6,430 km of rural roads, improvement of the
supervision and quality control of road construction, and studies of key
issues in road safety, pavement management, user charges and methods of
financing for road maintenance and construction ($1,149 million in nine
projects);
(c)   Ports and Waterways. Construction of terminals, jetties and berths in six
ports, dredging of navigation channels, and technical assstance and taining
for port planning, operaons management and containerization ($715 million
in eight projects);
(d)   M  ltimodal, A multimodal project for roads and inland waterways in
Jrangsu Province ($154 million); and



-4-
(e)   Urban Trnport. Two projects focused specifically on developing urban
transport in Shanghai, including road construction, traffic management and
safety, as well as overal planning and management of urban transport ($210
million in two projects). Urban transport has also been addressed through
components of several other urban sector projects.
1.9         The dialogue between the Government and the Bank Group on transport
sector operations and strategy has been strengthened through long-term strategy studies for
railways, highways and ports development, and through project preparation activities and
project-financed studies as well as sector studies carried out in collaboration with Chinese
authorities. The various stuidies have, inter alia, emphasized th: areas of multimodal
transport investment and the setting of sectoral priorities based on systemwide economic
evaluation techniques.11 A Bank Group report titled China's Railwy Strategy (No.
10592-CHA) was issued in February 1993 and a report titled Highway Development and
Management: Issues, Options and Strategies (No. 11819-CHA) is being finalized. In
addition, there are ongoing studies on the trucking industry and highway financing, and a
study of the provincial road construction industry is being included in the proposed project.
Furthermore, the Ministy of Communications (MOC) and the Bank have launched an
institutional-strengthening component for MOC in the China Reform, Institutional Support
and Preinvestment Project (Credit 2447-CHA, FY92). 1he Bank Group also conducted
a survey of the national water transport system in the mid-1980s, which has reaffirmed the
need to further exploit the large potential of the Chinese waterways. As a follow-up to the
study, the preparation of a multipurpose inland waterway project was initiated recently.
1.10        On the basis of this sector work, the Bank will broaden its involvement and
will assist the Government in the design and implementation of institutional and sectoral
reforms in other areas, including management strategy formulation, investment planning,
picing and financing, deregulation of services, operational management, and transfer of
advanced transport-related technology through training and provision of up-to-date
equipment.  Chinese authorities and the Bank Group are currently preparing a
comprehensive transport sector strategy paper that is expected to help gude sector
development in a consistent, cohesive policy framework.
1.11        The above-mentioned projects and studies are helping to spur the growth and
modernizaion of the transport system. However, much more needs to be done to bring
about the changes required to deal effectively with emerging issues. To alleviate the
tansport bottlenecks and rationalize the transport system, the Government will need to take
the following measures by the year 2000:
11  Six of the sbtuds have eplored mulmol pricing and investment issues ia more comprehenive and
economically onented analyfical framework tban was formely available to China's decisionmakers:
the Guangdog ComprebAbJve Transpot Planning Study; the Yangtze Economic Zone Transport
Study; the Coal Transport Study; the Railway Investment Study; tbe Satec Issues in Ports and
Shipping Study; and the Prie Reform Study.



-  -
(a)  increase the total level of transport investnent in relation to gross national
product (GNP), to expand capacity to meet the new traffic demands and to
clear up the backlogs causti by past underinvestment;
(b)   aim for balanced investments among the major freight transport modes of
railways, highways, and waterways in terms of optimal economic cost of
transport;
(c)   realign further the prices of freight transport services and those of the major
commodities, especially coal, to bring them closer to their real costs;
(d)  increase further the productivity of existing transport assets through
technological modernization and management reforms; and
(e)  improve and expand the multimodal transport system, both across and
within modes, with particular emphasis on more extensive use of containers.
E. THE HIGHWAY SuBsllR
The National Highway Network and its Utilizaton
1.12       The highway network totaled about 1,056,700 km in 1992 and, relative to
either population or geographic area, ranked among the sparsest in the world. About
30 percent of China's villages have no access to roads adequate for motor vehicles.
Investment in the highway subsector has been rather modest, at 21 percent of total
investment in the transport sector during the Seventh Five-Year Plan (7FYP, 1986-90).
Since the early 1980s, the highway system has carried an increasing share of taffic. The
network is, for the purposes of design and technical specifications, classified by MOC as
Expressway (access-controlled highway with divided carriageways for the exclusive use of
motorized vehicles), and Classes 1, 2, 3 and 4 for various traffic capacities in different
train. The geometric standards being used for the various road classes are shown in
Table 1.7. For administrative purposes, roads are clasfid as national, provincial,
county, village, and special purpose.
1.13       A Bank policy study on road deterioration in developing countries classified
China among the countnes with an extensive and outdated road network in need of
modernization to meet the rapid growth in road transport demand. China's road network
consists mainly of roads designed with restrictive geometric cha cs for light/
medium-weight trucks. Although China has not neglected road maintenance, its outmoded
maintenance technology would not be sufficient to armst the accelerated deterioration of
the aging road system network. In addition to upgrading the geometric pameters of the
alignments, many of the road pavements would need st ng  to cay current and
projected future taffic. China needs to mobilize domestic and extnal resources for
moderizing its road system with special emphasis placed on technology transfer,
ingstitional improvement, and development of skills. There are few absorptive capacity



- 6 -
constaints relative to achieving these objectives given China's decentralized, stable, and
financially accountable highway adminisaton structure.
1.14       The rapid growth of highway rqfic stems not only from the country's rapid
economic growth but also from other factors such as the national policy of shifting short-
haul transport from rail to road, as well as the expansion of the service secw  and rural
industries. Furthermore, with the increase in foreign tade, growth in transport demand
will be concentrated in transport corridors serving the main ports and their hinterlands and,
with the containerization of the higher-value commodities, most domestic movements of
this foreign tade are expectd to go by road. The new economic activities have genered
traffic in excess of what many of the existing facilities can accommodate. Congestion on
roads resulting from the mix of slow-moving nonmotorized and motorized traffic is a
serious problem.
1.15       The vehicfleet totaled some 6.9 million trucks, buses and cars in 1992,
with trucks comprising over 62 percent. Most trucks are four-ton capacity with outmoded
designs and low fuel efficiency. Most of the trucks and buses are gasoline powered.
These vehicles were manufacured domestically and, until recently, the production of
trucks was barely sufficient to replace the retred vehicles, let alone meet growing demand.
It was not until the early 1980s that a lare number of modern vehicles was importe and
joint venur  with foreign manucurs were sed to manufture trucks. Although
production dropped considerably in 1989 and 1990 due to the economic recesson in those
years, it has acceled since and is contributing to the creation of a sizable new fleet,
although the older vehicles predominate.
1.16       The tactor and motorcycle fleets, at 5.3 million and 6.5 million, well
exceed the size of the truck and bus fleet Both tctors and motorwcles offer a relatively
chea and basic form of transport, but add seriously to taffic congestion on rural roads
(prncipaly tractrs) and urban steet (mainly motorcycles), and are among the major
causes of road accidents.
1.17       Growth in the truck and bus fleet has been fairly steady over the last
12 years, with particularly stg gowth in small passenger vehicles. Growth in the
tra    and motorcycle fleets has increased sharply, with motorcycles showing the stronget
growth of all vehicle types (Table 1.8).
1.18       The middng lnusny consists of publicly owned trucks operated by tmuclkng
companies affiliated with local (provincial or district) highway authorities, and other trucks
opeated by fctories, coopeve organizatons and, recently, private individuals. The
rdaxation of trucldng regula   in the early 1980s allowed own-account trucks to haul
cargo for other factries and coopeafives and thus promoted compedtion between public
and own-account trucks. In fact, nonpublic trucks bave absorbed most of the growth in
taffic over the past few years (rable 1.9). However, tcking costs are extremey high,
smming in part from technlogical ft  (poor roads, outmoded trucks, relatively low
utiliztion of carrying capaity, etc.) but also from a lack of experience in flet
management, which is essential to the derelopment of modern and efficient trucldng



-7-
sevices. While market forces are expecd to play a more important role in shapg the
industry in the future, it is necessary to understand the current constraints to such
development and to identify the measures needed to allow the reshaping of the industry to
take place. In order to explore these issues more fully, a Provincial Truccing Study was
included as a component of the Henan Provincial Highway Project, and a separate study
of the Highway Trucldng Industry was part of the formal sector program for FY93.
1.19       Road saf-ty is a major issue in China's transport system. A study completed
in 1987 under the first Highway Project found the accident rate to be 100 deaths per
10,000 vehicles, one of the highest in the worla, costing the Chinese economy close to $1
billion annually. The study also identfied essential measures needed, including improved
police accident reporting; introduction of computer-based accident analysis; identfication
of accident causes and dangerous road spots; prparation of guidelines for road safety
design; improved administraive procedures; improved manpower training; and prepartion
of a road safety action plan. The responsibility for highway safety matt  was transferred
from MOC and the provincial Communications Departments to the Ministry of Public
Security and its provincial units in 1988.  This decision has created transitional
administative problems. However, these have been overcome in some of the provinces
through good cooperation between the provincial highway administration bureaus and the
concerned public security units. There has been also improvement in the accident
reporting system, as advocated in the 1987 study. In most provinces, computerzed
systems are in place. Moreover, the public security and highway bureau personnel often
work together to identify and improve road configurations at high-frequency accident
locations.
Highway Administtion, Planning and Finance
1.20       The provincial governments, through the highway bureaus of the Provincial
Transport Departments (PTDs), are responsible for adminisration of the highway net rw.
Anrangements for administraton vary among provinces; in the more decentralized ones,
the county and municipal goverments perform some adminisatve and all of the
orational functions related to the highway network. The Central Goverment's MOC
provides general policy guidance and support to the PTDs through its nationwide polic
and regulations, specfyig design and construction standards.  MOC also provides
specilized manpower for planning and design and construction equipment for major
provincial civil works, if needed. However, the PTDs are financially independent of MOC
and carry out all road planning, construction, maintenance, and adminition of roads and
watervays in the provinces. MOC is more heavily involved in certain large projects that
are considered of national importance, for which MOC shares part of the financial burden.
1.21       While the provinces manage the country's highway network, MOC is
resosible for plZandng and lnwesm   sregies for the development of die National
ighway System. A reclasification of the country's road network in 1981 led to the
designation of key interpovincial links as national highways. More recently, MOC has
been evolving a long-term strategy for the systematic upgrading of the national system in
key corridors over a 30-year planning horzon. Known as the National Trunk Highway



- 8 -
Sysem (NTHS), the system, comprising 12 major routes, would connect all the provincial
capitals and cities with populations exceeding 500,000; route selection would generally be
based on the potential for maximizing industrial production in the ccrridors selected for
the initial, minimum-length network (Map 1). Construction of 25,000 Im of high-
standard, access-controlled roads is expected to be completed by 2025. Priority for early
construction is being given to those routes already identified as congested and hindering
economic activity. By the end of 1991, some 500 km of the NTES had been built, and
a total of 4,000 km is envisaged to be completed by the end of the Eighth Five-Year Plan
(8FYP) in 1995. The provincial governments are responsible for route location,
engineering design, construction, operation and maintenance of the nationa highway
system.
1.22       The system for fiding highway constnion and maintenance is well
established throughout the country under the guidance of MOC, although there are
differences between provinces according to local needs and circumstances. The main
revenues are generated by the Road Maintenance Fee (RMF), typically levied on the
revenue of freight and passenger tansport companies and on the capacity of own-account
vehicles. The RMF is levied by the provinces, which retain the majority of the monies
after remitting a proportion to Central Government agencies. MOC also directly receives
revenues from the Added Vehicle Purchase Fee, a supplementary earmarled tax on vehicle
imports and sales, and uses these funds, which currently amount to about Y 2 billion/year,
to contribute financing for (a) the roads included in the national highway network,
providing a higher share of financing for the poorer, inland provinces and a lower share
for the richer, coastal provinces; and (b) construction or rehabilitation of rural roads
located in economically less-developed areas. According to a recent study by MOC, if
isting sources for funding both national and provincial roads are not increased by the
year 2000, they will fall 30 percent short of the amount required to develop the highway
system in line with the growth in demand. The issue is especally critical in the coastll
provinces with the fastest economic growth, where road systems are expeiencing the
highest levels of congestion and deterioration.
1.23       Over recent years, MOC has embarked on two important acdvities aimed
to improve highway pLanning and investment decisions: (a) the Road Data Bank (PDB),
which would contain all important road information at national, provincial and county
levels, with a view to provide the basis for improving the economic rationale for decisions
on expansion, rehabilitation, strengthening and maintenance of the road network. The
Highway Planning and Design Institute (HPDI) of MOC has prepared a standard format
for the dat input in the data bank and is setting guidelines for the provinces to follow so
that a uniform and fully integrated nationwide system can be establis;ied; and (b) a
Pament Management System (PMS), to improve decision-making regarding pavement
design and maintenance based on economically appropriate standards, including opinal
tming. The Highway Scientific Research Instttute (HSRI) of MOC has taken the lead in
this work, investigating alternative PMkSs available in most developed countries and some
developing countries and adapting themn to Chinese needs.



-9 -
1.24       In addition to its role in planning and financing, MOC serves an important
function as coordinator for the coastruction of priority sections of the national highway
network; in early 1990, MOC established a Technical Coordinating Unit (TCU) to
maintain close contact with the provinces executing projects financed by the Bank Group.
The TCU's main focus has been to provide guidance to the project executing agencies and
to coordinate staff training and the development of the RDB and PMS at the provincial
level.
1.25       In swwnary, despite government efforts to improve the highw'y system and
its udlization and administration, much more is needed to modernize the system to
effectively meet the increasing demands placed on road transport, by improving both
physical capacity and management of the sector. The key areas, as reflected in the recent
Highway Development and Management Paper (para. 1.9), on which the government
should focus attention for improvement through institutional reforms and training are:
(a)  the role of MOC, to be made consistent with the rapid administrative
decentralization taking place in the management and financing of highway
development and maintenance, and for MOC to be strengthened to carry out
its reformed mandate, particularly in matters such as finance, standards for
planning, design and generation of the NTHS (including safety and
facilitation), and training;
(b)   highway planning and investment strategies, to better identify short- and
long-term development priorities;
(c)   feasibility studies, for preparation utilizing modern highway analytical
techniques, based on data and relationships reflecting conditions on China's
highways;
(d) highway maintenance, to be modernized through improved planning and
new technology in order to optimize network performance;
(e)   cost recovery and financing, to provide the necessary resources to meet
increasing financing needs for construction, maintenance and operations, and
to encourage efficient use of the highway system;
(f)   operations of the road user services industry, both freight and passengers,
to reduce costs and improve quality of services, through promotion of
competition, modern technology and better management; and
(g)  the road construction industry,  .nprove management, understanding and
application of contract condition.; to modernize equipment; and to clarify
client, contactor and supervision relationships.



- 10-
The Bank's Experience and Strategy In Highways
1.26       Of the 10 Bank-financed highway projects,2/ only the first Highway
Poject has been completed (Table 1.10). The project, which was designed to construct
and improve 7 segments of the national and 59 segments of the provincial/county road
networks in nine provinces, achieved its original objectives and clearly demonstrated the
bene.its accruing from improved accessibility to communities deprived of adequate
transport infrastructure in economically less-developed regions. Economic activity in the
area of influence of most project roads surged and income levels increased noticeably.
Furthermore, the Bank's involvement facilitated the acceptance of competition in
contracting for road works in preference to force account operations, even for smaller civil
works contracts, and of tne merits of supervision of construcdon by specially assigned
units.
1.27       Highways together with port projects constitute the Bank's first major
nvolvement with large civil works in China. As could be expected, introduction of
international competitive bidding (ICB) has been difficult, particulrly as each project
involves a new implementing agency. Despite these difficulties, which have led to most
civil work components in highways projects falling behind appraisal schedule, much
progress has been achieved and the concept of competitive bidding is now generally
accepted. The projects have allowed the Bank to gain an understanding of the weaknesses
in the capacity and experience of the local contracting industry and, similarly, of the
executmg agencies in contract administration. These lessons are being used in the
prepation of new  projects addressing these issues, particularly strengthening
prequalification of contractors to avoid selection of unqualified contractors and
strengthening arrangements for construction supervision. The Bank's involvement has
assisted the line ministry and the provinces' transport departments to develop greater
awareness of the need for systematic planning through the development of the RDB and
PMS; the Bank has also helped in the transfer of technology through the supply of
equipment for road research and road maintenance and through broad-based training
prograris covering highway technology and advanced management practices.
1.28       The Bank's serwgy forfifure highway endng for the medium term will
continue to accord high priority to the development of the NTHS and the upgrading of the
provincial road networks. This strategy envisages close collaboration with MOC and
assisting it to adapt to the evolving needs of the Chinese economy (para. 1.25). Highway
projects would routinely address the aspects of environmental protection, resetdement of
individuals affected and road safety improvements, and would also focus on improving
methodologies for investment analysis and the tansfer of advanced technology for design
and implementation. As a key feature of these projects, the Bank would provide assistance
for selected institutional development at central and local levels and sectoral reforms aimed
at modenizing the highway system and its management. The issues expected to be
addressed in the proposed project and in forthcoming projects include the following:
2/  ncludingdleianguProvincialTranspotPrqjectwithasubs twehighwayconstuion/improvemsnt
conponent



- 11 -
(a)  identification of a structure for adequate oad user charges and financing
mechanisms, in order to mobilize the necessary resources for road
development and equitably recover from users the costs of the highway
system;
(b)   promotion of adequate road freight and passenger services, including
encouragement to private, collective, and township enterprises to enter the
business as part of the reform of the transport sector;
(c)   upgrading the capacity and effectiveness of the highway construction
industry and creation of an enabling environment for the corporatization of
provincial construction compaies and opening opportunities for the
development of collective and private contractors;
(d)  integraion of road tansport services with other modes, pacularly in the
field of containerization, and the establishment of modem, integrated
multimodal services;
(e) planning and budgeting of highway expenditures, including monitoring and
control of monetary and physical objectives, and efficiency of disbursement
procedures;
(f) organization and management of the highway corporations being set up to
operate toll highways;
(g)   highway maintenance management, including finances, resource allocation,
organiation, and opations;
(h)   private financing of road infrastructure to analyze recent expeience in
China and provide a framework for fimre private investment;
(i)   highway construction costs to analyze costing prctices and assess actual
prices and to stimulate commercially oriented bid prices; aad
OJ)   other specal issues that may be of special interest in individual provinces.



- 12 -
2. FUJIAN PROVINCE                SPORT SECTOR
A. GEoGRAC Am ECONOMIC SmF=G
2.1        Fujian Province, with an area of about 121,000 Inm2, is situated along the
southeast coast of China. Eighty percent of the land area is classified as mountainous,
scattred through the middle and northern portions of the Province. An additional
10 percent of the land is classified as hilly, and the remaining 10 percent flat or rolling.
The flat and rolling areas are located along the Province's 3,300 kn eastern coastline. The
rivers flow from the western mountains to the eastern sea. This ge graphical configuration
presents a natural barrier to the flow of communication between Fujian and neighboring
provinces and retards the development of north-south and east-west transport linkages
within the Province.
2.2        Notwithstanding its geographical constraints, Fujian Province has flourished.
The population of the Province has grown steadily, increasing from 27 million in 1985 to
nearly 31 million in 1992, with a projected population of about 37 million by the year
2010. In nominal terms, the GNP more than tripled between 1985 and 1992, growing at
an average annual rate of over 20 percent, while the Gross Output Value of Agriculture
and Industry (GOVAI) grew at 24 percent annually. The Province projects annual GNP
growth of 12 percent well into the naxt century. Comparative economic data for Fujian
Province during the period are as follows:
Population (thousand)  27,131      31,760
GNP (Y million)        19,197      70,520
GOVAI (Y million)      27,281     120,418
2.3        Proximity to Taiwan (China) and Hong Kong, coupled with preferential
government policy, has led to the establishment of successful special economic zones at
Xiamen and Fuzhou. The Province has approved a large number of foreign investment
projects, comprising nearly 10,650 joint ventures, individual-ownership enterprises, and
cooperative enterprises, with contracted foreign investment of about $17.0 billion. Of this
number, 4,398 enterprises have begun operations. Facing the Taiwan Straight on the east,
Hong Kong, Macao and Southeast Asia on the south, and bordering the rapidly developing
provinces of Zhejiang and Guangdong, Fujian is strategically located for accelerated
economic development.
2.4        There ar six main cities (Fuzhou, Xiamen, Quanzhou, Zhangzhou, Putian,
and Sanming) and three prefectua (district) administrive offices, as well as 54 counties,
10 county-level towns and 17 municipal districts in the Province. The capital city,



- 13 -
Fuzhou, and the other five major cities together comprise over 70 percent of the provincial
population.
B. TRANsPORT NErWORI
2.5        Fujian Province has a well-developed communications and transport setor
consisting of roads, rail, inland waterways, ports and civil aviation. The total length of
the surtace transport network was approximately 46,200 kan in 1992. Roadways composed
91 percent of the total network, while navigable waterways and rail represented 7 percent
and 2 percent of the total, respectively. A considerable additional length, approximately
10,400 kIn, consists of waterways that are nonnavigable.
2.6        The about 8,100 km main arterial road network connects all major cities,
ports and industrial zones in the Province. The five national routes passing through the
Province (National Route Nos. 104, 316, 319, 205, and 324) have six interprovincial exits.
The existing road between Quanzhou and Xiamen (part of National Route No. 324) links
the Province with Beijing in the north and Guangzhou in the south. In Fujian, as in
China's other provinces, the road network is divided into four classes of roads ranging
from high-class roads with bituminous or concrete pavement (Class 1) to unpaved roads
(Class 4), with an additional category for unclassified roads. In 1992, a major proportion
of the provincial network was composed of Class 4 or unclassified roads, representing
66 percent and 25 percent of total road network length, respectively. Class 1 and Class
2 roads together accounted for 1 percent of the total road network, while Class 3 roads
constituted 8 percent of the total. The composition of the Province's road network in the
period between 1980 and 1992 is shown in Table 2.1. The administrative clification
of the road system in 1992 was as follows:
KilometersPecn
National            2,228             5.3
Provincial          5,883            14.0
County              5,221            12.5
Village            26,393            63.0
Special             2,157             5.2
Did             41,882 
2.7        At present there are two arte  railways that link the Province with the
nationwide network. The Yintang-Xlamen Railway provides a link to Jiangxi Province,
and connects to seven locations within the Province. The second major railway, the
Waiyang-Fuzhou Railway, operates between 22 stations witiin the Province, with a major
connection point at Nanping. Plans are under way for construction of rail lines from
Hungfun to Nanping and from Janping to Xiamen, to be completed with the next five
years. While the rail network remains small, rail transport provides important links with
remote mountainous areas of the Province and with other regions of China. In this regard,
the railway is used for distribution of key commodities, such as coal, coke, petroleum,
steel, metl and nonmetal ores, construction materials, fertiz, grain, cotton, and salt.
Passenger routes to points outside the province, such as Beijing, Nanchang, Guangzhou,



- 14 -
Shanghai, and Nanjing are well-traveled, with bus transportation generally preferred fo.
shorter trips.
2.8         Waterway transportation in Fujian Province includes an inland waterway
network as well as coastal shipping. There are five main navigable inland waterways in
the Province used for transporting a variety of goods, particularly between coastal areas
and the mo;ntainous northwestern region of the Province. However, the majority of
inland waterways remain shallow and nonnavigable. Coastal shipping provides vital access
to overseas markets for import and export of a wide range of industrial, agricultural, and
light manufactured goods. Major waterway lines exist between Fujian and points such as
Hong Kong, Japan, Singapore, Malaysia, and Sri Lanka. The Xiamen Port is capable of
handling ships with ca.4ity over 30,000 tons. Fujian's coastal ports reached a total
throughput capacity of 17 million tons of freight capacity and 660,000 passenger capacity
in 1992. The major ports at Quanzhou and Xiamen have freight handling capacity of 2 and
7 million tons, respectively. The Xiamen port also has a passenger capacity of 383,000
persons. Development efforts in the waterways subsector include both inland waterway
and port expansion. The Shiaco power station and dam construction on the Ming River
would increase water depth to 500 m, improving access for large ships.  Further
development of the Xiamen Port includes doubling the number of berths at the port (from
4 to 8), expanding the container facilities and improving road access to the port.
2.9         Air transport in the Province, as in the rest of China, has expanded
substantially in recent years. Airports are located in thme cities: Fuzhou, Xiamen, and
Wuyishan. The major points of departure are Fuzhou and Xiamen airports, each offering
flights to over 30 domestic and international points, for a combined total of over 150
flights weekly. There are presently two airlines based in the Province, the Xiamen Airline
Corporation LUnited, with domestic and international operations, and Fujian Lianhang
Airlines, a domestic carrier.
C. TAFIC CHARACrhRICS AND GROWTH
2.10        Traffic, as measured by the volume of goods and number of passengers
tansported, grew significantly on all modes between 1985 and 1992. For freight traffic,
the fastest annual growth was evidenced by air transport, which grew at 162 percent per
year, followed by water (32 percent), road (24 percent), and rail (19 percent). Passenger
traffic also grew most rapidly in air transport, at 275 percent per year, followed by road
(26 percent), water (19 percent), and rail (15 percent). Despite the vast growth of air
transport, this mode represented a negligible proportion of total freight or passenger traffic
volume in 1992, less than 1 percent in each category. Road transport dominated both
freight and passenger taffic volumes in 1992, capturing 81 percent and 93 percent of each
category, respectively (Table 2.2).
2.11        Turnover of surface transport in the Province increased substantially during
the 1980-92 period, with an annual growth of about 10 percent for both freight and
passenger traffic. In both categories, road traffic grew more quckly than traffic on other
modes of surface transport, resulting in an increased share of total traffic on roads. The
proportion of passenger traffic represented by road transport increased from 61 percent in



- 15 -
1980 to 76 percent in 1992. The proportion of freight traffic transported on roads
inreased from 23 percent in 1980 to 30 percent in 1992 (Table 2.3).
D. TtANspoRT ADMNISRATON
2.12        Transport for each mode is administered by various authorities at provincial
and national levels. Rail lines form part of the national network under the authority of the
central Ministry of Railways; however, the construction of new rail lines is presently
managed locally, by prwvincial transport authorities. Air transport is administered by the
Fujian Provincial Civil Aviation Administration. Highway and waterway transport are
administered by the Fujian Provincial Transport Department (FPTD). The organization
of highway administration and its different administative functions ace described in
Annex 2.
E. TI  VEHcLE Fuwr
2.13        The total vehicle fleet has grown rapidly since the early 1980s. In 1992,
total vehicles numbered 773,8.9, reflecting compound annual growth of 15 percent since
1980. Between the years 1985 and 1992, the total vehicle fleet grew by 277 percent. The
most rapid growth during the 1980-92 period occurred in the motorcycle and small truck
categories, which both grew at 40 percent per year. During the same penod, the number
of medium and small passenger vehicles (with capacity of fewer than 20 passengers) grew
at 18 percent per year, and large passenger vehicles grew at 11 percent per year. In terms
of the proportion of total vehicles in the Province, tractors and large/medium truck;
dominated the fleet in 1980, representing 62 percent and 23 percent of total vehicles,
resectively. By 1992, however, motorcycles, small and medium passenger vehicles, and
small trucks were also well-represented in the total vehicle fleet. The composition of total
vehicles in 1992 was motorcycles (49 percent), tractors (30 percent), large and medium
trucks (9 percent), small and medium passenger vehicles (6 percent), small trucks
(3 percent), and large passenger vehicles (2 percent) (Table 2.4).
F. T lE TRUCKING TLwusY
2.14        Road freight services have expnded significantly since 1980. Between 1980
and 1992, the total volume of freight carried by trucks grew by about 13 percent annually,
while freight turnover grew by 10 percent annually, and the average distance traveled grew
by 3 percent annually. The trucldng industry has exhibited the same trend as observed in
other areas of China, such that an increasing proportton of total road freight services is
being provided by own-account operators (enterprises, collectives and private individuals)
while the share of truckdng services provided by public transport companies affiliated with
PTD has declined. Between 1980 and 1992, the share of total freight volume carried by
public tansport companies declined from 29 to 7 percent; the corresponding share of total
freight urnover handled by public transport companies declined from 40 to 11 percent.
The average distance traveled by both public tranrt and own-account operators increased
by 3 percent annually between 1980 and 1992. However, the average distance traveled by
public transport operators remained 60 percent greater than that of own-account operators
thoughout the period (Table 2.5).



- 16 -
G. ROAD SAIm
2.15        Road traffic accidents, as measured relative to the number of registered
vehicles in the Province, have declined since 1987. The number of road traffic accidents
per 10,000 vehicles declined by 17 percent each year, while fatalities and injuries declined
by 12 percent and 20 percent per year, respectively, between 1987 and 1992. Both the
number and the severity of accidents on the existing Fnizhou-Xiamen Highway increased
between 1980 and 1992. While the total number of accidents increased by 6 percent per
year, the number of fatalities increased by 10 percent per year and the number of injuries
increased by 4 percent per year. These data are indicative of the sharp accident growth
along certain trunk roads in China, where the combination of mixed traffic and high
volume of motorized vehicles increases the risk and severity of accidents.  The
construction of access-ontrolled highways for I.e exclusive use of motorized traffic
nonnally leads to a reduction in accidents, as a large proportion of motorized traffic
becomes separated from slow-moving traffic, such as tractors and bicycles, and the
incidence of vehicle conflicts is greatly reduced through the provision of interchanges.
H. HIGHWAY DEVELOPMENT
2.16       Expansion and rehabilitation of the highway system has represented an
increasingly important aspect of the Province's economic development program. Both in
terms of the volurme of works completed and the allocation of Provincial resources,
highway development expanded considerably dunng the Sixth Five-Year Plan (6FYP) and
Seventh Five-Year Plan (7FYP), as shown below:
HIGHWAY DEVELOPMENT, 1981-90
6FYP       7FYP
(1281-8)    -989
Construction and rehabilitation
expenditures (Y'000)           129,310    956,700
Works completed:
Highways (kin)                  3,409       5,043
Bridges (in)                    17,495     29,775
Tunnels (m)                         0       2,537
2.17       The Province's highway development plan has been accompanied by a large
increase in funding for the subsector. Between the 6FYP and 7FYP, total provincial
expenditures for the highway sector increased from Y 628 million to Y 1.9 billion. Rapid
expaion of network length has specifically required large increases in capital expenditure
(namely, construction and rehabilitation). During the 6FYP, such investments represented
21 percent of total expenditur, as compared with 50 percent of total expenditures during
the 7FYP.
2.18       The recent acederation of economic growth in Fujian Province and the still-
limited number of high-class highways have led to prioritization of transport infrastructure



- 17-
during the 8FYP. Major expenditures for the highway subsector, including construction,
rehabilitation, and maintenance, are estimated to reach Y 5.3 billion, a 280 percent
increase over the previous five-year period.
2.19       The planned construction of about 1,000 km of roads, combined with
upgrading and rehabilitation efforts, will increase the proportion of classified roads in
Fujian from 74 percent to around 80 percent, and will increase the length of Class 1 and
2 roads from about 335 km to 550 km. The length of unclassified roads will decline by
2,415 km during the five-year period, as a significant portion of roads having only sand
and gravel surfaces will be upgraded for all-weather use. The length of high-type and
intermediate-type pavements will increase from 5,957 kan to 7,000 km over the plan period
(Table 2.6).
HIGHWAY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM, 8FYP (1991-95)
Kilomer
National                                  24
Provincial                                23
County                                   929
Township                                 (83)lA
Special-purpose                           95
Tot
La Reduction due to reclassification.
2.20       During the 8FYP, nine key projects accounting for about 255 km of new or
reconstructed highways, tunnels, and bridge along National Route Nos. 104, 324, 319, and
205 will be initiated. Construction of two new highways has been planned, the Hongtang-
Ziangqian highway and the Quanzhou-Xiamen Highway (the proposed project).
Reconstruction of three Class 2 highways will be completed-the Mawei-Guangtou
highway, the Mt. Longmenling highway, and portions of the existing Zhangzhou-Longyan
highway. In addition to the highway works, construction of three tunnels and link roads
located in Mt. Feiluanling, Mt. Bangliaoling, and Mt. Wuxianling is planned. Finally, the
plan includes construction of the Jiangdong Large Bridge. Each project is expected to be
completed before the year 2000 (Table 2.7).
2.21       In 1993, the Province adopted five preferential policies for road
development, each of which would generate funds earmarked for highway investment.
Funds would be generated in the transport sector through expanded tolling and increases
in other road user charges. Tbe preferential policies also include a broad-based surtax,
wlich in theory would apply to most productive and consumer sectors.



- 18 -
3. THE PROJECT
A. Pnojwr FORMULATION AD PREIARATnON
3.1        In the early 1980s, the Central Government of China (GOC) initiated a
comprehensive road development program which was implemented during 1986-90, the
period of the 7FYP. The 8FYP provides for continuation of this program at an accelerated
rate, in recognition of the need to expand and improve the national and provincial road
networks to meet increasing traffic demand in corrdors with a high level of economic
activity, and to foster economic growth in the less-developed regions of the country. In
1989, GOC requested the Bank's continued assistance for the subsector, submitting to the
Bank a list of highway proposals at the end of that year.
3.2         As a follow-up, a Bank mission, in conjunction with State Planning
Commission (SPC) and MOC representatives, visited several provinces during February
and March 1990 to make a preliminary assessment of nine highway proposals, identifying
those highway projects eligible for possible financing during the 8FYP. From this
preselection process it was concluded that the proposal of the Fujian Province to construct
a new high-standard highway between Xiamen and Quanzhou, as Phase I of the longer-
term objective of providing a high-standard highway between Zhangzhou and Fuzhou, was
a viable proposition warranting consideration for Bank financing. In tenns of priorty, it
was agreed with GOC that the processing of the proposed highway in Fujian Province
should follow preparation of the Zhejiang, Guangdong, and Henan Provincial Highway
projects.
3.3         The proposed project was prepared under the direction of a Leading Group
set up by the Provincial Government for the construction of the Zhangzhou-Xiamen-Fuzhou
Expressway by FPTD and the Fujian Provincial Expressway Construction Directorate
Offie (FPECDO), with the guidance of SPC, MOF and MOC. The Bank's project
identification mission visited Fujian Province in November 1991, with subsequent Bank
nissions working closely with the Provincial and Centrl governments to define the scope
of the project. The main components of the proposed project are the construction of a new
highway between Xiamen and Quanzhou, a road network improvement program for the
upgrading and paving of provincial and county roads located primarily in the less-
developed northern and northwestern regions of the Province (Map 2) and a study of the
provincial road construction industry.
B. ftOJECr OBJECrPE  AN  RATIONAE FOR BAN  INVOLVEMN
3.4         The proposed project has the following specific objectives:



- 19 -
(a)   to support the continued development of road infrastructure in Fujian
Province to facilitate mobiiity and increase the efficiency of road transport
in the interest of stimulating economic activity;
(b)   to develop an action plan for the strengthening of the provincial road
construction industry;
(c)  to assist in the development of institutional capabilities for transport
planning and investment prioritization; and
(d)  to facilitate the transfer of highway construction and maintenance technology
through staff training and the provision of modem laboratory and road
maintenance equipment.
3.5         The proposed project is consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance
Strategy, presented to the Board in August 1993, which is further elaborated in para. 1.28
regarding the objectives for highway financing in China. The new Xiamen-Quanzhou
highway to be constructed under the proposed project is an important link in the coastal,
interprovincial highway network. Construction of the proposed highway will relieve
eisting traffic bottlenecks along the most congested corridor in the Province, particularly
along the most heavily trafficked section between Xiamen and Quanzhou. The highway
will also provide direct links to the Xiamen Special Economic Zone and the Port of
Xiamen, complementing earlier Bank assistance by improving access to the port's newly
expanded cargo-handling facilities.
3.6         The project's support for a Road Network Improvement Program (RNIP)
would also help extend the benefits of economic growth to relatively disadvantaged areas
or areas where the substandard road system now constrains development. In addition, the
project will provide the Province with road condition survey equipment and computer
hardware and software to facilitate the introduction of methodologies for economically
based investment decisions. Equipment for road laboratories and road research to support
technological improvements in road construction and road maintenance will also be
provided.
3.7         The study of the provincial road construction industry aims to identify
appropriate measures for increasing the capacity, efficiency and financial viability of local
road construction enterprises.l/ The study would focus on the enterprise reform
initiatives of Fujian Province as they impact the transformation of state-owned enterprises.
The funds included in the project from the loan proceeds would be supplemented by a
portion of the technical assistance (TA) grant obtained from the Japanese Government
earlier this year for a highway construction industry study. The remaining portion of the
gant funds would be used to carry out a nationwide survey of the highway construction
industry, which will be designed primarily to identify the overall profile of the industry.
j11  Tbe ptsent stawus of the provincial road construction industry is descrbd in Section B of Annex 2.



- 20 -
Such "aseline information would then be used in the formulation of a broad strategy for
the futue development of the industry.
3.8        During preparation of the project, the personnel of local institutions have
been exposed to up-to-date project methodologies and practices, such as economic
evaluation, engineering design, environmental assessment and procurement, as a usual
complement to the Bank's involvement. In addition to such experience gained by the
institutions, the project provides for staff training opportunities in a variety of highway-
related topics as an avenue for technology transfer.
C. PowEr SCOPE
3.9        The scope of the project includes:
(a)   construction of an 81.4 km section of the Xianen-Quanzhou four-lane
divided, access-controlled highway, a Class 1 standard-access highway to
Xiamen (6.2 kIn) and a Class 2 standard access road to Shedian (6.3 km);
(b) tWe supply and installation of electrical, electronic, and mechanical
equipment for tolling, traffic monitoring, telecommunications and lighting
for the highway, and ventilation, lighting and safety devices for tunnels;
(c)  improvement of three provincial road sections (58.3 kIn) and paving of four
county road sections (202.7 km);
(d)   construction supervision of the Xiamen-Quanzhou Highway and the
provincial and county road improvement works;
(e)  the purchase of equipment for:
(i)  opeation and maintenance of the Xiamen-Quanzhou Highway;
(ii)  road laboratories;
(iii) the development and application of a Road Data Bank and a
Pavement Management System; and
(f)   a study of the provincial road construction industry to identify appropriate
measures for increasing the capacity, efficiency and financial viability of the
provincial road construction enterprises; and
(g)   staff training programs covering a broad spectrum of highway-related topics
such as planning, design, construction, traffic operations and maintenance.
3.10        Construction of the Xiamen-Quanzhou Highway. The existing road
between Xiamen and Quanzhou (102 km) forms part of National Route No. 324, which is



- 21 -
a section of the so-called Coastal Route of China connecting northeastemn Heilongjiang
Province with Hainan Island located in the most southern part of the country. The Coastal
Route is one of the 12 strategic routes that have been identified for systematic upgrading
to provide high-standard, access-controlled highways for the exclusive use of motorized
traffic. Route No. 324 links up with. the Beijing-Fuzhou highway (Route No. 104), the
Fuzhou-Lanhou highway (Route No. 316), and the Xiamen-Chengdu highway (Route No.
319). Five of the six main cities in Fuzhou Province (Zhangzhou, Xiamen, Qiianzhou,
Putian and Fuzhou), all located along the existing Zhangzhou-Xiamen-Fuzhou route. are
the most economically developed and densely populated in the Province, representing about
62 percent of the Province's population of about 31 million. There has been a strong
linkge between economic development and traffic growth. Since 1985, the GOVAI of the
corridor's five cities has increased at an annual rate of about 18 percent, while the ann-ial
increase in traffic over the same period was about 17 percent. The pavement of the
existing road has been widened to 9-12 m (Class 2 standard), extending the road's design
capacity to about 10,000 motorized vpd. However, the traffic, which is now in the range
of 14,000 to 16,000 motorized vpd, is contributing to the high number of road accidents,
congestion and slow travel speeds, particularly through the numerous townships loc.ted
along the route. The widening of the existing road to provide the additional road capacity
required would not be feasible because of extensive roadside development, particularly
along a 30 km section south of Quanzhou.   Furthermore, segregating the rapidly
increasing long-distance motorized traffic from slow-moving, nonmotonzed traffic can only
be achieved if a parallel, high-strAndard, access-controlled highway is built.
3.11       The feasibilty study and engineenng design for the highway was undertaken
by the Fujian Provincial Transport Planning and Design Institute (FPTPDI). Several
alternatives were investigated for the location of the various sections of the highway,
particularly for the end-sections near Xiamen and Quanzhou and at the location of major
bridges and tunnels. During the assessment of these alternatives, in addition to technical
considerations, the potential adverse impact on the environment and resettlement has also
been taken into consideration. Foreign consultants, financed from the proceeds of
Consultant Trust Funds (CTF), have provided assistance to the Province in the preparation
of design, technical specifications and bidding documents. The highway traverses
geologically difficult terrain requiring extensive bridging and tunnehng works.
Furthermore, the highway alignment traverses about 17 kan of soft, highly compressible
soil sections over which special treatment of the subsoil will be required to ensure the
stability and orderly settlement of embankments. A 2.7 km long embankment section of
the bighway is being constructed to test alternative solutions for stabilizing embankments
and mitigating the extent of embankment settlements.
3.12        The proposed highway would be constructed to expressway standards as
stipuated in the national geometric standards for highways (Table 1.7). Connections to
the existing road network to and from the new highway would be provided at six
interchnges (M    3). The highway project would also include four tunnels, five major
bridges, 23 medium-sized bridges, 43 small bridges, 275 culverts, 41 grade-separation
bridges, 12 pedestrian overpasses and 130 road underpasses. The highway would be
operated as a toll facility (para. 4.12). In addition to major civil works ,md the provision



- 22 -
of roadside facilities, such as buildings for administation, road side services and
maintenance depots, the project includes the supply and insallation of electrical, electonic
and mechanical devi-as required for toll collecdon, traffic monitoring, telecommunications,
tmnel ventilation and safety systems and lighting. The engineeng design and technical
specifications for the highway have been reviewed by foreign consultants engaged under
CTF and were found to be satisfactory.
3.13       A 2.7 km section of the highway is under corstruction as part of a research
program on soft-soil treatment methodologies for highway embanlunent construction. The
rearch is being conducted by FPTPDI, and the construction of the section is being
financed from the Province's own resources. Similarly, the construction of a Cla 1
standard-access highway to Xiamen (6.2 kim), and service facilities along the highway
would be financed from the Province's own resources.
3.14       Road Network lmprovement Program (NP). About 80 percent of
Fujian Province is hilly and mountainous, and the economic development of several
regions, particularly those located in the northern and northwesten part of the Province,
has been impeded by inadequate road infrastructure. Most of the roads in these regions
have poor geometric standards and unpaved road surfaces that make road transport slow
and costly. The Province intends to upgrade the condition of the rural arterial road
network gradually. As part of the program under the 8PYP, the Province proposed to
include in the project the upgrading of thre road sections (58.3 km) and the paving of four
road sections (202.7 kim). These roads are geographically widespread in recognition by
the Province hat the Bank's involvement in project financing would promote improved
project preparation practices to regional tsport units, foster the transfer of technology
and imprve the quality of project imptation on a broader base. The rationale for
the selection of the particular road sections was detennined by respective regional
piorities.
3.15       The engineening design and economic evaluation have been prpred for all
sven road sections included in the RNIP. The technical standards and economic
justification for the proposed upgading and paving works were reviewed during project
appraisal and were found to be satisfactory. The description of the influence area of the
individual roads, the engineering considerations, the details of the economic evaluatior. and
the organizational anangements for the progrm's implementation are presented i. 
Annex .
3.16       Supervion of Construction.  Although independent supeison of
construction quality and progress is gaining general acceptance in China, local staff still
have limited experience in the supervison of major highway contracts, particularly those
awarded under Interatonal Competitive Bidding (ICB). Therefore, the construction of
the Xiamen-Quanzhou Highway would be supervd by a joint local/foreign supervision
team. The Joint Supervision Team (JSI) will be responsible for ensunng that construction
wors for the highway are carried out in full compliance with the technical spocifications,
and that strict quality control are applied on site. The local supervision peronnel would
be provided primarily through the services of the FujianI Highway Consulting Enginee



- 23 -
Inc. (FHCEI), a recently established enterprise. Additional supervision personnel required
will be seconded to the JST from prefecturl and county transport agencies. The foreign
supervising engineers would be integrated into the organization with operational
reponsibilities. Furthermore, the foreign consultants would help establish procedures at
all levels of supervision process, including on-site inspection and laboratory testing. The
foreign consultant's contract would also provide for a comprehensive program to train local
staff in construction supervision. Since the responsibility of JST will extend to the
enforcement of the environmental protection measures to be taken by the contractors as
stipulated in the civil works contracts, environmental protection aspects would also be
included in the training program for supervision staff. An understanding was reached
during project appraisal on the terms of reference (TOR) for the services of JST and the
organizational arrangements for the supervision. About 125 staff-months of foreign
consultant services are envisaged, including that for staff training. Local staff service
requirements are estimated at about 4,300 staff-months.
3.17        Provincial Road Construction Industry Study (PRCIS). The objective
of the study is to identify the external and internal constraints that limit the provincial road
construction industry's operational efficiency and to develop a set of recommendations and
a plan of action to increase the industry's capacity, efficiency and financial viability.
3.18       The study would determine the most likely scenario for supply and demand
relationships of road works, talkng into account the Province's medium-term road
development and road maintenance programs and the present capacity of the stateowned
and collectively owned road construction enterprises, together with the in-house capacity
of the provincial government's direct labor resources for road construction and
maintenance. The study would also analyze the prevailing constraints on the enterprses
in terms of equipment, manpower and financial assets. The level of technology being
applied in road construction and maintenance, and the level of skills manifested in
opeational and financial management would also be assessed with a view to identify
effective corrective measures.
3.19        A comprehensive review would be made of the prevailing policy, legal and
regulatory framework in which the enterpnses operate. In line with nationwide
government policy, the Ptovince has prepared directives for the transformation of state-
owned enterprises to market-oriented operations. The likely impact of such directives on
the reorientation of the road construction enterprses would be closely examined, including
contactng practices of the government entities, tax burdens, credit restrictions or other
regulations or business practices that may hinder the healtiy development prospects of the
industry.
3.20       The study would be carried out by a Study Team, comprised of foreign and
local experts. The team would be guided by a Steering Committee and a Technical
Coordination Group. The funds for the study from the loan proceeds would be
supplemented by a portion of a TA grant obtained from the Japanese Government in early
1993. The remaining portion of the Japanese grant funds would be used to carry out a
nationwide survey of the highway construction industry that would identify the overall



- 24 -
profile of the highway industry in China. Such baseline information would be used in the
formulation of a broad strategy for the future development of the industry. A brief
summary about the features of the highway construction industry in China, and in Fujian
Province, and outline TORs for the pilot study in Fujian and the nationwide highway
construction industry survey are presented in AnngA 4. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that Fujian Province (FP) will (a) undertke and complete a study of the
provincial road construction industry in accordance with TOR, by June 30, 1995,
satisfactory to the Bank, (b) establish a Steering Committee and a Technical Coordination
Group to provide guidance to the study group and review the findings and
recommnendations of the study; and (c) take appropriate steps to implement the study's
recomunendations, including the formulation of an action plan, taking into account the
views of the Bank.
3.21        Staff Training. In addition to the training of local staff in construction
supervision, a series of training programs would be conducted, covering various aspects
of highway engineering. To allow for larger group participation, a portion of the training
program included in the project would be organized locally with the participation of foreign
and local experts. As with ongoing Bank-financed provincial highway projects, highway-
related training programs, organized abroad for provincial staff, would be coordinated and
administered by MOC in the interest of efficiency and economy. The Traning Division
of FPTD would be involved in the implementation of the program. The trainees would
be selected from the staff of FPECDO, FPID, FPHIAB and FPTPDI according to the
relevance of their academic backgrounds, experience and expected future assignments.
The training areas of major interest for Fujian provincial personnel were identfied during
project preparation as outlined in Table 3.1. The program covers topics directly relevant
to the main focus of the highway sector orientation of the Province and the components of
the project. Assurances were obtained at negotiations dtt FP will cary out the steff
training program in accordance with TOR satiactory to the Bank.
3.22       Road Data Bank (RDB). An RDB to manage highway information has
been developed in MOC for countrywide application. A standard format for the data to
be coUected has been designed and a set of guidelines has been prepared to introduce the
system to the provinces in a phased manner. Initially, the Bank provided assistance to
MOC to help with the development of the RDB under the first Highway Project (Loan
2539-CHA/Credit 1594-CHA). This assistance has been followed up under ongoing Bank-
financed highway projects in the provinces of Sichuan, Shaanxi, Jiangxi, Shandong,
Jiangsu, Zhejiang, Guangdong, and Henan. It has been used primarily to finance the
purchase of instruments, equipment, and computer hardware and software to enable
systematic collection and processing of input data for the system. Under this project, the
same type of equipment would be provided to assist the setting up of the RDB system in
Fujian Province.
3.23        Pavement System (PM).  The Province has a well-
administered road maintenance system with well-defined objectives, road condition
assessment and budgeting procedures and a financial monitoring system (Section B of
Annex 2). However, increases in road traffic and the use of heavier vehicles are taking



- 25 -
their toll on the relatively light-structured pavements in the Province. Maintenance funds
have normally been widely spread to cover most of the network's readily identifiable short-
term  maintenance needs.  However, FPHAB intends to adopt more advanced
methodologies for developing longer-term road maintenance strategies and for guiding
investment decisions with closer-to-optimal resource use. HSRI has developed a PMS that
has been introduced and is being applied in several provinces. In Shandong, Shaanxi,
Jiangxi, Sichuan, Jiangsu, Zhejiang, Guangdong and Henan provinces, the implementation
of the PMS has received assistance under Bank-financed highway projects. The project
would provide assistance for the PMS development in Fujian Province by financing
equipment and instruments for the pavement condition survey and data processing through
computer applications.
3.24       An understanding has been reached during project appraisal that, in line with
MOC's policy objectives to introduce the RDB and PMS programs nationwide, FPHAB
would set up and adequately staff a PMS/RDB Unit before the end of 1994 and, with
assistance to be provided by MOC, would develop both the RDB and PMS programs in
the Province.
3.25       Equipment. Equipment will be provided under the project for: (a) the
operation and maintenance of the Xiamen-Quanzhou Highway; (b) road laboratories and
field survey units of FPECDO and FPHAB; and (c) road condition measuring instruments
for the RDB and PMS programs. The need for equipment under item (a) arises from the
eventual task of maintaining and operating the new highway. Equpment under item (b)
would be required to replenish/upgrade road laboratory equipment stocks, particularly soil,
bitumen and asphalt pavement testing equipment that previously have not been widely used
in China. Equipment under item (c) would be used in connection with the introduction of
the RDB and PMS programs in the Province. The items and estimated cost of the
equipment are presented in Table 3.2.
D. ENVIRONMENTAL ASSSME
3.26       Xiamen-Quanzhou Highway. An Environmental Assessment (EA) for the
Xiamen-Quanzhou Highway was completed by the Fujian Provincial Environmental
Protection Research Institute (FPEPRI) during 1991/92 with the assistance of FPECDO.
It has been ascertained that the highway will not affect ecologically sensitive areas and, if
appropriate actions are taken, the construction and the operation of the highway should
have no adverse impact on the environment. Based on the finding of the EA, and
subsequent to discussions between FP and the Bank, an Environmental Action Plan (EAP)
was prepared in early 1993 and submitted to the Bank in mid-May 1993. The EAP
specifies the measures and organizational and monitoring arrangements required to mitigate
potential adverse effects on the environment during the construction and the opetation of
the highway. The main measures relate to social disruption, air quality, noise control,
water management, control of trffic, operation of quarries, and waste disposal. The
engineering design and technical specifications for the highway incorporate the appropriate
measures required to be taken for environmental protection. Administrative arrangements
have been agreed upon to ensure the enforcement of such measures during the construction



- 26 -
and the operation of the highway. The EAP was reviewed during project apaisal and
was found to be satisfactory. A summary of the EA and EAP is presented in Annex S.
Copies of the EA and EAP reports are available in the Project Pile (&qc&.- Assurances
were obtained from FP at negotiations that the environmental protection measures
stipulated in the EAP with respect to the Xiamen-Quanzhou Highway would be camed out
In a manner satiactory to the Bank.
3.27       Road Network Improvement Program. The works under the RNIP will
be directed to the improvement of three roads and paving of four gravel-surfaced roads.
No major risks of adverse impact on the environment were identified in the course of the
review of the proposed scope of works. Nevertheless, the potential minor adverse effects
on the environment during the implementation of the three Group A roads have been
assessed and an EAP has been prepared for these roads. The EAP was reviewed during
project appraisal and was ftound to be satisfactory.
3.28        Paving of the existing Group B roads would present very limited risk of
adverse environmental impact. Nevertheless, it was agreed during project appraisal that,
as a precautonary measure, contractors of these subprojects will be instucted to follow
a Code of Environmental Practice for Road Works. It will be the responsibility of the
constuction supervision and local representatives of the Fujian Provincial Environmental
Protection Bureau (FPEPB) to ensure that the contractors adhere to such practice.
Assurances were obtained from FP at negotiaions that the envronmental protecdon
measures stipulated in the EAPs with respect to the RNIP would be carried out in a manner
satifactory to the Bank.
E. LAND AcQuismoN ADREITLEMNT
3.29        Xiunen-Quanzhou Highway. The Land Administration Law of China and
the Fujian Provincial Land Administration Regulations provide the legal basis for planning
and implementing land acquisition and resetding persons affected by the construction of
the highway. Land acquisition and resetdement are well-regulated in China; procedures
and compensation requirements generally conform to te Bank's policies on involuntary
rsettlement. A Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) for the Xiamen-Quanzhou Highway,
including an outline for monitonng of the implementation of the plan, prepared by
FPECDO has been reviewed by Bank staff and was found to be satisfactory. The
approximately 15,500 persons who are expected to be affected by the construction of the
highway would be adequately compensated and resetded. The resettlement process will
be administered by the respective local govemments at city/county, township, and village
levels, in accordance with the terms of agreements signed between FPECDO and the local
govemments involved. The objective is to keep the resetders in productive employment
either rough assigning new land area or providing employment in close proximity to the
presently held land or habitat. According to the RAP, all land acquisition and resetlement
actions are scheduled to be completed by the end of March 1994. A summary of the RAP
for the Xiamen-Quanzhou Highway is presented in Annex 6. A copy of the RAP is
available in the Project File (Annex 9). Assurances were obtainedfrom FP at negotations



- 27 -
dw aU land acusition and resettlement activties isvth respect to the Xiamen-Quanzhou
Highway would be compkted according to the RAP in a manner satiftory to the Bank.
3.30       Road Network Improvement Progrim. RAPs have been prepared for each
of the Group A roads. The resettlement procedures for these subprojects are the same as
those for the main highway, although the levels of compensation differ slightly from those
applicable for the highway. According to the RAPs, about 700 individuals will be resetted
and compensated under the plan. The RAPs were reviewed during project appraisal and
were found to be satisfactory. A summary of the RAPs for the Group A roads of the
RNIP is presented in Annex . Since the paving of Group B roads would not involve a
change in alignment, the need for resettlement will not arise. Assurances were obtained
firom PP at negotiatons that the RAPs for roads under the RNIP woud be carned out in
a manner sairfactory to the Bank.
3.31        The implementation of the RAPs for both the Xiamen-Quanzhou Highway
and the Group A roads included in the RNIP would be monitored through routine project
supervision and quartly progress reporting (pam. 3.52). The implementation and the
socioeconomic impact of resettlement on the population would also be evaluated according
to a resetlement monitoring plan outlined in the RAP for the Xiamen-Quanzhou Highway,
a summary of which is presented in &nex . Assurances were obtained from FP at
negotiations ht, the monitoring of the effectiveness and socioeconomic impact of the
resettkme for both the Xamen-Quanzhou Highway and the roads of the RNIP will be
camed out according to monitonng plms in a mamer satactory to the Bank.
F. Cosr EsIMATS
3.32        The project is esfimated to cost $528.8 million equivalent, including land
acquisition and physical and price contingencies. A Project Cost Summary is presented
on the next page. The foreign exchange cost of the project is estimated at $175.7 million,
rereentng about 33 pcent of the project cost. Base costs are estiinated in July 1993
prices. Physical contingencies are calculated at 10 percent of the base cost of works and
supeision of the highway construction. Prce contingencies have been calculated for both
foreign and local costs, using an interational annual escalation factor of 2.8 percent during
1993-2000, and price alation fcors for the Yuan of 20.0 percent in 1993, 13.0 percent
in 1994, 8.0 percent in 1995, 6 percent in 1996 and thereafter. Identifiable taxes and
duties amount to Y 106.4 million ($18.5 million).
3.33        The cost of civil works is based on work quantttles calculated from final
engineeRing designs. The costs were computed on the basis of MOC's standard manuals
for labor and equipment productivity and the related annually updated costs and curent
market costs of mateals. The unit rates were checked against the uiit prices provided in
recet bids for similar highway works executed with Bank financing.
3.34        The cost of equipment was estimated based on prevailing prces and pnces
quoted by manufacts and suppliers. The estimated cost of consulting services is based
on recent contracts for similar services under ongoing highway projects.



- 28 -
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
(July 1993 prices)
Y   -illion                8 Million          Foreign
Local   Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign  Total   cost (2)
A. Vorka
1. Highway                   1,086.4    724.3  1,810.7   188.9   126.0   314.9         40
2. E&H works                     7.4      29.7     37.1      1.3     5.2      6.5      80
3. RNIP                        116.8      50.0    166.8    20.3      8.7    29.0       30
Subtotal             1210.6    804.0  2,014.6   210.5   139.9   3S0.4          40
B. Supervision
1. Highway                      33.9      14.4     48.3      5.9     2.5      8.4      30
2. RNIP                          1.7       0.0      1.7      0.3     0.0      0.3       0
Subtotal                 L5.6      14.4     50.0     6.2      2.5     8.7       29
C. Baurit
1. Highway OEM                   1.2      11.8     13.0      0.2     2.1      2.3      91
2. Laboratories                  0.2       2.4      2.6      0.1     0.4      0.5      80
3. RDB/PMS                       0.2       2.4      2.6      0.1     0.4      0.5      80
Subtotal                  1.6      16.6     18.2     0.4      2.9     3.3       88
D. Studies & Trainina
1. Road Cons. bld.               0.6       0.9      1.5      0.1     0.2      0.3      67
2. Staff Training                0.6       3.4      4.0      0.1     0.6      0.7      86
Subtotal                  1.2       4.3      5.5     0.2      0.8      1.0      80
Base Cost             1.249,0    839.3  2.088.3   217.3   146.1   363.4         40
ContinReDcies
1. Phyaical L                  124.5      81.8    206.3    21.7    14.2    35.9        40
2. Price                       514.5      88.4    602.9    89.5    15.4   104.9        15
Subtotal                639.0    170.2    809.0   111.2    29.6   140.8         21
Total                 1.888.0  1,099.5  2.897.5   328.5   175.7   504.2         35
Land acquisition                   141.4      0.0    141.4    24.6       0.0    24.6      0.0
Total Proiect
Cost lb             2.029.4  1.009.S  3,038.9   353.1   175.7   528.8         33
La   Tean perc  of ltms A and Bl.
1b   Identifiable taxes and duties are about Y 106.4 million ($18.5 million). Taxes and duties would not
be financed hom the proceeds of the loan.
G. FNANCING
3.35           The Bank loan of $140 million represents about 26 percent of total prQect
costs or about 80 percent of the foreign exchange cost. The Central Government would
provide $48.7 million equivalent, and FP would provide $340.1 million equivalent to cover
the remaining costs of the project, including contingencies. The proposed onlending terms
for the loan between the Central Government and FP are: 20 years, including 5 years of
grace, at a rate equivalent to 90 percent of the rate payable to the Bank by the Borrower
with 0.75 perment per annum commitment fee on the unwithdrawn balance. PP would bear



- 29 -
foreig  exchange rsks.  Agreement was reached with the Central Govemnment at
negodations that it would onlend the proceeds of the loan to FP on these terms. The
details of project financing are shown below.
FINANCING PLAN
($ million)
Government-
Component                      Provincial     Central      Bank     Total
Highway - Civil Works            184.0         48.7        82.2    314.9
Highway - E&M Supply and
Ilstallation                     1.3          0.0         5.2       6.5
Road Network Improvement
Program                         21.8          0.0         7.2      29.0
Construction Supervision           6.2          0.0         2.5       8.7
Equipment                         0.4          0.0         2.9       3.3
Road Constr. Industry Study        0.1          0.0         0.2        0.3
Staff Training                     0.1          0.0         0.6       0.7
Contingencies                    101.6          0.0        39.2     140.8
ROW and Resettlement              24.6          0.0         0.0       24.6
Total                       340.1         48.7       140.0     528.8
H. IMPEMNTATION
3.36       The implementation of the project would be the responsibility of FP.
PPECDO would be the executing agency for implementing the Xamen-Quanzhou
Highway, under the direction of a Leading Group for the implementation of the
Zhangzhou-Xiamen-Fuzhou Expressway, headed by the Vice-Governor of the Province.
Since the new highway is a segment of the national highway network, MOC would also
provide general supeision and guidance for execution of the project. The highway would
be constructed under four unit-priced civil works contacts to be awarded following ICB
procedures. There would be a separate ICB contract for the supply and erection of E&M
devices for tolling, traffic monitoring, telecommunications, lighting, and tunnel venftlation
and safety. Construction of the highway is scheduled to commence in the second half of
March 1994, and be completed in about 48 months. The prequalification of contractors
was completed in August 1993, and bidding documents to prequalified contractors are
scheduled to be issued in September 1993. The installation of electrical, electronic and
mechanical systems for the operation of the highway is scheduled to start in mid-1997 and
be completed by the end of 1998. The construction of service faities along the highway
would commence in early 1996, and it would take about two-and-a-half years to complete.
3.37        The organional and staffing a gements for construction supervion
of the Xiamen-Quanzhou Highway have been prepared and were agreed durng project



- 30 -
appraisal. Construction will be supervised by JST, headed by a Chief Supervision
Engineer. A Resident Engineer will be located on sitz ior each of the contracts. Resident
engineers will report to the Senior Supervision Engineer's Office through the Office of the
Engineer's Representative. About 100 technical personnel will be permanently engaged
in supervision. The selection process of foreign supervision consultants is scheduled to be
completed by November 1993. The consultants would be mobilized in January 1994 to
begin training of local personnel in construction supervision and help setting up the
supervision organization. FHCET will be the local participant in the JST together with
personnel to be seconded to JST from prefectural and county transport units. FHCEI,
established in March 1993, was awarded a Grade A license by MOC for carrying out
highway consultancy and supervision services. Registered with the Administrative Bureau
of Industry and Commerce, FHCEI is a state-owned enterprise, and is qualified as an
independent business entity. The staff of FHCEI, as former employees of the Fujian
Provincial Highway Administration Bureau (FPHAB), have been extensively involved in
the management and supervision of highway construction works.
3.38       EPHAB will be the executing agency for the RNIP. A special unit has been
set up in FPHAB to administer the program, coordinate the various activities with al
concerned agencies, ensure the consistency and the quality of design, and meet overall
implementation management, monitoring and progress reporting requirements (AnnexO).
Additional laboratory equipment needs of the units involved have been included in the list
of equipment to be provided under the project. PPTPDI, in cooperation with the relevant
design institutes of municipalities and prefectures, have completed the preparation of final
engineering designs as well as draft bidding documents for the roads included in the RNIP.
Construction of the subprojects will be supervised by FHCEI, with the participation of
transport bureau staff at the county and municipal levels, under the overall supervision of
FPHAB. FPHAB was the principal agency for implementing the Fujian component of the
first Bank-financed Highway Project, and its performance was satisfactory.  The
construction of the seven roads of the RNIP is scheduled to commence in mid-December
1993 under retroactive financing and be completed in 18 to 24 months. Assurances were
obtained from FP at negotiations that FPHAB would t stablish and maintain a RNIP Unit
within FPHAB with qualified and experenced personnel to provide overall management
and supervision for RNIP, and that the transport adminustrations of the respectve
prefecturail/municipal and county governments would be adequately staffed with qualf/ed
and experiencedpersonnel andprovide other necessary resourcesfor the execution of road
works under the RNIP.
3.39       The responsibility for procurement of equipment would be divided between
the two executing agencies. FPECDO would be responsible for the procurement of
equipment related to the Xiamen-Quanzhou Highway component, such as equipment for
the operation and maintenance of the highway. FPHAB would administer the procurement
of equipment for the road laboratories and RDB and PMS. Equipment for operation and
maintenance of the highway would be procured during 1997/98. Laboratory equipment
would be procured during 1994, and equipment for RDB and PMS during 1995/96.



-31 -
3.40        The project as a whole is scheduled to be completed mid-1999, with the loan
closing date to be stipulated as June 30, 2000. The implementation schedule for the
project is presented in Table 3.3.
I. POCUROENT
3.41        Procurement under the project would be caied out as shown in the
following table.
PROCUREMENT ARRANGENMENTS
($ million)
Procurement method               Total
ICB       LCB    Other     NBF     project cost
Highway-Civil Works        412.7      -       -       24.6.L/       437.3
(114.9)                                  (114.9)
Highway-E&M Supply           9.1      -       -        -              9.1
& Installation            (7.2)                                    (7.2)
Road network                 -       40.3     -        -             40.3
Improvement Program               (10.0)                          (10.0)
Equipment                   2.9       -       1.3/b    -              4.2
(2.7)            (1.0)                   (3.7)
Coneultancies/Training /L
Construction Supervision  -         -      11.9      -             11.9
(3.8)                  (3.8)
Road Constr. Ind. Study   -         -       0.4      -              0.4
(0.1)                  (0.1)
Staff Training            -         -       1.0      -              1.0
(0.3)                  (0.3)
Land acquisition &           -        -       -       24.6           24.6
resettlement
Total                424.7    40.3    14.6       49.2         528.8
(124.8)   f10O.)   a .2)                 (140.01
NBF: Not Bank-Financed.
a Works listed in para. 3.43.
Lk Local and International Shopping.
l& Selection of consultants according to the Bauk's Guidelines.
Notes: (1) Figures in parentheses reprent the amounts financed by the Bank.
(2) All figures are rounded and include estimated physical and price
contingencies.
3.42        Procurement arrangements for the project have taken into account the
experience gained from previous Bank-financed highway projects. The documentation for



- 32 -
procurement, which covers the prequalification of contractorm, ICB and Local Competitive
Bidding (LCB) for civil works, ICB for gods, and consultant services contracts, has been
standardized for Chinese conditions in cooperation between the Chinese Government and
the Bank. Model documents will be used for all relevant procurement processes under the
project. In particular, prequalification criteria for civil works under ICB procedures have
been tightened, and are based on performance requirements specifically related to each of
the contracts. Under previous highway projects, the Bank accepted that minor and
scattered civil works, similar to those included in the RNIP, would be implemented by
force account because of the scarcity of construction industry units in remote areas of the
country. However, during recent years a sufficient number of construction enterprises
units have been established, which are capable of undertakdng road improvement works
following competitive bidding processes. Since the capacity of the road construction
industry is still limited, providing further opportunity to construction enterprises units to
participate in LCB under this project would enhance the technical developm.ent and growth
of the road construction industry.
3.43       The four civil work contracts for the construction of the Xiamen-Quanzhou
Highway, with contract amounts ranging from an estimated $60 million to $82 million,
would be awarded following ICB procedures, at an estimated total contract value of $413
mllion. Contractors, according to their bidding capacity, determined during the evaluation
of the prequalification submissions, could submit bids for one or more contracts. ICB
procedures would also be followed for the supply and installation of electrical, electronic
and mechanical equipment required for the toll facilities, traffic monitoring,
telecommunication services, tunmel ventilation and safety and lighting systems. The
construction of a 2.7 km soft-soil testing section of the highway, a Class I access highway
to Xiamen (6.2 kIn), and service facilities for the highway, comprising buildings for
administration, toll stations, maintenance depots, service and rest areas, and assocted
minor civil works along the highway, would be financed by FP from its own resources,
at an estimated amount of $25 million.
3.44        Contracts for the improvement of ffiree roads and the paving of four
additional roads under the RNIP component of the project would be awarded individually
following LCB procedures. These roads are widely dispersed in the northern and
northeastern region of the Province and are not suitable for packaging. The contract
amounts range from $1.5 million to $14.0 million, totaling about $40 million. The
Province, in the interest of utilizing favorable weather conditions in December 1993 and
in the early part of the new year, prior to the onset of the rainy season, has requested the
Bank's concurrence to advance procurement and retroactive financing for the RNIP. The
Bank's agreement to FP's request is recommended subject to FP's compliance with
procurement requirements in conformity with the Bank's Guidelines on Procurement. The
amount of retroactive financing required is estimated at $2.0 million.
3.45       Equipment for the operation and maintenance of the Xiamen-Quanzhou
highway would be procured following ICB procedures at an estimated contract amount of
about $2.9 million. All other items or groups of items covering equipment for
laboratories, field survey, and equipment for RDB and PMS programs would be procured



- 33 -
on the basis of a comparison of price quotations solicited from at least three suppliers
eligible under the Bank Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
3.46       Under ICB, qualifying domestic contractors and manufacturers would be
eligible for a margin of preference in the comparison of bids of 7.5 percent for civil works
and 15 percent for goods, or the prevailing customs duties, whichever is lower. Each civil
works contract exceeding $3.0 million and each contract for the procurement of goods
exceeding $200,000 would be subject to prior review and agreement to procurement
documentation by the Bank. This would represent about 97 percent of the estimated
amount of all contracts under the project.
3.47       The need for foreign consulting expertse has been identified for the
supervision of construction, staff training, and carrying out the provincial road construction
industry study. Since the consultants are expected to be mobilized in February 1994 to
commence the training of local staff to be assigned to construction supervision, provision
for rebtoactive financing at an estimatid amount of $700,000 is considered appropriate as
a precautionary measure in case of possible delay in signing the loan agreement. All
foreign consultants would be employed under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank
in accordance with Bank Guidelines on the Use of Consultants. Local expertise would also
be extensively used wherever appropriate.
J. DIURSEMES
3.48       Disbursements of the Loan would cover:
(a)   32 percent of total expenditures for highway civil works;
0b)   25 percent of total expenditures for the RNIP;
(c)   100 percent of foreign and 75 percent of local expenditures for the supply
and installation of E&M equipment for the highway and tunnels;
(d)   100 percent of foreign expendiures for directly imported equipment or
100 percent of local expenditures (ex-factory) for locally manufactured
equipment and 75 percent of local expenditures for other items procured
locally; and
(e)   100 percent of expenditures for consulting services and staff training.
3.49       To facilitate disbursement, a Special Account would be opened with an
initial deposit in US dollars of $9.0 million, the estimated average expenditure for a four-
month period. The account would be opened in a bank acceptable to the Bank, and would
be managed by FP. Applications for replenishment of the Special Account would be
submitted monthly or whenever the Special Account is drawn down to 50 percent of its
initial deposit, whichever comes first. A schedule of estimated disbursements is provided
in Table 3.4. This schedule talkes into consideration the disbursement profile for transport



- 34 -
projects in China and the potential risk of delays in project implementation due to the
difficult terrain, including subsoil conditions and tunneling requirements.
3.50       Disbursements would be made against priced contracts for the civil works
and delivery and installation of the equipment. Interim certification of civil works
completed and costed at unit rates provided in the contracts will be done by the JST, and
payments will be authorized by FPECDO and FPHAB. Disbursements for staff training
in China or abroad will be made against the actual costs of travel, subsistence, and tuition
or training fees. Reimbursement for expenditures made on contracts for goods and civil
works not exceeding $200,000 and $3,000,000 equivalent, respectively, would be made
on the basis of statements of expenditures (SOEs). Documentation supporting SOEs would
be retained by the implementing agencies and would be made available for review by Bank
supervision missions. Disbursements, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $2,700,000, may be made for expenditures incurred after October 31, 1993 on project
components indicated in paras. 3.44 and 3.47, under retroactive financing.
K. AUDMING
3.51       The Foreign Investmnent Audit Bureau of the State Audit Administration
(SAA) will be responsible for auditing the accounts of project expenditures. Actual audits
would be cafried out either by the Fujian Branch of SAA or by the Fujian Provincial Audit
.Administaion. Assurances were obtained from FP dunng negotiations that project
accounts and the Special Account, including statements of expenditures, would be audited
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and thas audt reports would be sent to the
Bank for review within sLi months of the close of eachfiscal year. In the case of SOEs,
the auit report would contain a separate opinion by the auditors as to whether the SOEs
submitted during the fiscal year, together with the procedures and internd controls
involved in their preparaion, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
L. PRoJECT SuEIoN. REPoRTING A   MONORING
3.52       The project would be supervised regularly by Bank missions. A supervision
mission plan, indicating key activities, is presented in Annex 7. In addition to field
missions, staff input would be provided at headquarters for project-related activities such
as completion of supervision reports, procurement documentation and contracts, and staff
training proposals. The Bank's supervision input is estimated at 60 staff-weeks, 37 in the
field and 23 at headquarters. In addition to field supevision, the progress of works also
would be monitored through quartely progress reports that would be submitted to the Bank
by the project executing agencies. A copy of a Quarterly Progress Report Outline is
available in the Project File (Anne= 9). A Project Completion Report would be prepared
and submitted to the Bank not later than six months after the loan closing date.



- 35 -
4. ECONOMC EVALUATION
4.1         The economic analysis focuses on the Xiamen-Quanzhou Highway and the
RNIP components of the project, which account for about 97 percent of the project's base
cost. The economic analyses were initially prepared by FPTPDI for both components
during 1991/92, and were reviewed and updated by Bank staff in consultation with
FPTPDI personnel during project preparation.
A. XAME-QUANZOU HIGHWAY
4.2         The Existing Corridor. The proposed Xiamen-Quanzhou Highway would
be the first phase of a high-standard, access-controlled highway the Province intends to
construct in the corridor formed by the Province's major and most rapidly growing cities:
Zhangzhou, Xiamen, Quanzhou, Putian and Fuzhou. The economic activity of the
Province is concentrated in these five coastal cities. While the cities comprise only
23 percent of the total land area and 41 percent of the total length of the road network in
the Province, together they produce about 69 percent of GOVAI, and account for
62 percent of the population of the Province. Land transportation in the corridor is almost
exclusively highways-oriented since there is no railway line in the corridor. Air transport
service within the corridor is available only between Xiamen and Fuzhou.
4.3        Xiamen, one of the first four coastal cities designated as a special economic
zone, was opened to foreigners in the early 1980s. GOVAI of Xiamen constitutes about
12.5 percent of the provincial total, and the city plays an important role in the economic
development of the region. The city is located at the mouth of the Jiulong River, the
second-largest river and port of the Province in terms of traffic throughput. However, the
total land area, road length, and population of Xiamen account only for 1.2, 2.1 and
3.6 prcent of the provincial totals, respectively.
4.4        Roads provide the only means of land transport between Xiamen and
Quanzhou, the second-largest city and fourth-largest port of the Province, located at the
mouth of the ring River. The rapid economic development of both cities has generated an
accelerated growth in traffic and a noticeable increase in traffic congestion, particularly
along built-up sections of the existing road network. This is manifest in the decrease in
average corridor travel speeds observed in recent years. The expected furither steady
increase in road traffic has prompted the Province to pursue the construction of the first
major highway to meet traffic demand along th important corridor.
4.5         Traic on the Existing Road. The existing road between Xiamen and
Quanzhou, built in 193C, was upgraded to Class 2 road standard in 1990, with a design
capacity of about 10,000 motorized vpd, and with an average design speed for motorized



- 36 -
vehicles of about 80 kan/hour. During 1980-92, the average traffic growth rate for
motorized vehicles came to 9.2 percent per annum; during the 1985-92 period, the annual
growth rate averaged 16.7 percent. Road tolls were introduced on the existing road in
1991. In 1992, the level of traffic reached about 15,000 motorized vpd. The effect of
mixed traffic, including slow-moving, nonmotorized traffic, combined with the overall
increase in traffic volumes has resulted in: (a) a decrease in average travel speeds for
motorized traffic to a 40-45 km/hr range along most sections of the existing road during
daytime hours, and (b) an increase in the number of traffic accidents.
4.6        An Origin and Destination (O-D) survey was conducted in 1990 and a
supplemental O-D survey in early 1993. The surveys covered 19 zones, and were
comprehensive enough to provide data regarding travel characteristics, particularly with
respect to the likely future traffic diversion from the existing road to the proposed
highway. The O-D surveys also confirmed the consistency of the level of traffic estimated
through periodic traffic counts and that the composition of the trffic is predominantly
passenger transport-oriented, with small buses representing 39 percent of traffic. Medium-
size trucks represented only 24 percent of the traffic.
4.7        TraI ic Projection. The economy in the corridor, as reflected by GOVAI,
has been projected by the Province to grow at 13.2 percent per annum to 1997, dropping
to 10.9 percent between 1997 and 2005, and to 7 percent between 2005 and 2015. By
companson, the average traffic projection used in the economic evaluation-6 percent
growth until 1998, 7 percent between 1998 and 2007, and 6 percent between 2007 and
2017-is considered to be conservative. The relatively lower growth rate assumed until
the opening of the new highway for tffc takes into consideration the effect of the
capacity constraints of the existing road. Based on the data derived from the O-D surveys,
it was estimated that about 70 percent of the motorized traffic would be diverted from the
existing road to the new highway. The rationale for anticipating such a relatively high
level of diversion is that: (a) the new highway intersects the existing road at several
points, and through the interchanges to be provided, a larger portion of the medium-
distance traffic would benefit from the use of the new highway through travel distance
savings (17.6 km) and travel time savings; (b) the Province intends to continue charging
tolls on the existing road even after the opening of the new highway for traffic, which is
also expected to encourage diversion of traffic to the new highway (para. 4.12); and (c) as
indicated by t-- 4inding of the O-D, about 30 percent of the large truck and truck-trailer
traffic is through-.Affic with origins and destnations beyond Xiamen and Quanzhou. The
level of generated taffic, resulting from the impact of improved traffic conditions to be
provided by the new highway, has been estimated at 15 percent of the normal traffic. The
projected traffic in the corridor, and its estimated split between the new highway and the
existing road, is presented in Table 4.1.
4.8         Economic Analysis. The economic evaluation has been done separately for
three homogenous sections of the highway: (a) Xifu (Quanzhou)-Chidian section,
(b) Chidian-Kangdian section, and (c) Kangdian-Guanglintou (Xiamen) section. In the
economic analyses two scenarios were assumed: operation of the highway with tolls and
without tolls. The economic costs were derived from financial costs by deducting taxes,



- 37 -
duties and interest payments. The financial cost, economic cost and adjustment factors for
shadow pricing for the three sections of the highway is presented in Table 4.2. The
analysis of shadow price conversion factors is shown in Table 4.3.
4.9        The highway is scheduled to be constructed in four years and opened for
traffic in 1998. The vehicle operating cost and time savings are quite substantial because
of the shorter travel distance of 17.6 km using the new highway. In addition to the cost
of construction, the cost of periodic maintenance (pavement overlays) was taken into
account in the tenth and eleventh years after opening the highway for traffic. The annual
costs of expressway maintenance and toll operations, for the with-toll scenario, have also
been included in the economic evaluation.
4.10        Benefits were estimated to accrue primarily from savings in vehicle operating
costs and travel time. Additional quantifiable benefits arise from generated traffic, reduced
congestion on the existing road, and savings in road maintenance and accident costs.
Average vehicle operating costs by vehicle class, pavement type and condition, and terrain
are shown in Table 4.4. These costs also reflect variation in vehicle speeds for the
different types of vehicles traveling on the existing road and on the new highway. The
cost of reduction in traffic accidents is based on the assumption that the rate of reduction
will be one accident per kilometer per year at a cost of Y 10,000 per accident.
4.11       The economic evaluation summary and sensitivity analysis for the Highway
is shown in Table 4.5. The economic internal rate of return (EIRR) for the highway as
a whole is estimated at 24.3 percent with the tolling scenario that, in the most extreme case
of the sensitivity analysis, assuming a two-year delay in the completion of the highway,
is reduced to 19.1 percent. Without tolling of the highway, the base EIRR is 27.0 pernt.
The EIRRs for the Xifu (Quanzhou)-Chidian, Chidian-Kangdian and Kangdian-
Guanglingtou (Xiamen) sections of the highway are 28.4, 28.8 and 19.9 percent,
resectively, in the with-tolling scenario (Tables 4.6-4.8). The lowest level of EIRR of
15.8 percent was found to be on the Kangdian-Guanglingtou (Xiamen) section of the
highway under the with-tolling scenario, assuming a two-year delay in completion of the
highway.
4.12        ToMling. The Province intends to operate the new highway as a toll facility
conistent with its design. Tolls will be collected at the end points and at the interchanges,
representing a closed system for toll collection. Tolls are being collected along the existing
Xiamen-Quanzhou road, and the Province intends to maintain the present system as a
means of cost recovery earnarked for road works, even after the new highway becomes
operational. This practice is expected to encourage a somewhat higher diversion of traffic
to the new highway than would normally tale place. To ensure that the toll rates would
be appropriately structured, and that toll levels would not lead to a substantal reduction
in the benefits of highway investment, the rationale for setting the level of tolling will be
detemnined based on the findings of a study to be undertaken by the Province. Assuranes
were obtainedfrom FP at negotiations that by July 31, 1997 FP wig complete, and make
ailable to the Bank for comments, a study on the rationale for detemdning toll rates,
according to the Outl. , Temnw of Reference in Annex 8.



- 38 -
B. RoAD NErwoRK ImpRoVEMENT PROGRAM
4.13         The RNIP comprises seven subprojects, divided into two groups: Group A
includes three roads to be upgraded (58.3 kIn), and Group B consists of four gravel roads
that would be surfaced with asphalt penetration macadam (202.7 km).
4.14         The volume of traffic on the three Group A roads in 1992 reached an
average of 2,660, 1,450 and 1,250 vpd, respectively, while on the four Group B roads
traffic volumes were at a fairly uniform level with only a small variation between 430 and
560 vpd. Historical traffic growth rates indicated a similar overall pattem for the RNIP
roads over the past seven years, varying between 4.8 and 6.5 percent. It was assumed that
during the first five years following improvement of the road, traffic will grow somewhat
faster than indicated by the historical trends, with some tapering off during the following
10 years.
4.15         The main quantifiable benefits associated with RNEP include: (a) reduced
vehicle operating costs on the upgraded roads due to improved geometry, improved
suraces, and reduced travel distances; (b) reduced travel time and congestion costs due to
road upgrading and elimination of bottlenecks; and (c) reduced road maintenance costs.
4.16         Economic Analysis. The economic analysis considered projected traffic
growth, subject to capacity constraints on the road. Additional traffic was assumed to be
generated by the improved road conditions at a rate of 10 percent of the normal taffic.
Vehicle operating costs were estimated in two steps: first, free-flow operating costs were
estimated; then the values were modified to reflect the degree of traffic congestion. Road
maintenance costs were assumed to comprise a portion of fixed cost per ldlometer per
year, plus variable cost measured as a linear function of daily traffic volumes. As
summarzed below, the estimated EIRR for individual subprojects varies from 17.9 to
44.0 percent, with an overall average value of 31.1 percent. Details of the economic
evaluation are presented in Annex 3.
SUMMARY OF ECONOMIC EVALUATION
Lenath            Fin.    EcOn.  NMV
Existing  Km    savings   cost    cost   (122)  EIRR  FMRR
-(km) ----------  ----- (1 adUOf)                  (2)   (2)
TIagii=ag-Lianj1ang      16.92   14.08    2.84    38.79   40.73   23.3  20.3  16.5
XinkoiiDutouping          9.00    5.49    3.51    20.03   21.03    8.1  17.9  14.0
Nakou-Sbaowu             51.47   38.74   12.73    81.41   85.48  136.3  30.2  25.4
Subtotal            77.39   S8.3    19.08   140.23  147.24  167.7  26.2  21.3
Gutian-ZhenqLan         101.30  101.30    0.00   -35.12   36.88   96.0  43.9  35.6
Hutangban-Shounlng       47.45   47.45    0.00    14.72   15.46   22.9  31.2  26.5
Zhouning-Zhenqian        26.91   26.91    0.00      8.62    9.05   26.3  44.0  40.0
Hetian-Dong hauqiao      21.00   27.00    0.00      8.64    9.07   20.8  38.5  33.5
Subtotal           202.66  202.66    0.00    67.10   70.46  166.0  40.4  3.
Ibtal              280.05  260.97   19.08   207.33  217.70  333.7  31.1  30.7



- 39 -
C. NAIB BENEnS Am BENmCAR
4.17        The main quantifiable benefits associated with development of the highway
and the seven rural arterial roads include savings in vehicle operating costs, travel time,
and road maintenance costs, and savings through reduction of congestion and traffic
accidents. The analyses of economic cost and benefits yield an EIRR of about 24 percent
for the Xiamen-Quanzhou Highway and about 31 percent in aggregate for the road sections
included in the RNIP. The overall weighted average EIRR is 25 percent. Benefits from
the projects would accrue to road users, including the operators of freight and passenger
transport services, enterprises and farmers, in the form of reduced vehicle operating costs.
Moreover, many road users are own-account operators and should capture the cost savings
directy. PassenZers would also benefit from shorter travel time and improved riding
comfort. The Province would benefit from reduced cost of road maintenance, and a broad
segment of the community would benefit from the reduction in traffic accidents. B)enefits,
particularly from the RNIP, would accrue from improved access to remote areas and
greater mobility for social activities, fostenng accelerated economic growth. The primary
beneficiares of the RNIP are the residents of those towns and villages that are served by
the existing poor-quality roads that are to be upgraded. While the project's institutional
benefits are not quantifiable, they are nonetheless impe iant. The involvement of local
personnel in project preparation, requiring particularly X .gorous treatment of economic and
evironmental assessment, design details, technical specifications and construction
practces, will provide benefits far beyond the implementation period of the proposed
project through the experience gained by the personnel involved. Similar institutional
benefits would be derived from the RNIP through the exposure of transport bureau staff
to more advanced technological and administrative processes. The specific attention given
to the road construction industry in Fujian Province to encourage transition to market-
onented operation is also an initiative with good potential for long-term benefits.
D. PRojEr RIS
4.18        Based on Bank experience with ongoing highway projects, the main risk is
implementation delay, particularly for the highway component. Because of the difficult
subsoil conditions along some sections of the highway alignment, the relatively high
number of umels and bridges to be constructed and the extensive rock excavation
involved, there are major risks of delay in the timely completion of this highway. Since
Fujian Province is a first-time borrower for a major Bank-financed highway project, such
lack of experience adds a furher element of risk to the timely implementation of the
project. However, project preparation has benefited substantially from the Bank's previous
expeience with similar highway projects in China, as well as from the active involvement
of MOC in project preption, the participation of foreign experts in the design of the
highway and the preparation of bidding documents and technical specifications, the
stringent cnteria used for the prequalification of contractors and the carefil formulation
of supervision arrangements to ensure regular monitoring of implementation and effective
quality control.



- 40 -
S. AGREEWMS REACHED AND RECOMNDATION
5.1        Agreement was reached with the Central Government at negotiations that it
would onlend the proceeds of the loan to FP under arrangements presented to the Bank at
negotiadons (para. 3.35).
5.2        During negotiations, assurances were obtained from FP that:
(a)   FP will (i) undertake and, by June 30, 1995, complete a study of the
provincial road construction industry in accordance with terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) establish a Steering Committee and a Technical
Coordination Group to provide guidance to the study group and review the
findings and recommendations of the study; and (iii) take appropriate steps
to implement the study's recommendations, including the formulation of an
acdon plan, taking into account the views of the Bank (para. 3.20);
(b) the staff training program would be carried out in accordance with TOR
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.21);
(c)  the environmental protection measures stipulated in the EAPs with respect
to the Xiamen-Quanzhou Highway and the RNIP would be carried out in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank (paras. 3.26-3.28);
(d)   all land acquisition and resettement activities with respect to the Xiamen-
Quanzhou Highway and the RNIP would be completed according to the
kAPs in a manner satisfactory to the Bank (paras. 3.29-3.30);
(e)  the monitoring of the effectiveness and socioeconomic impact of
resetdement for both the Xiamen-Quanzhou Highway and the roads of the
RNIP would be carried out according to monitoring plans in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.31);
(f)   FPHAB would establish and maintain an RNIP Unit within FPHAB with
qualified and experienced personnel to provide overall management and
supervision for the RNIP, and that the transport administrations of the
respective prefectural/municipal and county governments would be
adequately staffed with quaified and experenced personnel and would
provide other necessary resources for the execution of road works under the
RNIP (para. 3.38);



- 41 -
(O)   the project accounts and the Speca Acoount, including stements of
expendiure, would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank, and tat audit reports would be sent to the Bank for review within six
months of the close of each fiscal year (para. 3.51); and
(h)   by July 31, 1997, FP will complete and make available to the Bank a study
on the proposed toll rates for the Xiamen-Quanzhou Highway, according to
the Outline Terms of Reference presented in Annex 8 to this report (pa.
4.12).
5.3        Approval of the Loan Agreement by the Borrower's Stae Council would be
a condition of loan effectiveness.
5.4         Subject to the foreg4ing, the proposed project would be suitable for a Bank
loan of $140 million to the People's Republic of China. The loan would be for a term oa
20 years, including a grace period of 5 years, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.



- 42 -
Table 1.1: FRIGHT TRAIflC INTE NSIE  AND
RoAD AND RAILWAY NETwoRu DENmr iN SELwm CouTI
A. Freight Tmffic Intensities in Selected Countries
Tons                    Average    Estlmated  Tons/
Area      originated /a Ton-km /a  distance /a   CGP    $1,000  Ton-kml
Country    (million bD2)   (million)    (billion)       (km)       ($ bln)  of GNP   $ GNP
Cbina            9.6         10,347        2,018        195.0        415.2   24.9      4.9
USSR            22.4         14,059        8,773        624.0      1,065.0   13.2      8.2
USA              9.4          8,264        5,818        704.0      4,886.6    1.7      1.2
India           3.3             551          335        608.0        277.3    2.0      1.2
Brazil          8.5           1,081          453        419.1        311.9    3.5      1.5
Japan            0.4          6,150          508         82.6      2,577.1    2.4      0.2
La Includes rail, hi;gway, inland waterway, pipeline, and air freight only.
B. Road and Railway Network Density In Selected Countries
Popula-                   Raiil      Oil densitv        Road        Road deneitv
tion        Area        length   km/'7 000  kr/'200  length   kml'000  k7 '1 Q00
Country  (million) (maillion kha)  ('000 km)   pop.      kn     ('000 km)   pop.       km'
China      1,172        9.6          53.6    0.05        5.58    1,056.7      0.9    110.07
USSR         307       22.4         146.7    0.48        6.55    1,174.8      3.8      52.45
USA         246         9.4         205.0    0.83       21.87    6,230.0    25.3    664.68
,ndia       816         3.3          62.2    0.08       18.93    1,800.0      2.2    547.61
Braszl       144        8.5          31.2    0.22        3.66    1,675.0     11.6    196.78
Japan        123        0.4          43.0    0.35      113.71    1,110.0      9.0  2,936.46
Source: CHNA:        Statistical Yearbook of China 1993 (Data for 1992), pp. 518-519, 515.
USSR:        A Study of the SoWet Economy, Volume 2 (Intenational Monetuy Fund, Tne
World Bank, Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, and
Euopen Bank forReconseuctionand Development), Febuary 1991, pp. 106-108.
Data for 1988.
USA.         National WportationStaticsAnnualReport, US Department ofTn ortion,
Research and Special Program Administation, July 1990, p. 103. Tran taon
in in America, 1989, p. 8. World Tratupoii Data, Iternaiona Road Transport
Union, p. 180. Data for 1988.
INDIA:       World Bank esimates based on data of Goverment of IAdia, Ecnomic Survey,
1988/89 and Perspecive Planningfor Transport Deweopnu. Roads: Esimate
based on World uansp&rt Data, op. cit. and World Bank infornation. Road data
for 1987-88.
BRAZIL:      World Bank Statistics 1985-1989, hIeational Road Federation, 1990, Section S.
World ranwpor Data, International Road Trnsport Union, p. 130. The World
Bank, Appni Report, Highways Management and Rehabilitation Report, 1989.
Road Figures: 1987.
JAPAN:       World Road Statiusi 1985-1989, International Road Federation, 1990, Section S.
World 1ranspon Data, International Road Tranport Union, pp. 214-216. The
World Bank - data for 1988.
Area & GNP: ITh World Bank Development Report, pp. 178-179.



-43 -
Table 1.2: CmNA: TItANSPORT VNVESlw  Vs. ECONORUC OUwUR
(Y billion)
Annual              GNP              Tranport
transport           (current          ivestmet
Year                    investment           prices)           s 2 of a
1966-70  3?!?             15.01              935.0               1.6
1971-75  4!P?             31.8.L           1,323.0              2.4
1976-80  5FYP             30S.21           19758.0               1.7
1981-85  6FYP             41.9             3,130.5               1.3
1986-90  7PYP             89.1             69875.3               1.3
1980                       5.9               447.0               1.3
1981                       3.6               477.3               0.8
1982                       5.2               519.3               1.0
1983                       7.2               580.9               1.2
1984                      10.0               696.2               1.4
1985                      15.9               856.8               1.9
1986                      16.7               969.6               1.7
1987                      17.4             1,130.1               1.5
1988                      19.0             1*406.6               1.4
1989                      18.0             1,599.3               1.1
1990                      18.0             1,769.5               1.0
1991                      30.0             1,985.5               1.5
1992                      39.3             29387.6               1.6
1980-92 average                                                  1.3
La Investment of FYPs inuludes Post and Telecommunications (about 4 percent of tota).
Sources: 1. Sta coi Yearbook of Ohna-193, Table 5-22, p. 162.
2. Swdsdcal Yearbook of hAba-1992, Table 5-22, p. 162, Table 2-12, p. 31.
3. Stadsdct1 Yearbook of  wa-1991, Table 5-22, p. 160.
4. Other data based on the Staff Appial Report of the China Sixth Ralway
Project, Table 1.05, p. 88.



Table 1.3: CHINA INvEm}  N e TRA                                               $ECR
(Y bilion)
let Pm    2d Pm             Srd Pm   4th mTP  5tbh mP                  6th mTP                             7t  P                     8th mp
1953-S7   195862   196365  1966-70  1971-75   19764-0  181  1982  1963  1984   1985   1986   1987   19s   1989   1990   1991   1992
3at.lwq                5.9       10.4      S.4      11.3      17.3      4.0    1.4   2.6   4.2   5.9    7.7    8.5    0.7   10.2    9.0   12.1   12.6
-                  -        -         -         -      0.8   0.9   0.7   1.2    2.3    2.7    3.3    4.2    4.3    5.5           -       -
Vate-y                 -          -        -         -         -        _       1.3   1.5   1.9   2.6    3.7    3.7    3.9    3.2    3.6    4.8           -      -
vtom                   -          -        -         -        -         -       0.1   0.1   0.3   0.3    2.1    1.3    1.4    1.3    1.0    1.5           -      -
PIpelI_e               -                             _        _                 0.0   0.9   8.0   0.0    0.1    0.5    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1           -       -
Subtotal                                                                     3.6    .2      2   10.0   15.9   16.7   17.4   19.0   1.0   18.0   30.0   39.3
poet & -    m.           -                            . . _                       0.4   0.5   0.6   0.9    1.2    1.3    1.6    1.8    2.3    2.7    3.1    5.5
TOW                 9.0       16.3      3.4      id0       31.8     30.2    4.0    b.       a  10       17?1    10.0   19  20.8 0      20.3           33.1   48.8
total ea$tal
Invesctmet            58.8      120.6     42.2      97.6    176.4    234.1   44.3  35-6  59.4  74.3  107.4  jL_.  134.3   1_2.6   153.2  *70.4   21.6  301.
Transport as 2 of
total Inytaa h        13.3       1s.5     12.7      16.4      18.0     12.9    8.2   9.4  12.1  13.4   14.8   14.2   13.0   12I.   11.6   10.6   14.2   13.0
" b _m   of FYPs, be1br 1980, btbdga Pos an T                         (abo  4 perce  of totab.
&w    I. &adsa rearbook of CbO-I 9, pp. 1S7, 167 171t.
2. Staakal YmbookofGCna-1991, Table 5-22, p. 160.
3. DlcagfrYearbook of Cbw-192. Table 5-22, p. 162.
4. &calea YFearbokof Ofti-IR9, Table 5-22, pp. 161-162.



- 45 -
Table 1.4 CHNA: F=GHT TsAmC BY MODz
(billion ton-kn)
Doseetic      Pive-    Civil                 Ocean
Rail    Road   waterway la   line    aviation    Total   ehipping
1952                   60.2     1.4        11.8       -        0.002       73.4      2.8
Modal split (2)      82.0     2.0        16.0       -        -          100.0      -
1977                  456.9   25.1        102.1      38.7      0.076      622.9   174.1
Modal oplit (2)      73.4    4.0         16.4       6.2      -          100.0      -
1979                  559.9   74.5        139.3      47.6      0.123      821.4   317.1
1980                  571.7   76.4        152.1      49.1      0.141      849.4   353.2
1981                  571.2   78.0        150.7      49.9      0.170      850.0   364.3
1982                  612.0   94.9        170.8      50.1      0.198      928.0   376.9
1983                  664.7  108.4        181.1      53.4      0.229    1,007.7   397.7
1984                  724.8   153.6       196.1      57.2      0.311    1,132.0   437.4
1985                  812.6  169.3        237.1      60.3      0.415    1,279.7   532.9
1986                  876.5  211.8        270.0      61.2      0.481    1,419.9   594.8
1987                  947.1  266.0        288.9      62.5      0.650    1,565.2   657.6
1988                  987.8  322.0        310.4      65.0      0.730    1,686.0   696.6
1989                1,039.4  337.5        349.8      62.9      0.690    1,790.2   768.9
1990                1,062.2  335.8        345.1      62.7      0.820    1,806.6   814.1
1991                1,097.2  342.8        396.5      62.1      1.010    1,899.6   899.0
1992                1,157.6  375.5        422.2      61.7      1.342    2,018.3   903.4
Modal split (2)      57.3   18.6         20.9       3.1      0.1        100.0      -
Growth rate 2 p.a.
1952-77               8.4    12.1         9.0       -       15.7          8.9     18.0
1983-84               9.0   41.7          8.3       7.1    35.8          12.3    10.0
1984-85              12.1   10.2         20.9       5.4    33.4          13.0    21.8
1985-86               7.9   25.1         13.9       1.5    15.9          11.0    11.6
1986-87               8.1    25.6         7.0       2.1    35.1          10.2    10.6
1987-88               4.3   21.0          7.5       4.0    12.3           7.7      5.9
1988-89               5.2     4.8        12.7      (3.2)    (5.5)         6.2     10.4
1989-90               2.2   (0.5)        (1.3)     (0.3)    18.8          0.9      5.9
1990-91               3.3    2.1         14.9      (1.0)    23.2          5.1     10.4
1991-92               5.5     9.5         6.5      (0.6)    32.9          6.3      0.5
1982-92               6.6   14.7          9.5       2.1    21.1           8.1      9.1
La Exclude oceaugoing tnspofL
Somrme. SatLacal Yearook of Chs-1993, Table 124, p. 519.



- 46 -
Table 1.5: :Cm: PAsErGER TAC BY MODE
(billion passeger-kin)
Civil
Rail     Road    Waterway   Aviation   Total
1952                   20.1       2.3        2.5         0.024     24.8
Modal split (S)      80.9       9.1        9.9         0.1      100.0
1977                  102.3      44.8        9.7         1.834    158.7
Modal split (1)      64.5      28.2        6.1         1.2      100.0
1979                  121.6      60.3       11.4         3.5      196.8
1980                  138.3      73.0       12.9         4.0     228.1
1981                  147.3      83.9       13.8         5.0     250.0
1982                  157.5      96.4       14.5         6.0      274.3
198                   177.7    110.6        15.4         5.9     309.5
1984                  204.6    133.7        15.4         8.4     362.1
1985                  241.6    172.5        17.9        11.7     443.7
1986                  258.7    198.2        18.2        14.6     489.7
1987                  284.3    219.0        19.6        18.7     541.6
1988                  326.0    252.8        20.4        21.4     620.7
1989                  303.7    266.2        18.8       18.7      607.5
1990                  261.3    262.0        16.5        23.0     562.8
1991                  282.8    287.2        17.7        30.1      617.8
1992                  315.2    319.3        19.8        40.6     694.9
Modal split (2)      45.5      45.9        2.8         5.8      100.0
Growth rate S p.a.
1952-77                 6.7      12.7        5.7        18.9        7.7
1983-84                15.2      20.9        0.0        41.6       17.0
1984-85                18.1      29.0       16.1        40.1      22.5
1985-86                 7.1      14.d        1.9       25.1       10.4
1986-87                 9.9      10.5        7.6        27.8       10.6
1987-88                14.7      15.4        4.1        14.7      14.6
1988-89                -6.8)      5.3       (7.7)      (12.9)      (2.1)
1989-90               (14.0)     (1.6)     (12.4)       23.1       (7.4)
1990-91                 8.2       9.6        7.3       30.9         9.8
1991-92                11.5      11.2       11.9        34.9      12.5
1982-91                 7.2      12.7        3.2        21.2        9.7
Sowoe: Statsdcal Yeawbook of Chbw-1993, Table 12-6, p. 517.



Table 1.6: COM.* BANK GROUP-FL IANCED TRANSPORT POJEIS
Loan/                                                    loan  munt,
(credit)        Board          Date        Closing        S udllion (SM)
Project name                                 number          date        effactive        date        Bank           IDA       status
First Railway                                  2394       03127184     07110184      12131/90       220.00                   CLOSED
Second Railway                                 2540       05114185     11122185      06130194       235.00                  WOOING
Third Railvay                            26781(1680)      04115186     01113187      06130193       160.00        70.00      ONGOInR
Pourth Railway                                 2968       06123/88     03127/89      12131193       200.00                   N0O501
Inner Uingolia Locol Railbmy             3060/(2014)      05112/89     01/03190      12131/96        70.00        80.00      OSGOIRO
Fifth Railway                                  3406       09/24191     01/09/92      12/31198       350.00                 01OI01
Sixth Railway                                  3S81       03/25/93                   12131/99       420.00                  ONGOING
Subtotal                                                                                       1.6S5.00       150.00
Total Loan and Credit Amount                                                                                1 805.00
First Highway                            25391(1594)      05114/85     12104/85     06130191         42.60        30.00     CLOSED
Beijing-Tianjin-Tanggu Ezpressway        2811/(1792)      05/12/87     12/08/87      12131/92        25.00       125.00     ONGOING
Sichuan ProvinciAl Highway               2951/(1917)      06/09188     05/31189      12131/94        75.00        50.00      OHGOlN
Sbaatzi Provincial Highway                     2952       06109/88     05/31/89      12/31/94        50.00                  ONGOING
Jisangi Provincial Highway                    (1984)      02/07/89     05131/89      12131/95                     61.00     ONSODIG
Sbangdong Provincial Highway             30731(2025)      05125189     12/11/89     06/30195         60.00        50.00     ONGOING
Zbejisag Provincial Highway                    3471       05/19/92     09102/91      12131/96       220.00                  ONGOInG
Oaagdong Provincia  Highway                    3530       11117/92     04116/93      06130199       240.00          Og G        OIII
Beam Highway                                   3531       11117192     04116193     06130198        120.00                  ONOIN
Subtotal.                                                                                        832.60       316.00
Total Lean tA  Credit .     _                                                                               iati
...a_



Table 1.6: (cont'd
LOn/                                                     Loan amount,
(credit)        Board          Date        C1o08ag        S million (SAR)
Project nams                                 number          date        effective       date         Bank          IDA        Status
PORTS AND WATERWAYS
Three Ports                                    2207       11/02182     02/02/83     06/30/8         124.00                   CLOSED
TlanjIn Port                                   2689       05/06186     03120187     12131192        130.00                  ONGOING
Huangpu Port                             2877/(1845)      10/06/87     10103/88      12/31/93        63.00        25.00      ONGOING
Dalian Port                              29071(1975)      02/09/88     10103188      12131/93        71.00        25.00      ONGOING
Ningbo and Shanghal Ports                      3006       121131/      05109189     12131193         76.40                   ONGOING
Xiamen Port                                    3007       12/13/U8    01/09/90      03/31194         36.00                   ONGOING
Ship Waste Disposal                            2391       06/17/92                  06130/96                      15.00      ONGOING
8hanghai Port Restructuring and
Develop.ent                                  3552       12122/92                  06/30/99        150.00                  ONGOING
Subtotal                                                                                         650A0         65.00                      O
Total Loan and Credit Amount                                                                                  715.40
Jiangsu Provincial Transport             3316/(2226)      04/09/91     09106/91     06/30/96        100.00        53.60      ON$ING
Total Loan and Credit Amount                                                                                  153.60
URBAN TRANSPORT
Shanghai Metropolitan Transport               (2296)      09/10/91     09110191     06130/98                      60.00      ONGOING
Second Shanghai Metropolitan Transport         3652       10/14/93                                  150.00                  ONGOING
Total Loan and Credit Amount                                                                                  210.00
Souwe: Compiled by he misnion.



Table 1.7: CIUNA: HGHWAY DESGN STANDARDS
Motor vehicle only hiahv _vs                        General-vurpose highways
EKuresava,              Class 1       Class 2      Class 2       Class 3         Class 4
Flat  Rollng  Mountainous    Flat  Other Flat Other  Flat Other flat  Otber    Flat    Other
DESIGN CAPACITY (VEHIDAY)
Passenger car eq.         ......... 25,000 . ......... 10,000-25,000
Medium truck eq.                                                       4,500-7,000  2,000-5,000   200-2,000 ...... <200 
DESIGN SPIED (CK/H)           120     100      80      60    100     60    s0    40      80    40     60    30         40       20
CARRIAGSWY WIDTH (O)        2x7.5   2x7.5   2x7.5  2x7.5  2x7.5  2x7.0   8.0   7.5    9.0   7.0    7.0   6.0          3.5      3.5
SUIGRADE WIDTH (K)
General                    26.0    24.5    23.0   21.5   24.5   21.5  11.0   9.0   12.0   8.5    8.5   7.5         6.5       6.5
Variation                  24.5    23.0    21.5   20.0   23.0   20.0  12.0   --        --    --     --    --       7.0       4.5
KIN CURVE RADIUS (K)          650     400     250    125    400    135   250    60    250    60    125    30           60       15
KIN SIGHT DIST (M)            210     160      110     75    160     75   110    40    110    40      75    30         40       20
MAX GRADE (S)                   3       4       5       5      4      6     5      7      5     7      6     8          6        9
SDOULDER WIDTH (N)
Hard - standard          >2.50   >2.50   >2.25  >2.00  >2.50  >2.00
finimum                     2.25    1.75   1.50   2.25   1.50
Soft                     >0.75   >0.75   >0.50  >0.50  >0.75  >0.50  1.50  0.75   1.50  0.75   0.75  0.75   0.5-1.5  0.5-1.5
KIDlAN WIDTB (a)
Standard                  3.00    2.00    1.50   1.50   2.00   1.50
minium                     2.00    1.50                   1.50
&oww.  GonglU Gongchag Jishu Biao     (Hihway E_gi;ng Tchncl Sbndns), 1983, Ministry of



Tabb 1.: CNA VIaz
Total
PassenRer vehicles                        sotor                           Motor-             Grand
Lar8e  Smal  Total  Thucks  Otbers  vehicles   Traslers  Tractors  cyclwe  Otbers    total
1978                           88       171    259   1,099               1,358       104           -         -        -    1,462
1980                           113     238    351   1,432         -      1,783       142           -         -        -     1,925
1985                            -        -    79S   2,231       18S      3,211       338       1,784       946      616     6,895
1986                             -        -    966   2,466      188      3,620       344       2,288     1,483      800     8,535
1987                           274     841   1,115   2,726      240      4,081       426       3,747     2,478      305    11,037
1988                          299    1,005   1,304   3,089      251      4,644       447       3,916     3,024      318    12,349
t989                          312    1,152   1,464   3,364      285      5,113       475       4,101     3,593      374    13,656
1990                          333    1,289   1,622   3,576      316      5,514       499       4,626     4,213      411    15,263
1991                          350    1,502   1,852   3,867      342      6,061       503       4,945     5,052      519    lt,080
1992                          381    1,881   2,262   4,279      376      6,917       508       5,371     6,475      687    19,958
Annual Growth Ratest
1978-92                        11S     192    172      102    n.a.         122       122        n.a.      a.    an.e.         212
1985-92                      n.a.    n.a.    16S       102      112        122        62         172       321       22       162
Proportion of vebicles
nivtdualy Cwnedt
1985                                            21    121
1992                                           191    18x
Sowurr (1) himna &arjsical Yearbook-19,&, pp. 36-369.
(2) China Sasical Ywabook-1987, pp. 396-397.
(3) Cina Stebsdeal Yearbk-1988, pp. 49493.
(4) China &m*ncal Yearbook-12, pp. 526-528.
(5) China Staical Y-eabook-1993, pp. s32-s33.



- 51 -
Table 1.9:- CHINA: HIGHwAY FRUGBT TRANSORT
Fr_gight tonm        Preight ton-km           Averane baul
Publlc  Other Total PubUlc  Other  Total Public  Other Total
-...  (millon) ----  ----- (billion) --.         .- (bD) -------
1979                         816    2,894  3,710    27       48       75     33     16     20
1980                         760    3,060  3,820    26       51      76      34     17     20
1981                         715    2,922  3,637    25       53      78      35     18     21
1982                         768    3,004  3,792    30       65       95     38     22     25
1983                         791    3,223  4,014    34       75      108     42     23     27
1984                         789    4,545  5,334    35      116      154     45     26     29
1985                         762    4,619  5,381    35      134      169     46     29     31
1986                         786    5,416  6,201    37      175     212      47     32     34
1987                         791    6,323  7,114    39      227     266      49     36     37
1988                         765    6,558  7,323    42      280     322      55     43     44
1989                         697    6,640  7,337    41      297     338      S8     45     46
1990                         647    6,593  7,240    36      300      336     56     45     46
1991                         667    6,672  7,339    37      306     343      55     46     47
1992                         675    7,134  7,809    37      339     376      55     48     48
Average annual growths
1979-92                    -12       72     62    32      162     132      42     82     72
1985-92                    .22       62     52    12      142      122     22     72     62
Proportion of public Vs.
Private freight transports
1979                       222      782   1002   362      642    1002
1992                        92      912   1002   102      902    1002
Public - Tucs operted by bucking companies affiliated to, or owned by, the Provinial Tumporation
Other = Trucks operaed by odter ntepi   or by prvate idividual
Source. Chiba Swikcal Yearbook-1993, pp. 518-519.



- 52 -
Table 1.10: CWNA: BANx GtouP-FiNANCED HGHWAY PNojEes
Amount
($ million)    Projeot Des on
Hi,yv Fraiect: LoWan/rdit Z-39-CHA/1594-CHlA 1985 (Comolded}:
1. Road comstructon                          61.7     Constmction or imvement of about 230 kn of
naional roads and 1,400 kn of rurl roads.
2. Design and research improvemen             2.3     Provision of computided design and equipment
and site investigation and related laboratory equip-
meat for HPDI.
3. Road mainteance impovemnet                 1.3     Purchase of baic road mnten  equipment for
selected provinces.
4. Trining and consua  services               1.9     Training of staff from MOC's Highway Bureau,
PHBs, HPDI and HSRI. The supervision and qualty
control of road consteution, studies, seminars and
workshps as needed.
Beiiin-Tniin-Tangu ENrsav Proiect: Loan/Credit 2811-CHA/1792-CHA. 1987:
1. Erssy consruction                        139.2     Constucion of 142-km, 4-lane divided, controlled-
access, toled expressay.
2. Equipent                                   5.0     Provision of basic maintenance and operation equip-
ment for the exprewy  and oequipment for monitor-
ing the expressway traffit.
3. Consultant sevices                         5.0     Supervision and quality contol of expresway con-
struction.
4. Staff training                             0.8     Training of staff from MOC and PHBs.
Shaanxi Prvni HiShwav Proiect Loan 2952-CHA. 1988:
1. Highway onsuction                         30.1     Constuction of a new 67-kn highway connecting
Sanyuan and Tongohuan.
2. Rural roads improveaent and repair work   16.7     Expansion and inprovemaent of the rural road net-
work in southern Shaanxix
3. Consulting services and training           2.0     Supervision of highway consteution. Training SPTD
staff in the supervision and qualky contol of highway
constuction.
4. Equipment                                  1.2     Road data bank and rad pavement evaluation.
Tobl                                     S0.0
Sichman Provinc  HiW     P : Loan/Credit 2951-CHAI1917-CHA. 1988:
1. Highway constuction                      109.0     Construction of the Chengdu-Chongqing highway
(340 kln).
2. Rual rad improvement                       7.0     Construction of two mual roads (total 105 km).
3. Consultant services                        1.2     Supervison and technicad assistae.
4. Equipmet                                   7.1     Highway research, road maintenane, traffic opera-
tions, etc.
5. Staff training                             0.7     Tnining of SPTD staff.
125.0



- 53 -
Table 1.10: (cont'd)
LmoanCdt
Amount
(S million)    Project Dscription
Jiianx Provincial Highway Proisot Credit 19-CHA, 1289:
1. Highway conatuction                      26.2     Constnution of NauachanJiujiang highway (113
kIm).
2. Bridge constcton                         27.8     Constuction of Nanchang bridge (1,932 m).
3. Connecting moad construction              3.1     Construction of 6 km of access toad conncting the
new bidge to the now NanchaJitujiang highway.
4. Consulting sewries and asining            2.0     Constrction superision and staff traing.
S. Equipment                                 1.9     Pavement evaluation and road data bak
Shandon Provincia Hfighway Proiect: L*sn/CredIt 3O73-CHA/2W2-CHA. 1989:
1. Highway constution                       97.3     Construction of the Jin-Qigdao highway (319km).
2. Consultant services                       1.3     Supervision, technical assistance, etc.
3. Equipment                                10.5     Highway researh, mad maintenance, mc.
4. Staff taining                             0.9     Training of SPID staff.
Jiantsu P oRhw  IhM      rie, 14Credi 331C-CHA26CHA. 1991:
1. Cbil wwb                                135.6     Rehabilitation (450 km) and upgrding (176.S hn) of
roads, canal (17 km), shiplock nd brige.
2. Superision of construction                2.4     Supervision of civil work and training for supervi-
sion engineers.
3. Develpment of const_ cton uits            0.4     Trining of provinial constution units.
4. Equipment                                12.8     Road mai_ance, ceral laboatoy and comper
aided design.
S. Tchial assistance and traibng            2.4      Equipment and expefise for road dat bank, staff
baining, provncial  anspot conidor suy ad
design review.
I2S                                     153.6
Zhejiang Pmvwia HiShw   Project:- Lma 3471CHA. 1992:
1. Civil works                             201.4     Construction of Hangzhou-Ningbohighway (13 km).
construction snd improvement of povinial and
county roads (970 km).
2. Supervision of consuction                 3.4     Hangzhou-Ningbo Highway.
3. Equipment                                14.1     Laboratory, reseach mait c, ighw y opea-
tion, RDBIPMS, and survey.
4. Staff taining                             1.1     Covering a broad pectrum of highway phnning,
design, construction and maintenance.
oWl                                    2_.



- 54 -
Tabk 1.10: (cout'd)
Loan/credi
Amount
(S MIi)    Prect Descriion
1. HIghay oontna                           105.4     ContructonofZhengzhou-Luoyangexpresway(120
km), provinoial and durl roads in nothwes Henan
(292 km) and rad impovemt program (R   for
rovinci and rual ads (740 k1n).
2. nqmvidon of eo_umwtio                     1.7      SupeoWlon of highway constuotion.
3. _qu*Ued                                  10.2      HOGCA and HAD.
4. I       d                                 1.8      HPCD, HSRI and HPDI and HGHCA.
S. Tniobg                                    0.7      Traning of supervision and ntiut    strengthen-
ing.
& TBnkin study                               0.2      To improve the qual  of road feigt services in
Henwn provine.
1. Ci vm                                  =222.0     For Foshan-iCdping (SO km), Longganl-Tanxi (146
km) highways and rmad imovemaet program (RIP)
for prinial and naional roads (1,260 kmn).
2. & vwAsion of eonctr_adon                  3.7     Supevision of two highways and RIP.
3. gromw                                    12.7      Cvi Works' component.
1.6     Trining of supevion and highway financing.
TZl                          ~~~~24QO



Table 2.1: Ma: RoAD NErWORK, 194O-L2
aent leah                                      Proportion of
High      Subhlig     lnteme-        Low                             total network
Classification          grsde L    grade  b    diate /c    grade /d    Unpaved        Total        (S)           Quality
1980
CIsas 2                  83                                                            83         0.25         All-eather road
Class 3                            2,513           287                              2,800         8.60        All-veather road
Class 4                                         12,290         522                 12,812        39.33        All-weather road
Unclassified                                                 9,993      6,889      16,882        51.82         ImpassibLe after raiu
Total                83         2.513       12.577       10515      6.889      32.577      1. " 00
1985
CIass 1                   3                                                             3         0.01        All-weather road
Class 2                  81           20                                              101         0.28        All-veather road
Class 3                  49        2,874                                            2,923         8.12        All-weather road
Class 4                  28          862        10,261       5,482                 16,633        46.22        All-veather road
UnclAssified                                     4,120       6,518      5,689      16,327        45.37         Impassible after rain
Total                161        3.756       14.381       12.000      5.689      35.984       100.00
1990
ZIsss 1                   27                                                            27         0.07        All-weather road
Class 2                 307                                                           307         0.75        All-weather road
Class 3                 324        2,918                                            3,242         7.91        All-weather road               ln
Class 4                            2,381        18,689       5,600                 26,670        65.03        All-veather road
Unclassifisd                                                 6,384      4,381      10,765        26.25        Impassible after rain
Total               658         5.299       18.689       11.984      4,381     41.011        100.00
1992
Mtass 1                  36                                                            36         0.09         AU-weather road
Class 2                 379                                                           379         0.90        All-weather road
Class 3                 330        2,969                                            3,299         7.88        All-weather road
Class 4                            2,470        19,382       5,807                 27,659        66.04        All-weather road
Unclassified                                                 6,460      4,049      10,509        25.09        Impassible after raln
Total               745         5.439       19.382       12.267      4.049     41.882        100.00
La   Encludes bituminous concret pavement, cemnt concrete pavement, plant-mix bituminous maadam pavement and rgula ston block or so  bad
paving.
lb   Includes bituminous penebtion paventi, hn-itu mixed bituminu maadam or gravel surfice, bituminous surfice treatut and medium-regular
stmoe block pavement.
/c  Includes clay-bound or graded aggregate macadam or gravelurface, irnregar stone block surfice and oter ganular suface.
ld  Includes gnlar-abilizd soil surfce and other local mateiial-abilizd or impved soil surface.
SoSOWe FPD.



- 56 -
Table 2.2: MIum: FnIGEBT AD PAmsENGE  TitAnU c By MODE; 198S-92
A. FXeli&t Traffigc
1985                      1992              Compound
Proportion                Proportion       annual
Transport     Tons       of total        Tone      of total    growth rate,
mgj         ('000)    trafflc  t%)    taffic Ui    1985-92
Rail         159360         11.9        20,778          9.7          19.3X
Road        1059310         81.3       174,710         81.3          23.7%
Water         8e800          6.8        19,380          9.0          31.5S
Air                2         0.0            21          0.0         162.12
Tota   129.472        100.0      214.889        100.0
D. Passenaer Traffic
1985                      1992               Compound
Proportion                Proportion       annual
Transport Passengers  of total        Passaengers   of total    growth rate,
2aLd.. __     00L.. traffic (1  (_'000)    traffl¢ (2)    1985-92
Rail         13,490          6.5        13,675          3.8          14.5S
Road        186,660         89.3       336,680         92.6         25.8Z
Water         8,780          4.2        11,740          3.2          19.1S
Air              86          0.0         1,659          0.5         274.9S
Tot8l 209.016         lQO<0      363.754        100.00
Sowx: FPHAB.



Table 2.3: MF mN: FnGT AN  PASS             ER TRANSRT BY MODE, 1980-92
Frelaht turnover (million ton-km)                  Passenser turnover (million pasesenter-km)
Year            HigWays   2  3ailways   S  Waterways   2   Total    idhwaya   2  Rilwayas   S  waterways  2   Total
1980            2,288   22.8  5,656   S6.4   2,090   20.8  10,034        3,854  61.4  2,092   33.3    326    5.2  6,272
1981            2,454   23.8  5,554   53.7   2,326   22.5  10,334        4,645  63.5  2,316   31.7    354    4.8  7,.,15
1982            2,866   2S.4  5,705   50.6   2,702   24.0  11,272        5,373  66.9  2,320   28.9    334    4.2  8,027
1983            3,172   25.8  6,143   49.9   3,000   24.4  12,315        5,890  65.8  2,722   30.4    336    3.8  8,948
1984            3,607   25.5  6,985   49.4   3,556   25.1  14,148        7,251  68.6  2,994   28.3    328    3.1  10,573
1985            4,454   27.5  8,243   50.9   3,500   21.6  16,197        9,136  70.1  3,525   27.1    370    2.8  13,031
1986            6,099   31.2  9,037   46.2   4,409   22.6  19,545    10,054  71.1  3,718   26.3    374    2.6  14,146             -.
1987            7,865   35.0  9,569   42.5   5,063   22.5  22,498    12,185  73.3  4,040   24.3    407    2.4  16,632
1988            9,037   37.4  9,798   40.5   5,359   22.1  24,193    13,617  73.1  4,624   24.8    392    2.1  18,633
1989            8,953   33.2  10,108   37.4   7,936   29.4  26,997    13,514  73.4  4,449   24.2    444    2.4  18,408
1990            9,112   33.4  10,401   38.2   7,750   28.4  27,264    14,503  77.5  3,813   20.4    402    2.1  18,718
1991            9,190   31.2  11,300   38.3   8,981   30.5 29,471    14,953  76.8  4,110   21.1    402    2.1  19,465
1992            9,649   30.4 12,204   38.5   9,879   31.1 31,732    15,252  75.9  4,439   22.1    406    2.0 20,097
Compound annual
growth rates,
1980-92t        12.7X           6.62           13.82          10.12      12.12         6.52           1.82           10.22
So:w FPMD.



Table 2A: FMum1: Vmciz FZr, 196-92 La
Motorized vehicles
Large and                             SmsLl and   Special-
medium      8msll       Large         medium      purpose
Year                trueks Lb   trucks   passenger Ie   passenger   vehicles   Subtotal   Tractors   Motorcycles    Other    Total
1980                 26,357         362      2,883          4,920       1,477      35,999      70,679         5,516         884   149,137
1981                 28,749         477      3,268          5,833       1,535      39,862      85,855         6,365       1,066   173,010
1982                 31,130        876       3,853          6,789       1,668      44,316      85,464         8,734         969   183,799
1983                 31,867      1,145       4,279          7,471       1,900      46,662      88,682        11,045       1,000   194,051
1984                 32,706       1,544      5,107          9,648       1,961      50,966    101,381         19,591       1,455   224,359
1985                 36,340      3,919       6,370         14,538       1,895      63,062    108,070         38,640       6,701   279,535
1986                 40,107      7,137       6,671         18,454       2,121      74,490    121,888         60,162       9,802   340,832
1987                 45,273      8,443       7,935         19,406       2,348      83,405    135,541         84,266      14,047   400,664
Go
1988                 47,668     11,512       7,490         22,425       3,123      92,218    1S5,316        124,803      13,665   478,220
1989                 51,896     13,061       7,752         24,908       4,796     102,413    156,266        166,793      14,969   542,854
1990                 51,807     15,503       8,320         29,031       5,537     110,198    153.088        234,145      15,014   622,643
1991                 54,186     18,895       8,853         33,414       5,899     121,247    173,713        284,540         386   701,133
1992                 59,605     20,785       9,738         36,755       6,489     133,372    191,084        312,994      3,047   773,869
Compound annAal
growth rates,
1980-92t             7.0K      40.12       10.7S          18.22       13.12       11.52        8.62         39.92      10.92      14.72
IA   hcudes both #rasport and social sector.
k Capacity graer tha 4.5 tam
&ge                      2 FPTrD.



TIable25: 2 PAW : FGrTmtr BRoAD, 1lg
Freahet volume (milon tonw)      IreiAtt turnoer    l   ton_-b)       _   Avese  distance (ha)
Transport    Social               Transport     Social                 Transport    Social
Tear             *ector     S sector  S  Total   sector       I  sector   S   .otal    sector      2 sector  2  Total
1980               16.09   29 39.39  71  55.48       920.74  40 1,367.41 60 2,288.15      57.22   62 34.71  38  91.93
1981               14.74   24 45.67  76  60.41       932.26  38 1,522.10 62 2,454.36      63.25   65 33.33  35  96.58
1982               14.42   22 52.32  78  66.74       932.74  33 1,933.07 67 2,865.81      64.68   64 36.95  36 101.63
1983               13.60   18 62.73  82  76.33       892.86  28 2,279.30 72 3,172.16      65.65   64 36.34  36 101.99
1984               13.60   15 74.33  85  87.93       925.27  26 2,682.05 74 3,607.32      68.03   65 36.08  35 104.11
1985               13.44   13 91.87  87 105.31   1,016.35  23 3,437.86 77 4,454.21        75.62   67 37.42  33 113.04
1986               13.36   10 126.29  90 139.65   1,042.63  17 5,056.75 83 6,099.38       73.04   65 40.04  35 113.08
1987               13.65    9 136.05  91 149.70   1,109.37  14 6,75S.95 86 7,865.32       81.27   62 49.66  38 130.93
1988               13.90    8 153.85  92 167.75   1,191.90  13 7,845.04 87 9,036.94       85.75   63 50.99  37 136.74
1989               13.20    8 149.56  92 162.76   1,045.08  12 7,907.86 88 8,952.94       79.17   60 52.87  40 132.04
1990               12.20    7 154.90  93 167.10      952.13  10 8,159.95 90 9,112.08      78.04   60 52.68  40 130.72
1"1                12.46    7 158.85  93 171.31      998.78  11 8,190.75 89 9,189.50      80.16   61 51.56  39 131.72
1992               12.71    7 162.00  93 174.71   1,048.70  11 8,600.00 89 9,648.70       82.51   61 53.09  39 135.60
Compound annual
growth rates,
1980-1992s       (1.95)      12.51       10.03       1.09        16.S6        12.74      3.10        3.60        3.29
soww PPID.



Table 2.6:  uJIAN: HIGnWAY NEroiU DEVEIAPHENT PLAN, 1991-2000
Proportion               Proportion                Proportion
1991     of total       1995       of total       2000      of total
Actual    network       Planned    network        Planned    network
(km)    length (X)      (km)      length (2)      (km)     length (Z)
Total length of road network           41,012                   42,000                    43,000
Administrative Classification
National roads                        2,216        5.4         2,240         5.3        2,290         5.3
Provincial roads                      5,877       14.3         5,900        14.0        5,921        13.8
County roads                          5,071       12.4         6,000        14.3        6,000        14.0
Township roads                       25,693       62.6        25,610        61.0       26,459        61.5
Special-purpose roads                 2,155        5.3         2,250         5.4        2,330         5.4
Total                                         100.0                    100.0                     100.0
Standard of Roads
Expressway                                 -       0.0             -         0.0        75.75         0.2
Class I roads                          27.3        0.1          50.0         0.1         80.0         0.2
Class II roads                          307        0.7           500         1.2          600         1.4
Class III roads                       3,242        7.9         4,000         9.5        4,800        11.2
Class IV roads                       26,671       65.0        29,100        69.3       31,100        72.3
Unclassified roads                   10,765       26.2         8,350        19.9        6,344        14.8
Total                                         100.0                    100.0                     100.0
Righ grade or subhigh grade roads
represented in total network length   5,957         14.5         7,000        16.7        8,500        19.8
Soume: FPHAB.



- 61 -
Table 2.7: 1FJAN: HIGHIWAY DEVWPmENr PG RAG,R 1991-95
Planned      Estlmated
Length    construction   lnvestmeat
Projects                 Standard             (km)         period       t dilUlon)
Route 104
1. Mt.  'ellesuling tunnel    Class I automobile            20.9     1993-96            IS0
in Nilgde prefecture       accomodation road
and its link roads         (half-width)
2. Mavei-Guangtou highway    Class 11, levell               20.0     1993-96            120
reconstruction project    light rolling
3. Hoagtang-XiaDgqlan         Clsss II, level/              32.5     1991-95            120
highway                    light rolling
Route 324
1. Quanzhou-Xismen highway   Expressway                     81.4     1993-97          1,498
2. Jisngdong large bridge    Automobile-super 20,            2.9     1991-94             29
Trailer-120
Route 319
1. Reconstruction project    Clas II,                       39.9     1993-96            150
of key section on the      mountainousI
existing Zhangshou-        heavy rolling
Longyan highway
2. Mt. langliaoling tunnel   Class I1,                      12.5     1991-94             60
and its link roads         mountainous/              Tunnels
heavy rolling             900+226
meters
Route 205
1. Mt. Longmenling highway   Class II,                      34.0     1993-95             30
recorestruction project    mountainous/
In ha4i county             heavy rolling
2. Mt. Wuxianling tunnel      Class I1,                     14.0     1991-94             45
*ad its liak roads         mountainousI              Tunnels
heavy rolling               1,324
meters
S&e: FP19.



Table 3.1: STAFf TRAIN    PRoGRAm
Number
Area of taining                             dwation of taining   Man-months  cost (     Ranr
Tng                                                                           Domestic training wM be orgnized though seminas for broader
stff pa     n, and with the involvement of freig  and lol
1.  Road Nwwok Panning                     25 persons/S mont      12.S        1S,000   Co"cep and mehodologies for newok planning.
2.  Ptoe  Plnning and Evuat_in             25 plons/U.S month    12.S         1S,000   Trfi demad, route locaion, engineering standards, envirou-
metald   r       daesett   measurae, s m    of cost, and eoc-
ne  vbit analyis.
3.  Road Mantnanc Management               25 personsW  month    12.5         1S,000   Orgnizaiona stuc , pioriy naysis, physa contrl moni-
toting and financial management
4.  Managent of Highway Opeation           25 peons/0.S month    125          15,000   Adminstav   ucaure, maita_nce setup and financi  ontrol
of toled highways.
Study Tom Abma                       10 persons/O.75 moth     7.S       7S,000   Tour abrad for eior mangemet to study highway opea
ad manage_me  prcie.
1.  Expressway Desi                         10 pesomsl month      10.0        75,000   Highway capcty analy, pracie of gemetc desi of acces-
controlled highways, and of highway peave.
2.  Expwessy Constuton and Management   6 p dsonsl month           6.0        4S,000   Organzation and contr    manage    of exp       yo
tico, covering the role and          of dte emloye, supecr,
visin and contatr.
3.   Sgeri Supervision, Quality Control    10 pesdl month          10.0       7S,000   Struce and key tecical swficao  issues, and quality con-
tol mehodobgies for conts and suavun _*_.



Table 3.1: (cont'd)
Number
patcipjti  and                Em
Area of taining                            duradon of trining  Man-mnths   cost ()    Ras
Trainin Aboad (cont'd)
4.  Mateal Testing and Eaminaion            6 persons/i month     6.0        45,000   Study of advanced technology in mateial testng and laboatory
and field instuentation.
S.  Highwy MaintnnM and M_ana et            8 pesons/I month      8.0        60,000  Instiutional and technical aspects of road nework manenace,
coverng vanous classes of roads and using boti equipmnat and
labor-intensive technologies.
6.  Alternave Approach to Highway           4 personsll month      4.0       30,000   Alternave ways of highway finaning, cost recovray and financial
Fnancing, Fnwcl Managmnt of                                                      return analysis, financal managemant and auditing.              a
Highway Ivesmets and Sbtics
7.  Traffic Engineering                    6 persona/i month      6.0        45,000   Traffic data analysis and road capacity, traffic management. raffic
safety measures and safety device, and computer application in
ctaffic engineering.
S.  Road Data Bank                          4 persons/I month      4.0       30,000   Objectiv a dages of RDB deveopment, data requiremnts, data
collc     i analy and computer haniwae and sowame se.
9.  Pavement Managment                      4 pesons/l month       4.0       30,000   Objocdves, road condition survey methodologies and inst_-newm-
tion, PMS uwe tuough computer application.
10. Contingeny                                                               30,000
T                                                                          _00



- 64 -
Table 3.2: EQUBIPMEaNT TO BE ftouRD
Unit
Item                                        Quantity    price       Total
Ri&hway ODratgion and Maintenance
Sweeper                                       2       158,000     316,000
Medium barricade - removing vehicle (18t)    1        175,000     175,000
Small barricade - removing tractor
(for patrol)                                2      105,000      210,000
Wreck signaling vehicle                       2        80,000     160,000
Vehicle performing the work high above
the ground                                  1      150,000      150,000
High-pressure hot water rinsing truck         2        21,000      42,000
Highway mower                                 4        11,000      44,000
Platform trailer (>25t)                       2       51,000      102,000
Self-discharging truck (8-12t)                4       35,000      140,000
Truck (8-12t)                                 2       32,500       65,000
Patrol car                                    4        25,000     100,000
Car for delivering road toll                  8        11,000      88,000
Medium-sized bus                              4        24,000      96,000
Ambulance                                     2        13,000      26,000
Jeep                                          6        25,000     150,000
Subtotal                                                     1,864.000
Contingency                                                       186,400
Total                                                        2.050.400
Road Laboratories
Diamond core drill                            1        30,000      30,000
Stone accelerating grater                     1        18,000      18,000
Automatic soil compactor                      1         7,800       7,800
Marshall stability gauge                      1         8,300       8,300
Marshall stability recorder                   1         3,500       3,500
Automatic Marshall compactor                  1         4,680       4,680
Automatic continuous asphalt extractor        1        30,000      30,000
Asphalt concrete mixer                        1         5,800       5,800
Static balance (2,OOOG)                       1         1,800       1,800
Reinforcement location gauge                  1         1,700       1,700
Pavement grain gauge                          2           165         330
Drop hammer deflectometer                     2        88,000     176,000
Drill-hole gradiometer                        1         8,000       8,000
Laser distance meter                          2         7,200      14,400
Electrical-digital theodolite                 2         5,100      10,200
Pendulum friction meter                       1         3,000       3,000
Concrete nondestructive testing device        1        21,500      21,500
Concrete double channel oscillograph          2         1,250       2,500
Permeability gauge                            1         1,600       1,600



- 65 -
TLble 3.2: (cont'd)
Unit
Item                                       Quantity    price       Total
Road Laboratories (cont'd)
Reinforcement corrosion gauge                1         3,200       3,200
CRB in-situ testing device                   1        23,000      23,000
Concrete strength gauge                      1        69540        6,540
Automatic concrete resilience modulus
gauge (vith recorder and liquid crystal
display)                                   1        3,100        3,100
Pavement smoothness gauge                    4           550       2,200
ZEISSN12 level                               1         1,700       1,700
Subtotal                                                      389.450
Contingency                                                       38,945
Total                                                         428.395
Road Data Bank/Pavement Mansaement
System (RDB/PMS)
Road geometrical data acquisition car        1       110,000     110,000
Pavement roughness data acquisition car      1       132,000     132,000
Pavement anti-skid test carriage             1       45,000       45,000
Computer and its auxiliary members           6        13,600      81,600
Fax communication system                     5        2,400       12,000
Subtotal                                                      380,600
Contingency                                                       389060
Total                                                         418.660



Table 3.3: An               nN 
1993           1994            1995            1996            1997           1998
Works___
Xiamen-Quanshou Highway                1       9         3                                                            2
ICB Contracts                        ----     -*************
6              6         1    6                       12
ESA  Instllation                                    1                __------z ******* I**r*********
I        1    ~~~~6
Roadside Jscilities                                 --------------------- 
1             I             12
1    6  12                        |~~~~~~~~~** ***********1 r ******t******* h ******
1    6      12,                                  3
Road network Improvement program       ----- x"monnnn :*************    ------
Supervision of Conetruction              1     7     121 2             1               1 *
ximen-Quanzhou highway, civil works -----w- =cKmcvxi    **********46*************** I               I ********4                   12 *
Xiamen-quanzhou highway, ESH works                                                         6********* ,*************
Road network Improvement program
Procurement of Equitment                                                                   4    9               9           6
Highway operation and maintenance                                                        -----
1 48   12
Road laboratories                                     ---xxr*******
RDI/PNS                                                             1~~~~~~~~~~~   1 96
RD8/PMS _________" ....... w ~Z2tIIZX******. ,****** 
4          1 
Staff Traini nc                                             _UMM_Me__
6         1 4              2
Road Construction Industry  Study             ---------- j3*********I
Lld:           :       Preparation of bidding documents.
xxxxxxxxxx: Bidding (selection) p   _ocedue.
~***4~***~Constructon/supezvision/delivery.
= = = ==2 =: Training-
Soure:. FPECDOIFPHAB and missil's estimls.



- 67 -
Table 3.4:  1)1_  ScEDW
Disbursement profile
Bank fiscal year        Disbursements (S mllion)      of China transport
and semester          Semster   Cumulative    S          projects (X)
1994
June 30, 1993 La        18           18        13             0
December 31, 1994        4          22         16             6
June 30, 1995            5          27         19            11
December 31, 1995        7          34         24            16
June 30, 1996            8          42         30            26
December 31, 1996        8          50         36            38
June 30, 1997           12          62         44            48
December 31, 1997       13          75         54            60
June 30, 1998           17          92         66            69
December 31, 1998       18          110        79            70
June 30, 1999           16         126         90            76
zaQ
December 31, 1999       10          136        97            98
June 30, 2000            4         140        100           100
/a  Includes inital payment into Special Account and Advance Payments to Contmctors.
Notes: (1) Poect Completon Date: June 30, 1999.
(2) Loan Closing Date: June 30, 2000.



.0
Tabb 4.1:                             ANZov HIGwAYs Poncm  TnAmc I Tu Couw o
(vpd)
( .
With             U.   f       *rd ta            Iloa            loa            apea
loti arods           a.    12.0               2                             t i           fair              45
b.    14.0                        to s.3n          Owed)
13y *. ~~21.5                          4              1         2,roa         * 00d8
I     2.0                         t . 3.10X
.-4a1  h----d .--.arge 0............................---p -  - 1a2ll truck---- - 4di---trctor-Tralar----  t.oal_-
Without                                           U.                    ithout                  iout                     t                   WItbout
L.ugth (to) proet With Pfojt   rjet  ith toect  project With Project project With project   project V1th project  projet Wth Proett projet    With Project
blot-       '  b         -Lt.   at,  bat,           blot,   blt,            blat.    latt.           lat;t.   Rbat.           bl-G .    lodt.      blt.   iot.          bant.  '.)
Us   Maua. to"ad        -Y. road   Wroa   py. roard    road  BM". ro                 road    E.  rod          road  bPuap   rod        roa  Mapup road    rod buay. road  total
aetiAa Is lift  (quanss)- Chidim
990   17.0  i4.2   6,646                    2,028                   1,994             .     2,403                   1,081                     S70               14,608
1997                 9,991                  3.049                   2, 0I                   5734                    1.634                     336               21,964
19t9                10.393   7,415  1.178  3.232  2.261       969     176  2.228     9e0   3 38   2770   1.187   1,732   1.213         S19   3s9    412    118 23 282 36,301  6.901 23 282
2002                11373   9,361  4 012  3,470  3,079   1,t on       413U  2813   1,199   4 2s0   3,497   1.409   1,60   1,650        706    652    561    242 25 000 20,961  S.976 29.7
2eoo                11.375  12517  ,369  3,470  4,524   1,937   3,413. 3,764   1,6s   4, 250   4,600   2,006   1,60   2,424   1,037    632    824    356 25 000 20,74s 12,310 4o *ss
2012n 1 375  139 8 6,2  3,470  634    2,717   3.413  4,84   2,040   4.230  3,973   2 560   ,860    3400   1,454    632  1,156    499 25,000 $7666 16,130 53,796
"?t                 11:,73  20,405  8,745  3,470  ,099   3,011   3,413  6,131   2,614   4,250   7,621   3,267   I,860  4*769   2,039    632  1.621    700 25,000 40.448 21,176 70,624
Botie   2. Chidla- Kaagd=
19    31.0   2s.0   6,737                   1,248                   2,00I2,90                                       1,14S                     64S               14,75S3
1997                10,160                  1,877                   3.007                  4.4S1                    1,719                     970               22,184
1990lo 10770   7,539  3,231  1,990  1.39                      596   3,167  2,237     952   4,710   3,304    ,414   1.022   127         547  1,028    721   306 23,515 16,49  7.006 25,513
200e2               11.450   9.518  4,079  2,116  1,895       01f    3.48  2.824   1,202   5.016  4,71   1,783   1.937   1,735         744  1,093   981   416 2S.    21,124  9.03? 50,161
2007                 1 450  12,737  3,4S9  2,114  2,784   1,192   s 388  s3,n9   1699   5.016   5 s.2   2 S,9   1 37   2 ,49   1003  1.03    "4    611 25,000 28,812 22233 412223
2012                11450  12 ,737  ,os  2,116  3,00   Iis   3,36s  4,023   2,153   5,016   7  124   3,197   1I97 I    575   1,60   1,93  2,021    890 23,000 34 s3s 16,910 51.093
2017                11,430  11,737  9,323  2,116  3,47       ,       3,8  6,136   2,748  5,016   9.092   4,00   1,937   5, 1    2, '2  10993  2,835  1,239 25 000 41,311 22.118 O632
Setlam 3,  Vaalgd-  0             
1990   53.0   44.2   3583                  1,86?                   2. in                  4,305                    1,630                     734               36,209
199                  8,395                  2 .07                   34278                  6,473                    2,431                   1,104               24.308
199S                 0,564   7.462  1,436  2,863  2,433      544   3,344  2, 66      600   6,60S  5.482   1,379   2,300   2,080        510  1,126    902   267 23,0e0 21,223  4,72 23.9n
2002                S,64   9 421  I,I0  2,86S 3,310         740   3,544  3,618     76s   6,603   6,921   1741   2,500   2, 30        705  1 126  1 227    363 25,000 27.S27  6,130 33,4S7
2007                 0s,64  12,607  2,426  2,863  4 6)   1, 07   23,44  4,942   1028   6,403   9,262   2,320   2,300   4,1S5   1,036  1,126  1,003    533 25,000 37,5SS  ,440 05.975
2012    6,564  16,090  3,096  2,06)  6,821   3.323   3,344  6.100   ,31    6.603  1182A  2,074   2,500   5,832   1453  1.126  2,529    748 23.000 49.273 11.108 60.381
20127                0,564  1I:96   3,95    , 63  ,1          139   3,344  6,04   1,614   6 601  1S,195   S,790   2,soo   6,510   2,03a   1,26  2.823  1,049 25,000 55,00  1
total    99.0   81.4
I It a. Roo pavoat    b,. lod 1o.
2t ft Plat$         t Saonlly$    so Vmtai_              Sa Street.
_it AlU the figue are rnded.



-69 -
Table 4.2: XIMEN-QuANZou HiGwAY: EmAu  EcONOMuC CosT
(Y amillo)
Xifu Cuent u)                                Kngdian
-Chidimn        Chidian-Karndian   Guangtintou (Xioaen)         Total
,,, ,,,.,,,,...... ,............. ........................... .... ................ ........ ............. --.
Local Foreign Total Locat Foreign Total  Ltocal Foreign Total   Local Foreign  Total
Nighway Works         195.5  166.6  362.1  297.0  173,8 470.8  593.9 383.9 97r.8  1086.4  724.3  1810.7
E 8 N Uorks             1.5   5.9   7.4   1.9   7.7   9.6   4.0  16.1  20.1             7.4  29.7   37.1
Supervision             6.8    2.9   9.7   8.8   3.8  12.6  18.3   7.7  26.0   33.9  14.4   48.3
Physlcal Contingency   20.4  17.5  37.9  30.8  18.5  49.3  61.6  40.8  102.4  112.8  76.8  189.6
Subtatat      224.2  192.9 417.1  338.5  203.8  542.3 677.8  44.5 1126.3  1240.5 84S.2  2083.7
Suvey, Design A Others 12.5    0.0  12.S  16.3    0.0  16.3  33.8   0.0  33.8   62.6   0.0   62.6
Total         236.7  192.9 429.6 354.8  203.8 558.6  711.6 448.5 1160.1  1303.1  845.2  2148.3
-       -      u        mm  - 1  1     _    as $mu  _am    u a  _. _
Less: tax              20.3    0.0  20.3  26.4    0.0  26.4  55.0   0.0  55.0  101.7    0.0  101.7
Interest         13.2  10.7  23.9  19.7  11.3  31.0  39.5  24.9  64.4   72.4  46.9  119.3
Add: Land Acquisition  24.4   0.0  24.4  31.8    0.0  31.8  66.0   0.0  66.0  122.2   0.0  122.2
Net Frinancal Cost    227.6  182.2 409.8 340.5  192.5  533.0 683.1  423.6 1106.?  1251.2 798.3  2049.S
Conversion
factor        199   1994  1995  1996    1997            Total
A. Vith Toll Facii.ities:
Financial Costs:
............
1. X1fu C0uanzhou)-Chidian                           9.8  S1.6  102.5  122.9  123.0            409.8
2. Chfdfan-Kangdian                                 12.8  67.2  133.3  159.9  159.8            533.0
3. gangdian-Guangtintou (Xiuien)                    26.6  139.4 276.7 332.0  332.0           1,106.7
Total                                      49.2 258.2 512.5 614.8  614.8            2,049.5
mus  unns  _u.  _u         _uig           ii
Economic Cost:
..... . ....
1. Xifu (Quanthou)-Chidian            1.01          10.5  55.2  109.6  131.5  131.6            438.4
2. ChfdianIKangdian                   1.04          13.2  69.6  138.0  165.5  165.4            551.7
3. Kangdian-Guanglintou (Ximen)       1.04          27.8  145.5  288.9 346.6  346.6          1,155.4
Total                         1.05         51.5 2?0.3  536.5 643.6  643.6           2,145.5
S. ithout Toll Faecilfties:
Financfal Costa:
__.._.........
1. Xifu (Cuanthou)-ChMdian                           9.2  50.5  100.2  119.0   119.6           396.5
2. Chidian-Iangdian                                 12.1  65.8  130.5  154.9  155.5            518.8
3. Kansdian-Ouanolintou (Xiamen)                    25.5  137.2 2n.2  324.1  325.2           1,084.2
Total                                      46.8 253.5 502.9 598.0  600.3            2,001.5
_m    sM    sum   muss.  snum  _  
Economfe Cost:
.............
1. Xifu (Quanzhou)-Chidian            1.07           9.8  54.0  107.2  127.3  127.9            426.2
2. Chidian-tIangdian                  1.04          12.5  68.1  135.1  160.3  161.0            537.0
3. Kangdian-Cuanglintou (Xia.en)       1.04         26.6  143.2  284.2 338.4  339.5          1,131.9
Total                         1.05         48.9 265.3 526.5 626.0  628.4            2,095.1
.~~~~~~~~m um ua r  u    ms
1: All figures are rounded.
Source: FTPDI s and mission's estimate.



Tabl 4.3: X            QUANZOU hGHWAY: SHADOW PC CONVERSION FACTOR
(Y _e
XifA (Ouenchou)- Chidian     chidisn- Xonedisn    Koditan- Suanulintou (Xiamen)         Total
Cmwer ------------------------ 
-slan  ----- Ffarecfat ..... Econo . FfehCfat .    Ecno- .   - Ffaclal   - .   Eco    ----- Ffanacfla --*---  Eam
factor Local Foref n Total fic /_1 Local Foreign Total mIc /_1  Local Foreign Totat fIc _1.  Local Foreign Total   -oif
Lad                        0.80 24.40  0.00 24.40 19.52 31.80  0.00 31.80  25.44 66.00   0.00  66.00  52.80 122.20  0.00 122.20  97.76
Labor:
Unskitled                0.54  8.03  0.00  8.03  4.34 12.02  0.00 12.02   6.49 24.11   0.00  24.11  13.02  44.16  0.00  44.16  23.85
Se4l skilledlTecldmclan    0.80 16.07  0.00 16.07 12.86  24.04  0.00 24.04  19.23 48.23   0.00  48.23  38.58  8s.34  0.00  88.34  70.67
Supvisor                 2.00  4.87  4.45  9.32 15.53  7.29  4.70 11.99  20.69 14.62  10.34  24.96  42.68  26.78 19.49  46.27  76.90
Mterials:
Steel                    1.00  8.06 18.82 26.86 32.53 12.05 19.89 31.94  37.91 24.18  43.76  67.94  81.07  44.29 82.47 126.76 151.51
Timber                   1.00 14.27  0.00 14.27 14.27 21.35  0.00 21.35  21.35 42.83   0.00  42.83  42.83  78.45  0.00  78.45  78.45
Cement                   1.00 15.45 37.61 53.06 64.34 23.12 39.73 62.85  74.77 46.38  87.43 133.81 160.04  84.95 164.77 249.72 299.15
sand                     0.80  8.22  0.00  8.22  6.58 12.29  0.00 12.29   9.83 24.66   0.00  24.66  19.73  45.17  0.00  4s.17  36.14
Stone                    0.80 24.99  0.00 24.99 19.99 37.39  0.00 37.39  29.91 75.00   0.00  75.00  60.00 137.38  0.00 137.38 109.90
Bitumen                  1.00  0.14 22.78 22.92 29.75  0.20 24.06 24.26  31.48  0.41  52.95  53.36  69.25   0.75 99.79 100.54 130.48
others                   0.80 16.07  0.00 16.07 12.86  24.04  0.00 24.04  19.23 48.23   0.00  48.23  38.58  88.34  0.00  88.34  70.67
FueL:
Diesel                   1.00 13.93  0.00 13.93 13.93 20.84  0.00 20.84  20.84 41.81   0.00  41.81  41.81  76.58  0.00  76.58  76.58
Gasoline                 1.00  3.21  0.00  3.21  3.21  4.80  0.00  4.80   4.80  9.63   0.00   9.63   9.63  17.64  0.00  17.64  T7.64
Heavy oil                1.00  0.36  0.00  0.36  0.36  0.54  0.00  0.54   0.54  1.09   0.00   1.09   1.09   1.99  0.00   1.99   1.99
oths                     1.00  0.36  0.00  0.36  0.36  0.54  0.00  0.54   0.54  1.09   0.00   1.09   1.09   1.99  0.00   1.99   1.99
Vater                      0.80  0.71  0.00  0.71  0.57  1.06  0.00  1.06   0.85  2.12   0.00   2.12   1.70   3.89  0.00   3.89   3.12
Electricity                2.00  3.57  0.00  3.57  7.14  5.35  0.00  5.35  10.70 10.72   0.00  10.72  21.44  19.64  0.00  19.64  39.28
CorStrLuctIfn              0.80  2.85  0.00  2.85  2.28  4.26  0.00  4.26   3.41  8.54   0.00   8.54   6.83  15.65  0.00  15.65  12.52
Nechanfeal equlpment        1.00  1.07 48.03 49.90 64.55  1.60 51.59 53.19  68.67  3.21  113.52 116.73 150.79   s.as 213.94 219.82 284.01
Others                     0.80 60.97 49.71 110.68 113.40 95.92 52.53 148.45 145.0 190.24 115.60 305.84 302.47 347.13 217.84 S64.97 S60.90
Total                    227.60 182.20 409.80 438.37 340.50 192.50 S33.00 s51.71 683.10 423.60 1106.70 1155.43 1251.20 798.3 2049.50 2145.51
aumuu    =  mmazmmm u            s        m .am  m        m"Uu    m~              m  mmj
oterall cconverson factor                            1.07                     1.04                        1.04                       1.05
1_1: Foreign cost has been converted to Yuan by using 1 US$ a ?.50 shadw exchanbe rate.
Source: FPTPDI*s and mIislon's estimate.



- 71 -
Table 4A: XuMmQuANou HiGWAY: V=cLE OiuTwr. Cosa oN
Tm Evs=G RoAD AmT HIGHwAY
(Y/1$O vebldle-kn)
Smltl  Nediuc   Large  Tral ler/             all    Larp
truck    truck    truck  contafner   Car    bus       bus
Financil, Exfsting Road
rust                           208      200      240      360      110      169      208
Tire                            26      100      160      338       30       85      192
Maintenane                     208      201      159      738      134      183      160
Crew                            45       95      105       95       40       95       95
Oeprociation                    52      104      130      225      374       n       140
Overhead /_1                   107      207      244      333       S3       71      138
Total              1993     646      907    1,058   2.089       741      675      933
1997     699      962    1,124    2,261      602      731    1,010
...     ...    .....    .....      ...      ...       .....
Financal, Proposed HiShwaY
Fuel                           195      181      216      312       99      156      189
Tires                           23       90      130      29        27       77      156
Maintenance                    i87      158      143      664      121      145      144
Crew                            35       66       is       66       20       66
Depfecgetion                    40       80      100      165      289       54      110
Overhead /_1                    107     207      244      333       53       71      138
Total              1993    s58       782      908    1,839      617      569      803
...     ...      ...     .....    ...      ...      ...
Ecnmic, Existfng Road
fuel                           240      240      300      360      150      195      240
Tires                           52       93      240      429       35       35      149
Maintenance /2                  18?     180      143      664      121      165      144
Crew                            45       86       95       86       40       86       86
DepreciatiOn                             86      148      3?5      106       48      140
subtotal                   570      685      926    1,914      452      529      759
,..      ...      ...    .....     ...      ...
Time value of passengers                                            17      160      280
Total              19       570      685      926    1,914      469      689    1,039
...          ...      ... ...  ...      ... .    . .................._
Condftions by /3      1997     617      741    1,002    2,072      508      746    1,125
2007      752     903    1,221    2,526      619      909    1,371
2017     917    1,101    1,488   3,079       755    1,108    1,671
Economic, Proposed Highway
Fuel                           225      218      270      312      135      180      218
Tim                             47       84      195      380       32       32      121
Naintenance /_2                168      142      129      598      109      131      130
Crew                            35       60       68       60       28       60       60
Depreciation                    35       66      114      275       82       36      110
Subtotal                   510      570      776    1,625      386      439      639
...     ...      ...       .... ..  ...  .    ... .    ........ . ......
Tim  value of psensers                                               8       71      125
Total                       S10      570      776    1,625      394      510      764
...     ...      ...       .... ..  ...  .    ................ .
Notes. 1. tinludin  the eosts of vehicle purchsing fee, registration, road Maintenance,
ifcensng, nd inurance.
2. Assumad 908 of financial cost.
3. Both road condition an  flow wil' deterihate quickly with high traffic growth
and shift towarde heavier vehicles. Considered 29 p.a. cost incrae.
Sowe: FPTPDI's an mission's estiMate.



Table 4.5: XuiAxzou HGcHWAY:   Y    oFEcoNoiwc EvAuuAN AN                                                            ANALYSIS
(Y million, 1993 prices)
Base Case                                            -Sensitivity Analysis (TolL Rood)------
--------- ---------.----.---.......................------------    Case I Case 2 Case 3 cse 4 Case 5 Case 6 Case 7
Costs        ............Benefits--------------                       ------ ...... ...... ......          ------
------ --- ----------  vC         Reduced                             Gener-         Total   Cost
Uet/3          Net  Goner- Cong.on Reduced       Net            ated  Total Benefits (+102)  Delay Delay
Constru Road          Sav-  ated  Exist. Accid-          Cash         Traffic Cost          Benefits   1     2   Without
Year       -ction Hafnt.  Total  ings Trafffc Road  ents  Total  Flow             (-50%) (0101) (-i0%) (-10%)  Year  Years   Toll
Total Highway
1993         51.5          51.5                                     (51.5)        (51.5) (56.0) (51.5) (56.1) (51.5) (51.5) (48.9)
1994        270.3         270.3                                    (270.3)       (270.3) (297.3) (270.3) (297.3) (270.3) (270.3) (265.3)
1995        536.5         536.5                                    (536.5)        (536.5) (590.2) (536.5) (590.2) (536.5) (536.5) (526.5)
1996        643.6         643.6                                    (643.6)       (643.6) (708.0) (643.6) (708.0) (643.6) (643.6) (626.0)
1997        643.6         643.6                                    (643.6)       (643.6) (708.0) (643.6) (708.0) (643.6) (643.6) (628.4)
1998                3.6    3.6  364.9  18.7  29.0   0.8  413.5  409.9             400.5  409.5  368.5  368.1    0.0    0.0  480.0                8
1999                3.6    3.6  413.6  20.0  30.4   0.8  464.8  461.2             451.2  460.8  414.1  414.3  409.9    0.0  539.6
2000                3.6    3.6  468.8  21.2  32.0   0.8  522.8  519.2             508.6  518.8  466.9  466.6  461.2  409.9  607.0
2001                3.6    3.6  531.3  22.6  33.5   0.8  588.3  584.7             s73.4  584.3  525.9  525.5  519.2  461.2  683.0
2002                3.6    3.6  602.2  24.1  35.2   0.8  662.4  658.7             646.7  658.4  592.5  592.1  584.7  519.2  768.9
2003                3.6    3.6  677.9  25.7  37.1   0.8  741.5  737.9             725.0  737.5  663.7  663.4  658.7  584.7  860.8
2004                3.6    3.6  763.0  27.5  39.0   0.8  830.4  826.8             813.0  826.4  743.7  743.4  737.9  658.7  964.0
2005                3.6    3.6  858.9  29.4  41.1   0.8  930.2  926.6             911.9  926.2  833.5  833.2  826.8  737.9  1079.8
2006                3.6    3.6  966.8  31.4  43.2   0.8 1042.3 1038.6             1022.9 1038.3  934.4  934.0  926.6  026.8 1209.9
2007 /11            5.5    5.5  1088.3  33.6  45.5   0.8 1168.2 1162.7            1145.9 1162.2 1045.9 1045.4 1038.6  926.6 1356.1
2008 /j             5.5    5.5  1204.9  35.5  47.6   0.8 1288.8 1283.4            1265.6 1282.8 1154.5 1154.0 1162.7 1038.6 1496.2
2009                3.6    3.6  1334.0  37.6  49.8   0.8 1422.2  1418.6          1399.8 1418.2 1276.3 1276.0 1283.4 1162.7 1651.0
2010                3.6    3.6  1476.9  39.8  52.1   0.8  1569.6 1566.0           1546.1  1565.6 1409.0 1408.? 1418.6 1283.4  1822.1
2011                3.6    3.6  1635.2  42.1  54.5   0.8  1732.6 1728.9           1707.9 1728.6 1555.7 1555.3 1566.0 1418.6 2011.3
2012                3.6    3.6 1810.4  44.5  57.0   0.8 1912.8 1909.1             1886.9 1908.8 1717.9 1717.5 1728.9 1566.0 2220.5
2013                3.6    3.6  1995.4  47.1  59.4   0.8 2102.7 2099.0           2075.5 2098.7 1888.8 1888.4  1909.1  1728.9 2440.9
2014                3.6    3.6 2199.2  49.8  61.8   0.8 2311.7 2308.0            2283.1  2307.7 2076.9 2076.5 2099.0  1909.1 2683.6
201S                3.6    3.6 2423.9  52.7  64.3   0.8 2541.8 2538.2            2511.8 2537.8 2284.0 2283.6 2308.0 2099.0 2950.7
2016                3.6    3.6 2671.6  55.8  67.0   0.8 2795.2 2791.5            2763.7 2791.2 2512.0 2511.6 2538.2 2308.0 3244.8
2017                3.6    3.6 2944.6  59.0  69.7   0.8 3074.1 3070.5            3041.0 3070.1  2763.1 2762.7 2791.5 2538.2 3568.6
TotaL 2145.5               EIRR a                               24.3X         24.02  23.0X  22.82  21.5X  21.41  19.11  27.01
IPV (122)                          2364.3        2309.8  2236.4 1999.9 1871.9 1831.4 1368.7 2994.6
First Year Return *                  14.7X
/_1: Nalor resurfacing.
/.2: Alt figre  are rounded.
Source: FPTPDt's and mission's estionte.



Table 4: XAME-QumNou EHI[GHwAY: EoNOwC EvAwwaO  AD SESVI  ANALYsis - SEcroN I
(Y million, 193 prices)
Bsse Case                                      --    Sensitivity Analysis (Tot. Road)-------
.............................................................-.--..  Case  I   Case  2   Case 3   Case 4   Case 5    Case  6   Case  7
Costs        ...............Benefits--------------            ------ ------ ...... ------  ...... ------  ......
............-..   VOC        Reduced                            Gener-         Total   Cost
Net/ 2        Met  Gener- Cong.On Reduced        met            ated  Total Benefits (+10%)  Delay Delay
Constru Road          Sav-  ated  Exist. Accid-         Cash         Traffic Cost         Benefits   1      2   without
Year       -ction Iaint. Total  ings Traffic Road  ents  Total  Flow            (-50%) (+10%) (-10%) (-10%)  Year  Years   Tolt
Section 1: Xifu (Quanzhou)- Chidian
1993         10.5         10.5                                     (10.5)        (10.5) (11.6) (10.5) (11.6) (10.5) (10.5)  (9.8)
1994         55.2         55.2                                     (55.2)        (55.2) (60.7) (55.2) (60.7) (55.2) (55.2) (54.0)
1995        109.6         109.6                                   (109.6)       (109.6) (120.6) (109.6) (120.6) (109.6) (109.6) (107.2)
1996        131.5         131.5                                   (131.5)       (131.5) (144.7) (131.5) (144.7) (131.5) (131.5) (127.3)
1997        131.6         131.6                                   (131.6)       (131.6) (144.8) (131.6) t144.8) (131.6) (131.6) (127.9)
1998                0.6    0.6  100.5   5.2   4.4   0.2  110.3  109.7            107.1  109.7   98.7   98.6    0.0    0.0  124.6
1999                0.6    0.6  113.6   5.5   4.7   0.2  123.9  123.3            120.6  123.3  110.9  110.9  109.7    0.0  139.9
2000                0.6    0.6  128.4   5.9   4.9   0.2  139.2  138.6            135.7  138.6  124.7  124.7  123.3  109.7  157.2
2001                0.6    0.6  145.0   6.2   5.1   0.2  156.5  155.9            152.8  155.8  140.2  140.2  138.6  123.3  176.7
2002                0.6    0.6  163.9   6.6   5.3   0.2  175.9  175.3            172.1  175.3  157.8  157.7  155.9  138.6  198.7
2003                0.6    0.6  184.4   7.0   5.6   0.2  197.2  196.6            193.1  196.5  176.9  176.8  175.3  155.9  222.6
2004                0.6    0.6  207.4   7.5   5.9   0.2  221.0  220.4            216.6  220.3  198.3  198.2  196.6  175.3  249.5
2005                0.6    0.6  233.4   8.0   6.2   0.2  247.8  247.2            243.2  247.1  222.4  222.3  220.4  196.6  279.7
2006                0.6    0.6  262.5   8.6   6.6   0.2  277.8  277.2            272.9  277.2  249.5  249.4  247.2  220.4  313.7
2007 1 1            0.9    0.9  295.4   9.2   6.9   0.2  311.6  310.7            306.1  310.6  d79.5  279.5  277.2  247.2  351.8
2008 j:1            0.9    0.9  326.6   9.7   7.2   0.2  343.7  342.8            337.9  342.7  308.4  308.3  310.7  277.c  388.0
2009                0.6    0.6  361.2  10.2   7.5   0.2  379.1  378.5            373.4  378.4  340.6  340.5  342.8  310.7  428.0
2010                0.6    0.6  399.4  10.8   7.8   0.2  418.2  417.6            412.2  417.5  375.8  375.7  378.5  342.8  472.1
2011                0.6    0.6  441.7  11.4   8.1   0.2  461.4  460.8            455.1  460.7  414.6  414.6  417.6  378.5  520.9
2012                0.6    0.6  488.5  12.0   8.4   0.?  509.1  508.5            502.5  508.4  457.6  457.5  460.8  417.6  574.8
2013                0.6    0.6  538.4  12.8   8.8   0.2  560.0  559.4            553.1  S59.4  503.4  503.4  508.5  460.8  632.3
2014                0.6    0.6  593.4  13.5   9.1   0.2  616.1  615.5            608.8  615.5  553.9  553.8  559.4  508.5  695.6
2015                0.6    0.6  654.0  14.3   9.5   0.2  677.9  677.3            670.1  677.2  609.5  609.4  615.5  559.4  765.3
2016                0.6    0.6  720.8  15.1   9.9   0.2  745.9  745.3            737.7  745.2  670.7  670.6  677.3  615.5  842.1
2017                0.6    0.6  794.4  16.0  10.2   0.2  820.8  820.2            812.2  820.1  738.1  738.1  745.3  677.3  926.7
Total        438.4              EIRR =                               28.4%         28.1%  26.8%  26.7%  25.3%   24.8%  22.0%  30.9%
NPV (12%)                           709.9        695.0  683.8  612.8  586.7  567.7  444.2  844.8
First Year Return                    19.3%
/_I: Major resurfacing.
/.2: Net of the mainttsce savings on the proposed expressway and the existing road.
/_.3: All figures are rounded.
Source: fPTPDI's and missfon's estimate.



Table 4.7: XLMw-QUANzOU HIGHWAY: 11ECONO1MC EVALUATION AND AENSITVI NALYSIS - SECtIoN 2
(Y million, 1993 prices)
Base Case                                      -------Sensitivity Anaiysis (Toll Road)-------
--------------------------------------------------------------  -Case I Case 2 Case 3 Case 4 Case S  Case 6 Case 7
Costs        ---------------Benefits--.............------  ------  ...... ...... ...... ...... ------
--- ----------------   VOC        Reducd                             Gener-         Total   Cost
Net/-2        Net  Gener- Cong.On Reduced        met            ated  Total Benefits (#10%)  Delay Delay
Constru Road          Sav-  ated  Exist. Accid-         Cash         Traffic Cost         Benefits   1      2   without
Year       -ction Maint.  Total  ings Traffic Road  ents  Total  Flow            (-50) (+102) (-102) (-10%)  Year  Years   Toll
Section ?: Chidian- Kangdlan
1993         13.2         13.2                                     (13.2)        (13.2) (14.5) (13.2) (14.5) (13.2) (13.2) (12.5)
1994        69.6           69.6                                    (69.6)        (69.6) (76.6) (69.6) (76.6) (69.6) (69.6) (68.1)
1995        138.0         138.0                                   (138.0)       (138.0) (151.8) (138.0) (151.8) (138.0) (138.0) (135.1)
1996        165.5         165.5                                   (165.5)       (165.5) (182.1) (165.5) (182.1) (165.5) (165.5) (160.1)
1997        165.4         165.4                                   (165.4)       (165.4) (181.9) (165.4) (181.9) (165.4) (165.4) (161.0)
1998                1.1    1.1  122.7   6.2  12.5   0.3  141.7  140.6            137.5  140.5  126.5  126.4    0.0    0.0  164.3
1999                1.1    1.1  139.5   6.7  13.1   0.3  159.6  158.5            155.1  158.4  142.5  142.4  140.6    0.0  184.9
2000                1.1    1.1  158.6   7.1  13.8   0.3  179.7  178.6            175.1  178.5  160.7  160.5  158.5  140.6  208.3
2001                1.1    1.1  180.2   7.6  14.5   0.3  202.5  201.4            197.6  201.3  181.2  181.1  178.6  158.5  234.7
2002                1.1    1.1  204.9   8.1  15.2   0.3  228.4  227.3            223.3  227.2  204.5  204.4  201.4  178.6  264.7
2003                1.1    1.1  230.8   8.7  15.9   0.3  255.6  254.5            250.2  254.4  229.0  228.9  227.3  201.4  296.3
2004                1.1    1.1  260.0   9.3  16.8   0.3  286.2  285.1            280.5  285.0  256.5  256.4  254.5  227.3  331.7
2005                1.1    1.1  292.8   9.9  17.6   0.3  320.6  319.5            314.6  319.4  287.S  287.4  285.1  254.5  371.6
2006                1.1    1.1  329.9  10.6  18.5   0.3  359.3  358.2            352.9  358.1  322.2  322.1  319.5  285.1  416.3
2007 /1             1.7    1.7  371.6  11.3  19.5   0.3  402.7  401.0            395.4  400.9  360.8  360.6  358.2  319.5  466.7
2008 /_1            1.r    1.7  411.5  12.0  20.5   0.3  444.2  442.6            436.6  442.4  398.2  398.0  401.0  358.2  514.8
2009                1.1    1.1  455.7  12.7  21.S   0.3  490.2  48.1             482.7  489.0  440.0  439.9  442.6  401.0  568.0
2010                1.1    1.1  504.6  13.4  22.6   0.3  540.9  539.8            533.1  539.7  485.7  485.6  489.1  442.6  626.8
2011                l.1    1.1  558.8  14.2  23.8   0.3  597.0  595.9            588.8  595.8  536.2  536.1  539.8  489.1  691.9
2012                1.1    1.1  618.8  1s.0  25.0   0.3  659.1  658.0            650.5  657.9  592.1  592.0  595.9  539.8  763.8
2013                1.1    1.1  682.0  15.9  26.0   0.3  724.1  723.0            715.0  722.9  650.6  650.5  658.0  595.9  839.1
2014                1.1    1.1  751.5  16.8  27.0   0.3  795.6  794.S            786.1  794.4  715.0  714.8  723.0  658.0  922.0
2015                1.1    1.1  828.2  17.8  28.1   0.3  874.3  873.2            W.3  873.1  785.8  785.7  794.5  723.0 1,013.2
2016                1.1    1.1  912.7  18.8  29.2   0.3  960.9  959.8            950.5  959.7  863.8  863.6  873.2  794.5 1,113.6
2017                1.1    1.1 1,005.8  19.9  30.4   0.3 1,056.3 1,055.2        1,045.3 1,055.1  949.6  949.5  959.8  873.2 1,224.1
Total        551.7              EIRR                                 28.8s         28.5s  27.22  27.12  25.62  25.12  22.3X  31.82
EPV (12)                           468.6         459.3  401.4  405.0  388.3  375.6  294.9  576.1
First Year Return                   19.5X
/1: Major resurfacing.
/_2: Net of the maintance savin2s on the proposed expressway and the existing road.
/_3: All figures are rounaded.
Source: FPTPOI s and mission's estimate.



Table 4,:    X L4QUANOU HIGHWAY: ECONOoic EVALUAON AND 0SANALYS - SenoN 3
(Y mion, 1993 prices)
Base Case                                     -......Sensitivity Analysis (ToLl Road)-
------- ...................................................-         Case 1 Case 2 Case 3 Case 4 Case S  Case 6 Case 7
Costs        ---------------Benefftts--------------           ...... ...... ...... ...... ------  ...       ------
---------------------  VOC        Reduced                            Gener-        TotaL   Cost
Net/ 2        Net  Gener- Cong.On Reduced        met           ated  Total Benefits (+101)  DeLay Detay
Constru Road          Sav-  ated  Exist. Accid-         Cash         Traffic Cost         Senefits   1      2   Without
Year       -ction Naint. Total  ings Traffic Road  ents  Total  Flow            (-501) (10x) (-10X) (-101)  Year  Years   Toll
Section 3: Kangdian- Cuanslintou (Xiamen)
1994         27.8         27.8                                     (27.8)        (27.8) (30.6) (27.8) (30.6) (27.8) (27.8) (26.6)
1994        145.5        145.5                                    (145.5)       (149.5) (160.1) (145.5) (160.1) (145.5) (145.5) (143.2)
995         288.9        288.9                                    (288.9)       (288.9) (317.8) (288.9) (317.8) (288.9) (288.9) (284.2)
1996        346.6        346.6                                    (346.6)       (346.6) (381.3) (346.6) (381.3) (346.6) (346.6) (338.4)
1997        346.6        346.6                                    (346.6)       (346.6) (381.3) (346.6) (381.3) (346.6) (346.6) (339.5)
1998                1.9    1.9  141.7   7.3  12.0   0.4  161.4  159.5            155.8  159.3  143.4  143.2    0.0    0.0  191.2
1999                1.9    1.9  160.5   7.8  12.7   0.4  181.4  179.4            11S.6  179.2  161.3  161.1  159.5    0.0  214.8
2000                1.9    1.9  181.9   8.3  13.3   0.4  203.9  201.9            197.8  201.8  181.6  181.4  179.4  159.5  241.5
2001                1.9    1.9  206.1   8.8  14.0   0.4  229.3  227.4            223.0  227.2  204.4  204.3  201.9  179.4  271.6
2002                1.9    1.9  233.5   9.4  14.7   0.4  258.0  256.1            251.4  255.9  230.3  230.1  227.4  201.9  305.6
2003                1.9    1.9  262.8  10.0  15.5   0.4  288.7  286.8            281.8  286.6  257.9  257.7  Z56.1  227.4  342.0
2004                1.9    1.9  295.7  10.7  16.3   0.4  323.2  321.2            315.9  321.0  288.9  288.7  k.A.8  256.1  382.8
2005                1.9    1.9  332.7  11.4  17.2   0.4  361.8  359.9            354.1  359.7  323.7  323.5  321.2  286.8  428.5
2006                1.9    1.9  374.4  12.2  18.1   0.4  405.2  403.2            397.1  403.0  362.7  362.5  359.9  321.2  479.9
2007 /_1            2.9    2.9  421.3  13.1  19.1   0.4  453.9  451.0            444.5  450.7  405.6  405.3  403.2  359.9  537.6
2008 /_1            2.9    2.9  466.7  13.8  20.0   0.4  501.0  498.0            491.1  497.8  48.0  447.7  451.0  403.2  593.4
2009                1.9    1.9  517.1  14.7  20.8   0.4  553.0  551.0            543.7  550.9  4S. '  495.6  4981.0  451.0  655.0
2010                1.9    1.9  572.9  15.5  21.7   0.4  610.5  608.6            600.8  608.4  547.5  547.3  551.0  498.0  723.2
2011                1.9    1.9  634.7  16.5  22.7   0.4  674.2  672.2            664.0  672.1  604.8  604.6  60EI.6  551.0  798.6
2012                1.9    1.9  703.1  17.4  23.6   0.4  744.6  742.6            733.9  742.5  668.2  668.0  672.2  608.6  881.9
2013                1.9    1.9  775.1  18.4  24.6   0.4  818.6  816.6            807.4  816.4  734.8  )34.6  7U.6  6n7.2  969.6
2014                1.9    1.9  854.4  19.5  25.7   0.4  900.0  898.0            888.3  897.8  808.0  807.8  816.6  7,42.6 1,066.0
2015                1.9    1.9  941.8  20.7  26.8   0.4  989.6  987.7            977.4  987.5  888.7  888.5  896.0  816.6 1,172.2
2016                1.9    1.9 1,038.2  21.9  27.9   0.4 1,088.3 1,086.4       1,075.5 1,086.2  977.6  977.4  987.7  898.0 1.289.1
2017                1.9    1.9 1,14.4  23.1  29.1   0.4 1,197.0 1,195.1        1,183.5 1,194.9 1,075.4 1,075.2 1,086.4  987.7 1,417.9
Total       1155.4              EIRR a                               19.9X         19.71  18.8X   18.6"  17.51  17.71  15.81  22.51
c_ma                UV (121) a                          729.5        708.3  660.6  587.7  518.7  522.3  342.4 1,012.7
Ffrst Year Return =                  10.6"
I1: Major resuTfacing.
1_2: Met of the mfntnc savings on the proposed expresay and the existing road.
/_3: All figures are rounded.
Source: FpTPDt's and Assion's esttaste.



- -                            AX1
BANK GROUP PARTICIPATION IN
THE T SPORT SECTOR
1.          Through August 1993, the Bank Group had loaned about $4.0 billion to
China under 27 projects for the transport sector (Table 1.6) and there are a number of new
transport sector projects under preparation.
2.          The railway subsector has received $1,805 million in Bank Group funding:
five loans to the national railway system (Loan 2394-CHA; Loan 2540-CHA; Loan
2678-CHA/Credit 1680-CHA; Loan 2968-CHA; Loan 3406-CHA; and Loan 3581-CHA)
and one loan to che local railway system (Loan 3060-CHA!Credit 2014-CHA). These
projects have helped the government expand capacity on key routes and modernim the
technology for manufacturing electric locomotives, passenger coaches, and signaling
equipment. The local railway project is financing the construction of a line in Inner
Mongolia.  The most recent project is assisting MOR with railway technology
moderization; development of systemwide plans, planning tools and costing studies; and
adding capacity where it is urgently needed. The audit of the First Railway Project noted
that physical components were well executed and that macropolicy adjustments, especially
in the area of tariff reforms, and investment prioritization were likely to have the highest
impact; these conclusions are being considered in the currently proposed railway prQjet.
3.          The highway subsector has received $1,149 million in Bank GrouP financing
under nine projects (Loan 2539-CHA/Credit 1594-CHA; Loan 2811-CHA/ Credit 1792-
CHA; Loan 2951-CHA/Credit 1917-CHA; Loan 2952-CHA; Credit 1984-CHA; Loan
3073-CHA/Credit 2025-CHA; Loan 3471-CHA; Loan 3530-CHA; and Loan 3531-CHA).
These projects provide for the construction of high-standard national highways totaling
about 1,630 kin, and the expansion and improvement of some 5,140 km of lower-class
provincial and county roads and major bridges. When completed, some of these roads will
help to provide vital missing links in the national highway network; others will hell to ease
severe congestion in parts of the network or provide access to remote areas. The projects
are also designed to provide foreign technical assistance and training of Chinese personnel
in areas such as supervision and quality control of road construction, design, and planning.
Finally, the projects support studies on key issues of highway development such as road
safety, pavement management, user charges, and methods of financing the expansion,
improvement, and rehabilitation of the road network. The first Highway Project (Loan
2539-CHA/Credit 1594-CHA) ii completed; a Project Completiorn Report was issued in
May 1992.
4.          The port and waterways subsector has received $715 million of Bank Group
financing under eight projects (Lan 2207-CHA, 2689-CHA, 2877-WHA/Credit 1845-
CHA, 2907-CHA/Credit 1975-CHA, 3006-CHA, 3007-CHA, Credit 2391-CHA, and Loan



- 78 -                        ANN         I
3552-CHA). Most of the loan funds are being used in Shanghai, Tianjin, Dalian,
Huangpu, Ningbo, and Yiamcn for construction of terminals, jetties, and berths for
handling bulk commodities, general cargo, and containers, as well as the dredging of
navigation channels. Funds have also been used for training, technical assistance, and
various studies such as port planning, operations management, and containerization. The
audit report of the first port project found the project successfully completed, on time and
below cost, but recommended developing long-term strategic port investment and planning
and improving prequalification procedures. Recommendations on these points are being
incorporated in the Bank's most recent port project, in Shanghai, and in the discussion of
procurement procedures for other transport projects under preparation.
5.         The Jiangsu Provincial Transport Project, approved in 1991 (Loan 3316-
CHA/Credit 2226-CHA, $154 million), was a r'ultimodal project. While the main focus
of this project is on the rehabilitation (450 kIn) and upgrading (176.5 kIn) of arterial
roads, the project also includes the first Bank financing in China for the rehabilitation of
waterways, a 17 km a section of the Grand Canal, and associated works, such as a
shiplock and a bridge.
6.         The Bank Group has financed two specific urban transport project totaling
$210 million (Credit 2296-CHA and Loan 3652-CHA). The Shanghai Metropolitan
Transport Project was designed to increase capacity and reduce congestion in the transport
network; and improve the planning, programming, finance and management of the urban
transport system in Shanghai. The Second Shanghai Metropolitan Transport Project would
further address operational and economic efficiency of the urban transport system and
strengthen public sector management capacity. While these two projects singularly
addressed urban transport, several other Bank-financed projects in the urban sector also
include transport components.



- 79 -                        ANNEXX2
HIGHEWAY MAAGEMEN
A. HIGHWAY ADMINRAToN
1.         The Fujian Provincial Transport Department (FPMD) administers most of
the highway, port and waterway transport-related matters in the Province through its
various departnents.  Notable exceptions are the administration of the Xamen and
Quanzhou ports (pan. 2) and the new Zhangzhou-Xiamen-Fuzhou Highway (pam. 4).
ID reports direcdy to the Fujian Provincial Government and acts as an arm of the
provincial government in transport planning, budgeting, and financing. Activities of FPID
adhere to general transport policy and technical guidelines of MOC.
2.          While PPTD is responsible for all planning, construction, and maintenance
of the provincial road network, prefectures, municipalities, counties and towns/villages
have some autonomy in planning and investing in small-scale road construction. The
Department is also responsible for port and waterway administration including shipping,
except Xiamen and Quanzhou ports, two major ports in the Province that were recently
placed under the direct responsibility of their municipal governments.
3.          The Fujian Provincial Highway Administration Bureau (FPHAB), one of the
divisions of FPTD, is responsible for highway matters and receives professional and
technical guidance from the Engineering Adminisrton Department of MOC. With a
headquarters staff of about 160, and total staff of 12,000, the bureau's main function is the
constuction and maintenance of roads through local admisations set up in the various
municipalities, prefectres, districts and counties throughout the Province. The nine
Tansport Bureau offices at the municipality and prefecture level carry out construction and
maintenance of the national and provincial highways using experienced, fu-time staff
within their maintenance units. Under the municipalities and prefectures, 67 offices at
district and county levels have responsibility for the maintenance of lower-level roads.
Some townships, enterprises, and mines also take part in the maintenance of roads of their
particular concern, termed 'special roads."
4.          The Fujian Provincial Expressway Construction Directorate Office
(FPECDO) has been set up recently as an enterprise for administering the preparation and
construction of the Zhangzhou-Xiamen-Fuzhou Highway under the direction of a
governmental Leading Group headed by a Provincial Vice Govemor. FPfD is represented
in the Group by its Deputy Director. At full strength FPECDO will have 60 staff.
5.          The             strucures of FPTD, PPECDO and FPHAB are presented
in Charts 1 and 2.



- 80-                         ANNEX 2
6.         Planning and Budgeting. Planning is carried out by FPTD on an annual
bais, within the framework of five-year investment plans. The planning process for
annual investment in road construction begins in the early part of the year, followed by
discussions and provincial approval during July/August. Approval by MOC, when
required, is typically obtained by November. The steps involved in processing and
approval of road investments varies according to scope and amount of investment for the
proposed project. For projects over Y 100 million, a feasibility analysis, including
economic evaluation, is submitted by FPHAB to MOC for approval. Projects under Y 100
million may be approved by the Province, with a copy of documents submitted to MOC
for subsidy consideration. MOC subsidies (grants) are available for construction of
national and provincial roads, but not for maintenance. Investment in local, county, and
township roads (generally in the Y 1 to 2 million range) requires neither provincial nor
MOC approval, though copies of documentation would typically be submitted to relevant
authorities to apply for subsidies.
7.         Like most other provincial transport departments in China, FPID follows
a balanced budget policy for managing highway investments as well as recurring
expenditures. The proposed highway expenditures are normally balanced against the
revenues earmarked for highway maintenance and development. Since 1985, the Province
has also maintained a Transport Fund, comprising monies earmarked for investment. In
1993, the responsibility for financial planning and budgeting for the road subsector was
devolved from FPHAB to the prefecture/municipality level of the highway bureau
organization. As a restlt, highway bureau units at each level undergo an annual planning
and budgeting process, with review and approval by, and transfer of funds through,
FPHAB. There are three main categories of maintenance for the purposes of budgeting:
engineering (including construction arid maintenance activities), administration, and other
expenditures. While the financial planning process involves a balanced budget approach,
funding gaps may be identified, which would be met by transfers from FPHAB.
8.         Road user charges, in particular Road Maintenance Fees (RMF), are
collected by transport bureaus at various levels and redistributed to meet the funding
requirements of the entire Province. RMF funds ;,- allocated to prefectures and
municipalities on a pro-rata basis, according to each unit's actual collection of the total
provincial RMF each year. The municipalities of Fuzhou and Xiamen, which generate a
large portion of the Province's RMF, in amounts well beyond their own budgetary
requirements, retain 60 percent of their share of the RMF. Other prefectures and
municipalities retain 80 percent of their share of the RMF. The remaining portion of RMF
funds are retained by FPHAB in a general pool at the provincial level, used to meet
funding gaps of lower-level highway bureau units during the year. Road maintenance
opeations constitute the major use of RMF revenues: 95 percent of funds are allocated
for maintenance, with the remaining 5 percent for construction.
9.         The provincial highway budget for Fujian amounted to Y 694 million in
1992 (representing 21 percent annual growth since 1985). Of this amount, 48 percent was
collected from road maintenance fees, 15 percent was contributed by MOC, 12 percent was
raised through tolls, and 10 percent was provided by the Province. The most significant



- 81-                         AMM  2
growth among revenue sources has been in tolls collected, which increased 22-fold between
1985 and 1992 (i.e., at an annual rate of 55 percent) (Appendix 1). The major iteims uf
expenditure during the 1985-92 period were maintenance and construction. In 1992,
maintenance accounted for 48 percent of expenditures, while construction accounted for
38 percent of expenditures. Other components of total expenditure included rehabilitation
(11 percent) and administration (3 percent). The proportion of expenditures reprsented
by construction has increased significantly, from 17 percent in 1985 to 38 percent in 1992.
The proportion of expenditure on maintenance declined from 68 percent of total
expenditures in 1985 to 48 percent in 1992.
10.        Flnancing. As discussed above, funding for highway construction and
maintenance is derived from a variety of provincial and national sources. However, the
large majority of funding is derived from provincial sources. The RMF is the major
source of funding, representing 48 percent of total highway funding in 1992. The fee is
collected from motor vehicle operators throughout the Province. Of the gross RMF
collected, about 82 percent is retained for application to the Province's highway budget.
An additional 15 percent is allocated to the Ministry of Finance Energy and Transport
Fund and 3 percent is transferred to the provincial Public Security Bureau (primarily for
highway patrol and road safety operations). The gross RMF collected by Fujian Province
increased by over 15 percent annually between 1985 and 1992, from Y 148 million in 1985
to Y 405 million in 1992. The net RMF retained by the Province also increased by
15 percent annually over the period, from Y 122 million in 1985 to Y 334 million in 1992.
11.        The RMF is collected from atl vehicle operators, with rates applied based
on the vehicle weight: for passenger vehicles, a 4-passenger capacity would be charged
at a 1-ton rate. RMF rates are determined by the FPID and approved by the State
Council. Current rates are as follows:
Vbicle categgy         Monthly rate (Yuan)
Trucks                    140 per ton
Buses                     160 per ton
Tractors                   40 per ton
Passenger cars            160 per ton
Motorcycles                 2 per unit
Among the vehicle categories, trucks contribute the largest portion of RMF, currently over
50 percent of total fees collected. The collection ratio for the RMF is 71 percent, after
accounting for exemptions, evasions, and varying numbers of vehicles operating from
month to month. Certain categories of vehicles are exempted from the RMF, such as
buses with local routes (routes of less than 30 km) and vehicles of public administrations
(such as government, hospitals, and fire departments).
12.        In 1992, the majority of RMF revenues were collected from private (or
"own account") vehicle operators, with significant amounts also collected from transport
enterprises. Social enterprises and institutions contributed 49 percent of total RMP



- 82 -                        ANNEX2
revenues in 1992, followed by private transport enterprises (25 percent) and publicly
owned transport enterprises (17 percent). The remainder was collected from government
and social organizations and schools (3 percent), organizations in the timber industry
(1 percent), public transport entities (1 percent), and other organiztions (3 percent).
13.         Tolls represent an increasingly important source of funding for the highway
subsector in the Province. Toll revenues are earmarked for highway expenditures, broadly
defined. Tolls may also be introduced to finance a specific road venture: in such a case,
toll revenue would be held in a reserve fund for repayment of underlying debt of the toll
road corporation and administration of toll operations. Revenue in excess of these
obligations could be applied to a vaiety of other highway sector uses; howewcr, 'he
Province generally restricts the use of toll revenues to the constructicn of new roads.
14.         During 1993, the Province introduced a number of preferential policies to
support highway investment. The policies are designed to genert funds that would be
earmarked for highway investment. A portion of the new funding could, in the medium
term, be applied to investment in other priority subsectors, such as telecommunications or
ports. A significant amount of the new fiunds would be collected through road user
charges. Toll revenues would mncrease due to a significant expansion of toll stations
throughout the Province, with tolls collected by local as well as by Provincial authorities.
A new road construction fund has been created, to be capitalized by fees on freight
transport (trucks), and based on vehicle ownership. Additional policies have been adopted
to generate funds in other sectors for infrastructure, or specifically highway, investment.
A special construction fund, maintained by the Province and eannarked for development
of high-grade highways, would be set up to meet futwe investment needs. The Provincial
government has also adopted a system of counterpart funding (grants), available for
repayment of investment loans related to a group of priority national and provincial roads.
A new infrastructure construction fee has been designed, applied as a 5 percent surtx
across various productive and consumer sectors. Finally, a 15-20 percent tax will be
levied on the sale of land adjacent to expressways, interchanges, and national or provincial
roads.
1S.         Fuel prices in China are not subsidized. Fuel taxes are charged to road
users, but are heavily levied by MOF, with the net result that such funds may not be
allocated back to road works. Taxes currently amount to 43 percent of the base price of
gasolines and 13 percent of the base price of diesel fuels. Total fuel prices, including
taxes, show that prices at the pump for planned fuel allocations are comparble to
international market pnces, while those charged in the open market are above international
market prices and are rising more rapidly than consumel prices (Appendix 2).
B. ENGEING, CoNSRucON AN MAINTANCE
16.         EngIneering. Highway works in the Province, including roads, bridges, and
tunnels, are mainly designed by the Fujian Provincial Transport Planning and Design
Insttute (FPPDI), a department within FPTD. Plans are reviewed by the Highway
Planning and Design Institute of MOC for major road and other engineering projects. The



- 83 -                        AX 2
First and Second Survey and Design Institutes in the Ministry of Railways may be involved
in the review of design documentation for major bridges and tunnels on behalf of MOC.
Small-scale road projects are engineered by the design departments at the prefectural,
municipal, or county levels. FPTPDI has a staff of 460. About 60 percent of the staff are
professional engineers, with the remaining staff in intennediate- and junior-level technical
and support functions. The institute's main worldng groups are specialized in the design
of highways, bridges, tunnels, waterways, and industrial and commercial buildings. Other
divisions in FPTPDI include a survey team, a geological survey team, a technology
information division, and a computer center. Computer applicat"   V are used in the design
process, specifically, through computer-aided design packages, pelmitting up to 80 percent
of the design work to be computerized.
17.        Construction. Some small-scale road and bridge projects are being directly
undertaken by the municipal/prefectual and county/district units of FPHAB. However,
larger new works, and, recently, most of the smaller ones are also being undertaken by
road construction enterprises, and FPHABWs activity by direct labor focuses largely on road
maintenance. Contts to road construction en'terpises are normally awarded under
competitive bidding procedures, although inviting a limited number of contractors to
submit bids is also being practiced. The present status of the provincial road construction
industry is discussed in Section E of this annex.
18.          ntenance. FPHAB, along with its regional bureaus at the prefectural/
municipal level and maintenance divisions at the county/district level, is responsible for
carrying out maintenance and rehabilitation of national, provincial, and local roads.
Maintenance of about 25 percent of the total loads in the Province is carried out by
highway bureau units at the municipality level. Maintenance of the remaining 75 percent
of the roads is administered through prefecturl highway bureau units (Appendix 3).
19.        The annual planning of maintenance works encompasses nine activities. The
most frequently performed maintenance activities comprise routine maintenance and
medium-term maintenance (resurfang). Major maintenance (rehabilitation of pavement)
and reconstruction (pavement construcdton, upgrading from sand to gavel, bitumen, or
cement surface, and alignment improvement) are carried out periodically. The plan also
provides for tasks such as planting of trees along tI.e roads, ferry maintenance, emergency
works, and maintenance of facilities, and procurement and maintenance of equipment.
20.         Schedules for major road maintenance activities are prepared on the basis
of road condition surveys throughout the Province. The data collected include the age,
degree of deterioration and the residual strength of pavement and the volume of traffic.
In practice, deterioration and strength of pavement have been the predominant factor in
maintenance planning. This system has been in place for nearly 10 years, and is now
consistently followed throughout the Province.
21.         In planning the work progrm  for routine maintenance each year, detailed
breakdowns of unit costs for pavement and maintenance works are used, costed in yuan
per km, including materials. For routine maintenance, the Province has maintined



-84-                          ANNEX 2
recerds on actual cost of work performed. A strict system is used for costing and design
of major maintenance and reconstruction works. For each such activity, a design plan with
breakdown of cost according to MOC guidelines must be followed. A review and approval
process is in place, followed by submission of a final costing report. Also, there is a
system in place for monitoring routine maintenance expenditures. In the last quarter of
each year, the budget plan is formulated, using targets whereby a certain percentage of
roads mt.,., be kept in a "good" condition classification. Both quality and financial
performance are monitored continuously, through regular reviews of work targets and
costs, complemented by inspections of roads. Such reviews are carried out on a monthly
basis for village roads, quarterly for county roads, and semiannually for provincial roads.
22.         Due to the predominantly low grade of pavements in the existing network
and the recent increase in traffic, pavement capacity is being stressed, with resultant
increases in maintenance and rehabilitation costs. As of 1992, the average cost of baseline
('routine") maintenance for all Provincial roads was Y 3,200 per kn per year for asphalt
roads, and Y 4,900 per km per year for gravel roads. The cost of maintaining national
or provincial roads is generally higher than the average for all roads, and in 1992 ranged
between Y 5,000 and Y 6,000 per km per year for routine maintenance. FPHAB also
provided subsidies of Y 400 to 600 per kn for the maintenance of local roads in 1992.
Additional costs of local road maintenance are funded through budgetary contlibutions of
transport bureaus at prefectural, municipal, county, and district levels.
23.         Although maintenance operations are well organized, certain deficiencies
have been identified that, if not addressed, could seriously undermine the effectiveness of
road maintenance operations over the long term. These include: (a) the structurally weak
pavement structures would require greater investment, specifically pavement strengthening;
(b) the road maintenance equipment fleet is largely outmoded and in poor condition; and
(c) the technology applied for maintenance is becoming obsolete. There are no easy and
readily available solutions to these problems. However, the formulation of a cohesive road
maintenance policy is advis .ble to prevent accelerated deterioration of the provincial
network that, according to MOC s standard evaluation criteria, is presently in fair-to-good
condition.
C. STAFF TRAINNG
24.         The Education Division of FPTD  is responsible for the planning,
coordination and administration of training activities for the highway and waterway
subsectors. Formal training is mairly provided by (a) Fujian Provincial Highway
Vocational School, (b) Communications School; and (c) Communications Management
(Cader's) School, which are all under the administration of FPID.
25.         The Highway Vocational School trains junior middle-school graduates for
hee years primarily in skills required by automotive and construction equipment
mechanics and construction equipment operators in the field of road construction and
maintenance. It graduates 150 students every year, which provides grassroots technicians



-85 -                         AN          2
for units of FPHAB and also for the provincial road construction enterprises and othe
reated industries.
26.        The Commwdcadons School tains intemediate-level technical and
management staff for FPMD and related agencies in the various prefectures, cities, and
counties in the field of highways and bridges, automobile servicing, financial management
and telecommunications. Consideration is being given to expand the curriculum to include
courses on contract implementation and management. The school requires an entry
examination and it graduates about 200 student a year from a four-year course.
27.         The Communwcadon Maiagemnt School provides training mainly for the
management-level staff of FPTD and related agencies in the various prefectues, cities and
counties, aimed at refesng/updating knowledge and skills regarding new policies,
technology and management. Training courses are nonmally of short- and medium-term
duration.
28.        Othetraining oppormnities in the highway field include: (a) intensive study
for senior highway personnel, such as directors and subdire s of city and prefecture
highway bureaus, oranized by MOC, of four to six months' duration in highway
maintenance and management; and (b) part-time training and correspondence school
programs, generally pursued by more senior personnel, such as d ectors of highway
buraus at prefecture, municipality, and county levels.
29.        Trining opportnities for provincial highway personnel abroad have been
imited, although a number of taining programs were conducted abroad and in China
under the Bank's firs Highway Project with Fujian provincial staff participation. Also,
Staff of PPDI completed on-the-job training in England, Singapore and Hong Kong on
highway and bridge desgn.
30.         From the preceding it is evident that the highway institutions in the Province
have accorded high priority to training on a broad base, which has enhanced the technical
competence of te profesional staff presently on board. However, the exposure to modern
technology has still been limited and there is a recognized need for intensifying and
widening staff training efforts. The poposed project would provide further opportunities
for training, both in China and abroad to the personnel of FPTD, FPHAB (and its branches
in the prefectre, cities, and counties), FPECDO and FPTPDI in the fields of highway
planning, design, construcon, maintenace and operations, offering wider exposure to
technology and management of highways in other counties.
D. HIGIWAY SAliEY
31.         Since 1987, highway safety in China has been the responsibility of a Public
Security Bureau within each province. In Fujian, the Public Security Bureau's trffic
activities are ornized through provincial traffic police units. Police units deal directly
with taffic accidents, vehicle testing, drver licensing, and general traffic management,
including the provision of adequate traffic siging, road marldng, and installation of road



- 86 -                         NN       2
safety devices such as safety rails. Funding for the operation and administration of the
taffic police is provided by a fixed proportion of the annual RMP, which varies from
province to province. In Fujian Province, 3 percent of the RMF is directly alloated to
the Public Security Bureau.
32.         Licensing is strict, requiring a training test, a one-year practice period,
compledon of instruction in a driving school, and a road test. For truck drivers, one-half-
year full-time driving practice is required prior to licensing. The cost of obtaining a
driving license is considerable, at Y 2,000 for cars and Y 3,000 for trucks. About eight
different licenses are available for different operators. Measures are in place to limit the
operation of unsafe vehicles. All vehicles, including cars, trucks and motorcycles, must
be inpected each year at special inspection centers throughout the Province. Inspection
centers are up-to-date, including computerzed equipment capable of testing emissions and
noise. Traffic police may also perform limited inspections when vehicles sped.
33.         During the last few years the Public Security Bureau has taken the f.ollowing
specific measures to improve traffic management and road safety in the Province:
(a) reduced the number of fixed checkpoints that unjustiflably impeded the flow of taffic
and created public resentment; 0) replaced fixed checkpoint control of traffic with frequent
patrolling of heavily congested sections of the network with high risks of vehicle-to-vehicle
or vehicle-to-pedestrian or -bicycle conflicts; (c) conducted road safety campaigns through
the media (newspapers, radio, television) and courses about road safety in special dnver
education and public schools; and (d) introduced computeized accident recording systems,
which will eventually allow information to be shared with provincial transport authonties
and with a nationwide traffic data bank.
34.         The Province's Safety Commission, headed by a Vice-Govenor, meets
regularly to coordinate safety matters, including road safety. Although there are no formal
arrangements in place, FPHAB and municipal/prefecural transport authonties often consult
on traffic management and road safety matters and take joint actons as considered
approprate. Furthermore, the provincial road authorties ensure that adequate traffic
safety features are incorporated in the design of roads.
35.         While much has recently been accomplished to improve traffic management
and road safety in the Province, seeral problems remain to be addressed, including:
(a) laws and regulations are not well established to ensure consistency and equity in police
actions; (b) the education level and exerience of the police force are considered deficient,
which has a negative impact on police/public interaction; and (c) heavy congestion on some
secto  of the network, combined with undisciplined driver behavior, remains the major
cause of road traffic accidents.
E. RoAD CoNmwcnoN INRY
36.         Prior to 1986, all road works in Fujian Province were carried out by
construction teams within transport departments or units of provincial, municipal,
prefecturl, and county governments. Production targets were broadly set, however,



- 87 -                         ANNEX 2
completion of works was frequently delayed due to the operating inefficiency of contracting
units. The main factors contributing to inefficiency were the use of a design and build
approach, lack of clear contactual responsibility and absence of financial incentives. The
allocation of funds for road works was often inadequate, with the implicit understanding
that complementary funds would be forthcoming from general budgetary sources.
37.         In 1986, in line with economic reform efforts, two large and two medium-
sie road construction units were transformed into state-owned enterprises (SOEs). The
SOEs became financially independent, operating without budgetary support from the
govenment entities to which they were administratively attached. However, their
operations continue to be subjected to prevailing regulations, social obligations, and other
constraints that charcterize government entities in China. In addition to these four SOEs,
several collectively owned road construction units have been established in the Province
in recent years, which primarily work on lower-class provincial and municipal road
projects.
38.         At present, there are 17 enterprises in the Province licensed to undertake
road construction works, comprising 4 SOEs and 13 collectively owned enterprises. The
four SOEs operate on a province-wide basis. Six additional enterprises are designated as
municipal construction compenies, and the remaining seven enteprises as county
consucton companies. Thb enterpnses are based in cities and towns throughout the
Przovice, with the greatest *oncentration in the north-central region. Four enterpnses are
located along the eastern casdtine.
39.         The Provincial Construction Commission (PCC) witiin the Province of
Fujian is responsible for licensing and setting standards for all construction companies in
the Province. In the licensing process, the technical, managerial, and financial capacity
of each entepise is assessed, based on the type and size of projects undertaken, depth of
managerial and engineering experience, number of engineers, fixed assets, cash flow, and
gross income. Enterprises are then ranked on a scale from A to D, where the level of
classification designates the highest class of road an enterprise would be licensed to
constru     License A qualifies for Class 1 highways at the high end of the scale, and
License D for Class 4 roads at the low end of the scale. Distribution of the 17 enterprises
according to these licensing criteria is as follows: License A-2; License B-2;
License C-6; License D-7.
40.         The provincial construction industry is considered to be rather small, based
on the annual doll volume of works. For the five-year period, 1986-90, the two A-class
enterprises recorded an averge turnover of $6.0 million. The corresponding values for
the two B-class enterprises and the one C-class enterprise were $1.2 million and $1.0
millon, respectively. Applying these figures to the industry as a whole, the industry
turnover for the given period is estimated at about $25 million per year. However, the
capacity of the industry is believed to exceed this figure by about 30 percent. Regional
variation in work demand and limited mobility of the industial enterprises, particularly the
smaller ones, are considered to be the primary reasons for this.



- 88 -                         ANNEX 2
41.         Several external and intemal constraints facing the road construction industry
have been identified. These constraints adversely affect the performance of individual
enterprises, and have implications for the expansion of the entire industry on a competitive,
"iable basis. The major external constwnts include inappropriate costing standards applied
by employers for estimating the cost of construction contracts; administrative boundaries
restrict enterprises from other regions to participate in bidding; settng upper and lower
limits for accepting bids (bracketing), insufficient cost adjustment provisions to compensate
for price increases; the classification of potential construction works (i.e., major
reconstruction works) as maintenance which would then be carried out by government
force account units; lack of access to capital at a reasonable cost; the absence of an
established equipment leasing industry to accommodate the potential needs of enterprises,
particularly small ones; the routine use of incomplete contract drawings and specifications
which hinder the progress of works; and the fact that permissible profit margins for the
road construction industry are lower than other industries, such as manufacturing.
42.         The current inefficiency of the road construction industry has also resulted
from the internal constraints facing enterprises. Enterprises lack experience in preparing
bids and interpreting conditions of contracts such as Federation Internationale des
Ingenieurs-Conseils (FIDIC). Pricing of bids is, in fact, quite removed from cost recovery
or other internal considerations since enterprises are expected to match the employer's cost
estimates to secure a contract. Management autonomy and effective decision-making
within. ent.rprises are also constrained, with broad implications for the ability of
enterprises to respond to a changing environment, especially in the areas of organizational
stuu, technology, and financial management. Owners rather than line managers within
enterprises retain control in personnel, capital investment, operational, and certain
administative matters, weakening efforts to pursue a more market-oriented operation.
43.         The confluence of external and internal constraints, as described above, has
also had a negative impact on the acquisition of essential assets, such as equipment, and
modern management sklls by the road construction enterpnses. The general level of
technology among the enterprises is insufficient, charcterized by a shortage of equipment,
particularly for earthworks and pavement works, but also of laboratory and field testing
equipment used in quality control. The enterprises also continue to suffer from a lack of
exposure to up-to-date construction technology. The management of enterprises needs to
be strengthened, particularly in the areas of equipment maintenance and utilization, and in
the planning, on-site organization, scheduling and controlling of works.
44.         The financial performance and viability of road construction enterprises is
threatened by fluctuating workloads, low profit margins, and, in certain cases, significant
leverage. Fluctuations in turnover appear significant, on the order of plus or minus
30-40 percent per year, depending on the volatility of demand. Annual proflte are low,
estimated at 3 percent of urnover. Some enterprises have made effective use of financial
leverage; the four larger enterprises, the two A-class enterprises recorded liabilities equal
to 37 percent and 52 percent of total assets, respectively, and the liability to asset ratos
for the two B-class enterprises were 37 percent and 8 percent. However, cash flow
management in the firms remains weak, which poses risks for liability management.



- 89 -                        ANNEX2
Effective financial management is furher complicated by the limited advance payment for
mobilztion of works, lack of cost-based compettion in contract bidding, and severely
restricted access to capital. More generally, the entprises seem to have very limited
experence in many critical areas of finacial management, such as pncing, costing,
planning and budgeting, and accounting.
45.        Directives regarding the tansiton of the operating mechanisms of SOEs are
currently being formulated at both national and provincia levels. Fujian Province recently
prepared guidelines and revised regulations that would be applied to all provincial SOEs,
including the road construction enterprises. The proposed measures are expected to
become, eventually, beneficial to the SOEs in the road construction industry by increasing
management autonomy in the SOEs and a stronger nrwket orientation. However, these
measures alone will not bring about the required level of change in the industry, and must
be accompanied by other measures. The project, therefore, includes a detailed study of
the provincial road industry, which will compnse an in-depth diagnosis of existng
conditions and the preparation of recommendations and an acdon plan intended to pro' ide
a basis for overall strengthening of the industry.



FUJIAN: PROVINCIAL IGHWAY A)NN BAU
]RE3VENUES ADEXP'ENDtITURES, 1985-92
(Y million)
1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992
Gross Road Maintenance Fee (RIF)           148.76  218.57  238.30  263.11  301.87  385.32  422.74  405.00
Less funds allocated to:
Energy and Transport Fund                 22.31   32.78   35.75   39.47   48.30   57.80   63.41   60.75
State Budget Adjustment Fund               -        -       -        -       16.60   21.19   23.25   22.28
Public Security Bureau                     -        6.56    7.15    7.89    9.06   11.56   12.69   12.15
Net RHF for provincial use                 126.45  179.23  195.40  215.75  227.91  294.77  323.39  309.82
REVENIUES Y
Net road maintenance fee                 126.45  179.23  195.40  215.75  227.91  294.77  323.39  309.82
HOC grant                                 25.00   27.00   36.00   51.50   61.50   72.60   87.12  104.54
Provincial grant                          25.70   38.98  102.08   87.69  121.48  135.73  159.87  193.26
Tolls                                      3.96    4.58    5.92   11.14   16.62   18.64   46.87   86.24
Total Revenues                        181.11  249.79  339.40  366.08  427.51  521.74  617.25  693.86
EXPENDITURES
Construction                              30.17   6S.00  107.00  137.61  162.18  185.41  218.22  265.20
Rehabilitation                            21.00   38.30   62.88   52.90   59.74   85.68  101.93   75.07
Maintenance                              123.03  139.79  161.98  167.57  193.46  237.04  279.70  330.05
Administration and overhead                6.91    6.70    7.54    8.00   12.13   13.61   17.40   23.54
Total Expenditures                    181.11  249.79  339.40  366.08  427.51  521.74  617.25  693.86
Source:  FPA8.                                                                                                        I



MUM: bUE1 PRIE
(YUan p  litew)
Inter-
Before March 20, 1984      After March 20. 1984       Current - July 1993    national
Plsned  Negoti-            Planned  Negoti-           Planned  Vegoti-          prices
la    ated lb Market       k     ated lb  Market        la sted lb  Market   Jf.
Gasoline
(70 oct) la         0.53    0.70      0.88     0.63    0.96      1.20      ..       ..      2.20     0.87
Indes               100     132      166       100     152      190       ..     ..
Gasoline
(80 oct) ILc        0.63    0.73      0.98     0.67    1.03      1.13      ..      ..       2.30     0.99
Index              100      116      156      100      154      169      ..
Diesel /d            0.46    0.68     0.85    0.502    1.00    1.125        *.       .      1.80     0.82
Index              100      148      185      100      199      224       ..     ..
Consumer price
inde  l         ---------e100----------    ----------127 ---------      --------198---------
La   Planned allocation prices.
Lh   Negodated above quota.
l    Prices of gasoline include an aggregate of 43 percent centOl govemment fuel taxes.
£4   Prices of diesel include a 13 percent central govment fuel tax.
£@ Consumer price index at end-of-year 1983, 1987 and 1990, repectively.
tf   Average wholesale prices for regular/prmium unladed gasoline and No. 2 diesel fuel, FOB refineries, pipelrne
terminals and inland waterway barge terminals (July 1, 1993, New Jersey).
Souce: 1. FPPM.
2. Plat's Ollgram Prce Repon, McGrw-Hill Inc., New York, New York, United States; Vol. 71, No. 128, p. 5.



- 92 -                          AiN=2
Appedix 3
lFUJIAN.* MEAGl]E T OF ROAD MlAlSTANCE, 19
Road length                   Proportion of
maintained                   total network
Responsibility (entity)               (km)                      length (S)
Municipal Hiahw&a Bureaus
Zhangzhou                           5,360.9                          12.8
Fuzhou                              4,047.1                           9.7
Xiamen                                878.3                           2.1
Subtotal                     10.286.3                           24.6
Prefectural Highway Bureaus
Sanming                             8,471.1                          20.2
Lanping                             7,892.3                          18.8
Quanzhou                            5,989.0                          14.3
Longyan                             4,217.8                          10.1
Ningde                              3,933.0                           9.4
Putian                              1,092.3                           2.6
Subtotal                     31.595.5                           75.4
Total Network Lenth          41.881.8                          100.0
Source: FPHAB.



-93-                              3
ROAD NETORK ROVAE PROGRA )FVP
A. TE PROGRAM
1.         The economic development in Fujian Province has been shaped f%y its
geogrphic configurtion. The southern coastal corridor is generally much more developed
than the predominantly mountainous northern regions.  Lack of adequate road
infastucture is considered to be one of the major impediments to faster economic growth
in the influience areas of the existing roads.
2.          The Province has requested Bank financing to supplement its own resources
for the improvement of the network in the northern and northeastern part of the Province.
Most of the roads located in these regions have low geometic standards and poor surface
conditions. The RNIP component of the project includes seven subprojects tat are
geographically widespread, a deliberate step by the Province to promote improved project
preparation practices and technology transfer, normally assodated with the Bank's
involvement, to remote prefectures and counties. The rationale for selecting a particuar
road section for inclusion in the RNIP was deternined by the respective importance of the
road link in the network. Several of the road sections selected form part of the national
road network and also play an important role in the road transport needs of the prefectues
and counties concerned.
3.          The RNIP subprojects fall into two categories:
Group A: upgrading existing roads; 3 subprojects, 58.3 km;
Group B: paving existing gravel roads; 4 subprojects, 202.7 km.
B. ECONOMIC EVALUATION MErHODOILOGY FOR SUBPROnC'S
4.          RNIP subprojects were evaluated using a computer spreadset evaluation
model developed in previous Bank highway projects in Chira. The inputs to the model are
described in the following.
5.          Traffic Forecast. Fujian Province has experienced rapid economic growth
in recent years. As a result, highway taffic has been growing rapdly. Motor vehicle
regstation over the last 12 years grew at an annual average rate of 11.5 percent. Traffic
growth on the main areies of the network indicated a similar rate of growth. However,
historical records of traffic growth rates for motorized taffic (motor vehicles and tractors)
an the RNIP roads indicated an annual growth rate of between 4.8 and 6.5 percent over
the last seven-year period. Because of the hilly and mountainous nature of the terain, the



-94-                          A
volume of bicycle and animalArawn vehicle traffic was found to be insignificant on all
RNIP roads.
6.         It was assumed that traffic growth rates over a five-year period after the
improvement ( . the road conditions will be somewhat higher than indicated by the
historical trend, reflecting the expected increase in economic activity, with some tapering
off of the traffic during the following 10-year peiod. Additional taffic was assumed to
be generated by the improved condition of the roads at a rate of 10 percent of the nonnal
traffic.
7.          The estimated trffic volumes have been converted to an equivalent truck
traffic volume and compared witi the capacity of the road. The 4-ton medium truck
(5.5-ton GVW) was used as the standard vehicle, and all motorized traffic, including
tractors have been converted to medium-truck-equivalent (MTE) units, using a factor o
1.0. When the equivalent volume was lower than road capacity, the projected volume was
taken as the future traffic volume. When the projected traffic volume was highs than road
capacity, it was adjusted to be equal to the capacity of the road, and the volumes by
vehicle type were adjusted proportionately.
8.          Highway Capacity. The pracal capacity of a highway is defined as the
volume of trffic at the time when the stability of the traffic flow starts to break down.
Congestion effects, in the form of impedance of the faster vehicles by slower ones, will
be felt over the whole range of traffic volumes up to that volume, but instability of flow
and the onset of stop-and-go conditions will occur only after this volume is exceeded. The
practical capacity of a flat tangent 7-meter wide, two-lane highway is about 2,500
passenger car equivalent (pce) per hour. Since a medium-size truck is equivalent to 2
passenger cars, practical capacity for this type of highway is assumed to be 1,250 MTE
units per hour.
9.          Capacity is assumed to vary with the width of pavement. The following
adjustment factors were adopted to modify the capacity of a 7-meter wide road (with linear
interpolation) when the road width is different from 7 meters.
7.0 meters        1.00
6.7 meters        0.98
6.1 meters        0.90
5.5 meters        0.80
10.        Road capacity drops with increasing hilliness. The following factors were
adopted to modify capacity for each road geometric class:
Flat/Rolling:     0.85
Hilly:            0.65
Mountainous:      0.50



- 9S -                        ANM-
11.        Vehde Operating Costs. Vehicle operating costs were estimated in two
steps. First, free-flow operating costs were estimated and then the values were modified
to reflect the degree of traffic congestion. Free-flow operating costs for various types of
vehicle are listed in the detailed economic analysis for each of the RNIP roads in
Appendixes 2-8 to this Annex. To obtain an average operating cost for vehicle traffic, the
following fleet composition was assumed for motorized vehicle traffic on all roads
analyzed:
Vehicle type     Percentage
Small car               13
Small bus               13
Medium bus              4
Large bus               4
Small truck             16
Medium truck            33
Large truck             2
Tractr-Trailer          15
The average vehicle operating cost, weighted by the above percentage traffic composition,
were defined as follows:
Surface     Pavement    Flat/rolling   Hilly    Mountainous
Type                     Conditions
Paved         Good          0.73       0.88        1.02
Fair         0.81       0.98        1.11
Poor         1.01       1.16        1.30
Unpaved       Good          0.92       1.09       1.32
Fair         1.49       1.88        2.21
Poor         1.71       2.10        2.44
12.        The purchase price of mechanized, small tractor, widely used in China, was
estimated at about one sixth that of a small truck. Since the running cost is not considered
to be proportional to the purchase price, it was assumed that the operating cost of a tractor
is one fourth of the average vehicle operating cost of a small truck.
13.         Vehicle operating cost under congested conditions have been obtained by
multiplying free-flow-traffic operating cost wi-th a congestion factor, estimated as a function
of daily volume/capacity ratio. Congestion factors used for the different volume/capacity
ratios are listed as follows:



- 96 -                        ANEX I
Volume/Capacity
Ratio         .CongUo
0.0              1.00
0.6              1.00
0.7              1.05
0.8              1.15
0.9              1.5
1.0              2.5
14.        Road Mance Cost. The road maintenance cost is divided into fixed
and variable costs. The fixed cost is the expenses incurred when maintenance activities
are minimal and it does not change with the change in traffic volumes. In the evaluation,
the fixed cost was assumed to be Y 4,400 per Ian per year for roads with asphalt surface
and Y 4,700 per kn per year for gravel and earth roads. The varible cost changes with
changes in traffic volumes. It can be measured as a linear function of the daily traffic
volume. Values are Y 30.0 and Y 53.5 per vehicle per km per year for asphalt surface
and gravel surface roads, respectively. For example, the annual maintenance cost of a
gravel road with 200 vehicle per day would be:
4,700 + 53.5 x 200 = Y 15,400/lam.
C. DESCRlON OF SuBPROJEr
15.       TUngianguIa jiang Road (A-1). The Tingjiang-Lianjiang road is a section
of National Route No. 104, the main highway between Fuzhou and the eastemn part of the
Provn. The road passes through ftree townships and serves two countis with a total
area of 2,293 lmn2 and a population of 170,00. The area is rich in natural resources. The
local specialties are aquatic products, fruits and other agricultural and industrial products.
The Gross Value of Agriculture and Industry (GOVAI) reached Y 280 million in 1991.
16.        The existing road is 16.9 km long and characteized by high traffic volumes
and poor geometric standards. In 1992, Average Daily Traffic (ADT) reached 2,659
motorized vehicles. The road passes through densely populated towns such as Guangtou.
In particular, the Guangtou Mountain section of this road has very low geometric
standards. Sharp curves and steep graients are frequently encountered.
17.        The road would be upgraded to Class 2 standard, involving: (a) the
widening of the formation from 7-8 m to 12 m, and the pavement from 6-7 m to 7-8.5 m;
(b) building a new road section to bypass Guangtou Town; and (c) building a tunnel
(882 m) to bypass steep grades, which would shorten the travel distance near the northern
end of this section. The proposed project would greatly improve the conditions of the
exisdng road and reduce the length of the road by 2.8 km to 14.1 kms.
18.        xnkou-Dutouplng Road (A-2). The road is located in the suburb of
Sanming City, the third largest city of the Fujian Provirce. It serves as a vital link



-97 -                         AN       3
between Sanming City and its northwestern neighboring counties, such as Mingxi,
Jiaing, Taining and Jiangle. The influence of this road extends to areas rich in mineral
resources. The GOVAI in the region reached Y 5.1 billion in 1991.
19.        Starting at Jinxi, the alignment of the road is 9 km long with a maximum
gradient of 9 percent and a minimum curve radius of 13 m. There are 99 sharp curves
within this 9 km stretch. Moreover, it has an at-grade crossing of a railway marshalling
yard where vehicles aTe frequently delayed up to half an hour. In 1992, the ADT reached
1,453 motorized vehicles.
20.        The road would be realigned and upgraded to Class 3 standard with a
formation width of 8.5 m and a pavement width of 7.0 m. It would begin at XImkou
(about 4.6 km south of Jinxi), where it intersects National Route No. 205. The ro&d then
would cross the Sha River and folow the east bank of Huangsha Creek, and end at
Dutouping. A 400 m access road will also be built under this improvement scheme. Also,
the new alignment will eliminate a railway crossing and will be 3.5 kan shorter than the
existing alignment.
21.        Nakou-Shaowu Road (A-3). Nakou-Shaowu road (51.5 kIn) is located in
the northern industrial center of the Province in the Shaowu City region. The road's
mfluence area includes Shaowu City, Shunchang County and Nanping City with an area
of 4,812 knm2 lad population of 0.52 million. Besides various industrial products, the
agrcultural products of the region include rice, tea, timber and orange. The GOVAI of
the region reached Y 1.76 billion in 1991.
22.        The present Nakou-Shaowu road, located at the eastern bank of Futun River,
is a section of National Route No. 316. The road has very poor geometric stndards and
surface conditions. Sharp curves and steep grade are frequently encounteed. As a result,
vehicles can hardly pass during the rainy season. This is the only missing link, as an
engineered road, of National Route No. 316 in Fujian Provinze.
23.        The proposal is to build a Class 2 road on a new alignment between Nakou
and Shaowu city with 8.5 m wide formation and 7 m wide pavement in mountainous
ternin, and with 12 m wide formation and 9 m wide pavement through built up areas.
The road would begin at Nakou Town, run along the west bank of Futun River and
connect to Shaowu City through a recently completed bridge near the city center. The
road would bypass the difficult terrai of the east bank of the nver. The Province is also
plaming to upgrade the Nakou-Dagan road, the immediate southern section of National
Route No. 316, to the same standard as the Nakou-Shaowu road. Once completed, the
road will provide a direct route for the north-south corridor taffic between the Province's
northern, underdeveloped region and the southern, coastal gion.
24.        At present, most of the traffic between Shaowu and Naping travel via Jianou
over a distance of 203 kn. In 1992, ADT traffic between Shaowu and Nakou reached
1,252 motorized vehicles. The new road will shorten the distance between Shaowu and
Nakou by 12.7 km.



- 98 -                        ANNEX 3
25.        Gutian-Zhenqha Road (B-i). Gutian-Zhenqian Road is located in the
northeastem hinterland ei Fujian Province and forms part of the An-Song highway,
connecting Zhejiang and Fujian provinces. The road's influence area mainly covers
Pingnan County. It provides service to 10 towns and 211 villages with a population of
0.76 million. The major industrial and agricultural products in the regions include paper,
chemicals, raw materials, wine, tea, timber, etc. In 1991, the GOVAI reached Y 950
1nillion in the region.
26.        The gravel-surfaced Class 4 road (101.3 kIn) has a formation width of 6-8
m and a pavement width of 5-6 m. As the traffic volume increases, it is getting more and
more difficult to maintain the road. Moreover, the road becomes muddy dunng the raining
season and dusty during the dry season. In 1992, the ADT reached 558 motorized
vehicles. The proposed improvement is to pave the entire length of the road with asphalt-
penetration macadam.
27.        Huhtugban-Shouning Road (B-2).  The Hutangban-Shouning road
(47.5 kIn) is located in the northeastern mountainous regiom of the Province. It is a section
of the provincial area highway that connects Zhejiang Province and Shouning and Fuan
counties. The road links Shouning Town of Shouning County with Hutangban Town of
Fuan County. The road's influence area extends to 3,153 km2 with a population of 0.75
million. The major products of the region include tmber, bamboo, tea and Chinese
medicine. In 1991, the GOVAI in the region reached Y 1 billion.
28.        The existing road is a gravel-surfaced Class 4 road. Its formation width
varies between 6 to 10 m and its pavement width between 5.5 and 6.0 m. The ADT in
1992 reached 429 motoized vehicles. The proposed improvement is to pave the existing
road with an asphalt macadam surface and to widen the road's formation to a minimum
of 7.5 m, and the pavement to 6 m.
29.        Zhouaing-Zheuqian Road (3-3). Zhouning-Zhenqian road (26.9 kin) is
also located in the northeasrn region of the Province. It links Daqiao Town of Zhouning
County and Zhenqian Town of Zhenhe County. The area of influence of the road extends
to 733 villages with a population of 0.89 million. The major products of the region
include bamboo, timber, tea and other agricultural products. In 1991,  the GOVAI of the
region reached Y 1.2 billion.
30.        The exisdng gravel-surfaced road is 7.5 m to 8.5 m wide. In 1992, the
ADT reached 512 motorized vehicles. The proposed improvement is to surface the road
with asphalt-peneation macadam. Once completed, the road will be the first road with
a paved surface in Zhouning County.
31.         etlan-Donshanqiao Road.  Hetian-Dongshanqiao road (27.0 kIn) is
located in the northwest region of the Province in Changtin County, near tie border
between Fujian and Jiangxi provinces. The area where the road is located is rich in
forestry reserves. The 27 km long road serves 19 vilages with population of about
130,000. In 1991, GOVAI in die region reached Y 97 million. In 1992, the ADT reached



-99 -                           NN    3
525 vehicles per dpy. The proposed improvement is to surface the gravel road with
awphalt-penetration macadam; formation width-7.5 m, pavement width-6.0 m.
32.         A summary of the economic evaluation and the estimated economic costs of
the RNIP subprojects are provided in Appendix 1 to this Annex. The details of the
economic evaluation for each of the RNIP subprojects are presented in Appendixes 2 to
8 to this Annex.
D. ORGANIZATONAL ARRANGEMENTS FOR TME EXECUTMON OF RNIP
33.         The Fujian Provincial Highway Administration Bureau wouid be the
executing agency for the RNIP at the provincial level. An RNIP Unit within FPHAB has
been set up for the overall management and coordination of the preparation and
implementation of the RNIP. The Unit is headed by a Deputy Director and includes two
highway planners, two financial administrators and three technical personnel. Similarly
setctured units have been established in Futhou and Sanming municipalities and Nanping,
Ningde and Longyan districts where the roads included in the RNIP are located.
34.         The RNIP Unit within FPHAB has the responsibility for (a) engineering
design, economic evaluation, preparation of th, bidding documents and technical
specifications, the execution of the procurement process and signing construction contracts
in the preparation phase of the Program; and (b) overall planning, financial administration,
saf trafiing and the setting up or strengthening field laboratories during the
implementation phase of the Program. The RNIP units at mumicipal and prefecture level
have responsibility for (i) land acquisition, relocation, resettlement and environmental
protection activities; (ii) organization and supervision of construction; and (iii) regular
monitoring and reporting of implementation progress.
35.         The construction supervision orgnzation for the RNIP has also been
determined. It is a hree-level strucure comprising (a) the Chief Supervision Engineer of
the Fujian Provincial Supaevision Departnent who will be the Engineer in tenns of the
general conditions of the construction contacts; (b) the Office of the Engineer's
Representative who will act on behalf of the Engineer as authorized; and (c) the offices of
the Resident Engineers for each of the seven contra  who will be responsible for on-site
supervision. The staff of the Fujian Highway Consulting Engineers Inc. would be involved
in the suprvision, supporting local personnel of the transport bureaus at the prefecture and
county levels. The responsibilities at all three levels of the organization struchtre have
been well defined. On the level of the Resident Engineers, abon't 40 supervision personnel
will be involved in field supervision of the seven subprojects.



-100-                                           ANNEX3
ROAD NWO1K RWROVElT PROGR
A. Sumary of Economic Evaluation:
Length (km)    Fin.    Econ.  NPV
City                     /.... -...-.-------                       Cost   Cost  (12X) EIRR   FYRR
Prefecture     2      0s ds                    Old  New Savinss  ---(Yuan million)--   (g)    (.)
Ai   Ftahou City          TingJian-Lianjlang      16.92  14.08    2.84 38.79 40.73   23.3  20.3  16.5
A2   Saming City          Xinkou-Dutouping         9.00   5.49   3.F1  20.03  21.03   8.1   17.9  14.0
A3   Sheowu City          kakou-Shaowu            51.47 38.74   12.73  81.41  85.48  136.3  30.2  25.4
Subtotal       77.39  58.31   19.08 140.23 147.24  167.7  26.2  21.3
,... ....... .............. ......  ......... .. .. .. ...... ......    ....
31   Gutian. Pingnan      Gutian-Zhanqian        101.30 101.30    0.00 35.12 36.88   96.0  43.9  35.6
32   Fu'an, Shouning      Hutanoban-Shouning      47.45 47.45    0.00  14.72  15.46   22.9  31.2  26.5
83   Zhouning, Zhenghe    Zhouning-Zhenqian       26.91  26.91    0.00   8.62   9.05   26.3  44.0  40.0
54  Changtinr             Hetian-Dongshanqiao     27.00 27.00    0.00  8.64  9.0?   20.8  38.5  33.5
Subtotal      202.66 202.66    0.00 67.10  70.46  166.0  40.4  33.9
......  ...... .   .. ..     . ..... ....... .  ......  ....   .... ........
Total                  280.05 260.97   19.08 207.33 217.70 333.7  31.1  30.7
. ~     ~      a.. .m .u                   _m  mm m .    _a    m _
S. Summary of Estimated Economic Cost (Y million):
Package A                        Package B
.^------------ ---------  -Grand
Al     A2    A3  Total       B1     82     B3     64 total  totel
Civil Works                         29.78  16.32 59.73 105.83   32.00  13.39   7.84   7.74 60.97 166.80
Physicat Contingency                 2.98   1.63  5.97  10.58    3.20   1.34   0.78   0.77   6.09  16.67
Subtotal                32.76  17.95  65.70 116.41   35.20  14.73   8.62  8.51  67.06 183.47
..... ......   ----  .... .  ...... ....... ...... ..... .
Survey, Design & Others              1.73   1.23  3.54   6.50    0.52   0.25   0.15   0.27   1.19  7.69
Construction Supervision             0.23  0.20  0.65   1.08   0.31   0.12   0.07   0.08   0.58   1.66
Total                          34.72  19.38 69.89 123.99  36.03  15.10  8.84   8.86  68.83 192.82
~~~.. .... ....... .....  ..-.... ........_ .  ..... ....... .. ....  ........... .. ...
Less: Tax                            0.84  0.46   1.69  2.99    0.91   0.38   0.22   0.22   1.73  4.72
Add:  Lemn  acquisition              4.91   1.11  13.21  19.23    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  19.23
Net Financisl Cost                  38.79 20.03  81.41 140.23  35.12  14.72   8.62   8.64  67.10 207.33
man  u.m    ama =inm         ma. RUUE  m. _                     a
Shadow Price Factor                  1.05   1.05   1.05           1.05   1.05   1.05   1.05
Economfc Cost                       40.73  21.03  85.48 147.24  36.88  15.46   9.05   9.07  70.46 217.70
_....  mu.  ma.=M=   uMV=   mu. am    a_m   _m  m



ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF TINGJIANG-LIANJIANG ROAD (A-1)
m  mw                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~Vobiol Opcrtium C"os  (lualVa-Ws
"Taye/ea     36            2..eutainle,a                                     -----y,-  -------;;M                 i y mw
Interest    12.02   Peraent                                                           Paut           2    0.81    0.90    1.11
a"oTrtra    10.02   Perseut                                                           Poer           3    1.01    1.16    1.30
________________________________________________         ~~~Vapwiod Good          1    0.92    1.09    1.22
Pair           2    1.09    1.26    1.50
Inu,  OLD      now                                                             Po"r           2    1.35    1.52    1.79
Dis"tanc   16.92    14.08     RIlesm toro                                      _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
PaveDme         I       1I    I-paved, 2-4upaved                              sateleonanc  Gaoo
condtitio       3       2    Igo,2-fair, 3.p.or                               .... -.-... 
Vid;b         6.5     9.0    Motors                                                     PVoed Umanavd
M  aint  4,400   4,400    Yuan per iImAer    bspr  ermals tat    rd
Wr "Btut      so       30    Tuwn per da             POTe"                        Capacity (eq -d-Fes C47
g"I%e   0    1.20    0.98    Yuan POr WVab-..   ....    .... 
____ ____ ___ ____ ___ ____ ___ ____ ____T_$__BOse                              M  M1,0 0(- 20000.245*130.)
Obsvod ....                   -                                               .....   .        .... . .
Vebie1U    2.183      5.OX    5.011   4.02  1.000                                         5.5  1,600   8,800   6,800
Tracor        4716    0.0      0ME   -1.02  1.000                                         6.01 12.0 0 9900   I 700
other           a     0.0Z    0.02    0.02  0.067                                         7.3  14,200  10,800   8.300
mfILPROMCM  TRO 3MC1                 NOBmAL 23*311            1211121 80033  + Oi                MDUIU  P88330110
IO94             2407     476        0   2,8              2W7        476            2.647     52      ,71             2647      52      17
1995            2527      4716       0   2.003            2,527      476            2.8       524   2,032780                    54   2,202
1996            2655      47.        0   2,12             2,653      476            2,1        2        4                1       2     442
199             2786      47-;       0   2.6              2.76       476            2,06      524   22836                        24   2:688
1998            2925      476        0   2,401            2,925      476           2.218      S4 274                   ,1 324 a,742
1999            3072      476        0   2354             2,072      4 76           2,7       54 2,09 524   352    2902
2000             522      476        0   2,701            2,225      476            2.4        24   401               2,4       54 4,7
2001             2554     476        0   2380             2,254      476            2.60      524   4,213             2,9        24   4,212
2002             3488     471        0   5.960            2,488      41             2.827     218   4,5,5                        18   4,26
2003             2628A    467        0   4,09               262      467            3.91      513   4,04o,9                     5is   4304
2004             2772     462        0   4,2              2,772      462            4,15     J50    4,658             4,150     50    4,658
2005             3924     457        0   4,8              3.924      457            4,216     502   4,819             4,316     503   4,19
2006             408*     452        0   4,52             4,081      433            4.489     498   4,8               4,469     498   497
2007             4244     448        0   4.692            4,244      448            4,669     492   5,16              4,669     493   5162
2008             4414     444        0   4,858            4,414      444            4,855     488   3,4               4,855     488   5,34
2009             4591     459        0   5,02             4,591      429            5,050     482   523:              5,050     483   :5,52
2010             4774     455        0   5,0209           4,774      425            5252      478   570,252                     478   5730
s011             4965     430        0   5.396            4,965      420          55.42       474   5,92              5,462     474   5,925
Using  gwth raes                Muraonr a.rt traf to     ZlFJlIied                                        f!"Mta   t afi
WEUju~~~it glevth              ca~~~~p of mitingm road    enrtedtrffict   aaiy  fntra
Batfauted Costs sand seasfits
0)ZUATI co8n 82113
302   12112           mm  wW.------- ;;-                              &tERMI 380                     1    atO        C00I9 11AC0
Comm8   MAIM       Nat    Diet                                                                  amfSr   .---..-- 3  l  o
22*  lobe   trace   00818 Cw gmn)    labs   V aca    lobs  ?Trac      lobs   tracs    B               we gam  WI Sem      Old      gmn
1994                    16.29                                                              (16.29)            0.56    0.25    1.00    1.00
1995                    16.29                                                              (16.29)            0.28    0.22    1.00    1.00
1996                     6.15                                                               (8.15)            0.29    0.24    1.00    1.00
1997   2,8         7             (0.15)   S. 72    0.16    4.f8    0.20    0.42    0.02    9.28               0.41    0.26    1.00    1.00
199o   29s        476            (0.16)   3.94    0.16    4.81    0.2       0.44    0.02    9.72              0.43    0.27    1.00    1.00
199    2072   476            (0.16)   4.14    0.16    5.05    0.20    0.46    0.02   10.19                0.45    0.29    1.00    1.00
2000   2,225    ~47S        (0.17)   4.35    0.16    5.20    0.20    0.48    0.02   10.68                 0.47    0.41    1.00    1.00
2001   2,55       476            (0.18)   4.52    0.16    2.52    0.20    0.50    0.02   11.00                0.48    0.42    1.00    1.00
200    2488   471            (0.18    4.70    0.16    5.74    0.19    0.52    0.02   11.51                 0.50    0.44    1.00    1.00
2002   2,628  467       (~~~~~0.19)   4.89    0.16    5.97    0.19    0.54    0.02   11.95            0.52    0.45    1.00    1.00
2004   2,773    ~462        (019    5.08    0.16    6.21    0.19    0.56    0.02   12.41                  0.52    0.47    1.00    1.00
*00    292        457            (020)   5.2       0.3     6.45    0.19    0.59    0.02   12.89               0.55    0.48    1.00    1.00
2006   4,00       45             (021)   5.50    0.:15    6.71    0.19    0.61    0.0'O  12.28                0.57    0.50    1.00    1.00
2007   424        448            (021)   5.72    0. 15    6.98    0. 18    0.62    0.02   12.90               0.59    0.52    1.00    1.00
2008   414        444            (0.22)   S.99    0. 15    7.44    0.19    0.67    0.02   14.68               0.61    0.52    1.01    1.00
2000 4,9          429            (025)   6.29    0.15    8.07    0. 19    0.72    0.02   15.67                0.63    0.55    1.02    1.00
2010   4,74        2             (024)   6.62    0.15    8.76    0.20    0.77    0.02   16.75                 0.66    0.57    1.02    1.00
2011   4,95       40             (024)   6.96    0. 15    9.50    0.21    0.82    0.02   17.90                0.68    0.59    1.04    1.00
1.1*1              48.73
Bcemomi o nvsluaat                                                                                             Cougsatiga
Vic    oter    Inar
lot Preeeet Value (122)       22.2 YuGUanmllen                                                                      -     _.
Icemmic Rate of Return        20.22                                                                                 0.0    1.00    0.00
Pirat tear Rate of Istuta   16.52                                                                                   0.6    1.00    0.05
0.7    1.05    0.10
0.8    1.15    0.25
0.9    1.50    1.00
1.0    2.50    0.00



ANNU
- 102 -                                      Appon    3
ECONOMC ANALYS OF XIMOU-DUTOUPING ROAD (A-2)
Veaidl Opate Coote (lTuen9o..Is)
terrain           g   laljeoliag  2-illy,                         Surfae Coed            tlat/Rel 8illy  WItet
Vayolyosr   543     8~~oUatni"Uo                                         -                                 -luiiUU  m
CF !r.   81.0)      il1n ef Yun                                       Paved  Goed          1   0.7O   0.68    1.02
utore't   12.02   Percent                                                     air         a   0.81    0.9    1.11
Ineoa ra    10.02  Percent                                                   voor          3   1.01   id       1.0
________________________________        Unpth aved  Goed     1    0.92    1.09    1.82
fair         a    1.09    1.26    1.50
Ipt,t       Go      US                                                       Poor          s   1.5    1.32    1.79
it.e   9.00    5.49    BisteXrao
Pavement      1       1   1-?aed, I2-unpa_ d                          neonrone4c4 geno
C=iaLe        3       a            -aied r 8 r  4Per                  --
Width       4.0    7.0        =,                        4,4                    0,0            Tunm'heI
Caleulared                                                            Veriale   S0.0   31.3 7dmvi  valyr
Cavacity    7 .70   8.14a2   Vebis  (Cud trt qe ) pot day
=x a      4,400   4400 e   uam per he wr year
Va mrint    90    J30    Yu  per daily  bh  per er                        Ca ty  eq mdSm tor . por 4dy)
Dane VOC   1.S0    1.11   luupr vd                                        Daoe.  1700 eoe 8S 000.S*1500.9)
aninuaiw. wsurn i-us                                      Width al"tIPol Billy   mount
199.2   1995   2000    2010   FV                                      .04h.0,SO    ,O
!-! .   .....   .....                         ~~~~~3.0  4,300  3300   2 600
obIoles,  1.874    3        6o02   4. 0                                          5.3  11,400  8:800  4:800
tractors     it     0.01   '0.:0   -1.02  1.000                                  4.0  13.000   9900   7,700
Otber         0    0.01   0.02   0.02 0.047                                      74.  14.200  10,800  86300
TraZIX rroj.c:oeas
2U IWtUIAtL 780fUm 121.              003W  18*1.             Ut&.720    0                   00WU 1023022
=,,,,_,,,. ,                   _.n..*..    _    _    __ ..               -
TM              obel  Ttrae  Other   Ce                V    trgle                     rfreeo  e            Vb   tre    Cow
194            133       7is,9                        ,1        9146                   7 17)144                      8     ,5
1993           1391      7       0   140191                    791.5                  87    ,3?,50                    7 167
1994           184               0   174            1          79                      7   1942|1.053                87.
1997           1787      79      0   1841,8                    79194                  67  105194                     0    ,5
1998           1894      79      0   197            1,9        79          2,0         7  811204                     8    ,7
1999           2008      79      0207208                       7            .          7  224289                     8    ,9
L ns                      aD               Is_eRxW                                                 lCa.  
200           2129      79      0  a,0             2,11o      792,4                  87 ,26,41                       7148
t001           2214      79      029),21                       79           ,433      8     2,28          2,8S7u.)
--_ ..... , CO X I lgtf _- 111 eJa                         S       b         is
2002           2302      7s      0  2,               2,2       70          S                             2o 2 ,2 418  2.3  84  8,418
224,                                                29         77           2,484             is   o.71   2,       LO    1,71
8004           2490      77      0  247,90                     77           :, 4282                        ,3         4 8,888
800            2390      74      0844                 ,9       74           2,849     88  2.93            8,4         88938
2006           1493      75      0  8,76              ,98      75          2,8        6   34              14          )
2007           2801      74      a   2,75s          2,801      74 i          ,01      SI  5 148            ,01       42   ,1
2008      ~~2918     74      0  2,987            2,918     74           8,204     01  328             5,204      e1  5,88
2009           8080      73          8,                                                    3458                      80C  1,1
2010           81t       78      0  8u              8.151      72          34         7-  S                 4         9     4
2011           8277      i1      0  3,848           3,177      71          3,0        79  3.8             3404       79  3.448
rue  Ut  leut ratestm l8*                        tutra  to    uipmuI.                       a     Uta1 traf§Ui
ca" of omaltig road   generated tratffi              to caact of am reed
Zetinated Coate ad ea1fitto
CO*t  Y?            t   Diet esur    Su1 4.0g                   301              7   I        O
"a8   lobe            caon 00m  (a Se)W ob   trace,  lob   trace   lObs  Trc         MM8          go aon  us sen   0a"       NM
1994  -  6.41  - . -   -      -      -                      (8.41)           0.2    0.21 1100    1.00
1995                  8.41                                                         (.41)           :2.0.2    020    1.00    1.00
1994  4.21                                                  (4.21)          0.88    0.22    1.00    1.00
1t97",78         79           (018    .98   0.08    0,48    0.0    0.8 0.00   4.04                 0.24   0.23    1.00    1.00
1998   1,3 9            ~       .9    .1  4.0,0    0.78   0.01   0.19    0.00   4.50               0.24   0.14    1.00    1.00
100208t"02)    .4                             00     0.74    0.01   0.21   0.00   4.54             0,27   0.24    1.00    1.00
2000  2,125  79   ~~~0.81S   8.5    0.02   0.81   0.01   022   0.09   4.8)                 0.89    0.27   1,00   1,00
1001  2,214  79          (0.2).49    0.08   0.84   0.01   0.23   0.00   5.02                   0.30   0.28    1.00    1.00
2002  1,0S8(.8                         .88    0.02   0.08   0.01   0,84   0.00   5412              0.51   0.89    1.00   1.00
8008  2,594  77      (0.~~~24)  5.99   0.08    0.91   0,01   0.24   0.00   5.42            0.52   030   1.00   1.00
2004  240        7(024)  4.15   0.88    0,95   0,01   0.25   0.00   5.43                           0.53   0.31   1.00    1.00
2083  2,9        74           (0.23)  4.81   0.08    0.9    0.01   0.28   0.00   5.4605                     .3      .0     10
2004  2,493  75      (0.84)~2   4.49   0.08    1.8)   0.01   0,20   0.00   4..09           0.843    .5    1.00   1.00
2007  2,801      74           (027)  4.47    0.01    1.07   0.01   0.19   0.00   4.83              0.3     0.5   1.00    1.00
200   2,915      74           (028)  4.85   0.08    1.11   0.01   0.80   0,00   4,58               0.39    0.37   1.00   1.00
2009  1,030      73           (0,29    3.05    0.08    1.15   0.01   0.31   0.0    4.84            0.40   0,80    1.00   1.00
2010  3,151      71           (030k   5.25   0.08    1.20   0.01   0.32   000   7.11               0.42   0,39   1,00   1.00
2011  8,277      71           (.31)  3."44  0,    1.88    0.01   0.34   0.00    7.39               0.45   0.41   1.00   1.00
Total            21.0)
ans"c to ueltutam                                                                                   Comse-tun
aft 1reseo  Valso (122)     8.1 lusa UIL3lea                                                            T.  .   o-
seamemoLt  fttg           17.9Z                                                                         0.0   1.00   :0.00
Ytrat  14.09                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0,7   1.05   0.10
0.8   1.15   0.85
0.9   1,50    1.00
1.0  1S.0    0.00



- 103 -oni 
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF NAKOU SHOWU ROAD (A-3)
lobiuoa  parstu* Costa (lUWmVob-W)
asrai   3           1fultIrolli   21,11y.                        ufc   odlntRlUU                         om
lta"oat   13.02  Pocot                                                       lar                0.61 0.8        .1
Gam Trt    10.02  Pteront                                                    Por3                1.0    1.1    130
__________________________________________________  Unpaved   Good1      0.92    1.09    1.3
lair     ~~2  1.09    1426   1.0
Iupuu  OLD                                               ~~~~~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ponr  2   1.55    1 S2    1.:79
Dit ac   1.41  58.74  gU iamtoe                                  _ _ _  _ _ _  __ _ _  _ _ _ __  _ _ _  _ _
Pavement  2   1  I    ..p.vod lenupeve*d                          Wae oareea  ucorot
Condition     3       2   1 go,2-jolt, 3-poor..
1(4th       4.0    8.0   11:tate4                                              Paved Vap-mod
lizad    4400           ae1M  l,
Ce314utad.                                                            larlabla   o.o    .SJ1aadt~  o4n
8= 4.280  ,6,2)   VebUUGo (nod trb eq.) per day                ___________________
4.700  4,400   Wmn Par hepo  year--
War netat 54     30   Tuau par dauywo-h per yoar                      capacty (eq nediun truobo par day)
Dio0 1.79    1.11   Yuan  a vbe
C8*avod-------0
192 1995    00 21           h
3.   4,0 330   2,400
Wobble.  1.007  6.02    7.02   5.0x   I.000                               5.  11,008,0         480
Ireatora    245    5.0202  2o   5.02  1.0040000                                           00 9,00 7.700
Otbwr         0    0.02    0.02    0.02  0.0d7                                    7.03 114,200  1'0.6'0'0 .0
231.PBOJEY2   131                UUL?II TRAlm  son"             PM=er                  NMDDII.sP02016
1995           1199    284       0 148,9                      264           1,319    312  1,431           1,31      312  1,451
1994           123      26            ,6            1.26      29            141      326  1,.3            1S1U32   1.739
1997      ~~~1373    316     0s.i91t7                      1            1,510    347   ,66150                   347  1,65
1996       ~~~149    33          164              .6      335           1,416    S"8  1,8             1,16    348  1,964
1999           1572    355       0  1.927            1I7 351729    390  2,19                              1,79      302119
2000           14862    376      0  206142                    361,850    414  2,4                          ,5        14  2,244
2001           17?"     399      0  213,74                     991.943    438  2.31                       1,4e482,8
200s           1855    4.16      0  273153                    412,4                  46 2501,0                      402.0
2003           1947    439       0  2,38             197      439          2,4       48 2,5   2            ,12       832625
2004           2045   4"1        0a ,0              2,045    441           2,4O0s277229                              0    .5
2005           2147    484       0  2,3             2,147    48A232g3-2 22,32                                       533  2,9
am0            225      50       0  2,4             2254    509            2,48      55   3,03            2,8       559  3,039
2007           2367    534       0  2,90            2,4                      ,0       8   311264                    Sl3191
2006           2485    561       0  304             2,48      561          2,3       41   3,351           2,3        17  3,51
200            2410    369       0  3,196           2,410    569           2,81       4   3,51            2,7       448  3,516
2010           2740    616           3,5            2,740    41M,1                    8   3,9301                    40349
soi1           2677    4490          3,524          2,877    649           3,4       71S,7                 .4       714  3,679
IFt-ulf sroth rotasIn WFWrt trf to                                        toU1                 capacifFty  rait Iamra
ca" of omiating rod gneae  traffict  aaiy  fg.ra
Lotineto Goato aind Donefite
cus A tWi    De D     int   Suf Srf-------                  NB!            Ild     Be
"a*   Vobw   ftace  c002  (w gem)   vote  ?rao   lAob   Tree    Tobe  Trace   'M                  we gem  ML gem    Old    NeW
19914                 34.19                                                       (34.19)          0.33    0.16    1.00    1.00
1995                  34.19                                                       (34.19)          0.35   0.17   1.00   1.00
1994           ~~~~~17.10                                                    (17.10)          0.37   0.18    1.00    1.00
1997   1,7      314          (2.54   11.42   0.44   1S3.0   0.74    1.23   0.7 2.00.39    0.20    1.00    1.00
1998  1,6       335          (2.73   12.22   0.70  14.13   0.60    1.32   0.06   31.970.2                   .1     100      .0
1999   1,7      335          (2.91    30       .4 1.2        06       .1    00      41              .5     02       .0     10
2000   1,48     376           (3.11)  13.99    0.78  16.17   0.90    1.51   0.06  34.35            0.48    0.24    1.00    1.00
2001   1.74     399           (3.26)  16,69   0.63   14.98   0.96    1.58    0.09  38.48           0.5    0.25    1.00    1.00
s00t  1I6o5     418           (3.42   15.42   0.81   17.85    1.01   1.44    0.09  40.31           0.53   0.24    1.00    1.00
200    1 947    439           (359) 14.20    0.91   16.72   1.04    1.75   0.10  42.33             0.34    0.20    1.00    1.00
a00   2:045    46"I.7   17.01   0.96   19.44    1.11   1.03   0.10  44.44                          0.59   0.29    1.00    1.00
200   2,147    484            (39)      "79   1.01  21.04    1.19   1.95   0.11  47.25             0.41   0.31   1.01   1.00
a00   1,5       309           (41)19.19   1.06  22.97    1.30   2.11   0.12  50.90                 0.45    0.32    1.02    1.00
200   2,37    534             (.5  20.45   1.15  25.09    1.42   2.28    0.13  34.87               0.6"    0.34    1.04    1.00
2008  2,8       341           (45)21.95    1.24  27.78    1.57    2.49   0.14  59.72               0.71   0.35    1.04    1.00
2009  2,61      58s4.o                 23.62    1.34  31.52    1.78   2.77   0.14  44.1            0.75    0.S7   1.10   1.00
2010  274       416           5.3   25.86    1.46    5."8   2.01   3.08    0.17  73.29              0.78   0.39    1.13   1.00
2011  2,67      649           (52)1.5          .74.67   2.52   3.71   0.21  87.57                   0.82   0.41    1.23    1.00
Total            85.48
Bjaeomm da £vlattna                                                                                  Cosoottios
VIC  lactor   luge
Bet Praaant Vlol  (122)   134.3 Tmen siluteD                                                          ----            --.
Reomanio Rateat of Lturm    50.21                                                                        0.0   1.00   0.00
l5ze tear late o Raturn  25.41                                                                           0.6   1.00   0.03s
0.7   1.05   0.10
0.8   1.15    0.35
0.    1.50    1.00
1.0   2.50   0600



-104.                                                oni 
ECONOMIC ANALYSI OF GU  4-ArlQIAN ROAD (B-i)
Wobble Opertetu C"oot (Uslueh.ink)
Torrfta       3       3   lefl.t"tIelas, 2-btUy,                       ufc   odlatIo    il                      aa
Interact   12.CZ  PerOcet                                                    lr2 0.1                   0.90    1.11
amu Trof   10.02  Percent                                                    Ponr          3   1.01    1.18    1.30
_________________________________________           ~~~~~  ~ ~~unpave     Good  I 1    092  1.09  1432
lair         2   1.09    1.46   1.50
IVpt        01D    NW                                                        Poor          3   1.35    1.32    1.79
oubt% ,c   101.30    101.30  Uil oesitre                              _____________________
Pavemen       2       1   1.yav.d, 2-unpavedusIuac   ss
Condition 3       2      =        -ais3?t
SIt    .0    *.0             -ar   eorPvdUsae
flied    4 400   E70  XuauiIr
47    4,400   Twao per   pr7"
54 30   Yuan per d    we-.per poet                      Coeasity (eq nediun tradl. par da7)
Dae" MC   1.79   1.11   Yuan pe  obb
Obared                          am-----.-c. OS                            c--.--
1992   1995   2000   20!10   IPAC
-.!!!2--    -     ---                                              3.0  4.300  3.300  2,600
Wobbule.    479    5.0    6.0    4.02  1.000                                     5.  11,800  se800   8,600
Tractor.     79    1.01    1.:32    1.02  1.000                                  8.0l  13.000  9,900   7,70
Otber         0    0.OZ   0.01   0.01  0.087                                     7.3  14,100  *0,800  8,30
TrarIe arojotsiona
INITIAL IRGINOTNO M13*111            NORMAL 32              INITIAL PRGIRC t NW             ODIPID PIRO3ZMOT
Wm*            V*b.  TceOther   CotWb    rc                                   e.Trace   CowWeb   Traoc  ow
1994            52        1      0     609            528      81518S70518i7
1993            555     $1       0      5              55      81            810      90    899             810      9     6 99
1996            588      a       0      -7"C          388      82            847      90    737             847      90    737
1997            623      83      0    708             82       8388                   92    777             88        2    777
1998        880~~~S  85      0    745             680      as            726      93    820             728      93    820
1191:99         700      8       0    788             70       8             770      93     883            770      93    883
2000            742      87      0      29            742      87            o18      96    912             1618     9      912
2001            772      89      0    86              772      89            849      97    94              849      97    948
2002            603      89      a    892             803      89            883      98    981             883      98    981
2003            83       90      0    925             835      90            918      99  1,1898                          1,1
2004            888      91      0     939            888      91            955    10   1,05               953     10 105
2005            903      92      0      9590                   92            993    101  1,9                993    101  1,094
2008            939     93       0  1,032             939      9s          1,033    102 1,3103                      10 115
2007            976     94       0  1,070             976      94          1,074    103  1,17             1,07      103  1,178
2008           1018     95       0  1,110           I,01       93          1,117    104  122              1,117    10   1222
200            1056      96      0  1,1320           1,03      9            1,182    103  1,26            1,162    lO   1,:287
"010           1098     97I      0     Jos          I 1.09     917         1,08      10?  1,31            1,206    10?  1I3St
201           1142     98       01,2               1,142      98          1,257     10 1,61,7                      18 134
1 ~ tgrowth rate                     WFUata treE to    Zl1Ifacrarol OTMa traffic
caV of omietlag read   geertd traffic                to capacity of nam rOad
Rotlantod Coote and Neneifis.
Novel3  KAMS   out   Dint   Surf   surf .ceceeN                               Od      Nwcc-.-     --.i
mm3 Wb.Tae   OT  (w g                  o)beb  Trace   Web.  TVee.   Vwe    Trace   338           wegeao vi gam    01d    NoW
1994           ~~~~~~~18.44                                                  (18.44)           .0   0.9      1.00   1.00
1995            18~~~~~~I.44                                                 (18.44           0.:11   0.08O'   1.00   1.00
1996    588      82          (1.42)  0.00   0.00  14.78   0.32   0.74   0.03   17.44               0.11   0.09    1.00   1.00
1997    823      83          (1.3)  0.00   0.00   15.88    0.52   0.78   0.03   18.50              0.12    0.09    1.00   1.00
1998    680      85          (138    0.00   0.00   16.60   0.53   0.83   0.03   19.37              0.13    0.10    1.00   1.00
1999    700      8            16)00            .0 1.0    0.54        0a8   0.03   20.71            0.13   0.10    1.00    1.00
2000    74O8 1.5     0.0                      0c0  18s6      0.55   093   0.03   21.91             0.14   fl.11   1.00   1.00
2001    77       89(182    0.00   0.00   19.40   0.36   0.97   0.03  22.77                          0.14   0.11    1.00   1.00
2002    003      89           (1.88   0.00   0.00  20.18B   0.38    1.01   0.03  23."8              0. 13   0.12    1.00   1.00
2003    835      90           (1.9)  0.0    0.00o  20.99   0.57    1.05   0.03  24.58              0,16   0. 12    1.00   1.00
2004    868      91           (2.2 000        00   21.83   037   1.0    0.0   25.54                0.16   0.12    1.00    1.00
200     903      92           (2.10   000   0.0 2.0 05                .3    003  28.54              0.17   0.13    1.00   1.00
200     939      93           (217   0.00   0.0   23.61   0.59    1.18   0.03   27.58               0.17   0.13   1.00    1.00
2007    976      94           (2.25   0.00   0.0  24.55    0.59    1.23   0.03  28.6                0.18s   0.14    1.00   1.00
2008   1,016     95           (2.4   0.00   0.00  25.33   0.60    1,28    0.03  29.77               0.19    0.14    1.00   1.00
200    1,058     96           (2.42    0.00   0.00  26.55    0.60    1.33   0.03  30.94             0.19   0.15s   1.00    1.00
2010  1,098      97           (25)00           .0     76      .1   1.38   003   32.1                0.2s0.6        I100   1.00
2011   1,142     98'(.61   0.:00   0.0:0  '28.:72   0.61   1.44   0.03  33.41                       0.21    0.:16   1.00   1.00
TOta             38.88
Ecoesmic Rvaluetbo                                                                                   Congestion
Net Pregeut Value (122)    96.0 luas .113.                                                            .-..  -c-
Econeeb ROOatgo Return    43.92                                                                         0.0   1.00   0.00
fftrat Year Rate of Retaztn  35.81                                                                      0.8   1.00   0.05
0.7   1.05    0.10
08 1.1is   0.35
0.9 s.5    1.00
1.0   2.30   0.00



ANNEX 3
- 105-                                               Appendix 6
ECONOMIC ANALYSI OF HUTANGBAN-SHOUNIN~G ROAD (B3-2)
Vehicl  0pororin" Coaste  Tale-
3       3    I-flatjrl )g    -il.Sr ~   04Fa                                                        ilily   mount
Coustr 15.      lI i'Lioa of IMAM                                        Paved   Ooo61    0.73    0.66                  1.02
tuo$% 12.02   ier.eat                                                            Pair                0.81    0.98       .1
Ca    rf 10. ox   Portent                                                        poor                1.01    1.16    1.50
________________________________________________             p"ad Good             I    0.92     1.09     1.32
fair           2    1.09    1.26    1.50
luputi        Omb     Mw                                                               poor           3    1. 35    1.52    1.79
DIetM u    47.45    47.45     Kilometera                                        _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Pavement        a        I    I-.paved, 2-unpaved                              NabenrannCosucts
Condition       3        2    1-od2fai    -----------
Width         5.0     6.0    NLI.'           '                                           Paved 3luiaved
Fixed     440!0   4700 TuaAIakm/
Calculated,                                                                    Variable   W.          S T.utndal  veh.to yr
O~oty     96    7:700    Vebiclea (304 tk "9e) per A4yt87 
= luit  !           1,00        40::YunYForla pe                                                  diun
_____________________Yuan_per__v_______Gas*_-_17.000 (- ZSOaO.Sal5O.9
Tra%src                aauz ,mrn Tat                                                     Width flat/Iol  Hily   Vout
1992    1995    1000    2010       PAC                                          :O4O3  0                10
Vehle   283       .01    5.01    3-.02  1.000                                         5.   I11600   8,800   6,800
Tr"actor      146      3.51    3.51    2.01  1.000                                          6.0  13,000   9,900   7,700
Otber           0     0.0x    0.01    0.02  0.067                                           7.3  14,200  10,600 8.0
traxac vrojectione
- --------- ITIAr. P=OJCT    TRAFTC                  Rn"EA  TRAFIC             InITIAL P20310 + 05                NOIIDROJRCTI0
1995              318      162       0      489              328      162              360      178     538               360      178     538
1996              344      168       0      512              344      166              376      184     565               378      184     563
1997              361      173       0      535              361      173              397      191     588               397      191     588
1998              379      179       0      559              379      179              417      197     615               417      197     615
1999               98      186       0      584              398      18"              438      204     642               434     204      643
1000              418      192        0     610              418      192              460      211      671             4"0       21II    671
2001              431      199        0     630              431      199              474      219      693              474      219     693
2002              444      103        0     647              4.44     zos              488      223      711              488      223     711
2003              457      207        0     664              457      207              503      218      7,30             SOS      228     730
1004              471      211        0     682              471      211              516      232      750              51       132     750
2005              485      215        0     700              405      215              553      137      770              533      237     770
2006              499      220        0     719              499      220              549      242      791              549      242     791
2007              314      224       0      73.8             514      224              364      246     812               566     246      812
2006              530      229       0      758              530      229              583      251      834              583      151     854
2009              546      2)3       0      779              546      233              400      256     857               600      256     857
1010              562      238        0     800              561      238              616      216      880              618      262     88
2011              579      243       0      821              579      243              637      167     903               637      267     903
WTviFUFtp groeth rate.                     co-arOsT-o-t traf to      acem    Ieiaid                    uonroj. ttal. traffic
cap of ezieting road    ge eAte  traffice                   to capacity of nay road
Ettimated Coats and Denofita
om&uuoM COST "AVINM
son"E  TRAFFIC           AIDIT                                 ....3108T   D                               VIC RATIO       CMN  FAC'O
-        -----   CommT    HeI?    Diet    Viet    surf    surf .. .-....-..            UIT              O1d      new-...-        -....
116     Vahs   Trac    0005 (v gam)    Vets   Tace    Tote   Traes    IOUe   Trace    DM0                     wo go     lv aom     01A     New
1994       1----      1 i.60                                                             (11.60)  --   ---- ------------  0.08    0.07    1.00    1.00
1995              ~~~~~~3.66                                                           (3.86)             0.08    0.06    1.00    1.00
1996     344      168            (0.51)   0.00    0.00    4.05    0.49    0.20    0.02    5.28                  0.09    0.07    1.00    1.00
1997     361      173            (0.53)   0.00    0.00    4.25    0.51    0.21    0.03    5.54                  0.09    0.07    1.00    1.00
1998     379      179            (0.56)   0.00    0.00    4.47    0.53    0.22    0.03    5.80                  0.09    0.07    1.00    1.00
1999     398    1I"              (0.56)   0.00    0.00    4.69    0.55    0.23    0.03    6.08                  0.10    0.08    1.00    1.00
1000     418      192            (0.61)   0.00    0.00    4.92    0.57    0.23    0.03    6.37                  0.10    0.08    1.00    1.00
2001     431      199            (0.63    0.00    0.00    5.07    0.59    0.23    0.03    6.57                  0.11    0.08    1.00    1.00
2002     444      203            (0.64    0.00    0.00    5.22    0.60    0.26    0.03    6.76                  0.11    0.08    1.00    1.00
20C5     457      207            (0.64)   0.00    0.00    5.38    0.61    0.27    0.03    6.95                  0.11    0.09    1.00    1.00
2004     471      211            (0.66)   0.00    0.00    5.54    0.62    0.28    0.03    7.1                   0.11    0.09    1.00    1.00
2005     485      215            (0.70)   0.00    0.00    5.71    0.63    0.29    0.03    7.36                  0.12    0.09    1.00    1,00
1006     499      220             (0.71)   0.00    0.00    5.68    0.85    0.29    0.03    7.57                 0.12    0.09    1.00    1.00
2007     314      224            (0.73)   0.00    0.00    6.06    0.68    0.50    0.63    7.78                  0.12    0.10    1.00    1.00
2008     530      229            (0.75)   0.00    0.00    6.24    0.67    0.31    0.03    8.01                  0.13    0.10    1.00    1.00
2009     54"      233            (0.77)   0.00    0.00    6.43    0.69    0.32    0.05    8.24                  0.13    0.10    1.00    1.00
2010     562      238            (0.79    0.0       0.00    6.62    0.70    0.33    0.04    6.48                0.15    0.10    1.00    1.00
2011     579      243            (081       000    0.08    6.8       0.71    034    0.4    872                  0.14    0.1       1.00    1.00
Tcotal              15.46
Eoanomic Evaluation                                                                                              Cougeotion
...                                                                                 ----~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I F7--actor    iu.r
Ret ?rseuet Vtmela (122)      22.9 Yuss aillic--------                                                                                --
.csmelt  of Return     31.22                                                                                   0.0    1.00    0.00
first Teot Rate of Loturn   26.51                                                                                     0.6    1.00    0.05
0.7    1.05    0.10
0.8    1.15    0.35
0.9    1.50    1.00
1.0    1.50    0.00



- 106 -
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF ZHOUNING-ZEM NQIAN ROAD (B-3)
OLD  EW                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~Vehicle Operatip  costo (Tuan/veh-We
Terrain         3       3     I -ltrli,2-hilly,                              Sufc   odpuliatel  filly   Vaunt
Donr         3.0      *illon  of YuanPve                                              God1                07      0.8       .0
Int.ret    12.0?   Paerent                                                            lair           2    0.8     0.98    1.11
Gan Traf    10.02   Percent                                                           Poor           3    1.0      1.16    1.20
_______________________________________________Unpavod Good                      1    0.90    1.09    1.32
lair           2    1.09    1.24    1.50
Input,       OLD      NewI                                                            Poor          3    1.35    1.52    1.79
Distanc    26.91    26.91     Rilometore__ _ _ _ _ _ _                                         _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Pavement        2       1    1.paved. 2..unpaved                             n4Antonance g"oa
Condition       3       2             2-fair, 3-poor                         ......    .
width         6.0     6.0                                                               rore  Pved ounpve
FIred     4.*400   4o 70   uanlh y
Calculated,770    7,700    Veice  (m  t            5 q)  e   a               Varible   30.0    £*.s Yuauldaily wih-)mnlyr
CZd  an   4,700   4 400    Yuan peor km per year
Vat saint     54       3O    Yuan per 4a1l7 vob-I  per year                      Capacity (eq uedIum tvruks per day)
Rae. VOC    1.79    1.11    Yuan par rob-  ~ases- 17,000 (- 2300*0.3*15a0.9)
TreZZ3i1 lb-d              l  iaviii'width putitRol  Billy    ot
Obeyed-------. oj-CON----......                                                                    ..
1992    195     20P21              AC
-                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3.0   4,300  Soo0  2.600
Veh.ice      481       .02    6.0      4.02  1'.000                                       5.5  11,600  8,800   4,800
Tractora       31     1.02      1.0    I.5    1000                                        6.0  13,000   9,900o  7,700
Other           0     0.02    0.02    0.0:2  0.067                                        7.3  14,200  10,800   8,300
Triain. Projections
INTIAL P2.0J&TND  23RA1C                 10OM4A. TRIFMC           INITIAL P2018  + 03               80DIPM  P&MOT01009
YEAR              es Trc         Otr      CoyVeh                    rceWb    Trace                    Co,               e     Trace    cow
1995             373       32        0     605              573       32             630       35    465                630      35      663
1996              607      32        0     640              607       32             668       35      703              668      35      703
1997              644      33        0     676              644       33              708      36      744              70       36      744
1998              682      33        0     715              682       33              751      36      787              731      36      787
1999              723      33        0     756              723       33              796      37      832              796      37      832
2000              767      34        0     800              767       34              843      37      080              843      *7      880
l001              797      34        0     831              797       34              877      37      914              877      37      914
2002              829      34        0     863              829       34              912      37      950              912      37      950
2003              862      34        0     897              862       34              949      38      986              949      S8      98m
2004              897      34        0     931              897       34              987      38   1.024               987      38 102
2005              933      35        0     967              933       35            1.026      38  1I06               to0o       38   A.6
2006,             970      S5        0   1,005              970       35            10"?       38   1,105             1,4        38   1,0
2007             1009      35        0   1.044            1,009       35            1.110      38   114               1,11       so   14
2008             1049      33        0   1,084            1,049       *5            1,154      39  1I9t.34                       3      .9
2009             1091      35        0   1,126            1.091       35            1,200      39   1,23              1,20       39   123
2010             1135      35        0   1,170            1,135       35            1.248      39   1*8               1,24       S9   1,28
2011             1180      34        0   1.216            1,180       is            1,298      s9   1,371,9                      s9   1.55
UW2iw1wt growth rates                      mf8-  Ta traf to        NIm-elYIM4dC                              -fa1tal traftie
cap of existing road    generated traffia                  to capacity of nm read
Bettuated Costa and Benefits
OPEDATIIG COST SAVU=G
NOIVAL TRAPZC            A0022M  -- --        --       --      -      5312  am8                          Vic &MO2         OM1  18A20
008521 -  om   IMINT    Biet    DIet    Suf       surf --------- -          NET              old     amw
YEM     Webs i     Trace   cosTS (v sew)   ebs   Tracts   Vebs   Trcet   Vebs   Traes    am                 we geo  VI gen      0ld      SW
1994              ~~~~~6.79                                                             .9               .7     00        .0     10
1995  2.26                                                      3:24)           ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.07    0.08    1.00    1.00
1996  607  32  0               4.06    0.05    0.20    0.00    4 68               O~~~.08    0.08    1.00    1.80
1994    607        32             0.6   0.00    0.00    4.04   0.05    0.20   0.00    4.68                    0.08   0.08    1.00    1.80
1997    744        33            (038   0.00    0.00    4.93    0.03   0.21   0.00    4.956                   0.09    0.09    1.00    1.00
1998     7662      34            (040    0.00    0.00    4.56    0.05    0.23    0.00    5.25                 0.09    0.09    1.00    1.00
1999     723       33            (043    0.00    0.00    4.83    0.04    0.24    0.00    5.56                 0.10    0.10    1.00    1.00
2000     767       34             0.5    0.00    0.00    S5.1      0.04    0.26    0.00    5.80               0.10    0.10    1.00    1.00
2001     797       34            (0.7    0.00    0.00    5.33    0.04    0.27    0.00    6.12                 0.11    0.11    1.00    1.00
2002     82        34            (0.48    0.00    0.00    3.54    0.04    0.28    0.00    6.86                0.11    0.11    1.00    1.00
2003     862       34            (0.50)   0.00    0.00    5.76    0.04    0.29    0.00    6.614               0.12    0.12    1.00    1.00
2004      i70      34            (0.52)   0.00    0.00    5.99    0.06    0.30    0.00    6.87                0. 12    0.12    1.00    1.00
2005      093      35            (0.54)   0,00    0.00    6.23    0.08    0.31    0.00    7.14                0.13    0.13    1.00    1.00
2007   1.009       35            (05) 000          00       .74    0.06    0.34    0.00    7.72               0.14    0.14    1.00    1.00
208 10491     35            (06) 000    000    7.01    0.04    0.35    0.00    8.034                     0.14    0.14    1.00    1.00
20109  1,013       3             (0.63)   0.00    0.00    7.29    0.06    0.34    0.00    8.34                0.15    0.1.5    1.00    1.00
2011   1,180       34            (0.68)   0.00    0.00    7.88    0.04    0.39    0.00    9.02                0.16    0.16    1.00    1.00
Total               9.05
Economic evalusation                                                                                           C.oif
Vic  Factor    leer
Net Presont  ale(2)           26.3 Yuan nLUll.s.....
Economic laeoARtln440                                                                                               0.0    1.00    0.00
Prust Year Raet  of Return   40.02                                                                                  0.6    1.00    0.05
0.7    1.05    0.10
0.8    1.15    0.35
0.9    1.50    1.00
1.0    2.50    0.00



ANNEX 3
- 107 -                                         A    ;x f
ECONOMJC ANALYSIS OF   ADNEQ  RO  8)
Veilo  OrAttAX COat  OlaWv8344.)
tatrals    9           3    1-f1AtIrouv4' 2.hly,                           flflatla"  SIlly  Misat
eyler 365            3.moat,tlouao                                                    T
ee3tr    li9.07   Hiona of Tuft                                         Paed  Goo             1   0.73    .48    1.03
Inteat    12.02  Fearent                                                        volr          2   0.O1 J.96   1.11
GM Trot    10.02   Forceut                                                      Poor          S    1.et    1.16    1.30
O-evd good            1   0.92    1.09    1.31
pair          2    1.0      :1.6    1.50
luaa   L      NMV                                                         Poor          S    1.35    1.53    I.79
Diet.,,.   37.00   27.00    iloMter. Peor___ ____I______
o t           2        1    1.jic° 2.unpawed                            If etIueae; e soret
Cedtlon       5       2    1od.2ai   3-poor....    ..    
O     5.5     6.0    Ma.Paved   a
trty   6,             0 7,700   Vec  (m  tra oqe) per day         V        ___o.8____ ___ ___
M-It.t   G,70   41:400   Yuu= et In per year-~-                                                          -
Vater   OC   1.7  1u1   per dadveh.la per year                              Capeity (eq indiu t.uck per byf
___ ___ ___ __ ___ ___  ___  __ ___  ____-__- --c                           --   17.000   (.330099.5lil*159.9
s bawd - .-_._.. n.........pe.... _ O                             .  . . ......         Soav
1992   1S99    2000   2010    132
-a          -     - -"   .-                                                 0   4,00  $.S00   2,600
Vouallole    361     6.02    6.01    4.02  1.000                                    5.5  11,600   6,600   6,Soo
Ttratero     164     5.02    5.02    3.02  1.000                                    6.0  15.000   9.90    7,700
Other         0      0.02    0.02    0.0X 0.067                                     7.3  14.200  10.600   6,500
IWITIiL IIOISCVS   "AIM1              now"67 "AMC1            151MAL7 PRO=JE + M3            IOW W  pM ?iinm
36*2           Vabe  trace   Other   Cowr              ValeW  trc              Vhe  Srace        w             Vale u TrM"    Cow
___ ~ ~~~~~~~~~ ~ ____  ___.    _._____
1994  406  161       0    566             ~~~~ ~~~~~406  16144            199    645              444     19       4
1995            450     190       0    620              430    190              473    209    662               473    209    662
199             46      19        0    655              456     199             501     319    7*1             301    319    731
199             463    209        0    692              463    109             '531     230    762              531    330    762
199s            512    220        0     732             31      220             563     242    60               56S    343    605
199             545     231       0     774             $43    231              597    254    651              597    334    652
3000            575    242        0    616s             575    241              635    267    699l              63S    267    699
2001            59      254       0    853              59      254             65      260    938              65$    360    936
2002            62U     262       0    664              622    261              665     166     973             685     28      1
2003            647    270        0    917              647    270              712    297   1,009              711    397e  1009
2004            673     276       0    951              673    276              74I0,104                         403"          .4
n00             700    266        0    966              70      266             770      t1  1.065              77      M1    ,8
2006             7*     295       0   103               726m    295             60      34   1.125              61      334 1,3
2007            757     304       0   1,061             757    504              63      334   1,167             63      334   1.6
3006            76      313       0   1,100             767    51                6      344   1.210              64     344   A,1
2009            619     S22       0   1,141             619    32290                    355   1.355             901    355   1,35
1010            653    332        0   1,164             652    331               5      365   1.302             9       s7o6  I.0
3011            666     342       0   1,226             666    342              97       76   1,550             974      7    1.35
la-!i'lt gratb rates           ~         U1fTt trot to         UF~ law                         UUWITTha  traff"
Cap         e  red   aeneratad traffc                  te capaity of    road
ebttIated coste Sad esiotte
tu u   c08T "e&ms
sIIn      37C           ADtL __--     O.--_T                    0 VI3!C RtIOg0 1m
*_.-;;;;- Comm  Wt   blot  Diet  Orf  Sturf ------u---                                             Om   NW
mu2   Voe trae           66 Cv Sag) Vale    trace    Val   Trae    Vale  trace         am             o em  VI "a    au         Sew
_--   .               _ ._                            -      .._.  ..       _-    ____ .e.fl.   --.. _._._ .-_ _
1M4                    S.S0                                                           (6.60)           0.09    0.08    1.00   1.0
1995                   3.27                                                           (2.27))          0.09    0.08    1.00    3.60
1996    456     19            ( .37    0.00    0.00    5.0S   0.5 3       S 0  0.01    5S.6            0.10   0.09    1.00    1.00
1997    483    209             (0.)   0.00    0.00    3.24    0.35    0.16    0.02    4.16             0.10    0.09    1.00    1.00
1998    512    220            (0.41)  0.00    0.00    3.43    0.57   0.17   0.02    4.40               0.11    0.10    1.00    1.00
1999    545    231             (.44)   0.00    0.00    3."    0.39    0.16    0.01    4.66             0.11   0.10    1.00    1.00
3000    57      23             (.46   0.00    0.00   3.66   0.41    0.19    0.02    4.94               0.12    011    1-00    1.00
t001    596     254            (0.48    0.00    0.00    4.01    0.43    0.20    0.02    5.14           0.13    0.11    1.00    3.00
2002    622    262             (0.50    0.00    0.00    4.17   0.44    0.21    0-02    5.54            0.13   0.11    1.00    t.00
2003    647    270             (0.51    0.00    0.00    4.34    0.45    0-22    0.02    5.54           0.13    0.12    1.00   1.00
1004    673    276             (0.3    0.00    0.00    4.51    0.47   0.23   0.02    5.76s             0.14    0.11    1.00    1.00
300      700    S26           3(5      0.00    0.00    4.69   0.48   0-23    0.02 S.                  01"        01 5    1.00    1.00
S00      726    295           (057    0.00    0.00    4.66    0.49    0.24    0.02    6.33             0.15    0.15    1.00    1.00
2007    757     so4            (.60    0.00    0.00    5.07   0.51   0.2       0.03    6.46            0.16    0.14    1.00    1.00
3006     767    313            (0.62   0.00    0.00    5.24   0.52    0.26    0.03    6.71             0.16    0.14    1.00    1.00
2n09    819     322           (0.64)   0.00    0.00    5.49    0.54   0.37   0.03    6.97              0.17   0.15    1.00    1.00
3010     652    53            (0.6    0.00    0.00    5.71    0.56    0.29    0.03    7.24             0.17    0.15    1.00    1.40
3011    S"       342           (0.69)  0.00    0.00    5.94   0.57   0.30   0.03    7.53               0.16    0.16    1.00    1.00
?otal              9.07
icemmic Uva3acttea~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~Vcgote    o
net preteut Vae (13)        20.8 Tun ui1u                                                                   V    !      
saeml Rateo of Betur        36.52                                                                           0.0    1.00    0.00
Ficat ter"  Sate of aitpirm  33.51                                                                          0.6    1.00    0.05
0.7    1.05   0.10
0.6   31.3    0.35
0.9    1.50    1.00
1.0   2.50   0.00



- 108-                        ANNE
HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION lUSTRY
Provincial Road Construction Industry Study and
Nationwide Survey
A. INRODUCTION
1.         The Bank has had a long-standing interest in the further development of the
construction industry in China. During 1988 and 1989, the Bank, with the assistance of
sever line ministries of the cental government, carried out a brief study of the status of
the industry. The study identified the major opeaonal deficiencies that provided the basis
for the formulation of a tentative progam for the industry's furither development. Because
of the slowdown and changed priorities of the Bank's involvement in China during
1989-91, it was only in the latter part of 1992 that the study was followed up with
technical assistance (TA) to the Ministry of Construction under the Bank's TOC credit
facility.
2.         Also, with the accelerated development of the road network in China and
the Bank's continued support for the subsector, the Bank's attention has been focused more
and more on the development needs of the highway construction industry. The Bank's
lending for highway projects has exceeded $1.0 billion, representing about one third of the
close to $3.0 billion cost of highway construction works involved. The Bank, in the
course of project supervision, had the opportunity to gain a better understanding of the
operational characteristics of the highway construction units participang in the
implementation of Bank-financed projects.
3.         On the basis of such expeience and as an outcome of the Bank's regular
exchange of views with the representaives of the central government, a consensus has been
reached that the highway construction industry would require urgent reinforcement and
modenization to overcome its major deficiencies. In particular, it was recognized that the
industry's present technical and financial resources and limited experience in the
construction of high-standard highways would not be adequate to meet the challenge posed
by GOC's ambitious medium- and long-term progrms for the rebuilding of the
interprovincial highway network to meet the r idly increasing road transport demand. As
a step in this direction, an understanding has t i reached with the centrl government and
Fujian Province that the proposed Fujian Provincial Highway Project would include a study
of the provincial road construction industry.
4.         In support of the execution of such a study, and to pursue a broader
nationwide svey of the industry's profile, the Bank requested a TA grant under the



-109 -                        ANNEX 4
Japanese Policy and Human Resource Development Funds from the Japanese Govemment
in November 1992. Funds of X 43.8 milion (about $400,000 equivalent) were granted in
early 1993, providing TA for:
(a)   a study of the Fujian provincial road construction industry for the
(i) assessment of the capabilities of the provincial road construction
industry, (ii) identification of existing problems in road construction and
possible solutions, and (iii) recommendations for reforms, as appropriate,
in the interest of improving the operational environment for the provincial
road construction enterprises;
(b)   a survey and its analysis relating to the (i) assessment of the capacity and
efficiency of highway construction industry enterprises in China,
(ii) identification of development needs of the enterprises, and
(iii) recommendations for appropriate measures required in the policy and
regulatory framework for more efficient operation of the industry.
5.         The study, indicated in para. 4(a), would be carried out in the framework
of the proposed Fujian Provincial Highway Project. The foreign exchange cost of the
study, primarily for the services of foreign consultants, will financed in part from the TA
provided under the Japanese Grant ($180,000) and in part from the proceeds of the Bank
loan ($150,000). Services, facilities, equipment and counterpart personnel for the study
will be provided by the Fujian Government.
6.         The nationwide highway construction industry survey and follow-up analysis
referred to in para. 4(b) will be carried out as a separate exercise by a joint local/foreign
team. The foreign exchange cost of the survey will be financed from the remaining
$220,000 of the Japanese Grant. The survey will be coordinated by the Ministry of
Communications (MOC) with services, facilities and counterpart personnel for the survey
to be provided by the central government.
7.         In the following, this annex provides an outline TOR for the Fujian
Provincial Road Constructon Industry Study (PRCIS) and an outlne TOR for the
Nationwide Highway Construction Industry Survey.
B. OthINE Tom  oF REFE   FoR
TE FWuAN PROviNCiAL RoAD CONSunoN INSTY STUDY
General
1.         The Fujian Provincial Transport Departnent (FPTD) intends to wudeke
a study of the highway construction industry and develop a plan of action for the
strengthening of the construction industry and improving its operating environment to
foster the growth, qualiq and stabihty of the industry.



- 110-                        ASN=  4
2.         To accomplish the study, a consultant firm will be retained to work with
personnel of the Fujian Government and local professional and supporting staff.
3.         The study will comprise the survey of market demand and the identification
of the deficiencies of the industry, and the constraints of the operating environment
affecting the operation of the of the provincial road construction enterprises. The study
will lead to the preparation of an action plan for implementing its recommendatioils.
Study Objectives
4.          The study has three main objectives:
(a)   To compare the highway construction market demand for the next 10 yean
to the capabilities of the industry, and identify the deficiencies and the
requirements of the industry to meet such demand.
(b)   To study the intemnal and extemal constraints of the contractors that impede
their operation, and make recommendations for the necessary measures for
improvements.
(c)   To develop an action plan that, if implemented, would lead to an increase
in the capacity and efficiency of the provincial highway consucton
industry.
Key Isues
5.         The study team will identify key issues that should be addressed and studied
during the course of the study. It is expected that the following will be among the key
issues:
(a) The capacity of the industry in relatioAn to the expectd investment program
for road works in the Province.
(b)   The means of technology transfer to and intemal restructuring of the
construction enterpises to increase the efficiency of operations and improve
the quality of works.
(c) The options for channeling financial assistance to the construction
enterprises to meet investment needs and loan repayment conditions.
(d)   The impact of the reform meaes on the industry's opeation.
(e)   The enhancement of motivation and competitive spirit of the crporaons
in the line with the objecdves of a socialist market economy.
(f)   The identification of alternative modes of financing road investments.



- 1ll -                                4
(g)   The presentation of an action plan for implementing the study's
recommendations.
Scope of Work-Principal Areas of Activities
6.          Five principal areas of work, as well as work tasks for each area, have been
identified as follows:
AREA A:   Quantify the market demand for the next 10 years
Task A.l:   Determine the profile of FPID's road construction and
mantenance program.
Task A.2:   Determine the market demand of other entities such as
prefectures and municipalities.
Task A.3:   Determine the amount of road construction and maintenance
works to be done by direct labor, if any, by the various
transport departments.
AREA B:   Determine an Industry profile to meet the projected highway
market
Task B.  I Determine the capacity required in terms of class of roads
involved, major construction items, and the type of prefer
supply, i.e., whether by specialized or general construcon
enterprises.
Task B.2    Determine the opfimal size, the number and prefered
geographical distribution of constrution enterprises.
Task B.3    Study the viability, profitability and oganization of the
industry, and consider the merits of the establishmet of a
representative body for fte industry.
AREA C:   Identify the Industry deficies and the measu   needed to
achieve a desirable Industry profile
Task C.1    Detmine capacity in terms of manpower, equipment and
financial resources.
Task C.2    Compare existing industry capacity to prqjected demand.
Task C.3   Identify and classify capacity shortfalls.



- 112 -                        ANNEX4
Task C.4    Analyze options for meeting shortfalls in construction
capacity through strengthening and expanding existing
construction enterprises, increasing the number of
enterprises, using contractors from outside the province,
facilitating the setting up of foreign/local joint ventures, and
attracfing private financing through BOT or other means.
Task C.5    For the strengthening and expanding of the provincial
construction enterprises:
(a)  identify equipment requirements, ways of financing
equipment purchase and alternative means of access to
equipment, such as leasing;
(b)  identify the areas for institutional strengthening, such
as organizational structure, operational and financial
management practices, manpower requirements,
including training needs, and define the means for
addressing identified deficiencies;
(c)   recommend  measures  for  operational  and
technological improvements in order to increase
productivity, efficiency, and improve quality.
AREA D:   Identify adverse Industry environmental constraints
Task D. 1    Study existing operating environment.
Task D.2    Study government policies that may impact on the
contractors' profitability, productivity, and efficiency.
Task D.3    Study the reform  measures being introduced for the
transformation of state-owned industrial enterprises and
analyze the impact of such measures on the highway
construction industry.
Task D.4    Study the policy of price controls and "quota system" and
determine their impact on the industry.
Task D.5    Study possible remedies to limited profits and social burdens
affecting the enterprises.
Task D.6   Study the construcion matrial supply system, pricing and
availability, and look into the viability of establihsing
enterprises for the supply of key construction materials of
controlled quality.



- 113-                         AN 4
AREA E:   Identify practices of employers that Impact the growth,
producti;ity, and efficiency of the construction Industry
Task E. 1    Study the preconstruction process in FPTD  and other
government units at prefecture, municipality and county
levels.
Task E.2    Study prequalification, bidding and contracting practices.
Task E.3    Study contract administration practices.
Implementation
Organization
7.          The PRCIS would be carried out by a Study Team under the guidance of a
high-level Steering Comnittee and a Technical Coordination Group.
8.          Because of the diverse and complex nature of the study, the Study Team
would comprise local technical personnel well acquainted with provincial conditions
influencing the operation of the road construction enterprises and foreign eoosultants with
broad international experience in construction industry management and operatons.
9.          The core personnel of local study team has been identified comprsing tre
technical staff from FTI and one each from the Fujian Traffic Institute and the Science
and Technology Advisory Center, Traffic Transportation Society. The full-time services
of the personnel identified would extend over the 10-month duration of the study,
representing 50 staff-months of input. Additional personnel would be ,i.obilized as
required with an estimated 10 staff-months of input.
10.        It is estimated that the execution of the study would require an input of about
9 staff-months of foreign consultant serices involving 4-5 experts having experience
primarily in the following disciplines: (a) management and operation of highway
construction enterprises; (b) commercialization and corporatization of the highway
construction industry; (c) highway construction equipment utilizaton, maintenance and
leasing; (d) highway construction and contract management-related staff training; and (e)
policies, regulations and procedures relevant to the operation of enterises in a market-
oriented environment.
11.         Consultants would be selected from a shortlist of experienced intemational
consulting firms following Bank procedures. In the selection of the firms, much
importance will be attached to the relevant qualifications and experience of the members
of the proposed consulting team.



-114-                         A
12.        A high-level Steerng Commatee would comprise primarily the members of
the Leading Group for the implementation of the Fuzhou-Xiamen-Zhangzhou Expressway
as follows:
Vice-Governor of the Province
Executive Deputy Director of the Lading Group
Deputy Director of the Provincial Transport Departnent
Deputy Director of the Provincial Construction Commission
Deputy Secretary General of the Provincial Govemment
13.        The role of the Steering Committee would be to provide guidance to the
Study Team on major policy issues. It is envisaged that the Steering Committee would
meet to discuss the findings and recommendations of the reports released at the various
stages of the study. Other provincial government departments and central govenment
ministries would be consulted by the Steering Committee as considered appropiate.
14.        The Techincal Coordination Group would comprise the representatives of
pwvincial govemment departments, provincial institutions, road constructon enterprises,
and from time to time, technical personnel of the central govemnment and representatives
of the World Bank. More specifically, the Technical Coordination Group would include
the representatives of the following provincial entities:
Structural Reform Committee
Department of Finance
Construction Committee
FPTD-Highway Administration Bureau
Road Construction Enterprises (including rresentatives of larger, medium-
size and small enterprises)
Technical personnel from other departments and institutions are expected to be invited to
participate in the Group's functions as considered appropriate.
15.        The Technical Coordination Group would provide technical advice and
guidance to the Study Team and assist coordination with local institutions in the inteest
of expediting information and data transfer to the Study Team. It is envisaged that the
Technical Coordination Group would meet as fiequently as required for providing adequate
and timely support to the Study Team.
Execution of the Study and Reporting
16.        The study would be executed in three phases over a period of about
10 months. The first phase (about two months) would be devoted to detailed definition of
the study's program, identification of the key sources of information and initiation of data
collecdon. At the end of the first phase an Inception Report would be issued. During the
second phase of the study (about six months), an in-depth analysis of the information and
iniial consolidation of the findings would be undeaken, leading to the preparation of a



- 115- A-r
Draf FiYnal Report. During this phase, an about one-month study tour, with the
partipation of about 10 members of the Chinese team involved in the study, would be
organized to neighboring developing and developed countries to make contact with road
construction enterprises and related instituttons. During the third phase of the study (about
two months) the conclusions, recommendations and plans for follow-up actions would be
formulated and consolidated in the FYnal Report.
lFlfaudng
17.        The study would be financed from the proceeds of Japanese Grant Funds
(I 19,710,000 equivalent to $180,000 at the present exchange rate of $1 - 109.5) and a
World Bank loan of $150,000. The funds are envisaged to cover:
Foreign consultant services (including fees, international travel,
and per-diem                                               $210,000
Out-of pocket foreign and local exdiures required for the
execution of the study (including office equipment, local
tansport, communications and reports)                      $ 30,000
Study Tour                                                 $ 60,000
Contingency                                                $ 30,000
Total:                                                     $330,
18.        Office ficilities, counterpart personnel, supporting technical staff and
setarial, interpretation and translation services would be provided by the Province.
C. OUTLINM TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR
TEI NAToNWIE HIGwAY CONRUcON INDuSRY SuRvEY
lle Survey
1.         The survey would be carried out in three distnct phases:
Phase I-Preparation - would include:
(a)   administrative and logistical arrangements to identify and make contact with
highway constructon enteIprises (the survey target group);
(b)   preparation of a comprehensive, well-designed questionnaire that would be
in a coding format for direct computer application;



-116 -                        ANNEX
(c)  identification of an institutional base for data processing, with a view to
continuously updating and monitoring the data bank;
(d)  identification of hardware/software and systems analysis requirements; and
(e)   design of the mechanism for carrying out the survey.
Phase fl-Execution - would include:
(a)   distribution of questionnaires and provision of logistical and technical
support;
(b)   processing of information; and
(c)   presentation of output data in various formats for further analysis.
Phase rn-Evaluation - would include:
(a)  interpretation and evaluation of survey information;
(b)   summary report and conclusions; and
(c)  recommendations for follow-up ations.
Executo and Management
2.         The Executing Agency for the survey would be the Ministry of
Communications. The survey would be executed by a Survey Team comprising a joint
local/foreign team of experts under the guidance of a Steenng Comnittee. A Technical
Panel would also be established to provide interagency coordination and technical advice.
Execution of the Survey
3.         The Survey Team would comprise local technical personnel familiar with the
overall structure and disposition of the highway construction industry nationwide and
foreign construction industry experts- A foreign firm would be selected, following the
Bank's guidelines on the selection of consultants, to provide the required services. The
members of the local team would be provided pnmarily by the Highway Construction
Engineering Consulting Services Corporation, an MOC-affiliated entity. Other MOC-
afiliated entities to be involved in the survey would include the Highway and Bridge
Costuction Corporation, the Hghway Construction Bureau and the Highway Planning
and Design Institute. The Survey Team would have, or would have access to, data
processing and systems-analysis capabilities to ensure continuity in updating the key survey
data for futue monitoring.



-117-                         ANNEX 4
4.          The Steering Commnittee would be headed by the Director of Engineering
Administration Depmtment of MOC. Other members of the Committee would be senior
representatives of key departments of MOC, such as Plning, Finance, Personnel,
Institutional Restructuring and Science and Technology.
5.         The Technical Panel, in addition to Iey technical MOC staff, would include
representatives of the State Planning Commission, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministy
of Railways, and the Ministry of Metallurgy for intersectoral coordination and liaison.
Representatives of the construction industry enterprises and resch and university
peonnel would also be involved in the Panel's activity. The Bank would also be
represented on the Technical Panel.
6.         The survey would be undertakn over a 10-month period. At the end of the
Phase I-Prepaation (about two month), an Inception Report would be issued oudining
the methodology and logistics for Phase II of the survey. Phase II-Data CoUlection would
take about seven months to complete, including the issuance of a draft Surey Swnmay
Report. During Phase III-Evaluation, the survey results would be analyzed, follow-up
actions formulated and consolidated in a Final Report.
Finaudug
7.         The survey would be financed from a portion of the Japanese Grant Funds
(I 43.8 million) amounting to 1 24.09 million (i.e., about $220,000). This amount is
expected to cover:
Foreign consultant services (including fees, inteional travel
and per-diem                                              $150,000
Out-of-pocket foreign and local expenditures required for the
execution of the study (including office equipment,
communications and reports)                                $ 50,000
Contingency                                                $ 20,000
Total:                                                    $220,
8.         Office and transport facilities, local counterpart personnel, supporting
technical staff, and seceWtal, interpretation and translation services would be provided
by MOC at an additional local cost estimated at Y 1.0 million.



-118-                          A
E,NVMINRqTA ASE$M$ffA
ACTON PLAN SU$YR
A. BACKGROUND
1.         During September 1991, the Fujian Provincial Environmental Protection
Research insttute (FPEPRI) conducted an envinmental assessment of fte proposed
highway, with the participation of the Highway Science Research Institute of MOC.
Environmental monitoring and field surveys were carried out by local environmental units
between September 1991 and July 1992. The State Environmental Proction Bureau
(SEPB) approved the outine for this environmental assessment in February 1992, and the
Eironmental Impact Statement (EIS) of the Quanhou-Xiamen Expressway Secton of
Fuzhou-Xlamen Highway was submitted to MOC and SEPB in August 1992. The process
of environmental review involved inputs from various units throughout the Province,
inciuding provincial environmental bureaus, research institutes, and universities.
2.          The policy and administrative requirements for environmental assessmnent of
development projects in China were followed during preparation and evaluation of this EA.
Applicable laws and regulations for this EA include:
(a)   Environmental Procion Law of PRC;
(b)   Atmospheric Pollution Abatement Law of PRC;
(c)   Water Pollution Abatement Law of PRC;
(d)   Management Guidelines on Environmental Protection of Construction
Projects, Number 003 (86), issued by SEPB;
(e)   Measures for Environmental Protection Management of Trnsport
Construction Projects, Number 117 (86), issued by the Ministry of Urban
and Rural Construction and Environmental Protection; and
(i)   Measur   for Environmental Protection  Management of Transport
Constructon Projects, Number 17, issued by MOC.
3.          The environmental standards applied in the assessment and specific standards
and critria applied for air quality, noise, vibration, and surface water are listed in
Appendix 1 to this annex.



-119 -                        A X  5
B. ENRoNm TAL AwSS MT, XwAME-QuANZOU HGHwAY
4.         The road lengths included in the environmental assessment of the highway
were the Xiamen-Quanzhou Highway (81.4 Ian), the link road to Jimei (Xiamen) (6.2 km),
and the link road to Shedian in Jinjiang County (6.3 km). The environmental assessment
covered an area 500 m from each side of the central line of the highway for atmospheric
impacts, and a belt area of up to 500 m from each shoulder of the highway for noise and
vibration impacts. A summary of the criteria applied for environmental evaluation is
presented in Appendix 2.
Characteristics of the Highway Corridor
5.         Topography and Climate.  The alignment of the Xiamen-Quanzhou
Highway passes through an area characterzed by a terain that is higher in the south and
west, with a gentle, average grade of 0.02 percent from west to east. The plain is densely
interwoven with a network of rivers and canals. The annual average temperature is about
21 C. The region lies in a subtropical monsoon zone and is occasionally hit by typhoons
and heavy rainstorms, with annual rainfall ranging between 1,090 and 1,478 mm, mostly
concetrated between May and September.
6.         Population. The Xiamen-Quanzhou section of the highway comprises an
influence area of about 5,700 km2, with a population of over 5 million and an average
population density of 920 people per kn2. The area along the alignment of the highway
has a ppulation of about 66,000, thousand, comprising the 98 natural villages within a
250-m range of the road. The cultivated area is 40,700 mu, about half of which is
irted.
7.         Agriculture. The region along the proposed highway route represents an
important rice- and fruit-growing area in southern Fujian. In the past, agriculture was
dominant in economic activity in this corndor. However, the recent rapid growth of
township enterprises has allowed industry to also contribue significantly to GOVAI in the
Province. Based on a 1991 survey of 64 villages along the highway, industrial activities
contributed 64 percent and agriculture 36 percent of GOVAI. Among the agricultural
activities, farming accounted for 74 percent of output value, followed by animal husbandry
(12 percent), fisheries (7 percent), and forestry (0.7 percent), with the remainder
(6.3 percent) in other agricultural activities. There is significant variance in the dominance
of agriculura areas in various parts of the Province. Sections of Tong'an Country, Jimai,
and Xinglin near the Xiamen Special Economic Zone, and Jinjiang County, and Licheng
Disrict. The major agricultural products are grain, sugarcane, peanuts, fruit, and
freshwater cultivadon. Economic activity in agriculture varies along sections of the route
due to notable differences in terrain, soil, and water supply.
8.         Cu u       oraH   Locations. There are numerous cultural, histonc, and
scenic spots within and near Xiamen and Quanzhou, to which the proposed highway would
increase access. Major attracions include Gulangyu Island, Riguangyan, Zhongshan Park,
Nanputuo Temple, and Aoyuan Garden in the vicinity of Xiamen. Sites in Quanzhou



- 120 -                        ANNX S
include Zingjin Temple, Kaiyuan Ancient Temple, and Mt. Qingyuan. The Tongmin'an
Pass on Mt. Xiaoyingling is also located along the route, but will not be directly affected
by the highway alignment (para. 17).
9.          Noise and Vibration. Existing noise quality in the villages along the route
is satisfactory. Noise levels were measured based on various samples taken along seven
sections of the route. Noise was monitored for 24 hours at three locations on the Fuzhou-
Xiamen Highway, one location on the Quanzhou-Xiutu Highway, one location on the
Quanzhou-Jinjiang Highway, one location in the Jinjiang-Anhui Highway, and one location
on the Xiamen-Zhangzhou Highway. Based on results collected at 26 specific sites, noise
levels average 56 dB(A) during the day and 49 dB(a) at night. Noise levels at night
exceeded state standards in three of the sites surveyed.
10.        Air Quality. Ambient air quality was monitored at nine points along the
Xiamen-Quanzhou section, including villages, areas of access to expressway interchanges,
industrial zones, and scenic areas. The baseline monitoring program included analysis of
NO,, CO, THC, Pb and TSP (total suspended particulates) during a five-day periel in the
summer season. Results conforned with state standards, and, where classified standards
exist, results met Class 1 standards.
11.        Water Quality. Water quality was assessed based on sampling of six
sections along the main waterways that the highway would cross (the Jinjiang, Xixi, and
Jiuxi Rivers and the Nanxi Canal). Sampling and analysis was carried out in accordance
with national guidelines. The monitoring program included pH, SS, permanganate
indexes, BOD5, oils, and lead. Samples results ranged between Class I and Im standard
at most sites. However, the water quality at two specific sections located in Nanqu
Chennel and Xixi River reached Class IV standard: the main contributing factors in this
case were domestic sewage and rain, which increased the level of organic matter and oils.
Potenthl Environmental Impact Identified In EA
12.        The following key areas of environmental impact were identified, where
adverse changes may take place during the construction and operation of the new highway:
(a)   Social disruption would directly affect an estimated 15,500 individuals who
will be resettled or compensated for severance (Annex 6). The construction
of an access-controlled highway will also disrupt communication between
communities and mobility between residential and farming areas.
(b)   Air pollution could be caused by dust generated during construction,
primarily by earthmoving machinery and trucks and also by stockpiled
materials at depots and quarries. The operation of the asphalt plants and
construction traffic could produce excessive noxious fumes. At the
oqEkrAtion phase, there could also be some localized concentration of S02 or
NO, during hours of peak traffic and under certain weather conditions along
the highway.



- 121 -                        A       5
(c)   Water polution could occur during construction from excessive spillage of
earth and other building materials, such as lime and fly-ash, into irrigation
channels and waterways. During construction and operon of the highway,
there is also a potential for water conamination from oil and fuel leaks from
gas stations and fuel depots where surface waters run close to such spots.
The effect of heavy rain following penods of drought could increase COD
concentration for a period of a few hours.
(d)   Noise and vibration levels could become excessive from the operation of
plants and machinery, as well as from normal traffic after the opening of the
highway wherever the new highway alignment will be close to villages.
During construction, noise from construction plants, cutting, quarrying, and
blasting will influence an area 200 m from the given site. During operation,
noise levels along the route are ewected to rise along with traffic volume,
and at night could exceed state standards as early as the year 2000. Two
sensitive sections of the route have been identified as equiring mitigatng
measures against excessive noise levels during the first stage of highway
construction.
(e)   Soil erosion could lead to a potential loss of hundreds of tons of topsoil per
year from exposed slopes of cuts and embankments of the highway and
borrow pits, particularly during penods of heavy rain. Six sections along
the route, which involve significant exposure of soil slope after cutting, have
been classified as erosion-sensitive. An additional 22 filling sections are
considered erosion-sensitive.
(f)   Soil pollution could result from lead emitted by motor vehicles, and after
accumulation, could affect crops grown along the highway. The influence
area of this damage will be 100 m and the lead content in soil could reach
76 mg/kg. According to some data projected during the ETA process, when
daily traffic volurzie exceeds 20,000 vehicles per day, the lead content in the
soil could be at least 10 times the baseline value. Based on current
esimates, lead content in soil may reach serious levels after several decades
of highway operation.
Measum for Monitoring and Mitigating Environmental [mpacts
13.        Social Disruption. The highway route was selected from among three
altives, with a view to avoid environmentally sensitive areas and to minimize negative
impacts on the local population, including the need for resettlement and land acquisition.
in  der to maintain or restore communication along the proposed highway, 39 grade
separtions, 167 underpasses and 6 interchanges are included along the route. These
feures will allow the affected population to remain mobile between residental and work
or farm areas, and will improve access to the new highway from major populadon centers.



- 122 -                       ANNEKS
14.        Air Qualty. Periodic monitoring of the atmosphere will be carried out to
deal with waste gases emitted from asphalt-mixig plants, dust from construction, key
sensitive areas, and areas in which complaints are made by residents. During the opeaon
phase of the highway, routine air monitoring will be carried out. Five monitoring points
would be set up along the highway to monito CO in the air, and NO;, TSP, and Pb in the
dust. Monitoring will be carried out during four, five-day monitoring periods each year,
with collection of four to five samples per day in fair-weather conditions. Management
of bulk materials and dust cargoes will be strengthened and piling in open air minimized.
Goods will be stored in dry places at least 500 m from the villages on the lee of wind
direction. Construction sites, access roads, and borrow areas will be frequently wateed
to reduce dust.
15.        Control of Noise and Vibration. Monitonng of vibration and noise will
be conducted twice a year for the villages within 100 m of the road. Such monitoring will
either be carred out twice daily, in the morning and the evening, or will be on a
continuous (automatic) basis. While at present noise levels are not excessive, they are
expected to dramatically increase by the year 2015. The use of noise-proof shelter belts
is planned, consisting of evergreen trees. The Province has zoning regulations in place to
restrict the development of new housing or schools within 100 m on either side of the
highway. During construction, noise impacts will be controlled by confining construction
activities to the hours between 6:00 and 22:00. Unnecessary noise from hauling, blasting
and other construction activities will be controlW and minimized. Hours of operation of
constuction plans will also be modified to reduce excessive noise. During operation, noise
will be monitored monthly to ensure that, within a 70 m radius from the central line of the
highway, noise does not surpass 77 dB(A). During the first phase of highway
construction, sound barriers will be erected along 12 sensitive sections of the route. Two
acoustic barriers (totaling 600 m) will also be eected, at Dongxin (10M 4.7) and Gouwei
(KM 34.3).
16.        Water Management. Monitoring will be carried out monthly in areas of
soil erosion, especially the river course down Jiasha Large Bridge, until the completion of
construction. The main items monitored are oils, COD, and suspended solids (silt).
During the operation phase, water will be monitored in eight key river sections and at the
oudet of the sewer system in Puli service area. The monitoring exercise will be carried
out semiannually-during the high-water period (May to June) and during the drought
period (December to January). At key river reaches, such as the lower reaches of Jiasha
Large Bridge and Puli service area, monitoring will take place monthly. This program will
involve monitoring of pH, oils, SS, COD,,, BOD5, Pb, and permanganate index. An
independent drainage system will be used to prevent rain wash from being directly
discharged into the waters to affect aquaculture and crops. Monitonng points will be
established for periodic analysis of water samples.
17.        Cultural/Historic Locations. It was originaly expected that a small number
of cultural sites, including the Tongming'an Pass, would be dircdy affected by
constuction of the highway. However, subsequent changes in the alignment have resulted
in a route that avoids these cultural sites altogether. While there are no known sites with



- 123 -
cultura or historic relics along the route, contractors would be required to stop work in
case relics are discovered during construction, and to seek guidance from an Antiquities
Presvation Agency in the Province.
18.        Sogl Pollton. The lead content in soil, rice, and vegetables will be
monitored once a year in the relevant areas, in Cidian, Tong'an County, and Jinjiang
County. Samples will be taken when rice and fruit are ripe, in addition to soil cores of
the topsoil. To mitigate the negative impact of lead on soil and cp, within a range of
100 m from the road, economic plants will be cultivated instead of grain or vegetables.
19.        Other. The project includes forestation in designated zones, which would
provide protection against pollution and would preserve the ecological environment. An
area 20 m wide would be reserved on both sides of the road for forestaion, which in total
would comprise at least 30 percent of the land area required for highway constuction.
Areas 20 m wide should be kept in advance to establish greenbelts in farmland areas that
would protect against lead pollution. In residential areas, 20 to 30 m wide spaces should
be reserved. In addition, 25 percent of the area around interchanges and 5 to 10 percent
(or at least 40 m) of the area at filling stations should be afforested.
C. ENVIRONNENTAL ASS          r FOR TME ROAD NETWORK
IMROVEMENT P}ROGRAM
20.        The route for the RNIP was chosen from considered altematives to minimize
the acquisition of land, impact on residential areas and historical sites, and to avoid
sensitive environmental feaures.
21.         In group A subprojects, rainstorm and flood risks have been taken into
consideration ir the design of bridges. Te resulting design was according to flood
frequency of once per 100 years for large bridges, and one per 50 years for medium and
small bridges as well as roadbeds and culverts. Measures to mitigate soil erosion include
planting vegetation to protect side slopes.
22.         The group A subprojects will also cause socua disruption, including the
resettlement of approximately 700 people. Details of the resettement and compensation
procedures to be followed are provided in Annex .
23.         Noise and air pollution have also been addressed in the environmental
measures proposed for the RNIP. The resurfacing of roads included in the RNIP
subpojects would reduce noise and air pollution. Extra protection would be provided by
planting groves of trees, 15-20 m wide and 270 m long, on both sides of the road. Extra
protection would be provided in sensitive areas as needed.
D. ENVONMENTAL ACtON PL SN
24.         The EAP summary stipulates how the environmental impacts idenified in
the EA are going to be dealt with at the design, implementation and opeaton phases of



- 124 -                       ANNEX5
the highway, and what administrative arrangements have been made for the execution of
the EAP during the three distinct phases of the development of the project. Appendices
3 and 4 summarize the key environmental issues to be addressed for the highway as well
as the RNIP.
E. ORGA1NIONAL ARRNGEMENTS AND MoNITRNG
25.        FPECDO, administrating agency for construction of the proposed highway,
has overall responsibility for coordinating environmental activities associated with the
project. FPECDO is directly responsible for executing the policies and laws of the State
and MOC in the project context, including preparation of the EAP and technical work
related to the environment. Supervision and monitoring activities of FPECDO include
monitoring construction works carried out on its behalf, identification and treatment of
pollution sources and handling of contamination accidents, maintenance of environmental
monitoring stations in cities and counties along the route to conduct periodic obseaions,
establishment of technical files on environmental protection, and supervision and inspection
asocated with implementation of the EAP during the operation phase.
26.        The Fujian Provincial Environmental Protection Bureau (FPEPB) will
exercise unified supervision and management of environmental requirements under its
jurisdiction, with input at all stages of the project. In conjunction with local environmental
protection units, FPEPB will provide assistance to FPECDO to carry out environmental
management, on- and off-site. Under FPEPB, environmental monitoring and management
will be canied out by environmental protecdon bureaus in the municipalities of Quanzhou
and Xamen, and by environmental protection departments in counties, cities, and districts
along the route. According to the EAP, monitoring of ongoing construction works and
implementation of the EAP will be coordinated by a designated individual within each
construction unit.
27.        The implementation and monitoring of environmental aspects of the RNIP
has involved various organizations at different stages in the project process. The definition
of environmental measures to be taken during the design phase was carried out by units
of EPHAB and researh and design in the localities of the RNIP subprojects.
Environmental measures will be the responsibility of the contractor during the construction
stage. Monitonng of the EAP will be achieved through units of FPEPB and FPHAB in
the subprtoject areas, comprising Fuzhou, Sanming, Shaowu, Ningde, and Longyan. This
organization will permit on-site monitonng of EAP progress.
28.        Training in environmental protection would be provided by the Province for
environmental administrators and other staff for both the highway and the RNIP. The
training program, which includes both domestic and overseas training, covers relevant
management and technical subjects in the environmental field.



- 125 -                         AN=  5
ENV3 ONNMANRL STAAS
ENmoNIqm AL STADAD  APPL=   IN ENmoNNTAL
Standard                                                            Number
Atmospheric Background Quality Standard                            GB3095-82
Ambient Noise Standard for Urban Areas                             GB3096-82
Maximum Permissible Concentration of Atmospheric
Pollutants for the Protection of Agricultural Crops              GB9137-88
Farmland Irrigation Water Quality Standards                        GB5084-85
Envirormental Quality Standards of Surface Water                   GB3838-88
Sea Water Quality Standards                                        GB3097-82
Envirormental Vibration Standards in City Regions                 GB10070-88
Lead and Inorganic Compounds Hygienic Standards
of Atmosphere                                                    017355-87
Noise Criteria for Corstruction Sites                             GB12523-91
AmB, NT NoLSE STANDARD FOR URBA  AEAS
(GB309642)
Day           Night
Area                                                  dB (A)          dB (A)
Special residential quarters                            45              35
Residential, cultural, and educational areas            50              40
Class I mixed area                                      55              45
Class II mixed area                                     50              50
Industrial zone                                         65              55
Sides of traffic artery                                 70              55
...Combed



- 126 -
AMueNr VIAnoN STANDARD FOR URBN AR
(GBIO07048)
Day           might
Area                                                    dB             dB
Special residential quarters                            65             65
Residential, cultural, and educational areas            70             67
Mixed area, comercial center zone                       75             72
Industrial zone                                        75              72
Sides of traffic artery                                 75             72
Sides of railway artery                                80              80
AMBIENT AM QUArIFY STANDARD
(GB M309582)
Pollutants                           Concenration Limit (mstfiandard cu)
Clas I        Class 1I       Class III
Sampling time           standard      standard       standard
SaI       Daily average                0.15          0.30           0.50
Anytim                       0.30           1.00          1.50
TSP       Daily average
Anytime
80,       Annual daily average         0.02          0.06           0.10
Daily average                0.05          0.15           0.25
Anytime                      0.15          0.50           0.70
N0O       Daily avers-                 0.05           0.10          0.15
Anytime                      0.10          0.15           0.30
Co        Daily average                4.00           4.00          6.00
Anytime                     10.00          10.00         20.00
03                                     0.12           0.16          0.20
Pb        0.0015
...coned



co  ~          o 
In    .4   4     -4 
1-4   0                   ftA VVI
WI           ~In VI



EI FOR                            0N                AL EVALUATON OF
_ _ _  XTMHIE-FU                          U ___IG_ _WAY
Pcors In  Io1matal Aa.eent                                                                 Criteria for evainatiA                    3lruoin l Stanrd  alied
-     -                . cp of applicatlam
Categr         Factoro   I it                                               r.A         etotdag ti. b      Stendad V.ale
100 mater frm the    d                S tytie                           0.1S                        OB 0O15  2
___                                  -      ________________           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.30
etdail2 averagm                   0.10
ethers
my tim.                0.15
3 I                               6.00
100 metors free tbh read Old
-ro   CD   gIBt#m  tim               20.00                       G
otbare                    a        delly avrage              4.00
my tim.               10.00          _
100 motor. from the road oldo         3                                 0.50
T.S.P.      tgJ __                                                                               1.50 tB   .093"-2 0
2        dvLy fetr                0.S0
-en tir                1.00
lb       Vale?        200  tro  from the reed *dad                   doily aerage            0.eGB13
aydro-     ngle         100  txr. f*re  tae road sift                    an  tie                5.00               Standtrd of the Soviet thin
later quality                                    adjacent rivers                       ___                                                     00 3830-4
en                                 6,00-2200               70
Melee           te        d(A)      both *id.. of the traeffic art e                                                                       0309642
Z -e r220.00            75
VibratioL                    01                the entire routlt                                                                            00 -2*007n048eo
-                 -                                                -          22:0. 480                72e          n_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _



KE:Y BLEACM OF   EAP FOR TEU OU  GAY
EnffiorAmtial Issue                Action Taken/To be Taken                               Responsible Entity       Remarks
A. s       tmetl on/Desis
Plkase
1.  Route selection            The aligunent was selected to mInimize land            FPTPDI
acquisition and ipact on residential areas and
historic sites, and to conserve vater and soil
resources.
2.  Impact on mobility         The design provldes for safe and adequate              F1TPDI
access across the highway (for local traffic)
thtough 145 pedestrian or tractor roads, 41
grade separations, and 6 interchanges.
3.  Impact on inhabitants      Protective measures, including scoustic batri-         YPTPD1
fron excessive noise       ers, tree plantng, or resettlement will be            PPECDO
and air pollution          adopted for sesitive sites such as living
quarters and schools within a certain range of
both sides of the Ra. 
4.  Risk of Flooding           76 bridges, 292 culverts, and adequate roadside        FPTPDI                                                 t
drainage systems have bee" designed to satisfy
the requirements of local flood discharge and
irrigation.
B. Construction Ybsoe
1. Air pollution               Sulk msterials and dust cargoes shall not be           Contractor               Clause 205.10
piled up in the open air.                                                      Clause 603.01
Goods yards shall be located in dry places, at                                 Clause 102.13
least 500 a f rm the villages, and on the lee
of tind direction.
During periods of hot and dry weather, con-                                    Clause 201.05
otruction sites, access roads, and borro  ateas                                Clause 203.07
shall be watered four times a day.
Management of the transportation of earth and                                  Ciause 1105.05
stone works and constructio materials will be                                  ClaUse  203.07
rengthened, to mi4n4mie spilla.
...Comnud 



Bnvirouaental Issue               Action TakenlTo be Taken                              Responsible Entity      Remarks
2. Noise and vibration        Construction activities that generate excessive       Contractor              Clause 102.13
noise will be confined to daylight hours (6s00
to 22:00).
Unnecessary noise frem hauling, blasttng, and                                Clause 102.13
ot2er construction activities will be controlled
and mdnimized.
The  operating  tlee  of various  construction                               Clause 102.13
plats shall be aodified to reduce excessive                                  Clause 1105.03
noise.
3. Air pollution              Plant dxjlng shall be adopted for asphalt, and       Contractor               Clause
amzing machinery shall be equipped with dust-
removing devices.
The mixing plant shall be located at least                                   Clause 307.0S
1,000 a frcm residential quarters on the lee
side of the wind direction.
4.  Land  and water  re-      The loss of land resources will be compensated       FTPDI oad Quanahou       Clause 102.13                 t
sources                   by planned land reclamation.                         and  liamen Munici- 
pal Governments
The  protection  of water  resources will be
addressed during deslgn by specific measures,
such as river straightening, rtiver iTmprovemt,
and construction of river embankments.
5. Boil erosion               Before construction of the subgrade, a temporary     Contractor               Clause 201.05
drainage system shall be built to reduce water
accumulation in the subgrade and alleviate soil
erosion.
During the rainy season, cuttlig, hauling, pay-                              Clause 201.06
ing, and compa¢ting of the surade shall be
managed In one contlnuous operation to prevent
the existence of loose earth.
In pursuance of different conditions, rubble         PPTPDI
retaining wallo slope protection, turfing shall    FPEsDO
be adopted  for the slope of ambankzaent and cut
so s  to stabilize the side slopes and prevent
scouring and collapse.
...Coiwed            I



Environmental Issue               Action Taken/To be Taken                              Responsible Entity      Remarks
A temporary drainae system lnluding inter-          Contractor              Clause 201.05
cepting ditches and dralss shall be set up
around borrm areas to reduce water-collecting
areas sad to mitigate soil erosion.
The borrow sites shall slope as gently as pos-                               Clanue 202.03
sible, with a controlled gradient of under
4-S2.
Sedlmentation basins shall be built and period-                              Clause 102.13
ically cleaned to miandie the impact of silt
on the ecological envLronment at the lower
roahs.
After completion of the project, reclAmation         FPCDO
activitles such as turfiag, tree planting, and
rehabilitation of farming shall be required to
prevent borrow pits from rain wash.
6. Traffic and traspor-       Before construction, temporary access roads                                                                -
tation                    sbAll be constructed at points of intersection
with eistieng road.. The period of construc-
tion sball be minimized to avold disruption of
traffic on the existing roads.
Necessary improvements shall be made for re-         FYZCDO
lated highways in order to increase road capa-
city ad reduce traffic loading generated by
haulage of road construetion materials.
Zvery effort shall be oade to secure such con-       Contractor              Clause 104.03
struction materials as earthlstone, sand-gravel
aggregates, etc., with access roads be con-
structed for such haulage.
Transportation planning shall be fotuulated to                               Clause 102.16
segregate construction traffic from the regular
traffic flow on the existing road, particularly
at peak hours.
Transportation management shall be strengthened      ContractorlIocal        Clause 205.10
to prevent traffie accidents and spillage of         Traffic Departments
materials.
... Condd            N 



Enviroinamntal Issue              Action TakenlTo be Taken                             Responsible Entity      Remarks
7. Water body pollution       Materlals sueh as lbm., cement, bitumen, etc.       Contractor              Clause 205.10
shall not be stored In the open dIr and shall
be kept far away frm bodies of water.
Advanced technology shall be adopted In bridge                              Clause 102.13
construction. Construction vastes, including
oil ad polluted water, shall not be discharged
into bodies of water without treatment.
S. Domestic sewage and        Three-stage septic tanks shall be built at the      Contractor              Clause 102.13
rubbish                   construction sites.  The contractors are re-
quired to diet at a designated place. The
aoesotic sewerage shall be disposed of concen-
tratively, cleaned periodicaly, and discharged
Into rivers and ditches only after treatment.
8o0id wastes such as packaging materials and                                Clause 102.13
other debris from construction sites shall be
piled up at designated places and cleaned peri-
odically.
9. Quarrylng and Blast-       Quarry sites shall be situated far away from        Contractor              Clause 201.04
lug                       the residential quarters.
Adequately wide safety clearance zones shall be                             Clause 202.03
set up around blasting sites, with warning
signs and warning lines used.
Prior to blastitg, crowds, cattle, and vehicles     Contractor, Local       Clauses
shall be promptly dispersed, and a safety in-       Environmental Pro-      202.03.4(3)
spection sball be completed.                        tection Units and
Public Security
Organ
The storage and disposal of explosives shall be
carried out In strict accordance with safety
regulations.
Restoration of quarries by contractors will be      Contractor              Clauses
completed according to technical specifica-                                 102.13,
tions.                                                                      201.04, and
202.03
...CCoMd             i



Environemntal Issue                Action Taken/To be Taken                              Responsible Entity       Remarks
10. Tunneling                 Tunneling  ill be carried out in compliance           Contractor               Clauses
with MDC specifications.                                                      1105.02,
1105.03, and
1105.04
11. Protection of Cultur-     After the awarding of construction contracts,         Contractor               Clause 102.13
al Relics                  all people involved in construction will be                                   Clause 201.04
educated on the protection of cultural relics                                 Clause 202.02
and related procedures to be followed.
in the event that cultural relies are discov-        Contractor               Clause 102.13
ered during the course of construction, con-         Antiquities
tractors will stop work immediately and seek           Preservation
guidance from the Antiquities Preservation            Unit
Unit.
C. Operation Phase
1.  Leakage of Hazardous      Strict inspection of motor vehicles sball be          Fujian Provincial        FPEAB will be
Materials and Wastes       carried out at the entrance to the highway.          Expressway Adminis-      the admiuis-
tration Bureau          trative agency
(FPEAB)                 for the opera-
tion of the
highway
The license system shall be enforced on the          FPEAB and Public
vehicles carrying pernicious and poisonous           Security Agencies
aterials.
Leaks shall be cleaned up promptly and penal-
ties isposed on those who act against regula-
tions.
2. Vehicle Emissions           Low-speed cars will be prohibited from using         FPEAB
the expressway. The speed limit shbal not be
less than 50 hm/h.
The use of horns shall be lisited.
Motor vehicles shall be equipped vith mufflers       Traffic Regulation
to meet noise emission criteria.                     Units
Trees will be planted along the expressway,          FPEAB
acting as a noise shield.
..ComnAda



Envirormental Issue                Action Taken/To be Taken                              Responsible Entity      Remarks
Acoustic barriers will be set up along the 12        PPZCDO
sensitive sections of the route.
Motor vehicles shall meet requirements for
waste gas emission standards.
3. Highwa drainage             Periodic maintenance shall be parforned on the       Traffic regulAtion
system                     road system. Sediment will be removed sad side       units sad PPEAS
ditches, devatering pumps, and drainage pipes
shall be dredged.
D. Environmental Honitorina
1. Enviromnental mni-          The environmental policy acts and SAP shall be       YPEAB and local
toring In construe-        implemented.                                         Environmental Moni-
tion phase                                                                      toring Stations
Monthly monitoring of construction noise shall
be conduced In compliance with nolse criteria
for construction sites (CB 12523-91), to ensure
the noise within 70 a from the central line of
the expressway will not surpass 77 dD(A).
Periodic monitoring shall be carried out for                                  Clause
fumes from the asphalt m4Jinn  plants and flying                              1105.12.3
dust from construction activities to ensure the
effectiveness of dust control measures.
Periodic observations shall be made for sus-
pended solid materials and silt In the soll
erosion areas, and oils, COD, and suspended
sedlents at the lver reaches of Jiasha
Bridge.
Inspections shall be made for the transport          YPECD0 and Contrac-
vehicles so as to ensure the safety in the           tor
transportation of bulk materials.
2. Environmental Moni-         live regular atmospheric monitoring points           Local monitoring
toring in Operation        shall be set up, and monitoring of NOE, TSP,         stations consigeed
Phase                     Pb, and CO shall be carried out three times a         by FPEAB
year. The monitorlig period will last 5 days
under fair weather conditions, and will be
carried out by a team of four to five persons.                                                          I.



]KEYEl IEMOF    EAP FORTH ROAD NETWORK
EPROVEMMNT PROGRA
,iromntsl problem                    Ikanre  ppoeudltakom                             Reepomoit"ty                                eOMark
Retao s    to                        k       lotia (am            for      *          *                                           so. deign documents.
land a uioitin la order tonti* Fai  traffic Program Doeign lueti-
tveU  1impact en restident   ..d biat              Fusben Urban & itual  rogrm Re-
cite.. Ph. evoidanco of sonettivo environ-        search Insttute
mental features i   ailso a criterioa for        * SBenixg Traffic Program DPe.1  tn-
* Local traffic bur.
Ieineteo  and flood rake             BrUg are              fo d rt  A *   bprojb      * ML=a  taffic Progrm Design  ntt-          See do*sft  documents.
oncep.r 00 pars or lrge  ridgs  an  * usboa Urlban & Rural Program to-
onc ter 50 wa~s  oerw$ medin andsnail              sreb Intituto
and4ps-  culvorta.             a Samig Traffic Progrn Desin ta-
titute
Pnt  vegetation< vii be ued  don side
selpes to prevent Soil rosdon.
Anfitnce, of =No and air             Pb rod sufaci   carried o*ut undr DIP            a im Traffic Program Desinp Imti-           Soe deslp documtos.
p   aili   n se sitv  arse"     abtojects wouldA reduce note. and sir  1-          t.
onm generated bky poor veicle operating       a nhe   rban & Rural Proram Re-
cendi tinoms. i                                   segar I*stituto
Te be   2b               fi              idztraffic Program Doeign lu-
isastrip ls-zo a        ai 270awide a
both sides of the rodcre,with extin
protection for sitivo    .                                                                                                                       A
COSWRCTOR Sa     !
ir pollti                             it     ning and sae   perations                  oaue rqure  cti    or Prco-                seo contract docuAnte.
a .d be located at leat 1.000 n seeO            tioe to be taken by the eatrtor.                            rd
fvm somitive ara".                 ~~~~The htggaemy authoritte  greoasible
AU temporary and permanent Waste  und            for rod reccetuctiw   work                 Contrat el""a 20.1
fil, and exavati shonMd rprotet                  ointly with enviromental protection
with cvaring  or hle            te  o                rtto to supervie aection  of
Prevent flying dust.                            the higheap.
rrsmis  ohbmld be not be opened within         All activities will be supervised! by
*000 n of senitive areas, In order to           unts of environmental protection in
aoid air pollutin at the onet of opera-         1uJ annd th   uian    LI   gi-
tiew..                                          seeig Co tation Supervision Orga-
Tbe  transp_rtotion of dirt and earth should
be onitored to prent spllage.
vohcles should   eamimod regularly for
emission.
niot  po lltien                      Construct  activitie i riOedetial                                                            Contract clause 20.1
areas or area  of widlife inhabitation
should be limited or prohibited durng
evain  and erly morning boure.
Traffic control wil be strengthened to
roduce  OIse within villaeos.
Carrying sand by ehioudbe preferreed an
neans to r_duce vhcle pollution.                                                                                                      YH



_        1ixomstal problem            Me_a   pro,oetdm                                  Responsibility                              Ze
Water polution                         aterlal storge alts sbould be locatd                                                         Contract clae  2041
for sway from vivo"a.
Road  eavation ad filling soulA iclude
tTpOatS  draiag  and ragular maiatence
to prevent collectin of omee  aud poll-
ticsl.
Tumeling and quarry operations t       Ilive pt terel ehould be stored accord.         Masure. reqire actions or precan-            Speei  ceditioe of contract .
ing to safety ertilaios  and safety              ticm. to be taken by the contractor.         clause . 2I.
me  will bes         d.
tzrries wil be situated _ay ftrz resi-
Restoration of qurries  il be cempleted
accordin  to technical  pcifcatio.                                                            Cl0o    102.13, 201.04. i
Work dite   hUld  be  onaged to minimize
the amunt of m11 flying *tane  that
WOuld  pact traffic.
Tumolit  wil be carried out in colipnco
with "Dpecifiction.
Clan.s. 1105.02, 1105.03, Mad
1105.Oa
Solid waste treatment                 Pme.tic veoto  boul be diepoed of at                                                          Contract clo.. 20.4
dooesignatedosit and, upon completion of
contruactio, the site  ould be cleaed
up.
Constractio  and operation            Regular montorin  of CO# Mo.. ad tbh              Under tte guidance   tuof ujia Swiro        Seo pcial condition. of com-
stage                                 total mamout of sueaendod particles. vater       mental Protection Bureau, lAel de.          tract.
ty, OW   ad vibr ation Wi  be con-               patments of eniromeatal protectio
c:ted aroumd cotructio  sit".                    wil carry   t montori  prog.
Seaeal -  daily monitoring Of CO. Re.,
for totl mount of susended particle.
wter quality   o            ibrat, oozone and
RErcro  w     be conducted wer the lag
ter.



- 137 -                       ANNEX.6
IRESETILEMA   ACTION PLAN S
A. POUCY BASS OF LAND ACQUISITON AND RESmwQ
1.         The Land Administration Law of China and the Fujian Provincial Land
Administration Regulations provide the legal basis for land acquisition and resettlement to
be undertakn in connecton with the construction of highways. In addition, to initiate
action on land acquisition and resettlement for major highway projects, SPC's approval of
the feasibility study recommendations and MOC's approval of the preliminary engineering
design are required.
B. COMP ASION POUCIES
2.          According to provincial regulations, the land acquisition process must
include compensation for land and young crops, plus a resettlement subsidy. The
following compensation provisions apply:
(a)   Crop Compensation = 1/2 x annual production value of acquired land
(b)   Land Compensation = 5 x the annual production value of acquired land
(c)   Resettlenent subsidy = 2 x annual production value of acquired land x
agiculture population + total acquired land.
3.          Compensation fees for crops and properes on the land acquired will be paid
directdy to original land users and owners. Compensation for borrowed land will also be
paid to landowners, at an annual rate of 10 percent of the compensation that would apply
for land acquisition.
4.          Contract prices include compensation for land acquisition, the temporary
occupation (borrowing) of land, and lesettlement. Forms of compensation that are not paid
directy to individuals and collective units, such as the cost of rebuilding public facilities
and resettling laborers, will be provided for in a development fund maintained at local
levels. The funds received by local agencies will be used for the fuiher development of
township enterprises, to provide employment opportunities for dislocated workers and
subsistence allowances for individuals who are unable to work. In addition, a portion of
the funds will be reserved for the establishment of village enterprises, development of
aquaculture, construction of small industrial estates, reclamation of wasteland, and
improvement of low-yielding farmland.



- 138 -                       ANNEX
5.          According to provincial regulations, certain local taxes and other financial
obligations to government are exempted: for example, agncultural tax, farmland
occupation tax, and the requirement to sell grain to the government would be parially or
wholly relieved. Such forms of compensation are included in the contracts made for
resettlement, and typically managed by public authorities.
6.         Compensation for buildings is based on replacement cost, relative to the
size, quality, and condition of the property. Compensation for other properties, including
tombs, brick or tile kilns, pump houses, wells, enclosures and lavatories will be
compensated by local governments in accordance with local practice, through direct
payments to property owners.
7.         The demolition of power and telecommunication lines and pipelines will also
be required. Compensation standards for such properties have been forinulted in
conjunction with utility agencies and will be paid direcdy to owners.
8.         In planning and budgeting for the highway ane RNIP resettlement programs,
a provision has been made for administrative cost, and a  ontingency (reserve) fund has
been established for unexpected costs within the approve preliminary budget and setting
out of the right-of-way (ROW).
C. PRNCPL   OF RESEFLEMENT
9.         The resettlement of farm workers affected by land acquisition involves
several alternatives to protect employment. First, "responsibility farmland will be
readjusted to provide cultivatable land to farmers.  Second, as mentioned above,
compensation fees held in the local development fund will be used to expand the
employment options available to farmers.
10.        In addition, township enterprises will be expanded to absorb surplus labor.
Employinent opportunities would be created in nearby state-owned enterprises for
transformation of agricultral households.
11.        The resettlement program will require residents to demolish and rebuild their
own houses. Factories, schools and hospitals will demoLsh and rebuild houses for their
staff; likewise, government institutions will resetle their own staff. Construction units of
the Fujian Provincial Expray Construction Directorate Office (FPECDO) will pay
compensation fees at replacement price for dwelling houses demoliton and relocation.
D.               PnocEDuI
12.        Investigation of Compensation Standards. FPECDO, in conjuncdon with
the Fujian Provincial Land Administation Bureau and the Fujian Provincial Transport
Planning and Design Institute (FPrPDI), completed a survey of the compesation standard
on land requisition and building relocation in early 1992. Data were collected on the total
area of farmland, population, types of crops, growing area, yield, crop prices, and value



- 139 -                       ANNEX6
of buildings. Based on these data, the average compensation values to be used in
estimating resettlement cost were formulated. Indicative compensation fees are shown
below:
Unit Price
k(Yuan
Land acquired                  mu         8,000
Longan or lychee tree         1 tree       400
Banana tree                   1 tree         10
Fruit tree (all other)        I tree        60
Building (brick)               m2           150
Tomb                         I coffin      100
E. RESEITLMrT FoR TE SIAMEN-QuOU  HiGHWAY
Route Location and Inpact
13.        The construction of the Xiamen-Quanzhou Hghway is the first phase of the
Province's longer-term objective of providing a high-standard highway in the well-
developed coastal corridor of the Province, lining the major cities of Zhangzhou-Xlamen-
Quanzhou and Fuzhou. The proposed highway section begins at Xifu near Km 185 on the
existing Fuzhou-Xiamen Highway, a point 10 km northeast of the center of Quanzhou
City. The section terminates at Guanlintou Village in Xinglin District, about 9 km
northwest of the center of Xiamen City. The length of the entire alignment is 81.4 km.
14.        The proposed route was chosen to minimize the acquisition of cultivated land
and the resetdement of residents. The land acquisiton and resettement activities for the
proosed highway will directly affect six counties and cities, with 18 towns and 1 farm.
A total of 9,565 mu of land will be acquired, and an additional 1,662 mu of land will be
occupied on a temporary basis. The cultivated land to be acquired for consructior. of the
highway totals 8,607 mu, or approxmately 1.6 percent of the total cultivated land in the
towns that are directly affected by resettement.
15.        The economic base of the communities along the highway alignment has
become increasingly diversified, due to the rapid growth of enterprises in recent years.
While agricultural activities have a cental role in the economy, the popuon affected by
resetdtement for the highway is active in a variety of sectors. Of the 15,504 people
affected by rsettlement under the highway project, approximately 31 pent are engaged
exclusively in farming, while 39 percent earn income from farming plus industry. About
S peicent are employed by enterprises or institutions, and the remaining 25 percent are
economically inactive. The impact of resettement on prpertie suggests that 84 percent
of the individuals would be affected by land acquisition, 8 percent would be affected by
demolition of houses, 6 percent would be affected by both land acquisition and demolition
of houses, and 2 percent would be affected only indirecdy.



- 140 -                        AN=k
16.        The properties affected by the route alignment are as follows:
Number of M= Idr        Area (4
Houses                         385             63,768
Factories                       65             24,128
Uvestock sheds                 115               1,767
Schools                          3               1,251
House foundations               29              4,712
Tombs                        2A.46
3,060            95,622
Orgwitliondal Arrangements
17.        Organiztions for land requisition and resettlement were established between
April and October 1992. Leading groups have also been established at various levels in
the Province to involve representatives of planning, land administration, construction,
communications, labor, agriculture, water, electric power, post, and broadcasting
departments in the resetdement process.
18.        Provincial Level. Three staff members of the FPECDO will be broadly
responsible for implementation of the RAP. The agency's specific tasks include setting out
the ROW and verifying the quantity of land and strutures to be affected by resettement.
During implementation, the agency would make the preliminary budgetary allocations to
cities and counties for resettlement by contract, manage the inventory of land acquired for
the ROW, and monitor and audit the activities of lower-level implementing agencies.
19.        City Level. Resettlement offices at city levels will each be staffed by
10 people. The city-level offices will be responsible for carrying out the progr2m of
resettlement defined by the Directorate Office. The works concerning land acquisition and
resettlement in the area under each city's jurisdiction will form the basis of their work.
Other activities caried out at the city level will include resolution of civil disputes and
facilitation of contract site preparation, for example in acquisition or borrowing of pits and
quarries and the establishment of temporary power, water, and road systems.
20.         County Level. Offices of expressway construcdon at county levels will
have a total of 30 staff, representing 3 to S staff in each office. The county-level offices
would play a large role in verifying the amount of land acquired and buildings relocated
and allocating compensation fees to townships.
21.         Township mnd Viage Levels. Township agencies represent the working
level in implementation of the RAP, as most details of resetdement will be aranged and
supervised at township and village levels. A total of 36 people will coordinate resettement
activities at the township level, including 2 people per towraship. In addition, one person
wil handle compensation and land acquisition acdvities in each. village directly affected.
I



- 141 -                        ANN    6
22.         Survey of the ROW. The stakeout of the ROW was carried out by staff
of the FPTPDI between November 1992 and March 1993. Required approvals and other
formalities were also obtained or completed by the end of March 1993.
23.         Contracts. The agreements authorizing land acquisition have been signed
between FPECDO and the various local governments and land bureaus. Compensation
fees for demolition of buildings and acquisition of land to rebuild houses were paid to city
and county governments under lump-sum contracts, followed by contracting with lower-
level governments, during April 1993.
24.         Completion of ROW  Acquisition and Resettlement.  The structures
located within the ROW are scheduled to be demolished and removed between April and
October 1993. Properties will be removed by owners in principle, while resettlement
organizations will remove properties lackdng ownership. Land distribution was scheduled
for June 1993. Compensation will be paid after the demolition of buildings, and
resettlement of the population should be completed by the end of October 1993. An
inspection of the areas involved will follow these activities, with the goal of gaining access
to the ROW for construction by December 1993.
F. RESE lM   FOR TEIE ROAD NErwonK ImPmovzmr PROGRAM
25.         The land acquisition and resettlement activities for the RNIP, required only
for the "A" group of subprojects, will directly affect 12 towns or townships. A total of
1,928 mu of land will be acquired, and 20,085 e2 of buildings will be demolished. The
total number of people affected is 689.
26.         Resettlement for the RNEP will follow the general pnnciples staed above for
the highway.
27.         The compensation standards assumed for the RNIP vary by subproject, as
summarized below:
Land, including
Houses         compensation for craops
S.ukbpr.gi               (Xm1Lpem2D             (YRuan per muL
lingiiang-Lianjiang (Al)       180                  8,000
Xinkou-Dutouping (A2)          120                 7,000
Nakou-Shaowu (A3)              165                 7,500
28.         In cases where houses must be demolished, township governments will
assign land for the construction of new houses. Cultivated land will be compensated
through the provision of newly reclaimed land, cash, or by employment with the
government, and resettlement will be provided to appropriate sites for those who wish to
continue farming. In the case of land acquisition or house demolition, people will be
prvided jobs in township- or village-based enteprises or in nearby industial companies.



- 142 -                       ANNE
29.         Organizational arrangements for RNIP resettlement activities provide for
coordination and supervision by FPHAB and the Fujian Land Administration Bureau. The
two agencies will jointly administer land acquisition, building demolition, and resettlement
of the population affected. The local agencies involved are located in suburban Fuzhou,
Lianjing county, Sanyuan District of Sanming, and Shaowu.
30.        The resettlement activities associated with RNIP are on schedule and will
likely be completed by the end of 1993. The establishment of local units to carry out
resettlement of RNIP took place in July 1993. The process of determining compensation
levels and contract amounts was completed by late August 1993, with assignment of land
and compensation payments made in September 1993. Removal of buildings and
assumption of land by contractors could be accomplished as early as November 1993, to
permit construction to begin in December 1993.
G. MONrrORING
31.        The implementation of the RAP for the highway will be monitored by
FPECDO. Each agency responsible for executing the RAP will moitor progress on a
continuous basis, through collection of data, interviews, and on-site spot checks of
resettlement activities. FPECDO plans to conduct a sample survey at the village level
early in the process of RAP implementation, to review compensation received by
individuals and the effect on incomes. FPECDO staff will also be involved in random spot
checks and interviewing at local levels to monitor resettlement. Readjustment of land and
employment will be monitored periodically, as frequently as results permit.
32.        FPHAB will be responsible for monitoring progress in resetement under
the RNIP. As with the highway, a formal process of progress reporting and review will
be used for each RNIP subproject, complemented by spot checks at resettlement sites and
by interviews with the population affected.
33.        It has been discussed and agreed that a report would be submitted to the
Bank in September 1994, reviewing the completed resettlement programs for the highway
and RNIP.
H. SUNMARE
34.        The estimated total cost of resetlement under the proposed project is
Y 141.4 million. A total of 16,193 people will be direcdy affected by resettlement
activities. A set of data related to the impact of resettlement for the proposed highway,
including number of people affected, amount of land to be acquired, and a summary of
resettlement costs, are provided in Appendixes 1 and 2. Similar data for the RNIP are
included in Appendixes 3 and 4.



- 143- -NNEX6
ppdix I
LAD ACQMSMON AD  SEEY
X4MEN-QUNZHOU  GHAY
City.                                                       Total number       Number          Number not
county or district,     Land to be              Number of          ofpeople       economically      economically
town               acquired (mu)          households          affected          active            active
QUANZUOU CY
Lichens District
Chengdong                   616.2                     298          1,610           1,289              321
Donghai                     273.0                     1S4            721             541              180
Jiniiang County
Chidian Town                479.6                     147            749             487              262
Cbeudai ToWn                 403                       11             60              41               19
Qingyang Town               343.7                     188            917             753              164
Cizao Town                  798.0                     439          2,141           1715               426
Luoshan ToWn                238.0                      37            228             178               50
Neikeng Town                603.0                     162            919             735              184
Anhai Town                  223.0                     103            522             386              136
Nao'0 Count
Shuitou Town              1,054.1                     266          1,617           1,027              S90
KanlongFsrm                 366.0                      62            376             290               86
ULAMBNCTUY
Tons'an County
NelcuoTown-                 625.8                     124            628             440              188
MaxiangTown                 653.0                     211          1,049             782              267
HongtangToum                310.6                      72            370             240              130
Xiko Town                   368.0                     126            679             523              156
XiangqiaoTown               7S6.9                     163            gm5             580              22S
Jimei District
HouxiTown                   779.5                     142            798             585              213
Guankou Town                289.4                      61            2S3             186               67
Xinglin District
Xinglin Town                S7                         X           1.062             839              223
OTAL                      WLE WI



LADAQUMO AN RESLMN COWESATON SMAy
XIABME-QUANAOU lECIGHWAY
^,                    ~    ~    ~      ~    ~~P_W" "hwi  r_ Xtfcued  r"nn t Pts_a       a     _~dsia
wt:           1 I anloeMe                                          dbZn Ns_tftofeBd now  -a   C A&b-                 TOWd
b         Acwh            Bon_m  bes  bu0&   Bas            m    hnd  _ZD gi  copoi                    nafm 
abnkTo            Ka6   ts      UN    2%            8      0    5X2493
Doe_mTo n        TM   4t         A      a           11    6    U L3S 7
%M92   InM            mli  m       X      0 436 7,6   S53 1soi  t,6    I                               1e2494L6S
CUiTe             479.6  t2Lt    m      9     ¢     i   UO  t8    3 3z0
Th= "             4a3      s0                        0           2s   10
>Tae         343J~S  9t0     3 11   8  1e4                  2,422  t90
=2aTe 90 U10    2 50      IL                        n   25             2
IUA_TQ           2m0    0w    610   5s              17          46n    o
N_gMTo           a"       6t,0   In   190           3           4ZS  20 
AT~~~~= 0              -   zw      W Z0n                1911     UN O   t151 Z5!                                                      4 W   A
SbuhnTa         1^        860   I0    3a0          292          7,U  2m
X*Pwml             0c     220    39   itS           if          lo7  as         02
1M      11t.0  0A   445   269  301             1400  358       82      397     U^6    450    tW    t4998
=NeiCWTG         6251S    lW     175   196                      44tO  37
gaiT<wn          6S1      ao    339  205            tl          4,60  199
HMN*To           3tA6    217.0    22   11                       2189  119
]mm TOM           mu    tLaw    Its   its                 70   2>3  Goo
ruuo~TOM          7569    99S    717  Ws                         AM   3
n4743    6wS   OR4  -di   652   tl   70  19,t26 22U                    452    24.75    SUt    tSi   2X119
rAmdD
HoTwd To           S     231.2   327   245                      S492  734
GuanhaTf          289A                  91                      Zane                                                                       1
lo      231.2  -321   336   III                7,M   734              t47      10,453   340    so   11Xv6                 f
Xina^Dic
XakuTO            5472    930    4SB  17    97                  3WA5  30B                40      4m"t    t63    Su    S432          _
unume                                                                                                       17=l   17.W2s) C
7TAOL                9jS3L679t2 .92 1.692    5 60   6740  In4x im2 4099                         294*7 330    a           69



- 145 -                               ANNE    6
Appdix 3
LAN ACQUSON AM RESETTLEMENT
ROADl N4ETWORK MOROitVEN0T jPROtGRA9M
Buildings                 Total
City,                                                                 to be                  number of
county or district,                               Land to be              demolished                 people
town                                      acquired (mu)               (sq m)                  affected
TINGJIANG-LIANJIANG ROAD (A-1)
Tingjiang                                          42.0                    7,284.0                  231
Guantou                                           100.6                    4,074.0                  177
Aojiang                                           101.6                     590.0                     18
244.2                   11,948.0                  426
XINKOU-DUTOUPING ROAD (A-2)
Xinkou                                            180.8                    1,903.8                   66
SHAOWU-NAKOU ROAD (A-3)
Nakou                                             300.0                     150.0                    10
Dazhu                                             329.0                    1,469.9                   75
Wujiatang                                        258.3                        0.0                     0
Shaikou area                                      305.0                    3,107.0                   59
Zhaoyang area                                     176.0                     267.0                    12
Tongqin area                                      135.0                     723.0                    41
Shaowu city                                         0.0                     516.0                      0
1,503.3                   6,232.9                   197
rOTAL                                             1.928.3                   20,084.7                   689



LAND ACQUISMON AND RESFITTL                                                       COENSATION                                         Y
a',,~~~~~~~~~(9w
City,                                                                                                           Oftoteloost~~(boo
countydbi,                                                Factwonb_              Otbrcoeredi                          Cb          Asniioi-                  Tt
Me                                 bgoe s    SfiS-Wnd  COdRU              _b,b                _Cvs *       d    paw_u       satnCn
Nakcs                                          25                                                     260       904       1,189         Zl                    1216
Dwf                                          338                                         66           S69      1,099      2n72          34                    2105
Wu qm                                                                                                 5       2,110        2687         S                     2,742
Sbaiobuofl                                    142           209                                       314      1,683      2,348         5        2480         4,883
Thaega.gd                                      44                                                     2S3       818       1,l1          30                    1,145
dTfgioofce                                                               so              70           15S       741        1,016        16        :1*3
HJospitI no 186                                                                          13                                  13          0                       13
Tbbam ctacoy                                                 72         -          _7-2-1                                                                        73
549           281                         194         2,129     7,X35       10,523                             13f
XI3KOU-DU¶TOUPfNGROAD (A-2)
Xhikou                                        183                                        4S           220       420         8f8         51         190         1,110
I1NGJIANQmANIJAN ROAD (M-)
ISsjbog                                     1,239                                        73            48       288        1,647        67                    1.714
G_mou                                         82                                        25             92       721         919         46        632         1597
Mjiapm                                        6715                                        9           106       699        L            61i.
I'm9                                       156           246      1,708       4,104       174         632         4,91
WrAL                                        2_              2I        ,,    ,_                       2     9 .42          154                    3,
ii



SUPERVISION M1ION PLAN
riming                         Main Activities                         Skills Requirement     Staff-weeks
03/94  Inial   w                                                  Highway Engineering            3
1. Steps taken by Borrower concerning loan effectivity;
2. Sus of mobilization of civil works contrctors (highway);
3. Status of contators' supervision setup (highway);
4. Progress of works under RNIP;
5. Management aspects of RN1P;
6. Status of land acquisition and resettlement;
7. Status of PRCIS study; and
8. Status of road laboratory equipment procurement process.
06194     e                                                       HtLunch Worksho:  Highway Engineering  4
Review of key procedures for Bank-Executing Agency interactions,  Procurement
such as implementation progress, disbursement status, environment  Disbursement
and resettlement issues and progress reporting requirements. In-    Environment
depth assessment of the status of the PRCIS.
03195  G¢enrAl Supervision:                                       Highway Engineering            3
1. Review of overall progress for each component and identify  Resettlement
pending issues and agree on follow-up actions, in particular
discuss the recommendations of the final report of the PRCIS;
and monitoring on resettlement.                                          i_-_a



timing                        Main Actvities                           Skils Requirement      Staff-wee
lOJ95  mwor S  ennsio                                             Highway Engineering            4
h-deptl review of implementaion sttus with particular emphasis   Environment
on:                                                        RDP, PMS specialist
1. Contractors' performance;
2. Effecdveness of supervision;
3. Adequacy of environmental protection measures;
4. Status of equipment procurement for RDB and PMS
5. Status of pieparation of bidding documents for E&M supply and
erect contact;
6. RDB, PMS and staff taining progmms.                                                            l
04/96  GenH S                                                     Highway Engineering            2
Review overll progress for each component, identify pending issues
and agree on follow-up actions.                                                       __v
10/96  Major Supervision:                                         Highway Engineering            4
In-depth review of implementation status with particular emphasis   Environment
on:                                                        RDB, PMS specialist
1. Contractors' performance;
2. Effectiveness of supervision;
3. Adequacy of environmental protection measures; and
4. RDB, PMS and staff training programs.                                                          l
04/97  General Supervision:                                       Highway Engineering            3
1. Review overall progress for each component and identify pending Procurement
issues and agree on follow-up acdon;
2. Review the status of equipment procurement for the operation
and maintenance of the highway component; and
3  Review the status of contracting for E&M supply and installation.                              I 3



Timing                        Main Activities                         Sdlls Requrement       Staff-weeks
10/9 7  MIor Sus ision:                                           Highway Engineering           4
In-depth rview of implementation status with particular emphasis   Envirment Resettlement
on:
1. Con tos' perfornce;
2. Effectiveness of supervision;
3. Adequacy of environmental protection measures; and
_____  4. RDB, PMS and staff taining programs.
04/98   enl S pisi   :                                            Highway Engineering           2
Review oveall progress for each component and identify pending
issues and agree on follow-up actions.                                                   _
10/98  GMea    s                                                 Highway Engineering            3
Review overall implementation status and initiate preparation of the
PCR by the Borrower.
07/99  PCR .  ssi-on                                              Highway Engineering           5
A consolidated review of project implementation.          Tnsport Economist
Environment
Resettlment
RDB, PMS, Trining
TOTAL: 37
.   . .  _     _                       - .       .~~~



- 150 -                       ANN    8
TOLL RATE STUDY FOR                      -QUANZHOU UGHWAY
OUTI TERMS OF REFERENCE
Objective of Stud'
1.         The objective of the study is to analyze and recommend a toll rate structure
for the Xiamen-Quanzhou Highway. The study is expected to give proper consideration
to cost recovery goals, economic efficiency and equity in the toll strucure among different
classs of vehicles.
Prciples and Data for s*abin Toll Rates
2.         Pricing the use of roads should ta  into account cost recovery objectives,
economic efficiency and equity among users. Achieving a proper balance among these
objectives will be influenced by the level and composition of trffic, its effect on the cost
of opeang and maintaining the road, the vehicle operating costs on the Highway, the
existnce of alternative routes and the vehicle operating costs on such routes, including the
toll charges on such routes, if any, and the administrative cost of operating the toll
hfilities.
3.         While the toll revenue, in accordance with the present policies of the
Province, would be used primarily for the repayment of the loan, the analysis should also
eplore to what extent the operating and maintenance cost could also be coveted fom the
toll revenues. For this purpose, the study should come up with a realistic estimate of the
opeating and maintenance cost of the highway over at least a 20-year horizon. The
analysis should take into account the existence of route alternatives, and the difference in
vehicle operating costs, including the toll charged at the tolling stations, between the new
and the existing road, which will influence the vehicle driver's decision to use the new toll
Highway or to remain on the old toll road. For example, the traffic, discouraged by the
tolls on the new road, may remain on the lower-quality existing roads and incur higher
vehicle opting costs. Such higher costs represent an economic loss for the society. Toll
levels should be set to minimiz such losses to the regional and national economy.
4.          In order to be able to set a toll rate structure compatible with the above
principles, the following essential data will be required:
(a)   traffic composition on the existing road, both existing and projected, under
tolling situation, and with breakdown by origin and destinafton;
(b)  identification of alternative routes for the various origin-destnation pairs;



- 151-                         ANNEX I
(c)   vehicle operating costs on the highway and on the alternative routes,
including the costs on access roads to and from the highway;
(d)  in light of (a) through (c), estimates of traffic demand elasticity to toll
prices; and
(e)   vehicle types, and their relative costs imposed on road maintenance.
Ton Revenue and Traffc Diversion Projections
5.          On the basis of the proposed toll rate structure for the Highway, and the
present and projected traffic and tolling costs data, the study will make estimates of:
(a)   total toll revenue (from the Highway) to be collected yearly, over a period
of 20 years;
(b)   net toll revenue (from the Highway), on a yearly basis, once toll collection
costs are taken into account; and
(c)   estimates of the traffic that would not use the Highway as a result of the toll
charges.
Consideration of Chinese Experience withb Toll Roads
6.          The study will take into account the experiences to date with toll roads in
China, especially those under conditions similar to the Xiamen-Quanzhou highway. These
exeiences will be especially useful for determining the data on vehicle operating costs,
taffic demand elasticities and road maintenance costs. The review of the Chinese
experiences should look particularly at the level of toll rates charged, their relation to
veicle operating costs savings and drivers' behaviors due to the toll between the new and
the eisting routes, and the extent of traffic diversion.
Completion of the Study
7.          The study is expected to be completed and submitted to the World Bank for
comments by July 31, 1997.



- 152 -                        AEX 2
SELECTED DOUMENTS AVAMABLE IN TE PROJECT FILE
1.    Feasibility Study Report on Ydamen-Quanzhou Section of Puzhou-Xiamen
Expressway; Fujian Provincial Commiunications Planning and Design Institute;
November 1991.
2.    Environmental Impact Statement Quanzhou-Xiamen Expressway (2 volumes);
Fujian Provincial Environmental Protection Research Institute; September 1992.
3.    Summary of Environmental Impact Statement for Xiamen-Quanzhou Expressway
Section of Fuzhou-Xiamen Highway; Fujian Provincial Environmental Protection
Research Institute and Fujian Provincial Fuzhou-Xiamen-Zhangzhou Expressway
Construction Directorate Office; February 1993.
4.    Environmental Action Plan for the Xiamen-Quanzhou Expressway Section of
Fuzhou-Xiamen Highway; Fujian Provincial Expressway Construction Directorate
Office; March 1993.
5.   Enforcement Plan of Environmental Protection for the RNIP; Fujian Provincial
Highway Administration Bureau; March, 1993.
6.    Action Plan for Land Requisition and Resettlement for Xiamen-Quanzhou
Expressway Section of Fuzhou-Xiamen Highway; Fujian Provincial Expressway
Construction Directorate Office; September 1993.
7.    Plan for Building Destruction and Removal and Resettlement for the RNIP; Fujian
Provincial Highway Administration Bureau; March 1993.
8.    Quarterly Progress Report-Outline; October 1993.



Chart 1: FitUAN PROVINCE TRANsPR1 ORGAmATONs
lotecrel Orgnizeti 
.                              ruj   Pro.cil                                    c
I       F -il                      Tranport
INpartment (?PT_ Security Control Bureau for Porte
cyAgowenesL
Iaion Pro-        ile          uhl           Iorad
IFUji  Proqjn-   S                                                 Pcience end  v s tan Ul  Port    Shipping  in od  Vatetway    Ccetruction
c ci ighoe  techology   port Planning     Coutn    idii-I ICmete  caloa    ranpr   Aa                            Quality
Adainttretio  flesetch   ed Deci;A n       Znginer. tretion   1C )               col      Cmay   tein            Kntrn
Bureeut        |  Inetitue  |tiat, (EP ,|  Inc. ((HCSt)|    LM|                                                          S>tatone   I
GOwr l 0ffiral
Fia  Pr ircial       dvr-4
toae fiCe          +Iidolg      Coa t ctu
Plauning and linncel
Zquipe ant en Mterialeg



Chalrt 2: ORGANIZTON OF TH   JNPOVICA  HIGWAY AMINSRTON BUEU (FIA)
Labor       Bu or-     dc.                  Adlnia-    Sup   I  I ID-I gScinc  aSCd                    If e        EnI-    Pln.  m    fIaf           Chief I
|Municiplilty- or PreteOcture-Leve
|    gkm.ay bureau
ConDty- or Dietrict-tLov l                         l                                                  abor. VFge, end 15ducatloc|                         Lh
Niglalay Burea
Mainietration~~~-|^lRDitrtiD
1                                                                                    |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Supply end Sln Dchaie
and~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ie r,oaterial,oY,Ibat-
MaitenaCce
tVnlite



IBRO2 25221
RUSSIAN
FEDERATION
KAZAKHSTAN                                                                                                                                                                     HP.
ULAAN8MTAP                          a
UZBEKISTAN        ALMA                                                                            MONGOLIA
FRUNZE    A                                                                                                                                                  C         _      *   *                                     a
KYRGYZ                                   @
REPUBLIC                                                                                                                                                     8       ,                                           N
,A_ 3T  t  ~   >  \  > ct 2.henTgng  Sot <-;     JAPAN
TAJIKISTAN                                                                                                                                                                       DEM. REP
t *   _ ,  ~  e          te    1 rEmlst OF KOREA                                             *
REP OF
KOREA
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~Y0
Th,,,mop ho bnp,epo,aAdby_                                                                                                          Ia ion  £  J               t 
I o he /fru 5 fTeWo,I8PR,d,,,I                                                                                                   e   :~  |
HE        ARk -rQp ,h ,nm=,r                                                                                             _-_   
A,sH,op do .a. ,mplIo#1epurwpl_
R.d;m lonlbeRegoNshle60f                                                                                                                    I
of-RhpeJncA  boAmdRi                                                                                               /                                    (          t
NEPALth                                              i                                                                                 S~~ s7   >sps dPh                        PACIFIC
NEPAL   <°                                              w                          (    .hor9                     ;~~~~~~~~ OCFAN
CHINA                                                                  /          \                        3 
MAJOR HIGHWAY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM                                                                             J t ,                  Hgv                        !
NATIONAL TRUNK HIGHWAY SYSTEM(NTHS)                                                            /        et    
MAOR HIGHWAYS                                                                 1;8                         //          ;g                      7
8_ c- -  COMPME.E                                                              - -                               5
UDM088CONSTRUCTION 18TH PIPE 9MPLAN 1991.1995,                                 4           E          I                             p {} 'FSHRBRD24~66       CLYno_
ffi. .., d. --pl,  1h, -1~% 
- -      9THFPITH YEAR P1/Al I 896 20001                                                z    v                                          ,                              S-J
-        P TLANNED 9EYOND 70D7                                                                                NerHq7      Ft h_  O    EbhRO
MAJOPORHS I G   WA DE LHO NGKORG,U.K.
NTAS PNORA9YCORRJDORS    PP   PROVINCE CA71TAUS                                      VIET NAM                 bPHILIPPINES
NYRD LONGERM CORRIDORS   i    NATIONAL CAPITALS                                                             '!i, S MNH
PROVINCE ROANDARCES ZTLCO PEOPLE S FEEA P,R IPI"'                                                                     HR     HRs        HR   RH 
INTERNSPOTNAlCRODNADRIPS      TAVLAND   DEM. REPA PITALS  VIT NAM                                                         PHILIvP
_EP_fEMSER 1993



I |117                                                      I                               1_9
116-                           117'                          i78}                            114                           ,        >    _ \S
This rop hWfs been 1r epofed
by The Wodd  Ban     t                                                                                                       __ .    
~   ouieyfor thie coe,enec
ofraesand  Jo fo, the                                                   ZHE
Gra.h  eomiato  used"ha                                                      PROVINCE
dooioe o dni ,othe
part of flheWo,dd2Graup                                                                                                                      \,:-.w.  sp-(
ony    mudgrneat an the legT IHnq. sha                                                                   -u        t
ntotus~ Grny ternito, oDr ons                                                                B     --<krGJs
n,'
endomer,t or acoeptlan a.                                                                                                          .  >t  
such bnodries.
To Wsshn                                                                        ,~       -,,
-2P   JIANGXI
PROVINCE                                                              P'
tf Nanchg  ) h o     )     iT N..a.
Taming~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
4786 J I A N G X I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z                                           Ht    hongoe2~X,  . -
\af Wlokou 2l Zhenqiofongbon Shunchoang                                                                  SOUHeng
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ XLME ,_ GUNIU NIngd Luxi
1   RD N O   IMPROVEMENT BeiROAo
ZH         RVOUUBN(PRJCTRA
ingliu                               XKnko   HgLnin
-26,                                                                                                                                    so L) fi   %r>trnjnn   H  241-
y    i
) tos t_ ~~~~~~Zhnngping|/Rf  
PRO"JNCE<9hnng 98°ngPn(   k \ f;?NtR ui'nnf                                                              FUJIAN PROVINCIAL
S j _  XKnnshL    <  S    /   9P\EECnnzhou  HIGHWAY PROJECT
|   onO Oo'g\a /   C N  \  J     W      \   jJi inng              PR.OPOSED PROECTE
KILOMETERS                                   XIAMEN - QUANZHOU HIGHWAY
To Gngihou ) t n Nn~~~~~Nnji n               g < Z \                                                        ROAD NErWORK IMPROVEMENT PROG-RANt
)   )   a  t   enn Bzhot PXinnleh~~~~~~~~~~~~ PREV10US BANK PROJECT ROAD)
an         \                                                                                                                I ' _   :  )losan2539.CHA/Crnd-t(-5CWdt9 H
)\ _27 Pinhe Lon9hn>/ ~For detnil see IERD 24667
GUANGDONG                                                       ,                                          - \  PRIMARYROADS
)   g   w/ZhnngpU/                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RURAL ROADS
qtPRO%"INCE                                                   f                                                       RAILROADS
-24a     116                            17                            118' j9                                             ARPRT                            240-
-a  I        \00 '.dS, PORT
T. Sh-be A-                                                                                           PREFECTURE BOUNDANJES
na                      /<no'n~~~~~~~~~~                ~     ~~~n Dongshcnn2 So  s       o                     PROlxlNCE 80UNDAPNES         
iE                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS   -      INTERNATIONAL BOUNDIARIES      
s   l  _  -                       '~~~~~~~~~~~117             lie                              I                                1.    .  _ 0'



IBRD 24667
CHINA                                                                                                               To Nonaon
FUJIAN PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                                                                                 \J
XIAME - QUANZHOU SECTION OF THE                                                                                           \
ZHANGZHOU - XIAMEN - FUZHOU HIGHWAY                                                                                                                             xifu
PROPOSED PROJECT.                                                                                                                            Q          0 /Iuan
XIAMEN - QUANZHOU HIGHWAY
{-Q----  IINJTERCHANGES                                                                                     Q U   N   H
LARGE BRIDGES                                                                                                                      idionO
TUNNELS  .      |      <                                    1                 9     ~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cizoo  Xp Xndion
TUNNELS
LINKROAD                                                                                                                 0                 Jinjiong         j
FUTURE EXTENSION
>  A  \| . \ d,Zh(2~~~~~~~~~~~~u ngqi /o
324-    PRIMARY ROAD                                          nge     XIAMEN                              Shibe                k
RURAL ROADS                                                                                                                                         S hishi
RAILROAD
} ej PORTS q X ~~~~~~~~~TON0A  Kangdiano ;nX( 
PORTS                                                                                                             A
CITY BOUNDARIES                                                          9                                     Shuitou
0        5    t     0        15                                                                           b   a1/   Suhuiou 
KILOMETERS                                 Dongpu            Houan        MoxirnLontorg\                                 Dongshi 
zo                                    Guonkoultnh>                                        ining                                 Shijing                    uiG/i
\   Z H A N>Z H O U       /  /Aglin!  Sun~~~ ~                              ~~~cuo¢ 
\=K  S H I\           Longlin                             Jei  Ceit                                                               Weitovueio
/ / e k~~~~~~~~~~\                        tX                     (;)~~~~~~~~~Aoo                                 Woin         Wo
This mop hos beers prep-red
by set Worl th conreo staff
oey jsdxsg  on the Wogol
Gul-ngyu   s(tG)                                      J                                              endo     territory or -
SEPTEMBER 1993



