V1te5n,0:ys4t I I  <.\  '  ., V .NI
ik   ess , Iii_ iu, ,,Ii Tia\} e
Report E10052
S)  C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ii..r
Ftju -an Provincial    ;
Higlhway Project
EA Category A
Environmental Impact Statement
6 of 6
September 1992
This report has been prepared by the Borrower or its Consultant



RECEIVED
930OCT 12 AM a'I0It a
A.tA.
Tlhe Action Plan For Land Requisition And Reset;.lement
For Quanzhou-Xiamen Expressway Section of' Fuzhou-Xiaimen Highway
Volume T
(two volumes in Lotla l)
Fuj iani Prov inci71 I iral   ;or:3'.t utr i.t
Of Fuzhou-Xiamen-7.hangfzhou Ext)res.sway f-:o-;t.r*L!w. in
September 1993



The Action Plan Por Land Acqui6ition And Resettlement Por The
Quanzhou-Xiamen Expressway Section Of Puahou-Xiamen Highway
I General
1.1 The Project Description
The  Quanzhou-Xiamen  Expressway   Section  of  Fuzhou-Xiamen
Highway is the southern part of the proposed Puzhou-Xiamen
Expressway connecting Puzhnu Economic Development Zone and Xiamen
Special Ecnnomic.Zone and the "Economic Development Zone in the
Delta in the southern part of Pujian. The.expressway sectinn acts
not only  as an important  collecting and distributing  route for
maritime cargoes at ports of FuJiian. but also as a window to the
ouitside world.  It begins at  Xifiu near K185+286 on  the existing
* Puzhou-Xia-men Highway in the nnrtheast of Quanzhni (:C ty abouit ten
kilometres from the city centre and terminates at Guanlintou
Village in Xinglin District about nine kilnmetres far frnm  Jioei
Town in the northwest of Xiamen City to connect National Highway
No. 319 there.  The section '.f expressway  trar.sverses two cities
.Quanzhoii and  Xiamen)  and  six  counties/districts  and  towns
including Licheng, Jinjiang, Nan'an. 'ong'an. Jimel. Xinar)in.
The   Quianzhou-Xiamen  Expressway   wifth  cnopletely   closed
interchanges and fully-cnntrolled accesses is P1.441 Ka in length
with a design speed of 120 Km/h and a sitbgrade width of 26
meters. In the middle of the road, a 3.0-meter-wide medi:-m strip
will be constructed with'two 7.5-meter-wide traffic Lanes on both
sides. The  width of the hard shoulder  and the earth shco;lder is
2.5 meters and 0.75 meters  wide resper-'tvely. Outer edge is 0.75
meters wide with an average depl.h fir  riIl of the s'ibxrade c"f 3.7
meters.  Along the  alignment  there is  14.4  Km-Jtarig snrt  soil
foundation, accotinting for  18X nf the total length.  aa.m'ng which
9.0  Km will be treated by  means of sacked sarid drains. plastices
drainage,  st irred cement  pi'les, pre i.adiLdng  an4 replacement *of
light material for drainage and consolidation.
Along this  sec-tinn of  freeway  there are  two extra  large
bridge with  a total length  of 2515 meLers. thrce  large bridges
"t'ith a total length of 732 metersi 2  meditim bridges (1t'11 meters
in total), 44  small bridges with   total length t)f  118R  meters.
292 elal verts  totalling 12016  metersF,-   intcrchanaes. 44  grade
separations  (2736   meters  in  length),  145  lnnderpasses  anid
* Tedestrian nvercrossings in tntal lengtt.lg nf T7i6 meters.
The tLotal  investmcint In  the project  is RMIi 2 7444 billion
yuan. TIe. anticipated  vnmmrnceme:l-L .r  ,!e.  2.7 Km  ;srig  trial
s#rLinri  was started  it; Nnvember 19'   f"r  testing alterr!aLIve
so50t  ;reatmenL  under rnc Provitict. : tsw;l f inacictr. St ,. ';
Prwvide  guidance and test  daa. for the  f(lt 1-scale cotinnLritreton
with  a  cnnstrutction   perind  *if  15  onnths.  TIthe  ru I-srcal
cnnstructitin of the road was schediulec at. the end .,r March. 1994.
with a cnnstruction perind nf 42 months.
1.2   Description nf Land Requisition and Resettlement
1.2.1 Outlinie of the Geography and Rcennmy along the Aiignment
Based oti the principle or "away but not far from and cinse :.
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



The Action Plan  For Land Acquisition  And Resettlement ror  The
Quanzhou-Xiamen Expressway Section Of Fuzhou-Xiamen Highway
I General
1.1 The Project Description
rhe  Quanzhou-Xiamen  Expressway   Section  of  Fuzhou-Xiamen
Highway is the southern part of the proposed Fuzhou-Xiamen
Expressway connecting Puzhnu Economic Development Zone and Xiamen
Special Ecnnomic.Zone and the "Economic Development Zone in the
Delta in the southern part of Fujian. The.expressway sectinn acts
not only as an important collecting and distributing route for
maritime cargoes at ports of Fu.iian. but also as a window to the
ouitside world. It begins at Xifui near K185+286 on thie existing
Fuzhou-Xia-men Highway in the northeast nf Quanzhmi City about ten
kilometres  from the  city centre  and  terminates At  Guanl intou
Village in Xinglin District about nine kilnmetres far frnm  Jimei
Town in the northwest of  Xiamen C-ity to connect N;ational Highway
No. 319 there.  The section isf expressway  t.ransverses two cities
(Qtianzhotu and Xiamen) and six counties/districts and towns
including Licheng, Jinjiang, Nan-ar.. long'an. Jimei. Xinglin.
i'he   Quianzhou-Xiamen  Expressway  'with  cnmpletely   closed
interchanges and fuliy-control led accesses is 81.441 Km in length
with a  design  speed of  120 Km/h  and a  sitbgrade  width of  26
meters. In the middJe of  the road, a 3.0-meter-wide med in:m strip
will be constructed with'two 7.5-meter-wide traffic lanes on both
sides. 1'he width of the hard shoulder and the earth shr,;ilder is
2.5 meters and 0.75 meters  wide respcr-rively. Outer edge is 0.75
meters wide with an average depth *f  fill of the st:b)rade 'if '.7
meters. Along the  alignment  there is  14.4  Km-jing sn rt soil
foundation, ac.counting for  1BX of the tntal length.  amiang which
9.0  Km will be treated by  means nf sacked sand drains, plastics
drainage,  st1irred c-ement  pi-les. pref.iiadirg  an d repI acemcnL oif
light material fnr drainage and consolidation.
Along this  section of  freeway  there, are  two extra  large
bridge with  a total length  of 2515 meters, thrce  large bridges
vith a total length of 732 metersi 2  medium bridges 11511 meters
in total), 44  small bridges with   total len,th oif  t In meters.
292 cilverts  totalling 12016  meters, 6  intercthanges. 44  grade
separations  (2736   meters  in  length),  145   landerpasses  anid
tredestriarn  vercrossings in tntal lengt.il of 27t16 meters.
rhe Lotal  investment in  the prnjecL  is RM.  21 7444 bill ion
yuan,t. 'ine. anticipated  tnmrsvncemezt 1i f   '. 2.7 Km  ;;g  trial
secLinri was started  in; Nnvember  f9'!   fur  testi ng a ; terra A! ive
if L so'  -r.?-amen t. under -nc vri.viiict-.  w:aw;l fnaticiiit. StJ ,s ';
provide  gtuidarice and test  data for thb  f'll I-scale on-si.r'etion
with  a  cnnstrieti on   perind  'if  1S  mwriths.  TIre  rfu l-scaIe
cnnstructicin of the road was schediulec at thie end nfI March. 1994.
with a cnristruc.tion period of 42 monthes.
1.2   D6saription of Land Requisition and Resettlement
1.2.1 Outline of the Geography and Bcenomy along the Aiignment
Based on the principle or "away but not far from and  ci..se  t
1 
~..



but not entering cities and towns"in the expressway route
selecting, It's decided that the starting point shnuld be located
at Xifu near K185+286 on the existing'Fuzhou-Xiamen Highway in
*the northeast suburbs of Quanzhou City, about 10 Km away from the
downtown  areas. The  route stretches    southeastward along  the
eastern part of Quanzhou City to cross over Jinjiang River at
Chenzhou, 6 KM in the southeast suburbs of Quanzhou and goes
along  the northwest  part  of  Jinjiang City,  Anhai  Town   and
Shuitou Town. After going through the border between Cizao Town
and the southeast fringe of Guangqiao l'own and passing by Shuitou
Town, the route turns westwards to go along the northern fringe
nf 'Maxiang Town and the southern part of Tong'an Cnunty to end up
at Guanlintou in the northwest of Xinglin District of Xiamen
City, connecting with National Highway  No. 319 there. If it 'oes
3 KM  further northwestward  along NationaJ  Highway Nra.  319. it
wilJ iiitersect National Highway No. 324. In the expressway route
selecting,   the  principles  have  been  observed  to  keep  the'
alignment near the cities and towns instead of going through them
and the efforts have been made to ensure that the alignment will
be located near the hills so as tn acquire less fertile farmland
and demolish few dwelling buildings. Although the cnnstruction nf
the expressway requires much land, yet there is relatively less
fertile  farmland    to  be  acquired and  a  small  quantity  of
demolition and resettlement so far  as the total land acquired is
concerned. (Details can be seen in the map attached.)
Quanzhou and Kiamen are the areas where economy is well
developed in Fujian Province.  In the road influence area.  Lhere
are 7 cities and couinties  Miamen prnper,.Tong'an County. 'Nan'an
County,  'Jinjiang City,/Quanzhou  proper. Shishi City  and.Hui'an
County) with  a land area-accounting  for 4.7% of the  total Iatlvc
areas of Fujian  province and a population accounting  for 17.54%
of the  total. However,  its gross oUtptit value of  indtistry and
agriculture accounts for 23.5% of the province( calculated on tk'!
basis of constant price of  1990). What's m're, this area  is
famous  homerc.-&n  of overseas  Chinese.  In Taiwan.  there  are 9
million  immigrates, accounting 44%  of .;f; vopulation  nr Taiw.ln
and 5 million overseas Chinese; among whom 660.000 are ii-:Tng in
Hongkong and Macao.  accounting for  1/;0 of  the tntal  overseAR
Chinese in the country and 1/2 of the province respectively. Suich
an advantage  gives  an  impetus  to  the  rapid  development  nf
individual proprietorships. joint-ventures and rura; alnterprises.
At present, .-the  agricut I tiral  econr3my in  the  area  has  been
developed --from   single  product  economv  intoj  tjie  industrial
structture   of   diversifiecd  economy.   including   agrictultture.
industry.  btuilding b'usiness,  transport  industry and  commerce.
More and  more peasants  become the  labourers, engaging  in both
agriculture  and industry.  More and  morc self-empinyed  persrns
appear who  abandoned farming for  Du.ciness. atep by  step. tnese
farmers  are leaving  their 0.45  mu of *farmland on -average and
getting fairly well-off.
1.2.2 The Incidence of Land Acquisition
- (1) the  expressway main line: K0+000--Kli*950  and K15+700--
2            .
.7. ,.,..  . -.  
o ~ ~                     -j         ._-.s
~~aatW W w W~~~. wrr.1~~~~.



K81+441;
Trial Section (constructed in advance): K12+950--K15+700)
(2)  A Class  I.  link  road between  Niushan  at Wuling  and
Shedian in JinJiang: KO+000--K6+300
(3) Six interchanges and ramps at Xifu, Wuling Niushan, Puli,
Luntou, Hou'an and Tiancuo.
(4) Xifu(ih Quanzhou) and Tiancuo(in Xiamen) administrative
stations, Puli Service Zone and the toll booths at the six
interchanges and the terminal of the expresswav.
(5) Five tunnel administration offices.
(6) Diversion of river courses and realignmient of roads,
construction access roads, materials yards and casting yards.
etc.
1.2.3  the  amount  of  land   acquisition,  demolishing  and
resettlement.
The amount of land requisition, demolishing and resettlement
for the Quanzhou-Xiamen Expressway Section can be seen in the
attached tables for details.
(1) the amount of land to be acquired and the quantity of
buildings to be demolished
9565.3 mu  land will  be acquired, among  which 8606.5  mu of
land is cultivated fields:
90910   square  meters  of   buildings  will  be  demolished.
including 385 dwelling houses, tntalling 63768 sq.m: 3 schools.
total-ling 1251 sq.m; 65 factories, totalling 241.24 sq.m; 115
livestnck  sheds with a  total area nf 1767  sq.m. And 2463 tombs
are to be removed or relocated.
(2) population to be affected
Along the whole alignment.  15504 people will he  affected by
land requisition and house demolishment, However,
a. only 1195 individuals will be affected by the building.
demolishment, among whom
(1) 893 persons are economically active, and
(2) 302 persons are not economically active:
b. only 13075 individuals will be affected by the la-nd
acquisition, among whom
(1) 9820 persons are economically active, and
(21 3255 persons are not economically active:
c. 999 individuals will be affected by bnth building
demolishment & land requisition, amnng whom
(3) 730 persons are economically active. and
(2) 269 persons are not economically active:
d. 235 individuals will be affected by losing other economnic
fotndations, among whom
(1) 174 persons are economically active, and
(2) 61 persnns are not economically active;
Among the four items mentioned above:
a. 4889 persons are engaged exclusively in farming:
b. 6005 persnns are engaged in both industrial and
agricultural production and in both commercial and
_agricultural activities:                                -
c. 723 persons work for the enterprises and institutioi¢'.
3                                  :



d. 3887 persons have no ability in economic activities.
(3) Expenses for the land acquisition and resettlement
The  total expenses for the land acquisition and resettlement
is about RMB 104.657 million yuian, of which:
a. RMB 16.753 million yuan will be paid as compensation to
the individuals;
b. RMB 77.334 million yuan will be paid as compensation to
the collective units:
c. RMI 7.430 million yuan will be reimbursed to the state-
owned enterprises and institutions:
d. The handling charges for the land acquisition and
resettlement will be RMB 3.140 million yiuan.
(4) Resettlement
Tt is  expected that  10725 labnurs will  be affected  by the
land  acquisition  alnng  the   whole  alignmient.  The   manpower
relocation   will  be  carried   ollt  through   land  replotting,
development of  township enterprises  and recriuitment  of workers
for the state-owned enterprises. The details are as follows:
a. 3391 persnns will continue with their work in
agriculttiral production:
b. 3494 persons will be engaged in both industrial and
agricultujral activities;
c. 723 persons will still remain in the enterprises and
institutions:
d. 3117 persons will transfer from  agricultur-e to the
employment in the enterprises and institutions.
K  .   2. The Basic principles observed in the land acquisition and
resettlement
The land acquisition and resettlement for the Quanzhnu-Xianen
Expressway Section of, Fuzhou-Xiamen Highway will he  executed nn
the   premise  of   scientificalness  and   rationality  of   the
constructiott project  and on  the principle  of econmnization  ont
land-use, relatively  centralized  management  of  land.  unified
planning   with   due  consideration   for   all  concerned   and
exploitation  and development  of land resources.  so as  to make
rational use  of the land resouir-ces.  At the same tim.e.  the land
acquisition and  the resettlement. shouild he  carried oiut  on the
basis of the  laws cnncerned to make compensations  and deal %ith
the  rehabilitatinn   work  practically   and  realistically   in
combination  with the  absorptive  capacity  nf the  constrtwtinn
project.  In this  way,  the  jiust rights  and  interests of  the
affected people can  be protected and the  rational comtpensatitons
and  appropriate  resettlement  be made  to -create  an excellent
environment fdr  t.he  rural community  development and  alleviate
burden of  the units to  be relocated. so  as to ensure  that the
project will-be implemented without a hitch and the eronomy along
the  alignment  will be  developed fastly  and the  people living
along the route will be getting well nff..
3. The  legal  basis for  the  Approval of  the  Construction
Project - and   Compensation   for  the   Land   Acquisition  and
Resettlement
3.1 Basis for the approval of the construction project
4



The  Approval Of Engineering  Peasiblilty Study Report  On the
Quanzhou-Xiamen Expressway  Section Of  Fuzhou-Xiamen Highway  by
SPC and the Approval Of the Preliminary Engineering Design for
the Quanzhou-Xiamen  Expressway Section Of  Puzhou-Xiamen Highway
by MOC provide  basis for the canstruction of the Quanzhou-Xiamen
Expressway Section of Fuihou-Xiamen Highway.
3.2 Legal.basis for the compensation for  the land acquisition
and resettlement
The Law Of Land Administration Of P.R.C.
Regulations For The Implementation 0f Land Administration Of
P.R.C.
Fujian  Provincial Land  Administration Regulations.   (Details
can be seen in Appi-ndix 1-3)
3.2.1 Basis of calculation for the total. cost of the land
acquisition and the scope of application nf the cnmpensation, fees
(1)  Basis of  calculation  fnr  the tot.al  coist  of the  land
acquisi tion
In accordance with the stipulations in the Fujian Provincial
l,and Administration Regulations, the tortal eost of the land
acquisition consist  of land  cnmpensal.inn  fees, standing  crops
compensation  fees  and  resettlement  subsidies.  the  basis  nf
calculation of whicih is as folInws :
Land  Compensatinn fees  = 5  t  annual ou1tptut  value of  the
acquired land (ytian/mut)
Standing  Crops Compensation =  0.5 X anntia.i  niutput value nf
the acquired land (yuan/mu)
Resettlement  Sutbsidy =  2  :  annual  oujtpiut  value  of  the
a.cquired land * farm popilation  J tnt.al amnilt nf the cLiltivated
land (yuan/mu)-
(2)  rhe scope uf applicalt.itn *f  t.he compeprisation fees, land
Compensation fees and resettlement1. subsidy:
In  accordance with the stipmii;u.l.itons itr the RP'j ian Provincial
Land Admoinistration  lRegulatinrs.  tthe  government.s  at  township
level will be in charge  of the sp-rific work itl cnnection with
the  land  administration.   ar,d  ipaking  overall  planning   and
arrangement for the expenditure of. the iand Compensation fees and
resettlemeni subsidy.  Such a  ftnd Wi iwi be  used mainly  for tLhe
development  of  township   enterTprises  t. provide   employment.
opportunities  For   the  suzrp lis  1lahmir   anid  the  subsistence
allowances for the individutals who al-e unable t., wnrk. However, a
prnpi3rtion  nf the  f.und  should be  kept as  a. subsidy for  ihe
establishment  ot  the villagn  et.uLcrprises.  thit  development of
aquacul ture.  the construct.ion  *t. mini  i:ciiistrjia.l  estates, the
reclamation nf  wasteland and. t.h.- improvement  of the  lnw-yield
farmland.  Suich a  .fnd  wiI. be  :l0rocaLed  by adnpting  program
evaluation  and review  technique. -s4i a; to  a.ijust or  keep the
balance of the develnpmental levels between t.he ric-n villages and
poorer ones. lIt adei LiTI. such a  ttndn can oe ;sed to enable  the
affected  villages  toi deveiop  theiir   productinn  and  provide
npporttinities  for the  employment. In  the  areas with  maritime
resources, the compensation may be snent orn laid reclamation frnm
the sea to increase the laniVarea for c,iltivation and create more
5
f*  .  *. --- .. : -  :



:        opportunities to absorb  more labour into the  new employment. As
for   the  use  of  the  compensation  fees,  the  administrative
organizations at village level will obtain the corresponding
right of eminent domain for durable means of production.
Compensation fees for the standing crops and the properties
on the acquired land  will be paid directly to  the orisinal land
users and  the owners  of the properties  in accordance  with the
ascertained losses.
3.2.2 The principles in the selection of temporarily borrowed
land for the construction project and the duration of time, the
basis of calculation for compensation as well as the scope of
application of the compensation fees
The borrowed land here bears a double meanings, one refers to
the borrowed land designated in the design documents, while the
other refers to the borrowed land to be designated after the
successful contractors put forward the construction organization.
As  for the formal one,  the location, the  scope and amount have
been determined, while the latter remains to be determined. In
view of this, the borrowed land in Appendix 7 is only the design
data, and the report will give a concise description of the
principles in the selection of the borrowed land, the basis of
calculation   for  the  compensation   fees  and  the   scope  of
application of the compensation.
(]) The  principles to  be followed in  the selection  of the
borrowed  land'  should  be   the  ones   which  facilitate   the
construction activities, acquire less cultivated land and away
from  the  properties on  the  grnound.  At  the same  time.  such
tprinciples  should be  in  compliance  with  the  local  national
comprehensive development plan.
(2) The scheduled cnnstruction period fnr the Quanzhnu-Xiamen
Expressway Sectinor is 36 mnnths. T'he borrowing time will depend
on the  purposes of the  borrowed Jand. As for  the borrowed land
tused  as borrow sites,  waste banks and  a biflding yard  frnr the
constrtuction of  structural engineering, generally  speaking, the
borrowing time may be short. being ahoit :0.5--2 years. As for the
borrowed land used as living quarters and admini'stration offices
of the construction units, the parking lots fnr the construction
plants, the store depnrts. casting yards. constructiorl access
rnads and  quiarries, the. borrnwing  time may be long.  being more
than 2 years. Whereas the  rtural economy has been -develoning very
qulickly in these years,  and the farmers have bui I t a  lot nf ne.w
hotuses, thie contractnrs can rent the idle hnuses from tthe rarmers
foir  their  living  quarters   and  administration  nffices.   Tn
addition, every effnrt shniold be made to cnnnect the constructinn
access roads  witth the  local  rnad netwnrks  ut  save. a  lot  of
ey.perases for the borrowtd land.
(3)  The  expenses  fnr the  bnrrnwed -land  ccnsEsLss of  the
borrowed land compensation and the necessary expenses for the
reclamation operation. The borrowed land compensation will be
paid annually at the rate of 10% *of .the cost for the land
acquiisition,  and  the  lump-suir subsidy  *for   the  reclamationi
operation of the borrowed land will be paid at.the rate of 10% of
- C-.-.    -*-.



the  cost for  the land  acqitsition. Also,  the cnntractoirs  are
required to clear away such construction wastes as stone chips,
etc. when. they return  the borrowed land  for the  original land
users to conduct the rehabilitation work of farming.
(4) The standing crops compensation fees and the expenses for
the reclamation operation of the borrowed land, provided that the
reclamation operation is required, will be paid to. the original
land users, and the other fees will be used as a subsidy for the
development of the collective economy and resettlement.
3.2.3 The compensation standard for housing removal
In compliance with Clause 15 of the Puii.an Provincial Land
Administration Regulations, "ttte compensation ror the properties
nn  the  acquired  land  will  be made  in  acencrdance  with  the
ascertained  losses."  The governments  at municipal,  coiunty and
district level along  the route will take  respnnsibility for the
surplus or deficits of *the expenses for reqtuisitinn demolishing
and  resettlement, at  the  same  time,  they will  exercise  the
unified  leadership of the  work and accomplish  the compensation
for  the land  acquisition and  resettlement through  tn the  end
according  to  the construction  program.  However. the  specific
compensation standard will be .formulated by the governments at
municipal,  county and  district levels  in  accordance with  the
actual conditions.
On  the  whole,  the  compensation  for  hoising  removal  is
determined by adopting "Replacement Price Method"
1. The houses to be demolished will be divided into several
kinds  in  accordance  with  their  types and  grades  sn  as  to
determine   the  unit  cost  (yttan/sq.m)  reqtiired  fnr  the  re-
establishment  of the  houses true  to tile  type and in ILhe same
grade.
2. The quality level  nf the houses to be dtInmolished  will b1e
determined, taking into  account the life exprraittrl  'and damaged
connditions.
3. The  base price (yuan/sq.m) nf the net. v;:::;e aof the hemses
to be demolished will be determined.
The base price  of the net. value of the  h.n:ses (yiian/sq.m) =
Replacement unit cost s quality level
3.2.4 Compensation standard  for the remova, of  power potles,
tel ecommun icat i on pn I es
The   compensation  will  be  made  in  accordance  with  the
compensatinn standard fnrmuilated by the agencies-in-charge of the
units to be relocated.
3.2.5 (:nmpensation stanlarri  fnr the other pruperties  on the
ground
Within t.he  ROW, there are a  lost of kinds  e?r properties on
the   ground.  mainly   ineluidi n-,  tombs.   brriek-kilns,  putmpi Tng
stations, wells and enclosures, etc. As for the properties on the
ground,  there are not any regulat-ions  for t.ne r:impensatinn. The
mtinicipal and county gnvernments will take responsibility for the
surplus or deficits  nf the expenses for  requisition demolishing
and  resettlement, and the  local*governments wi 3 l make rational
compensation standard.
* ~  ~~~~~ 7
,~~~~- .,



3.3 Other Po-licies and RegulatiDns
Since the expressway is an Infrastructure project beneficial
to  the society  and plays  and important  role in. promoting the
economic development, Fujian Provincial Government decides that
in the land acquisition and resettlement. yarious local taxes and
reserve funds will be exempted and the agricultural tax and the
grain tax paid to the State in kind shall be timely cancelled
after verification. 50 of the occupancy tax of the cultivated
land collected at a rate of 2 yuan per sq.m. will be delivered to
the Central Government. As for the remaining part, no occupancy
tax will be levied.
4. Resettlement Subsidies and Methods
4.1 Resettlement subsidy
A tntal of  RUB 2skG.a million yuan of resettlement stibsidies
is made  available for the  resettlement prngram alonrg  the whole
line. The details can be seen in the following Table.
I         Region         I Resettlemnt Subsidy
IR.IB 10,00 YUAN) 
I                       *I               I.
ILicheng District of uamnzhou City I  326.6  I
I iinians City                 964.2     I
I                 I~~~~~~"         I
In'a comty               I     30.1      1
ITong'an County          I     S2.2      1
I                       +                I
I Jimei District of Xia.m City   1  147.0
I Xinglin District of Xiamn City  I  14.9 
Itotal.                  i      2354     1
4.2 Resettlement methods
4.2.1  rhe  resettlement  nf  the  labour  and  t'he disabled
individuals affected by the land reqtuisition
In  puirstuance  of  the relevant  stipiulatirons  in  the FuJiian
Provincial  I,and  Administration   Regulatiobs,  the  aparopriaie
arrangements  should be made for  the resettlement of the surplus
labour   and  penple's  daily   lire  resulting  from   the  lanrd
acqulisit.izii,  rr  the  project.  Aithotugh  the  land  acquisiti on
involves many tnwns and villages along the route, yet the iand to
he acquired as a proportion  n. the. total cult.ivated land  in the
areas  is relatively  low, accounting  for alitctit  2.3k with  less
inriuence due to  the fact that the  land-to be acquired. ftr the
ROW is ii Lthe shape of a belt. Since the reform and the qpen-dnor
policy were  put into  effect,  the State  has granted  i-lJot  of
preference  treatments to  the  coastal  areas, - thus  giiikg  an
impetus to the rapid growth of economy  in the area with ailot of
township enterprises,  joirit ventures,  foreign-owned enterprises
*~~~~                                -       .
*-' .. :..,.       .
fi,.<, ,;=



and individual ownership enterprises. A great ntumber cif farmers
have   abandoned  the  agricultural   production  and  have  been
transferred to work in the township enterprises and they are now
engaged in both agricultural and industrial activities or in the
*      commercial activities. Some of them have become operators engaged
in the industry, commerce, and trade. Such being the case, it's
*  ery easy to solve the problem  of resettlement. On the basis  of
the aforementioned  conditions, it's  decided that the  following
measures will be taken to resettle the surplus labour resulting
from  the  land  acquisition  after  the  consultation  with  the
municipal, county governments.along the route.
4.2.1.1 ReadJustment of land
In   pursuance  of  the  stipulations  in  the  L.aw  of  Land
Administrat.ion   of   P.R.C  and   the  Fujian,. Provincial  Land
Administration Regulations, " The land in the ruiral a,-eas and in
the siuburbs of towns and cities, except for the land under the
ownership by the State, is under the community ownership. The
governments  at  various  levels  should  maintain  the socialist
public: ownership of land and carry out such a policy of
treasuring the land resources and making rational use of the
land." Generally'speaking, the cultivated land in the rural areas
is allotted in accordance with the grain ration and the numbers
of able-bodied persons in each family. The crnps land fnr the
production of grain  ration is allntted according  tn the quality
of. the cultivated land and number of the family members. The
contracted farmland is allotted in accordance with tihe number  of
able-bodied persons in each peasant hnoisehold. Tl'e contracted
farmland  is a task assigned by the State tn the ritral c'ollective
economic nrganizations and  part nf the  grain yielded shonild  be
sold to the State. In recent years, most of the manphawter has been
transferred  to work in  the township enterprises  and *thier non-
agricultural  sectors due  tn the  rapid growth  of  t.lie townshipj
enterprises along the rnute. As a resulL, t1e -contrarted farmland
has. tn be etiltivated in the spare time. Especially arter the
government lifted the c.ontrol on the grain price. mnsr. (f tne
farmers are purchasing grains- from the grain markets with  their
income from the non-agricultural prodtuction. What's more. snme.of
them  simply leave  the contracted  farmland in  the care  cof the
specialized  households  for  agrictiltiaraL procluctiotn.  And  the
agricilt.ural  activities  are  showing  a  tendeti,y  towards  the
ecnnomy of scale.
Arter  the land  acquisition. the  farmers  Iivin- al uint  ih
routice  will lose  their  land mnre  or less.  As fuer  I.ti,? !Ieasai".
households who  lose their land for thn  produiction of provisinns
fnr  themselves,  the- township  gnvernments  will  read.iust  tLls,
cigitiracted  farmland of  the  farmers  wnrking  in  t.hr  tnwnship
eriterprises,  and  real lot the  farmiand  to those  wri  r.se tine
farmland for the production of provisions rfr them%eiv'es.  As fnr
those   farmers   working  in   the   township   enterprises,  noi
readjustment of land will be made for them. As for those peasant
households engaged  exclusively in  the agricuuliural  prostuctirn,
additional  contracted farmland will  be provided to  them. After
9.
-                   -



the land  readjustment,, most or  the labouir affected by  the land
acquisition will be  resettled properly wlthotit any  inftiuence oin
their level of income.
4.2.1.2    Resettlement  through  the  development  of   land
*       resources  and   agriculture-related  sideline   occupations  and
township enterprises
In pursuance  of the  stiptulations in  the Fujian  Provincial
Land  Administration Regulations, when  the land is  acquired for
the  construction project,  the  land user  should  pay the  land
compensation fees and reset.tlement subsidies to the original land
users to develop the  production, to resettle the  surptlis labour
resulting from the land acqllisition and arrange for  the people's
daily life.
,   The cost  of the la.nd azcquisitinr  for all-kinds of  land for
the  Quanzhou-Xiamen Expressway  i s  RMI   8000  yuan  per mu  on
average, to be suied as tihe special purpnse funds. The original
land users slhntuld he granted exemption from the agricultural  tax
*and grain tax  paid tn lhe State in kind after verification. Part
of  the growth  fund  wi II he  used for  the  development nf  the
township enterprises. the assistance to the technical innovation
of the rural  enterprises. so as to promote  the wide application
of scientific  technology in  the rural areas  and to  expand the
production capacity, to absuirh the sturplus laboutir into new jobs.
Also, part of this fund can be utilized to provide subsidies to
those who  can nnt be p laced  in empinyment. As for  the acquired
land  which  is  tinder  the  cnllective  ownership,   a  certain
proportion of the index  of land tutilization (normally no t  great
than 10%) can be alrirLted tl t.he villages frnm which the  land is
acquired to give aid to} t.iem in an effnrt tn develnp their second
and tertiary industries arid to absorb the ltocal stirpius labour in
the new employment.
4.2.1.3 Employment Ltirn,a:h rutral-urban migration
Besides the above twn ways, accnrding to C:lause 21 nf Fujiar
Provincial Land Administration  Regulation. tthe. Pujian prnvincia.l
government will  cnnsider Iri give some sperial  indexes of rural-
urban migratitin to those itnits whose  lands are acquired se as to
offer some empinyment eipprartbinities to a few surplus labnurs. The
local  city  and county  g..verriments  along t.he  route  and their
labotir divisionns are itn char7e e.f mA.king nverall plans tn recruit
these  [abours- in  nearby state-owned  enterprises.  During  the
construction period of ttie 0xpressway. the Iocal governments will
establish the tertiary ind:ist.ry along  the route. A small part of
the surpitis lahours wilil i,- emploiyed in Lhie Lertiary industry nr
the Service  Quarter nV r.he expressway after  thle. construction is
completed.
4.2.2 Oemolishment andi r.-moval nf biaildi,tgs (structures)
To  ensure the siuccessru;l cnnstritctinn of the expresswav, the
buiIdings (structure%)  ana aii  the facilities  within the  area
under  requiisition  must. he demolished  and  removed  within due
period.l' The construction tinit will  pay the-compensation fee for
structure demnlishment and  reuoval and the land  requisition fee
for house rebuilding andwill  make lump-sum contracts with  each
,10
--.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~            .



city  (county) government  along  the route.  The  fund for  this
purpose will be allotted as lump-sum in April, 1993. The city and
county governments will  make subcontracts with all,  the township
governments  in April. 1993 and allocate the expenditure for land
requisition and  resettlement to  them. It  is expected that  the
individuals relocated will receive the compensation in May, 1993.
The relocated peasants themselves should demolish and remove
their houses  and build new  houses in the vicinity  according to
local town planning. Most of the peasants will be ahle to build
their new houses first and then demolish old houses and remove .to
new ones within the time  specified in the contract.' For priority
project, if the houses are asked to be demolished in a shnrt,
period, the construction  unit may consider to give  some subsidy
for  overtime  work  or  temporary resettlement  in  transitional
period.  Besides  compensation  for demolishment  and  removal of
buildings, the expressway constrtiction tinit will  give factories.
schools  and  hospitals  some  moving  expenses  or  subsidy  for
production  stop according  to  concrete condition.  These  units
relocated themselves should move and select site for rebuilding.
Local governments and their land adminstratinn bureaus shotild
help to apply for land tn rebuild factnries, schools and all
other facilities to resume production and open school as soon as
possible and shoulld ensure the people relocated will continuie to
work in their previous units. If the dwelling hniuses of those who
work  in government .nrganizatinns, institutinns  and state-owned
enterprises   are   demolished   and  -removed,  the   expressway
construction  unit will pay the compensation at replacement price
to relevant units so  that they can purchase new  houses r3r apply
for land to  land administration departments  to,, btiid their  new
,lotises. Usually, new houses wi I  he purchased or biuilt first and
then the dwellers  will mnve  in within  15 davs  after they  are
noticed.
S. Expenditure for land requisitinn atid resettlement
5.1  According  tn  the  arrangement  on  Fu iian  Prnvin i.cl
Government  abnut  the  land  requisition  and  resettlement  fnr
cnnstruction.  of  Quanzhoti-Xiamen   Sect i nn  Of   Fuzhou-XiaMe:-
Zhangzhou Expressway, the city  and coLinty (district) goverriments
alnng the route will contract the expenditure of land reqllisitinii
and resettlement. rhe contracts will  be made in April, 1993. Trhe
amnunt  of the  land  to  be reqtuisitinned  or  borrowed and  tne
contract price are listed in the fnllowing t.able.
The  contract   price  eonsists   nf -r'mVayensatinn *for   land
requisition,. compensation  for  land  bnrrow,  compensation  f or
resettlement,  farm  land  occutpation tax,  and  su:bsidy  frr tho
differences between par price and  negotiated price of grain. The
former three items  of the price will be given  to. individuals Xr
collective units according  to ownership. iFncluding the  cost fnr-
rebuilding, public facilities and the development fund for labour
resettlement.   For  the   latter  twn   items,   the  expressway
construction unit will  go through all the  formalitLes specified
by the relevant government divisions.
-11                    '',
~~~~~~~~~. .-               . ,
:-' . :'_. ;: '_ '"i'-  ,. .  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l



r b
--.s   Iqumntityoflandu   I          I
*    I    -.                         ,1    contraet1priC9 I
IRegion                   I requlsition I borrov I CRB 10.000 YUMN) I
I               _         '--  I. .  I             .I    .
I Licheng District of OWhou.C1ty I  1089.2  1 177.9 1    1647.1    1
-           ~~I                        t .           I                 I .
I JinJiLflr City          I  2725.6  I 377.1     2930.7    1
1                           1 I               I         .I-   I.
.INn'an County            1  1420.1  1 112  1    1499.2    I
ITog'an Comty                2714.3  1 6.5 1    2711.9
I               'f- ---I                  -'I       
I Jimei District of Xiamen City    I  1058.9  1 231.2 1    1133.5    I
1                         +         I       I  
I Xinglin District of Xiaumn City  1  547.2   1  93  1    543.2  1
1                         1         I       I             .1
Itotel                    I 9665.3  1 1561.7 I   1045.7    I
5.2 Compensation for requisitioned or borrowed land exceeding
the amount specified in the contract
1.  the  comprehensive  compensation  for  land   requisition
(yuan/miu)    (contract price - cnmpensatinn for land borrnw in the
contract) / amount of requisitioned land in the contract
2.  the   compensation  for   land  borrnw:    Rased  on   the
comprehensive compensation for  land requisitinn. the calculation
is the same as that in the contract, i.e.
(1)  the  compensatinn  for borrowing  the  land  which needs
i-eclaiming (yuan/mu) =  the comprehensive r-nmpensatinn f.r   land
requisition 2 10% : (tenuire + 1)
(2) the compensation for borrowing the land not needine
reclaiming  (yuan/mu) =  the comprehensive compensation  for la-d
requisition 2 lOX
5.3 Subsidies for enterprise removal and produtseiorn stop
Moving  expenses of enterprises  and stubsidies for rorduction
stnp  described  in Clauise  4.2.2  are generally  taken  from the
contract price by local city and   cotnty gnvernmneTts.  If   such
losses  are quite   heavy,   the   expressway cnnstrucrtion   unit
will  prnperly   subsiclize  these  cities    nr coniirities and  the
subsidies will be taken from reserve ftind.
5.4 Reserve F'und
According  to  The Estioatinn and  goidget.-making  Regulations
drawn   lip by  MOC in  1992 aid  takin- the  situaLior  itt  Piijian
province into  accntitrt. the tot- i  reserve fund is  7.1I9 million
ytiat, whtich will  be mainly tused fosr unexetcted  costs w'lthin t.he
estimation of  the approved  preliminary  design. setting-out  of
riglit-of-way and disposi rig Af' fi tstanding matters.
5.5 Maintenance Cost oF Land
Maintenance cost of  land, i.e. maintenance  cost  for   land
requisitinn  and resettlement, equal  to 3 percent  of total la-i.
12
3    .
-: .St  '-.-7t-.. -.     .  .  
~. .- -       .-
~~~~~~~~~~~~~.-  .-._:,.-. r-    - * - . - 
*' - '* '    :    X,. 7   :'- 



requisition fee,  is taken from the  contract price   and  mainly
used for the-costs   for  administrative  works  concerning  land
requisition and  resettlement.  The   maintenanrce cost  for   the
administrative  organizations  below   county    level  will   be
allocated  by the government resettlemerit *ffices   at  city  and
county (or district) level.
6.  The Scheme and Procedure for Carrying Otit the Action Plan
6.1 scheme
Quanzhou-Xiamen Expressway is one of the mainr projects in
Fujiin Province  during the Eighth  Five-year PlaT1  perirod.   The
project   is broad in  scale and deals with .a wide range  of the
society, involving 18 townships in  6  coutjites (or districts). A
lot of land  must be  requisitioned. Compensation.  resettlement,
land  adjusting,  township  planning and    develoipment  of local
roads,   pnwer,  communication  and   irrigation    sheiuld       be
considered as a   system  engineering. lo ensuire   the successful
construction of the expressway and tn  let local gnvernments play
positive roles, the  Provincial Governmerit decided that  the land
requisition and resettlement  should be tinder  utnified leadership
and direction and  be fulfilled in one step.  The expenditure for
land requisition and resettlement  will be  contracted  to   city
governments  along the  route  and  then  subcontracted  tn  each
county, who  will  organize resettlement  office  to  ensture the
qquality tvf resettlement and speed tip the prngress of resettlement
and will be  responsible  for  land.requisition and  resettlement
works in the area under its jurisdiction.
6.2 prncedure
(1) survey of compensation standard
-    lProvincial  Directoralte  Office of  Rxpressway  C:ristriuction.
aco.nmpanied by Fujian Provincial Land Administration i3ureau and
Conmmunications  Planning & Design Instir.dke. made a sitrvey on the
stattis  quo  nf  land  ard  compersati,ii standa-ci  of  btuilding
relncation in each connty along the rouste from Januiary  tn April,
1992.  As  far  as the  status  quto  nf land  is  corc-erried, they
col lected such data  as  total area oif Farmland. the average area
of  f'armiand per capita  as well  as type.  growing area.  per mu
yield,  selling  and buying  price of  erirs from  departments of
statistics,  agriculture,  land  admi[nisL.Pa *Lion  and  supply  a:nd
marketing  cooperatives-. Based on  theso data', the  annial otitpiut
valne  nf  the  reQuisitinned  land  anrd tne  unit    price    of
compensa. i on   for   land   requisi t i rni  are   calcit i.ted.   The
*.nmp-nsation  for   building  demolishmen.t and  remnval  is  got
compared with that in other projects  which are being constructed
in the cities, counties and districts in that perind.
According  to the survey  and  ca!^-::l.atinn  and  taking  the
iniified standard of  the provincial major  prniect in this  area,
the average  compensation   for land  reqasisition and  structures
adhering to the requisitioned land is shown as follows:
13
U                                                           -~~~~~~ 
* .  .,-
---.-..  .              
; .- ----., --7- .  - .
: . - ,W,.- - -..
:_._ =-. .   - .............................-.--.  ..... 



I    I 
I item          I it unitpricel                                  I
I               I    ICRMm We  n) I         rmrks
I lmnrewuisition fee I m  I  0X)  I
Iland bwrowfee  I      I       ISm CIase5.2.2fo rdtalis.         I
Ibuildi         I sq.   I    150  I                              I
I    I longon.Iitchi  I Has.  1    400  1
Ifruit  I       I     I        i                                 I
I    Ibanana     IOS.   10   I                                   I
Itree I         I-I            I
I    * I others  I Nos. 1  60  1
I    .      ~~I-I -          II
Itoab           I 1a. I  1tO   included in land rquisition md bo-w reies. I
(2)  Establishment of *the organizations for land  requisition
and resettlement
The organizations for land requisition and resettlement werre
established during April and Octnber, '1992. See the eighth
section of this report for detailed arrangements.
(3) Setting-out of right-of-way
The  setting-out of right-n -way should tie carried out before
land  requisition. More  than  one   hundred  and  thirty  penple
organized  by  Provincial  Directorate  Office   staked  nt'L the
right-of-way    during November.  . 1992   to  March,  199'3 in  6
roadside   counties  (18 townships).  The design institute played
the   lead  in  the  setting-nut  accompanied  by  the  persnnnel
responsible  for laid reqiuisition from relevant couinty nffices nf
expressway  construction.  'The  land  administration  butreals  at.
different levels  checked  the right-of-way  in the   area  tinder
their jurisdiction. The major works included *n-the-spot lnration
of pile, making a clear distinction of right-of-way, checking and
verifying  the amount  of the  land to  be requtisitioned  and Lhe
structures  tn  be  relocated   as  well  as  waking   clear  tie
respnnsibility and compensatinn st.andard.
(4) Sutrvey and verification of-requisitiornea land and removed
structures
As  snon   as  the  setting-out was finished. to  prepare for
the signing of  contracts fnr land.requisitinr, arnd resett.mc.r;t.,
accompanied    by- county  and  township  iffir-es  of  expressway
cnnstruictinti and local village  committees. !.hie .njian Provincial
CPDI measured  and verified  tie amnunt of t.e reqitisi.tioned land
and the quiantity of the structures  adhering Li the requisitioned
land.  The data  were  summed   lip  in  an uniried   site-check
sheet and then were signed and submitted to county resettlement
offices. Tt was completed in March. 1993.
-  (5) Signing nf cnntracts
The  local governments will contract and be  responsible *r
*-  .  -14
-. -
-     z    . ....................  | i ' ,;: b   jje-_ -
*  ~%†=fi



the   land  requisition  and  resettlement   of   Quanzhow-Xiamen
expressway. It is scheduled-that the Provincial Directorate
Office  of Bxpressway Construction will make contracts with  each
county    government  in  the   early  April  of    1993.        The
subcontracts between   counties and townships will be made before
April,  1993 and then  the subcontracts between the townships and
the   villages will  also be made.  The governments  at different
levels will be responsible respectively fnr land requisition and
resettlement in the area under their jurisdiction and transfer
the land on time. The contracts for demolishment and  removal  of
structures  adhering  to the  requisitinned land  shoild be  made
between  -the  county, tnwnship   or. village .-gover'nments and the
owners. All the formalities for land reqtuisition will- be approved
and&gone through by the end of April. 1993.
(6) Demolishment and removal     ,
After the contracts among governments at different levels are
signed and  all formalities  are  gnne through,  the   structures
adhering  tn   the  requisitioned  land  are  scheduiled  to    be
demolished  and  removed during  April  to  October, 1993.    The
properties  will  be  removed by  the  nwners  in principle.  The
resettlemerrt organizations   will be  in charge  of disposing  of
those  ownerless properties.   After  tLhe . httildings   and  other
properties    are demolished  and removed  within specified time,
their owners will receive proper compensaLion.
(7) Resettlement
The  reestablishment nf' hniuses  wi l  bin done   by the  nwners
at fixed  places according to local tonwtn planning. 'I-he relncation
of  hnuses of  city  dwellers will  be. ar-anged by  resettlement
organizations    by  t.he   end  of  October,  1993.   After  land
requisition, the  contradictinn of  uinhalan'ed land  distributtinn
will occur,  which shouid  6e resolved  by land  re-distrinution.
Land redistribution shnoild be- finished h. -.,re  the  enTd nf June.
1993 so that some nf  sturpluts labours  r-arn he   settled dnwn. The
other stirplus labours will be  emnloyen'-    township ente.rprises.
If  there are  stili surplus  labours,  lny  may be  recriuited in
state-owned enterprises  thrntogh rural-|:-:in  migratinon by  Incal
governments and labotur rh-:nartments.
(8). Inspection
P'ujian Provincial Land Administra'-.irzn  Atiirea,i.   Conys.strrmctinn
-    Commission  and  Direci.orate Office *f  ;-pr-essway  1'Tisi-.r;uiction,
accompanied   by   the  relevant ritv. V-imnty   (.Xr-  district)
governments, will   make an inspecrt.ion n.V fand  reqtuisiLion  and
resettlement   tto see  Ef  it. is  in  r-1nformir,y  w;h PtIujian
Provincial  land  Administration  liegul.Ltiin-  and  LIte    lump-suim
contracts of  land recma isi .iri atid reset. : ment and  w.t i i dispose
of outstanding  prohiems i.o  -feguaard  I h' im,.Leres.s 'i'  the twfo
parts in the contracts.
(9) Tiansfer of the land
Organized  by  each   city,  county  '.cistrict)  resettiement
office,  the  -original users 'of  the laxnd  should transfer  all
right-of-way  along the route  to. constrltction unit  in December.
1993 so- that the contractors of  the project can begin  the site
.15
~~-*;  , . * * itzp - ; 
*           a _.~  .-b.   -                                                e&;.........    - *   ... 
. .  _  _    .......*   -   _   _.



preparation  so  as to  ensure  that  the construction  could  be
started on tiie.
7. Resettlement Management System
lt   is  necessary  to  bring  resettlement   under   unified
leader-hip and management so as to ensure successftil execution of
land requisition and resettlement . A resettlement management
system   at    four  levels has  formed  for the  Quanzhou-Xiamen
expressway constrtuctinn.
(1) decisinn-making system
lhe provincial, city, cnunty and township governments are the
decisinn-making   nrganizations responsible  for   putting   into
effect variouis policies for land requisition and resettlement.
(2) coordinating system
The leading groups of expressway construction have been
formed at provincial, city and county (district) levels by. the
heads of the planning, uirban construction, land administration.
commuinicatinns,  labour, grain, water conservancy,  power,  postis
and   broadcasting  departments  responsible   fnr   coordinating
and  smooLt.hing different  relations of each  resettlement system,
subsidizing for resettlement, disposing of pnlicy concerning land
reqtuisition and resettlement, etc.
(3) enforcement system
The   Directorate  Offices  of  Expressway  Construction   at
provincial, city, county and tnwnship levels are in charge of the
executitnn nf  land   requiisition and resettlement within the area
tinder their j'urisdiction. If necessary,  they  will allocate  and
I.ransfer sr.aff  from nther departments  at  the   peak period  of
land requisition and resettlement to strengthen the resettlement
organizatinns and ensure the land for expressway construction.
(4) working agencies
See the eighth part *f this report.
R.   The   Institutional Framewnrk, Staff  and Duty   nf  the
Woirking Agencies
A. At Provincial level
The Rnzineering And Technology Divisinn of  Pujian Provincial
Diirectorate Office of Expressway Construc.tiorn is the organizatioirt
responsible. ror organizing  and  managing land  requisition  and
resettlement  for the  whole Quianzhou-Xiamen  expressway project.
Staffed by thiree persons, it performs such duties as fnilows:
(1)  nased on design redline map of right-of-wa-. organizing
field  setting-uuL, demarcating  bnundaries  and  verifying  the
amouttnt of  the  requiisitioned  land  and  the  qutantity  of  the
strtietuires adhering to land.
(2)  raising  expendituire. working otut  resettlement  plani.
supervising resettlement progress. allocating  funds according to
resettlement progress to each city. cnunty, auditing the use and
dispensation of compensation.
(3) making resettlement contracts, receiving requisitioned
land, taking care of whole land inventory.
(4) organizing  and coordinating  the works  concerning land
16.:
-~~~~~~~~ .. -.            .



requisition  and  resettlement  accompanied  by  provincial  Land
Administration   Bureau  and   Construction  commission,   taking
responsibility for guiding, supervising and inspecting the work
performed  by   the. organizations  for   land  requisition   and
resettlement at city and county levels.
B. At city level
Quanzhou  and  Xiamen  branches  of   Directorate  Office  of
Expressway  Construction  consist  of the  leaders  from  the twn
governments,  the  communications,   land  administration,  urban
construction and  other departments  at city  level. The  leaders
from the two governments will be the directors of the directorate
branches and the leaders from the communications and other
departments will be the depdty directors.- Under the two city
directorate branches, two offices will be set up staffed by ten
persons respectively. They will be responsible for
(1)  taking the tasks  from provincial Directorate  Office of
Expressway Construction and fulfilLing them.
(2) the works concerning land requisition and resettlement in
the area under their jurisdiction; helping the Engineering and
Technology   Division   Of  Provincial   Directorate   Office  of
Expressway  Construction  to  guide,  coordinate,  supervise  and
inspect  the resettlement in  the area under  their jurisdiction;
helping   construction  teams  to  acquire  or  borrow  pits  and
quarries, to establish temporary power lines, water lines and
roads for construction and to begin site preparation.
(3) disposing nf civil disputtes occurred in the expressway
construction.
(4)   supervising   and   inspecting   the   enforcement   Of
construction plans formulated by the Provincial Directorate
Office to ensure the rate of construction progress and the
quality of the project; reporting any important problems to the
higher level in time.
C. At county(district) level
The Offices of Expressway Construiction at county (district)
level are the enforcement bodies for land requisition and
resettlement and consist of the staff from communications. land
administration, public security and other department7s organized
by the county (district) government. Each office at county
(district) level consists of 3--5 persons and about -30 persons
are needed for the whole alignment. They will be responsible for
(1)   taking  the  tasks  from  the  Directorate  Office  and
ftulfilling them.
(2) the works concerning land requisition and resettlement in
the  areas  under  their. juirisdiction.  including  checking  and
verifying the amount of  the requisitioned land and the  quantity
of the relocated&.buildings, allotting compensation fees amon-
townships, helping construction teams with their work and daily
life and controlling the prices of local building materials
required for expressway construction.
(3)  safeguarding construction site in the areas under their
jurisdiction.  disposing  of  civil  disputes  occurred   in  the
expressway construction.              -   -
-   .. _. A.  *  ~ LI



(4) leading the Office of Expressway Construction at township
level to enforce resettlement action plan according to schedule.
*.           D. at township level
The Offices of Expressway Construction at township level are
the working agencies for land requisition and resettlement in the
relevant  townships consisting of staff *from land administration,
public  security  and  other  departments organized  by  township
government. Each  office at township level consists 'of 2 persons
and about  36 persons will  be involved for the  whole alignment.
They will be responsible for:
(I) the works concerning land requisitinn and resettlement In
the  relevant  townships,   including *checking,. authenticating,
summing up and submitting the-amotunt of reqtlisitioned land and
the. relocated  buildings,  allotting   compensation  fees  among
villages and working out the plans for resettlement.
(2)  safeguarding construction site  in the area  under their
jurisdiction,  disposing  of  civil   disputes  occurred  in  the
construction period and helping construction teams with their
daily lives.
(3)   fulfilling   the  tasks   for   land  requisition   and
resettlement and providing the land for connstruiction nn time.
9.    Monitoring Program for the Land Acquisition and
Resettlement for the Expressway Proiject
The land acquisition and resettlement fnr the Expressway
deals  with a  wide  range  of the  socinry  and influences  more
people. whereas, an integral' action plan for the land acq,tisition
and resettlement should  be formulated priar to  the commencement
nf the land  acquisition and resettlement. H'wever.  the progress
depends   on  the   performance - qiiality.   Therefore,  in   the
implementation  of the  land  acq4uisition and  resettlement,  the
continuotus follow-up  work is  required, tr-. aim  of which  is to
carry out the land acquisition  and rese!.' !-ment in a planned and
more effective  way; scI thal. the  apprta  can  be wade of  the
progress of the land acqtuisition anjcirese.e'.tlement. *At the same
time, the policies and procedures seL snLt in I?AP can be tested by
way nf practice to  see whether or noL the gzrials  can be achieved
as expected. On one  hand, the policies cast he  readjusted on the
basis of  the findings,  on the other  hand. these  findings will
provide valuable experieTnces for the next constructiOn proiect so
as to  improve the policies  cnncerni ng LhIF land  acqiiisit,ion and
resettlement.
9.1  Mechanism and Staffing for Mnnit..r.nc
1. Mechanism applied in Lhe monitnrina
In order to carry  otlu the land acquiisiticin  and resettlement
smoothly, a four-level management system has been set up for the
Quanzhou-Xiamen  Expressway Section (Details  can be seen  in the
Organizational Chart of Land Acquisition and Resettlement for the
Quanzhou-Xiamen Expressway Section). The agencies in charge of
the  land acquisition and  resettlement are responsible  not oinly
- ~    ~     g~ - .. .,,,..S    -.     - 
-~~~       ~~      1-W  _                    ' 
:2~~~~~~~~~~~fSSg,~-; *-.   . --. ........ _



for -the execution  of RAP,  but also  for. the execution  of the
monitoring program. The higher authorities will supervise the
*   agencies at  a lower level,  and vi.ce versa, i.e.  the Provincial
Directorate Office will exercise supervision over the Directorate
Offices at  the municipal  level, and  the mtinicipal  Directorate
Offices will be responsible for the supervision of the offices at
the county/district level. The offices at township level, which
is under the supervision of the offices at county/district
levels, will have supervision nf the villages involved. However,
sometimes,  the supervision  may be  exercised  by bypassing  the
immediate leadership. The stipervision exercised by the higher
authority  over  the* offices  at  a  lower  level  includes  the
investigation' nf the contracts signed between the administrative
units at different levels, the execution of contracts, payment of
compensation to the individuals, the relocation of the houses and
the resettlement of the people requirning employment. etc.
2. Staffing for the supervisory body
The Bngineering Department of Fujian Provincial Expressway
Construction Directorate Office will be responsible for providing
3  persons for the  provincial supervisory body.  The Directorate
Offices at  the mtunicipal  level will assign  3 persons  from the
Directorate   Offices  for   the  stipervisory   bodies   to  take
responsibility fnr the land acquisition and resettlement. And
each supervisory body at cn!irity/district/tnwnship levels along
the route will be staffed with 2 persons from their offices at
different levels respectively.  1he main work of *these personnel
is to  exercise the  supervisi on over the  wnrk of  the exectitive
agencies under their direct jutrisdiction. The work of the land
acquisition and  resettlem6nt will be  divided tip and part  of it
will be  assigned to a certain  persons and all the  personnel in
the  supervisory bodies  at difrerernt  levels  will be  under the
decentralized management. In  Lois way, various relations  may be
smoothed.  It's estimated  that  57 persons  are  needed for  the
supervisory  bndies  at   variousi  levels   for  Qiianzho.u-Xiamen
Expressway Sectinn.
9.2 The formulation of the mntsitoring program
The organization for the. land acquisitinn and resettlement
was  established diuring  April-October,  1992 for  the  Quanzho'r-
Xiamen  Expressway  Section.  1'hat   means - that  the  monitoring
mechanism  came  into   being  with  the  estab ;ishment  oif  t).e
organization. In the process tuf measuiring and checking the amouint
of the  acquirei land  and the quantity. of the  other properties
within the  HOW cnnducted by PP(PI)1 with  the l)irectorate Officpes
at coutnty level and the relative township.reset.tlement offices as
well  as   the  l'r.al village   administrative  bgiards,   Ptjimar;
Provincial  Expressway   Construction  Directorate   Office, 'the
Provincial supervisory body, was involved in th'e supervision to
*       collect all village names in connection with the land acquisition
and resettlement along the route (attached behind) and the basis
data concerning the land acquisition'and resettlement. The cher-li
and authentication of the amount of land to be-acquired along ti:-
19
.4.
-.  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .. s-*',   '-  -.. 
:- --E .,~t4- 
~~~~~~~~; -~~~~~~~~'



whole line  was completed in March, 1993. Working on the basis of
a  series  of   questionnaires  and  the  compensation   fees,. a
Monitoring  and  Evaluation  Form for  the  Land  Acquisition and
Resettlement was prepared. by the provincial supervisory body (See
the attached). After that, the supervisory bodies at various
levels got involved in the work gradually. In April, 1993, FPECDO
signed  contracts  with  each prefecture  (municipal)  government
involved  for the  land acquisition  and  resettlement, requiring
that the relevant prefectures and cities should sign contracts
with the related counties, districts and towns by April, 1993,
then the relevant  towns wilI  sign crontracts  with the  villages
involved. Thus it  is reqtuired that before the. contracts for the
land acquiNCition and resettlement between- the administrative
units at various levels can be signed, the provincial supervisory
body should make an examination of the contracts so as to ensure
the adequacy of the contracts  to safeguard the interests of both
parties and tn remedy any faults in the cnntracts;
The demolition work of the properties on the acquired land
will be undertaken during April--October, 1993. At that time, the
supervisory bodies at variotis levels will be fully engaged in the
monitoring. *The  supervisory  bndies  at mutnicipal,  cousnty  and
district levels will make an on-the-spot investigation of the
locations for  the houses to  be relocated and make  sure whether
the land for the reconstruction of the hnuses is available. In
June, 1993, the provincial supervision body will issue Monitoring
and Evaluation Forms to eacth  towns along the alignment, and then
these Forms will be retransferred to the villages involved. These
.towns will be responsible for  the summarization of the completed
Forms, which should be submitted to the supervisory bodies at
provincial/municipal  level by  Auigutst. Irn  the- mid Augiust, 'the
provincial supervisory body wi Il condtict the sample survey on 15X
of the villages  with the s;Lpervisory bodics at miinicipal , crounty
and district levels, highI iwthting the payment ofr the compensation
to  the individtuals and  thte incnme  restnrat`ion of  the affected
people. Since the readijistment nf land and the employment requiire
time, therefore,  the prnvinrial  supervisory body witl  instruct
the suipervisnry bndies at ir;wer levels lo suibmit the periodical
reports on the resettlement. Meanwhile the provincial stupervisory
body wilI cunduict non-per i nd i cal prnbabi I i ty samp I es nn'the spot,
in which  the investigators  wi I I not only  discutss the  problems
about   the  rcsettlemcr;L and  compensatiosn  packages  with  the
township or village officials. but. also inquiire of the affected
people   abouL  the  land  replotting  .and  Rvailability  Or  the
compensation  f,nr the  resettlement  er  the  labnur.  Also,  the
prnvincial  supervisory bo-dy will  ask the execultive  agencies at
varinios levels to waste  no tism1 t- absorb farmers intit new jnbs.
If there should  be a time lag, subsistence  ailrowances.should be
provided itntil new employment is found.
9.3 The Methods and Field of Investigation
1. Paying  a field  visit to the  project affected.. people to
keep  abreast of their attitudes towards the constrMuction project
~~~~ -~ ~~2
S:r ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ X   ;- 
Or~~~~ .      



and resettlement, as well as their complaints.
2.  CnIlecting  tht   information  on  the  payment   of  the
compensation fees to the affected people, resettlement, new
employment, reconstruction of houses and land redistribution.
3.  Inquiring  of  the   land  acquisition  and  resettlement
agencies at various levels to make sure whether or not the
compensation is  retained  and for  what purpose  it is  applied.
However, the compensation fees may exceed the planned budget.  In
this case,  the investigator  should make  sure  what causes  the
excessive expenditure and with what funds it is paid. If there is
a universality in the excessive expenditure, the departments
concerned shintild  be called in  for consultation to find  out the
causes.   If  necessary,  the  compensation- standard  should  be
readtusted  with  the range  of  the absnrptive -capacity  of the
project.
4. As for those who lnse their land and whn need new
employment, the investigator should make sure if they are
resettled on time.  If they are not resettled for the time being,
the  subsidies  should  be  provided  to  maintain  their  living
standard.
9.4 Settlement of the Existing Problems
A series nf problems may appear in the process of the
supervision of RAP  by the supervisory bndies  at va-ious levels.
The purpose of the supervision is to make a better job of the
land acquisition and  resettlement. Therefore, once a  problem is
f'ound,  the   nature  of  the  problem  shonild  be  analyzed  and
ascertained so as to decide which executive agency should be
responsible   for  the  settlement   nf  the  problem   then  the
supervisory bndy at the correspornding  level should find a way tn
solve it.
9.5 Thle Evaluation of the Monitoring Activities
In the  process  of t'he. execution  tf RAP,  the  supervisory
bodies at various leveLs shoiuld condtit-L a crontinuous fol low-up
study  and take  a series  of measures  fo,r the  finrdings of  the
investigaticns. whereas the supervisory body is  cJosely combined
with  the aLgencies  responsible  for  the  land  acquisitiont  and
resettlement. the monitoring activities taken by the stipervisnry
bodies at prefecture, municipal, couinty at:.i district levels will
he evaluated  by Fuiian  Provincial  l.and Anministration  Bureat,
Fujian Provincial Constru:ctiion Commission and Fujian Provincial
*Rxpresswav  Cnnstructinn  Directorate  Offime together  wilh  Lthe
rei!evar)   lea 81  piF"l&ti I4 Lt'vefWlkleI t S  atL utJielecture.  BlurtLeiCice
J'   : s  t  tk% 3r..- er.n. of-.  .--d acquictic  ".A
*         roFtt1PmPnt. fonr the whole iine-is comnleted. so as to settle all
the remaining problems  and restore the original  living staidard
of the affected people as  quickly-as possible. In this way,  the
Rxpresswav  will become  a pro.ject  which  brings benetit  to the
people. At the end of September, 1994, the report on the
compleLed  resettlement  will  be forwarded  to . the. World Bank,
Ilcarly  indicating how the project affected people are res6ttled
.21
: :;-"--;   _: -,--. . 4        - -
. 



and how funds are utilized to develop the village/township
enterprises and any other local development program.
10.   Progress and Schedule
(3)  January--April,   1992:  survey   on  the   compensation
standards.
*(2)  September,  1992:   determination  h1- t-tie  compensation
standards.
(3) April--October, 1992: establishmerit 01o t,he  organizations
for land requisition and resettlement.
(4) November, 1992--March, 1993: setting-ult. nt' right-of-way.
(5)  March, 1993:  verification  and  authentic.ation  of  the
amount of the requlisit ioned land and quantity af the buildings to
be demolished and removed.
(6)  April, 1993: signing  of contracts and  stibcnntracts for
land requisition aid resettlement.
(7) April--October, 1993:  demolishment and relocation  along
the whole alignment.
(8) Juine--October, 1993: completion nf resettlemen.t.
(9)  December, 1993: transfer of right-of-way along the whole
rotite.
(10) March,  1993:  stubmission of  the  Action Plan  and  the
attached figures and tables to the Wnrld Rank.
(11)  May, 1993:  submission of  the revisec Actinn  Plan and
relevant figures and tables Lo t.he World Bank.
(12) September,  1993: submission of  the Action Plan  and the
attached figures and tables which have been revised according to
the variation of.design to the World Bank.
(13) September, 1994:  submission of the-repnrt  on completed
resetttlement to the World Bank.
22
.* -.



f?ECEIVED
930CT 12 I.',10: I I
The Action Plan Fdr Land RequlsiLlon And ResetLLement
For Quanzhou-Xiamen Expressway Section Of Fuzhou-Xiamen Highway
Volume [l
(two volumes in total)
Fujian Provincial Directorat.e Ofifice
Of Fuzhou-Xiamen-7.hangzhou Expressway Construct ion
September' 1993



Content
I.   Attached tables and figures
(1) Tables
Table I Sumarv of Land Requisition for Quanzhou-Xiamen
Expressway Project
Table 2 Summarv of Buildings Demolished and Relocated for
Ouanzhou-Xiamen Expressway Project
Table 3 tummary of Coieensation for Quanzhou-Xiamen                                 F '
Expresswav Project
Table 4 Sumnary of the Population Affected by the
Ouanzhou-Xiamen Expressway Project
Table 5 Summarv of the Resettlement for Quanzhou-Xiamen
Expressway Project
Table 6  Summarv of Resettlement Management ExPense for                               F'
oianzhou-Xiamen Expresswav Project
Table 1 A Statistical Table for Land Requisition and
Resettlement at TownshiP Level for Quanzhou-X amen.
ExPressway Project
Table 8  The List of the Rdministrative Villages along the   ,       -
Route of the (uanzhou-Xiamen ExPressway Section of
Fuzhou-Xidmen Htgnway (for Lard Requisition and
Resettlement)
Table 9  Monitoring/EvaIuation of Land Fequisit ion and
Resettlement for iuanzhou-Xiamen ExPresswav At
V1 I lage Level
Table i10 Monitoring/Evaluation bf Land Requisition and
Resettlement for Quanzhod-Xiamern Expresswav Mt
Township Levei
(12) figures
Figure i The institutional Framework fo- LaCC ;W.At:;'!±.
and Resetttement Management-
Figure 2- The Plan Contracted 11s of QuarerIz4u-A i bie  Ea.es;-
way Alignment



Table I       Sinwry or land Resquisition for Ounzhou-Xiamn Ixpresmy Project
ite.        present area anid population      the land to be requisitioned         average fars land per cpita
region                            __rq land  population    cultivated  non-ultivated  total   before requisi-  aftereuisi-   deeini) 
_____________(a)          (person)     land (m)    lan  (mu)                tion (/Persn) tion (t on)  ratio    U)
two towns and townshps in       2906         79945          1029.0         60.2        1089.2        0.363         0.351           3.306
Lichens District
seven towns and townships in    199623       527179         2365.2       360.4         2725.6        0.378         0.374            1.068
JinJiang city                  .__                                                   . __._._ .
one township and a farm in      44775        100915         1163.1        257          142U.1        0.444         0.432           2.703
Ibn'an county
five tovns and townships In     157001       237187         2454.1       260.2         2714.3        0.6f2         0.652           1.511
Torg'an coumty                                                                             _           .
two towns and townships in      72811        72369          1047.9        21.0         1068.9        1.006         0.992           1.392
Jimi District                _ ___        
one town In Xinglin District    19733        38211          547.2                      547.2         0.516         0.502            2.713
total                   522903       105580B        8806.5         958.8       9565.3        0.495         0.487            1.616         _
_     .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
; 1 ! . r >~~~~~



Table 2    Sumary of Buildings Dewolished and Relocated for Lzanzhou-Xia.en Kxpressway Project
buildinss                                                      others
item.
dwelllngsagricultural and enter-   for use of Public                             tombs
prise bulIdings  (.2/Has.)          facilities (.2/Mas.)       total                            house
region                                                                                         r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~mict ions
region               \dwelling    agricultural  enter-   scool hospi- other                    (.2)      belonging   owner-      0u2/place)
houses        buildings  prises            tals                           to sb       less
two towns and townships in      19123/131     118/9       1423B/21  567/2                    34044/163      309                    781/7
Lichens District                                                                   .
seven towns and townships in    16246/80      101/4       7516/30                            23863V114      1210                    1269/6
Jinjiang city                                            |        -|- --- -__
one township and a far. in       12328167    212/8         1208/2  684/1                      14432/78      638                   2566/15
t4an'an county
five towns and townships in      10786/63    653Y45        584/1                             12023/110      145                     96/1
Tong'an county
two towns and -townships in      1964/17      180/20       580/11                             2724/48        53
Jimei District                                                              .
ane town in Xinglin District    3321/27       503/28      .                                   3824/55        108
total                   03768/385    17B7/115    24124 6W 1251/3                          /         2463                  4712/29
; / ~~~~~~~~~~~~.;       r 3                 L 4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



Table 3 Su&eary of Compensation for Land Resquisition and Resettlement of Uuanzhou-Xiamen Expressway Project
(unit; ten thasnd yun)
.____ _  coqxpensation for land requisition and resettlement
individuals                         collective units                                       costs of   Continmuicy
state-                      resettle-
region                         crop  fruit  mans of                means of   requisitioned            owned  power &      total    ent
tree  livelihooci subtotal praduction or bomrwed    subtotal enter- communica-              adminid-
and office  land                    prises tions                 Lrtion
(1)    (2)       (3)       (4)        (5)          (6)          (1)      (8)      (9)        00                     00
two towns and townships in-    37.1  Z21.8      341.1     WD.0        54.5      894.4          948.9   126.9   171.3        1647.1   ,49.4       136.5
Licheng District
seven towns and towLships in   92.9  138.8      30.0      491.7       17.1      22_3.1         2217.2           221.8       2930.7    87.9       180.7
Jinjiang city                        I   .                                            .
____ __         __     -,                   --       I                                                 .              ____
one township and a farm in    148.4   29.2      M.8 u     322).4 AI'v.5                        1126.5   10.3    39.9        1409.2    45.0       103.6
Han'an county
five towns and townships in    92.5   70.9      173.1     33B.5       8.8       2320.0         2328.8            46.6      2711.9    81.4       155.1
Tong'an county
tvo towns and townships in    36.5   12.7       40.9       90.1                 898.4          898.4            145.1      1133.6    34.0        54.3
Jimei District                              __ ____                                      .
one town In XinslIn District   18.6   10.5      57.3       86.4                 452.7          452.7        _   4.1        543.2      16.3       33.8
total                 325.0  183.9    1217.2    1727.1        80.4      7892.2         7972.6  137.2   628.8       10465.7   314.0       664.0
Reurks:
1. Item (3) Includes eivil structures. tactories, shops and others.
2. Item (5) includes factories. shops and others.
3. [tea (8) includes state-owned enterprises. shops and others besides hospitals and schools.
4. Item 01) u Item ( 0 3X
5. Item 0  = I Iten (1  (2) + () Ix5% +  I ten (3) + (5) + (8) Ix171 .
t  t! ; s! r.                                                       I                     V .



Table 4     Su_ry or lhe Powulation BY the Affected  UnAAou-Xlamn BweSmy Project
Item                                          population to be affected      (prson)                                     .t_ t.a            _
by buildins d mishaent      by land requisition       by bui Iding d.olh isnt    by linsfng other
\__________  _________  ____._____                    and land reascisition     ewlouent basis                        .
region                       having fixed   having no    having fixed having no    having fixed having no    having fixed having no    having fixed having no
__________________________  tncome      fixed income  incom        fixed ine    Income       fixed income  inoe         fixedi inm    income      fixed in o 
tvo tovns nd toships in         328             88          119B         33U            239           60            6?           17        1830          501
Lichenm District                                                                                                        _              __.
ven toiin and tovnships In      172             57          3900         1098           160           do            63           26        4295          1241
Jinjilan  city
one,towimhip and a fare in      153             75          1025         521            132           76            7            4         1317          676
Ibn an county
fivetowns and tohips In         145             54          2311         873             1)0          39                                   2565         9(6
[weg an coimty
two ton and townships In         27             10          672          243             35           13            37           14        771         m2 .
Jimi District                            _.        __                              |      
one town In Xinglin District     68             18          716          190             55           15           _                   .   839. 223
total                   893            302          9820         3255            730          219          174           61        11617         3887
;   ; '-'1            fl          ,       ,* r. pi
I                     I                       
i~              I                                          ' 



Table 5    Smry of the Resettlemnt of Qumnzhou-Xinen   ipre _w Project
resettlement of labors
ites__    
after adjusting land,      after adJusting land,                 labor  in
labors continuing         labors concr tly                    enterprise                 subtotal
region                            siwle agriqultural          erged in second
activities  xersonm)        profssion (person)                   (Person)                  (pson)
to ptown ¶and townshiPs in                 113                        731                             568                       1412
Lilcheng D)istrict
seven tonns and townships in               983                         1752                           1142                      3877
Jinjians city                                                                    _____
one township and a farm in                 561                        273                             30                        1134
Nan'an county
five towns and townships in                1019                       510                             788                       2317
Tong'an county
two towns and townships in                 438                        101                             164                       703
Jimei District
one town In Xinglin District               277                         127                            155                       559
total                              3391                       3494                            3117                     10002
Z   . .            ;                i's1               ,751               ^ i                t~~~~~~~~I  9. 



Table 6              Sunry of Resettl  nt baeent Exp              of Iuanzhcu-Xiabn lxpressway Pro3ect
(unnit: 10.000 yuan)
coaensation at county level                                Including
Item       cowoensation    -                                         total of
at the town  for state-ownei  ror power.   divelopuent  towns and                                        reiarks
region                    or township                    telecoaz-    Iund at       counties   provisional mu   costs or land
level        enterprises      nication      county level                               administration
Licheng District    1091.8         126.9           171.3         257.1        1647.1      13B.5              27.9
Cuanzhou Jinilang city        M07.0                           221.8        632.9       2930.7       180.7              68.8
city     Nan'an county        1124.7          10.3            39.9         324.3       1499.2       103.6              35.3
subtotal            4292.5         137.2           433.0         1214.3      6077.0       420.8             132.0
Tong'an county      1999.4                          46.6           5.9        2711.9      155.1              72.4
XIaen    Jitei District       730.5                          145.1         258.0       1133.6        54.6              28.0
city     Xinglin District    409.0                            4.1          130.1       543.2         33.8              14.1
subtotal            3138.9                         195.8         1054.6      4388.7       243.2             114.5
tota l                      7431.4         137.2           628.8         2268.3     10465.7       664.0             246.5
KJ                j                                      ;1                                     ' '1
I                 I-                   .
1.4                                     10.7         6 40245



A StaLlaLkcal Table For land lleqlitlin and Resettlement
At Toiindlp level For Ihand Xiasamen &mmmmiaw   PNJet
UIen*MivmThie.l.rhengI)istricLl.Ih1lunxita  City                                                    ---                                                                            Table 7-1
tomf  E                                total arm    (aw. Km)              -are  of cultivated land  (an)       swrms wen of cultIvatAd luWi pe cwita        Cm)
statlatla                                ________                            14.079                                 ism___156                                     0.530
before                       pmlto  P m                             asrlwitual papulat.iui                          atlur                                         totAlI
___________________                 ~~~239 4                                5694                                         3
omtrurtin            annua  warems Ine                         awlcultural I[mm.                    nan-aglcultwal Incme                                    WIt
per capita (yun)                                 116                                    2175                 -                        3150
atatlatlct,    ~ ~ ~~9~wrf~ th                                   win road                              lI In  r~md                                      total
statistim            10     7_____y  ___                         ______                  __               ________                                          4.94
laavi,t  .2cultivated lawd                                                            others                _     ___total
eaPVrmu                      requISM W..                                     795.021.2                                                                            316.2
Uasiari~~¶vlpld        - -  ~cultivaudland -A                               otura_____                                    total           _____
____                                 3J~~~~~~~~~~~.4                       46.2                         __ _          -136.6             ____
civil buildina                           eillnter                                                    _ _r_                   otsm
buildlrs      I too              Wl!Ž!dm                .~pIae                                                                    -            ihc tawllitles          tea.               Q11
~~~~as                            -.                                                                                                   has~~~~~~~~~~~~dsotm  dw  Flom
(SIM                                      ---~~~     -    _               4                                                                                                _     _-4
arcs  (saw. n)      13549                 8   2                             2529       ___103                          1902       31                                             7
Item                         ntmbr or rmilIki           populationml hvn                                 frma avlcultzre                        121
~~eula-  ~ ~ ~~olyho.use  to be affected               - ~49                                                   pe3e23t            tmldar                     ____63
bohhouse and land affectedut9 -?-.     3fin  Ic                                                           frombet                           .  II,
to be                           ......                                          tio'n    ~~(memi            hoI                            _       29     _ _
tabs  .    ______     mdA total I.....                         79                      SIB             or__              _  __      __12____                      __               __   _
arrecfM  thu horn            loalir cultivateod land                  210                      1Q29                   peole uwins sef limd ncm  (jim) 3n1
outsid, or th       ofw  otheni  oUw   (o;;nt baisI                                   63TVo
right-of-way          Litoe              ~219                                        11392         jttal  (PM m                                                       161'.~
total                                 2K1610. 
It .__                                                            _ __ _        p wpulatlon_             _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _
I.notoLdiws rcalttlnw by buiiidinv dui&.Ishamnt                                 ______253____
rmttlatlerl                  ctInuins to ho o,wmd In awir-ulturf                        ___________________                               77
or labor ro                  stlins wnrkins Intenrswiuia           --- ..         . .             __           .3__ _ _ _ _ _ __                                       _    _-
ho iwmaid In both imuhrtr, nl.rczlun____                                                                 310_____ ___
* ...              abands~~~~~ng agiutr  or ndmtry            --.-..*---                                                        521
buildiuai       
= todk                                                                       accustIon
private      313.2                12       ___         16.4                     15.3   27.5                   _____    _____                  10.1                 214.0            -
collectIve              --       ~~~~~~37.9 I--    --                                   2.              55-                          -756I
'or     state-                                                                                                                                           j               4.
_____tte    __ _1.                                       1.4 ..21                  .       27.8       0.2             45.5      _     _ _ 110.197.
3J. 2                                   citmec                                4.91
ROmwim*s Cmphonmtion ror tombs In lncluird! In the land requisItIon rees and vilII paid ta Individuls trot that Fm.



A, 1ll   I  air II    1 !0 .fI !    /1 I;1 1 LIPI:IRI' 1  1   I. *  I
_onhui Tom. Lichdw District, iluho  City           .        _       ________                                                                                    ___        Tdle 7-2
total aa   (s. ki)               a    or cultiated lanid   (u)     am_w n of cultivated lad per caita    (ma)
township luad
____________    -       -         31~~~~~.733                         13494                                  -     .210
statistics                           _iciult.l    l ale _ ___   Oth                                                  _____totl_             _erstotal
befamr                     population (PI4smN)                           3            .8- _-  4____ __ _
expram                      WWI aver^w ines                        aricultural e      ___           non-lcultwsl Ineom        ,     =     ___________________ total
__on_ _____- per caPita  o)                                               783                                 2ZII                                        234
Muiwplnth                             min read                            I Dik road                                    total
.                (toqmulmlpliu                _________ 4.41                                                                           _  __._. .__ ___ 4.4
S         ^aItler                        -               ---__       __ ___ _     -n -a:_ __                        _ln       o d___--    -...*......._  ._- _=____ _                        ...
law-                                    culivatod  I ad        -                0 er                                        total.
cemt_1i(                                                                 234.0lnr   u                         39.0                                       273.0
teuiuii . I       _                      cultivated land                         others                                      total
.___         laIfoWo   bul)                  _    ___       37.8            _                   3.5                                         41.3
.   . _ _   __ .   ___-                         ilUI          -                                       facIties           taoudinm oti_s.
tuflhtral        i         t iatms    _ =        collectivo               private                                                        __
| __       _                =     i: lut      - .k             others        [_  |others __             |s i O thers    11_
rae,$  q,tit,@k.j   i                ____    2 3  I2      2                                                      i              -    1-                 _tl
_ _ __Wm       _ _0     55 674              34       7                      11(1             _              25      5_4_                                  _10
______Ites_  __  .___  __    nmCer or rfai fiee      . population                         tnrr  wicultW,                                6
_______                  ____euini -        _ i°    ~_   11___        --J   ll  -                     plenhvn           -     -_ _ _             .- _  ____
tI~~~~~gnliMm  o ourrc d24                                                  U             a..-   rixed Ieo         frmInds"t                             37
on Pua           IR's     both home and land arrecteid           28                     liii           fla 7                    tam  ot44
to he    ___         __subtotal                                   52                     23D           tvo.a   --mm            -        1~o                          541
afrectrAd  the hom         loina cultivatd land          .        97                     497                   .eopihaviwn  ro rixdin             I_ 
outaide oa the    losing other ewloymnt basis            5                       2_ _.Z __
ridht-ofaw        subtotal                              liZ         _. __       SR   _                            total (mmrsn                              721
total                =        _     154                     721      -      -                  ____         _    _.
not needing rsettlina by bulgdins deso ishent     _                                                    70)         _...
roesttlemnt                 mLfwingJ L w inged in acrcAur.                        _.  _ ;__.____.__- ..   ._
at la1  fre                stavilm vrimn In entrlIss                                                                              Z7
to  o ased  Inbolhhnt trytendhrl6     W          _       _    _       _ _                            J                                 - - - -  - . -
___  absnm~ning aeritlro fo  irw*tr e        f r ___                                                .--__      _-_  _47 .__-           .
-100           -.-... l__                    bildhe  |is 14 |  4|4 t          183|9 |    O;                | 1416--   -  -                                     P
eqwlof                 14 l~~~~~~~~~I__ *ent                                       lai          a.    *tm                            |dt
Item    ~~~~~~~ ~~~ ~~~.. ~~~~~ ~~~                             land to be  teaporay   nn-awicultiasi
it_1  tler   ier tdwel IsIaudn*h 11d rzulsriten r-vl w l hoald tO               m   (TOPleaS rres tit,;e   ladetr.                      oh%sbo
hom                                                                  I          ___ _occupation enrrss
prIvate     %83.6               U.S      _ __ _     0.4                    8.8    __  _  _ _ _ __ _      _ _ _ __    _ __3__           .                   0.
col lective'  *       -                    16.6                                   2__        Z.1           14.6                                           243
curqi                                               182            4.0 
o003                  83-'.8       -  '          _____             
'1 m)   miAtatal     8.        ...   _  _ _  _     248     0.4     4.C     __ _    8.8     9.3      209.1           45      _ _ __ _ _         .
Irn 2~~~~~_ ~14.1                              .contiuncyT                                              51.6
Ouw. ensetion far tods Is Include In thu land requisitfon ream and wiIII paid to individaim tram tint ton.
.     .,
~~~~~~~~~~~~1*                           '           I           .s      I                                                             



. : ' ' i' : . ~~~~~~~I /m ,  !i!Iiill' FIr(Ct:.LO
Cidian'Td w , Atnilang  jbty. l  um City                     _           __             .                                  _      _           _                _          Table 7-3
statistics                tov~ed~ip land                        total are.   (a'w. buD           ores or 01tot ed  wo ocultivated I d  invuags u  tlvate  l      Wer   ita      )
wr  papxicultwlpowuatlo                                                           othuu                                      toI_.
e2lprflssvay                    i a_    -I         _   a_ricultai I                                 nonwnicultuiu  Income                               tobl        _
auction                per apita                 n                               _                     _410  il90                                    n
ubtienaes  i l ;  th                ;.95 m in  road                   link     r51                                          __ to_            _.
lain ._                                  cultiated b___ _  ___ __.                                                           _t
__  __ _ __  __  _ __ _ __   __ __ _  _ _ _      6   .   k=al-l-dh w ~ 
WullIe          e           !iildins3__;gidr   .___.................v... __ido  2..  -  ll  eninlitls    ___.......____--           p° _
ns                         srloul I  tIi aI       sbate-od               coI lectivo,  -ri-         -
______    1 Iiit                                   _   }at                  lJ~     othr,                 aap o|i  -co~  717  bUzren- _in  r-- ____ 
reL  qusn! Ityto.s     :121._._    LLZ                                          . .._   _                 3   4                            L|-43--~Z __-_I
.   srea (qu. in   5991                   __.                  2.2                  .         525   06          5_                            1J
_    ______              Item_                        niader of families .pUilatlan __pe                           vn                   w                        24__
only hn.&qom to be affected  12  ________ 64             * ~~otm                 fr. fttr 
boUrt ome anaOrd land affected         20        I     =       7                                      from r                               3    ___,
to b   _ stl.__.__E11__ _ wotte              .          _          2           .         .......... _        _.___a_ __                                              4U7
aiTetd  Uw bouses           elosyn cultivated land               107    __               53?           |       pwlo haviny no fl yd Incao Ipanwn                      252__a;__ 
outaIid  or theb  lming otbr.r wloynt basis  ____               .                41   _____    1Ycn
building  I      to_._                                  115                     575                             -tol          rli                           749
],,ttl,17_ _ 79__ ____.____ _____    to_  _. _ _   _74
7_ ~~~Itee                                          .. __.._____ ___                         population    ___._______                      ___
not needng rtewttllnm by bouIldIng dmllabmont       -_ _   ..                     ...                          ..__  42 . .. _..__ _ __    -
resettlewatt               clntinuins to be aumed In aulcultawe             _   ______-   __  ___                                It2     -____                      _ --_____
Of labo force              sta,worix ng in entmwriin                       _        _      _     _     _     _     .     _    _    0.                __ ______ l_____    -___
.~ 1to ie en              It Inaitn        s and aitlwewo      __._._._____                  pate 
___  ning wrleuXttre ficr ni _ ___-_---_....._____  Idn
and                                                                                                                                                       to W ,, , t   land to be  t Y  'no ctr
private       U.9       |      __|___     7.9    | 8.4            11||5.3          Iti.3        |      ___   _ _ _                    2 .2   |   13D.0   _   ...1...0
reo-    clletie   -_                                    --  |3|- 17.1    _____           37.4                  _    370       _ _-                   --|--__421.5
Wm10.000a                                       -        -1                 114 -W -45
yani amdtotal       89.9    __      *__o_ 125.0           8.4 h  t5.3    16.3 a7.4                                37.0   _   -____2_  r2.2                _.5
'{ 6- ~~~~~~~17.0                                                      cant'  imec                       44._ _1___ .__
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ an
arrimud  thwen.Itlon f     losiabi  ncultivatd I    land  reuiiIo  fe mid wil haIvtomidovirlxefrmit. fern
F'  F                              .   , ,                  .                      I                .I                                                           .,
t~~~~~~~ued of th                  oigFh    ilyotbi



Chwh_ Ton  ,Jm   ony   = mCt                                                                                                                                      Table 7-4
total am    (M. km)              wea of cWtivated lwd         (m)      el   arm of ailtiata luId npe capita   (m)
.tonhlP INA____    _____                                                                                                      .462     _
sb~~~~~~~~~~~~~uIutiwa  isltli:                                           s      _____   lchul                        WPlto tia
befre                      population (M"ni              ___                                 _- _.                            _- total
cwatm ati                  amiwl averap, tac- -a ricultwral Inca.                                    nan-awlcultwal Ircmo        ______                  total_
__        _                                       ____   _        qricultl capita (Yl                 .       9                                           1178
qwqmnw,je,wth                              min road                            lIrk raid                                     totalI
statiats             ,pnnl                              .         ________._-                                    __              __ ._    _______
._vd baf to bcultivated lmnd                                                     aiJi                                        total
-  --          34.S           -~34.8                5.5                _____    **~            40.3            -
cultivated lard                         ot2utotal
. rM         taitmd(sul                       3.0                          ___.__________
_inn                   $     Ycn__ ___________     ____            3.0_________                 _______   __ ._               ___ __      .        3.0    _._        __     _
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~._ _____...............bl                                        ................§X...  .. .__   ... __ _
tul Idli.    I tw e                lvii uli nidlr,ap.                                  stened ooi leot(na ____.__ .................. _ _ulIdlm    It tm~tIijs
n wi     -         aM state O"                 .           col lective              priwate               bce
NUnl"~  rT2lw   iz4th i   aKi lAIv%{rt*k              mm   Ot_        _C ouw                                                                       IngZCl .....     wd__      .._ __.
wd           Ida trim atho                                                                                     dios  am otior  ri oet o ibss1 __ _
e.         dt                     I                           _               .1 _  __                                          trII
________   Item        m____w_ or irat.i ife.                      populatlan                                     avclio21
resettlae ut              eoniy howl  to be nafeetd In3_______                                      _       _                  _r         t       .
both humas and lard arfectod   f--                                                                    rim both____ I
to be           "___    itotal                                                                         ofn                       aktotat                              4
offetdl  the hms           losIns cultivated ln              -. -Q:l          _ _____- .                 Ano at         _            c  _- _ 
tao t s i ins other wa t                ________ _a_s_i__ __
rWiat-of-isv     muitatotal                                                      do 0                              Lot,  (peru'nI                            S
P.__=__   ___I_.__    total              _i                           __
not m5.A.rdi  'ttblra by buildhwdm  alsivimit        -_____                                           ___ 
remettlmnt,                coLinuira to _ e e_md In uurlc'aitur                 _                        _        _._16
Of lab.   fA               sta     vrkirn In e.terprlsu                           -            . . -                       . I-
to be ewapsed In beth ldandtry and wricublte          _ o                                                      -. t
rabie in I    citr rar wintry                                                                           I .  s
lta                                                              be                                 teorwy    nmonicultural
~~~~      fclinm       a ctre    hp    coo   ailaiers                      IWtob         ladw                         othea               uiAtntab
Iona          gjvatec                                                                       acciastian
private   ___  _______                           .           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1.4                                                        1.4
collective                                                                                    U ~S         ii                                              31.9
=~~~~~  .           I             -~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                      I~~ 
iu.0 udtata     _ _       -     _ _        _ _                                       1.4        30.8 ..       1.1      __         _3133
1:3catsec                                                               1.6
Lfe..h: lCownamtin fwr tebs Is- bncludod In the lard requisition fees ard vi II paid to individids frim that fer.
p         p.                                      S                   .1~~~~~~~



Ulimardt Ton. Jin.inmw County. IuJ   city                                                                                                                                         Table 7-5
towuhip la                            total We     (SW. km               ae or cultivated lid   (w)  0 vauw am or cultivated led per cmits    (M)
fltatiaLi(~  *          .                                                   21.3                                 17284 * *_*   *  _  ..    ..__               0.244
rNO.   pepltlatm (pwrso)                                           awicitural population                         oth__s                                      total
46123                                2489       ______                            7696
expr_wY                      --l sver_.                     _  __    _ _ri_ ultwal in ____ _t_ -                   al       _ _                               WM__ =-
_c   per capita (vIan)                               33Z_                                  1967                                         2Z99
aem.  _verng~ in.us'   _       ._._culti Income                             non-amicul mi road  I Irktro                                      - a.
statistic%                                         .      -- _m rion -3ri__ 3rd                                                             _                    9tobl    _  _.
artar               ~p                 l  ,_                   _   _  _   _   _   _  _   _   _  __               _   _   _
a ar                ~~~~~land to ha                            cultivted lwi                             othts                                         total
expre.auy                   reusfi~t med  (mi)cltved.-
________________                  33~~~19.2                              4.5                                        343.7
coemxuctlnuti                __________________ _i
twp0rIFnn                                 cultivated land                           others   =                                   total
._....__ _______              on (.11                                5.                                 . l                      _.___________9
__ _                         tu Iidim   _____                      _  _  __ ____l Id____    oths
building        if-c               ei    buildinus         -               _    _        onteiwlu.                                        b i**c --i I ities       toms            i,e
A-                           awl lhi       hlZIiWial            state-owod               col lective               private                                                   . 
______    ~      ~         iiup~        f~jInaps    otkeCsraem sii aid'x *  M                                                   lt  oth fs b,o -km    -U.-
reei-    qnntityibs.l          4                                                                                                                                                     It0  __
meCaum                   391                                                                                                                        -
_________             Item                          moer of raii i              Population                               .   r opcuitwe         .
ththe.botsu       only hom   to be afrected                3                       12 .i                                    rr  inistnrY                         113
U    .- nlan" o pie         both hie  andi lan arfected                                      6               on    (poiui inr        rrou both                             577
to be            _f_ sitnl                         i4                                                      or           . .   _  stotal                     _           7S
arreced  the ho               u    cultivated 1                     I 4                               __ c         pe hl lvife no ild li   np   _l                        164
autside r tire     losing other ewlounet tasis g    ..._                                             an
riutrt-of-tsa      sittael                      I.        IU                                                          total  ipersnm)                            917
._ __ __ _   total                          in8                      917                _            _ .    _  ....                      _____.   ......    _.    - 
Iteo                         ___        . __.__.___.__ _                            i___ __  m            __|
not needimg resettlIng by building dmilmt            1_
resottleomt                 cntinuing to b enmued in wricultwae                                    _-                                 34
of labor ram        f         ityng 1wking I enterprises                                                                              113                     ____.  |
to be ami  In both Industry ad  ricultrre                           __                  _                43      ___                    __
___ _   _    _Ir_a_ _   h idn _1___ _.            _ ....     ...___.
Item                  amicuitral                           -      __       -land to be                  teuay        rimiitl
"ling       uIdIS uwWe   sho    whw   haia  ous e..lt                                      land         etoem            others    .         oiotal
____   ____  y             ptock                                                                     ocuxetion
private       4.8     _             .             _   -       -        -             11.7        _                     .  ___             1.7                  13.2
_ _ _ Collective  __ _ _ __ _ _ _              _ _ _ _                    _ _ _33.3                                 30.6     M__ _ _ _                               3.9
J=u)    M.oatal      4.8     _   _                _ _  _                     .11.7                     M.3            39.5      _ _ _ _ _ _      1.      _  _  _ _    3
.  Rtil;   .  9.1                      contime6CY                         16.1
Remik: lwution for toi  Is Inclid In thlaned ruwi.ltio ees and will pold to individals tr  that rie.



il     i  . n rc  isLIL amrt                                             .          I
q   ,                      ~~~~~~~At. ,zMbi,p LO l    rOl 'krlhJI iSM  CXPr1u2   ~rJCCt
Clao Toar, JinJiAn  ntumty. 4uwwho City                                                                                                                                     Table 7-6
tota______land__ _ am    (SW. km)    Wmn of cultivated land  cw)        *vor    W   or cultivated lard pa capita    (u)
t _ __ __ _  __ __ _  __ __   _ __ __  __ _ __  __ _ __  __ _ __ __   __  _2___   _ 741  _ _ __  __ _0.253
statistics                                           .ariultuma   pulation                                                                _   _
berom                      population (person)                            B7412 pplto                                       *
exprcsmw_l                                 _ _ Inwe  aicultural __        non_ _i__lt_ _  I__                                  total
______           _         per__ p pita   .n)             __         _         _in_                                                                                              __
a     flewth                           win road                             I ink; road                                   total
atatiatics                          t55                                                                                                                     9.05
arter                       l;md t?tjoned  (ml           _______________cltivated land                        otUers                                       total
exprumy                    r it9s cttiatd laed                       _                      __
co_2tructin                                                                                                                         ____altinted_bfi__
t U U 37 l r                            cul Utiv St d   IBId                     other                 _ _  _   _ _   _  _ _   _   _ _  _   _ _
._ __ _                __     _   _   _    _   _ -___=__                ___       .__ _       __      _   _   _   _    _   _   __    _    _   __        iI                     ____
buiIdins                                                                         oth
clvi_. _uldj.      _.___ __ _____ _.._    . nowic
building        iles              cvil bu-ldir      _     ,                            an i                                          pubik rwcilities           teds            home
YIi teaR  ; jlcltur iatate-ovd           col loctivo              private
t    tw-   m"Im             -I d0    *ohw        sat    howia    others         MIMSp   others    Sd     I"mI±-c otE           oiai      es
amd                   -                                                                     _              ce fiA  ts-  o t.we 
rlo      .mttiyObs.)                                                                                      3                                                  1l                _ 2
sat  Wnum    ', =)                      52 =65                                                                                                                          G
Ite"                         m_   or  r  Isilies        fpulaon   r-  wricultwe                                                          9
_  _.houa_u  only hoan to be affected               6                       34   _   _                              frm. iw ia 7                     .   52
N~ula-   vjJtt   ie        both ham d landf arrected          _                           lOt                                      fr riSmd i   Vr  both               720
tobe i#__                    btotal 2I                                                    135 I-toZ_ ,                                                                  1715
arrftod the     u          - losins cultivated lud                410                     199Q           at     people having no fie inxaso (an)                       426
outxida or the    losing othr eoloymnt basis            _       _                 14   _        _ Yn
rijht ofr-vay       itotal                               413                     2006                               total (arson)                             2141
total                               439                     2141                                            _    -      -
Item                       ___u_                                 _          poplation                     __
not neodirg resetti_ng by building_ boll_tZ7
rsottleont                 continuing to be enoie In wsicu twu e57
of labor fwort stayint b                              i     .     n                                    _        _ng'_n ent__wls____  52
to be engiaed In both indstry and iwiculturo                                                  ___795_-_-  *9
abanding aricultwer for Indtry         ____ _                               __         ___,            2U4         . 
____ ___  ____ ____ ___ buildlim ,                                      .dt              O *7m~i            i~
Item                                                               lwd to be      tewm~~~~~~owo  an            otha.iulum
1I ng                        ractaris  shep    ool hosital others              requisitioned          n   qmtarise         ohrsubtotaI
| privat     98.7       |       0.8        14.3                  _                  27.2                                            -. 9.0              | SO.U    _
prvt                                                                                                             ---   . . .- - .--                        .                              ... 
frollnetivo                                -         -              .       ..                 611.2          2.7      .                                      613.9
(l0.d x-N i                          I                    -  I   -  -      1 -      -r --   .-  - -    -_ _  _  _   1 - ' _ _   _ _   _     - - -  - - - - r --    1--   -
MAN) subtotal         98.7               0.8        14.3   L---  27.2 1    B1.2                                 1   2.?        _ _ _                  =9.0  -       71.       -,
23.5                                  cotiic                            53.9
Remrho: Compensation for teds Is Included In the lad requisition ferm and vil paid to iadivlduls Vrm tiat foem.



A' Sta9.i.tic.l Table F'or lAid Re-quisition and Ro.ttlemmnt
AL Toiumhip 1,evI F?or Omnpjio-Xiom lFxprww  P'roject
lnuanm Toim._JInJlarm fbuinty..- QmlkmnJ   City                                                        ____________                                                                   Table 7-7
tawnshlp lan                           total arm    (u. kg)               awon or cultivatad lwad   (an)       awvef utvae la                      cpta     (a
atatlatlav  ________________                              ~~~~~~                                  ~~~~56.0  3152_        __    _   _  _        0.46 _5_
before    -                  poputson (Pu,ml                         wuicultural p'opulaLium                        otheWs       *total
marmi aveo   iim                         aricultua ima                                 1619icltr4                                    1446 total
per capita (yunm)                                65                                     196                                           54
statlatica         ewr~~~~~~eg t                                 mfn road                              I11r* road              _ ______                 total                 ___
M  pY                       __ _ __ _ _ __ _ _ __ _ _ __ _ _2.3                                                                    2.3      _   _ _ _
pxpraiiway  ~  ~      lmiInhncultivated land                                                                others                                         tnuia____
coprta cLmy                  rc i-___________                                  75                      _    _   __   163                                            2
to.or xy Ifal                              cultivated land                            tta'                                            otal         ____
buildines____                                                                       @4kam.___
bulildim        ct ivil I uildiwe                                                          en_______atwrprise.                              Pohl_e_r___I_it___tus___
I I  acq"ltaussl            stt-ie                    collective                 private                 l faliost
im                            two ~~~I Il ivpsW   aoe-   shp       tes fec-   shows    othe roefa-   shps  otiass               nd=ol   hmpi-  Itu a     m 
quetit(NO       I I                          1111                          II                                                                          I 
arm   m   (sm. al         34                                                                              2442                              Jj .1410
item                          mabel of fannIles            population                                   frrwwaicoltuwm                          Is
peo ple   hawim                              _  _  __ _  _  _ __  _  _ _
only home to be affeced                  11                       go                                        frmm Iwas                               9
M y      ~both hame an  land arrecred                                                         C qa-   ie   n                                                  5
to_ _b_                _ _  _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _   _ _             I                                      L0   on  *(pe-u )                                                 175
arrvert,xl      homum        kltuu cultivated mad                     23                      135             or     pecl lavive no riut incin L_(rsmI.                          5
cUL4talortinfUi    llmira  Ueualoymttbasies                  3                        13            ¶r'1n       -                        _ ..                  -
iHAL-cf-imm__   subatotal                                    36                      148                                 total  (Pa )                                 322
total                                  3?7    __               235
I'.                                                -- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1polaition     .
not neodips rewtt[Wa by buitdi,u doolstimntn               _________________                                 13                     _ _____
rwnMmmLe'n                   continuing to be mapsd in wriculture ____t                                                                                                  _____
of labor orce                stayim worklne In esiterwims______________                                                                   9
to ho aerswd In both inekatr  mad wicultwr               __                __                                71   _
___  ahne*ins wliculLure frw imiaLry                        __ ___ _ _                           _
item           S______I      ___ltnldiau--                                     ...   lend to he       tlwar        annmraultsl 
owo    Il ais       iI4ie                    sh psId     ol al     rloem quisiti'me'                  lau                            oa m' ia                 ta
iwxxm       ljv         actris    ios  aioi mka                                            occupuLion.
private       30.7    __             _         .6                                .     8.1                                                    Li
collectIve  ___          --                             -       -                        -         123                                                              M .  .3
(10.000_ _ _ _                   
YaMn  subtatal       39.7            _     __       35.6      -       -       -                 IIj      183        _      _                         Li                   54.5
8.1                                     centieMacy                          Z2.9I
Noun.: mowation ror Loads Is ImUdItad In the land requisition fees ad willI pild to Indivl6mls Irre that fees..



A Statistical Table For Lid Requisition nd Ramttl.mt
At Towiship owel For Gmuhou-Xigi 11mma  Projwct
3oiken  Tnw. Jinjian  Cowiy. btmndiu City                                                                                                                                     Table 7-5
tohip lnil                          total awea   (uw. ka)             wee of cultiuvtd lard   ()  d             Wm ot coltita  lad For capita  _m)
statistics                                                       wiutm    ouainOh                                                                          Gg
befre                      poulation rIuOn)                _     wrltal  poultion                             olbrs                                          a
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                   ~~~~~~~~~~~45621                     11405                 _  _     _  _     _  _     _  _
e     my                  Mannusl averaw incrme                   saiculturl i_c                      noanicultmal hem                                    toal
________________    poi-caper    ait   n l                             494                                  1153                                        1647
statnrtw  lenstth                m_in road                                       lirk rod                                      tdal
after                       __ __ ______                 ____             5.55                                                                             5.5
land to be                               cultivated land beothers                                                             ttabl
expreaumy                  I'equiitined     (ml                          Ms-_ _ __ __ _ __ _ __ _an__ _
cultivated land                          othmws                                      to               _
___     -    _              _______     _           - _ _ _ _ _ _ _                       ___          _      ___ Z__61______                                               _
___________ __                                   bIl diuuw                                    _________________detkuu   ___u_dm
building        itoa       _      civil buidldin_                        _             enteprise                                        licsfilitis               tL
ds,-elli-    ag;lujaitr           stato-                  C collective              private_
nd          Iv        i t  | I  i         e~~~~~~~~~~ww P    |M otli  tre   sfP   oti  a;    shmPs |otln s          schoo     |Fl          i>t 9
relo-    qunt,ty,lyks1.       4                                 T                               I                                                             36
ca_d area (su.a)    3=3                                                                           __  ._= _=__
,______     Item                         rnuer of r.ail.s            population                Pwole  miir       frs wiculttwe                  ___  21 _
Poeula-  tbah              onIy h_ui to be aff_cted      -_ 4                              25                 tiand iN             fr1 u            _ _                  3
tton    ri-or-aY           both how, and land arrected                                                 ti__l_-                    fri both                             487
to be          __           sbtotal                                4                       25            io _ 4P_)_ .                total                             73s
affected te hous            losing cultivated land                157                  U                 or     p lephoow in  no rimsd Incme rc)                        1I4
outsido or the    losing other t;wloyunt bils             I                       5 __I_ ¶fn 
right-of-wvs      subtotal                                                      8S4                                total  (pe                                919
-_____                       total                                162                     919       _      ___                                                        _      -
it...                              ___-__._                                 poplatian                   _____
not nooding resttling by buildii i,l "1ih t.                          Z0_ _ __                                     _        ___
resottleAnnt               continuing to be uiped in wlirulture                                                                    1i5
of ltubr 1.11 'otailim vuki,  in    rinnis, _ ___                                                        _____D____            _____ ______
to be c.w14l in bnih undatry mld wai.atwn-n   ____ _    _                             ___              144
ab=  min6 g wiculturn r,r  inml:ry                                                                     311
bui ldlifoN
1Cm                   ag      fjMl I                                           crop   land to be    leaerd         iam iblom
Amngf                        factorie-nshms  school hoiwiptal others           requisitioned               enterinla
*               g       ~lJ tock                                                                   occoptim1
private      .5.7                          Co2_                                      0 4. U   '.6   _    _____4.1                                            34.4
collective                                                                                    461.R                                                         4 21J.8  4i
(lO   aMtotal       5.7    |        _             4.0                 . I _| _ I        r20.6       461.8          21.8      _              | 4.1__ It                                1
15.5                                  conthgency    |7.5
-W    l-     :       ¢'§1 we                       *^  1z, I 6.,t,j,,t  t_ s1 .4........................ , _  I.-   t  ...j  :@     r_..III  I I 0- ._...? V.I  . e..



A Statistical Table ?ea lam) Requisition NWd Ruamttle.mL
kdia    Tm,i.  Jin.lianna   QmLot t   t)mnidmu  I:L                          _  _ _  _             _  _                _  _  _  __  _  _  __Y_ __ _ _ _ _ _                                              Table   749
LOWSShiP lNd                    ~~total weo3  t21w. km.)               ame  or cultivated land   Cmvernwm am  of cultiatui 1wd pw  cnita                         CMi)
_______ ______ ______      ______    ______    ____Oa.__U_391CR                                                                      0.352
statistics                                                                  esivuitxai population                              otiu stta
befwa                  ~~~poulation   (perso )-                                 621                                         4                    _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
oxpr(amy        ~       Waal awuersi mov                              wficuitirnl Incm                        no    icultiwal incem      .                                  oa
prCapita Lyta)                                      NO                           _    _         I.li                                                                      _
slatistlesercgsiy La=                                                      mis red        _____                       ikread                      ___ _total
land LQ  u.                                    cultivated                                                                      ________________a_
requiitigned   mi)                -  .            223                                                               ____                        223
cOnstiuct ion  i¶l~~~~~~~~~~~~F ~cultivated land                                                            oUrn                                               tauta
cuuitna~~~~~i~~m    mu) ~~~79                                                      3-.2
_______                                 ~~~~~~~~buzlIdinesobg
buildlim          It"m                                            ___         _____oecpi                                                                  Public racilitics             tots         JImmim
dli    ag~imUA"I                utt-      jC.Ollectivo                                    Frivatebe
I I q~      17shp.                                       aJuu               ueriul UsT
reob-     qwmtitvt.im.l            3       ___           I3___
momdw e      Laqj.   a)      3_                 _  _ _  _                                  T     IZI1 7                                            _ __                                                _  _  _
tljpjies~vys   only luxsm  to be arrectod                     2                          14                        rxdIrrO. iristiT                                                19     _____
affeirtsid  the hNunn                                             ____f_x_cultivted_lard     ___        48               of____ _   peole lwuhw   fn    d b     lnio (pixuo                       136
outsIdle ot* the     losing other ewloygmnt bails         _________                            16                  a
rfRhit-or-way        sutitl                                        l                         50                                       total  (veron)52
_ _ _ _ _        ~~~~total              _ _   _               0                         522_                              _   _   _   _   _    _    _   _
jim  ____________                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~population
not nooding mmca.LtlIng by buildln irmtdns hdimwil.I                                                                               --           __                 .-
rew.1.1.rsnt.                  cantinuin  toli aweate  in agicunlture                                                                                   39
or labor irwm                   stayim  you-Ki  In aim*pri-w                                                                   ____                     1   ____
to ha uaupus' In both im~stry and awlculLtr                                                                            MI__   _   )    _
but Idlns
Ibm                      arclt,lIland to be                                                                           temora         non- wicuItawal
private         4.9    I      __     0.7          19.2      __         -7.6                                               _____            -I3
colsutatla    ___4__                                  12                                              .         1708             39.3      I______ I-
4.9  -~~~~    0.7 ~7.0             -         -                  _     cantluoy                                i6 
eiswl*s lime  utimn irwboW. Is Include  In thn land rmqisition reas and villI paid to indIvicdals from that fees.



4          ,ft' 11  l                                      I I       ,    ill Im11j   p  is '1l  Al:
Shiltoiu Towi. Nan'i iCwmty. Ulatou City                                                                                                                                         Table 7-10
tonship inio                         Lotal   s (qu.  )          _        ars of cultivated lud   (ms)      avorue  s of cultivated lid per cwPita    (Ml
statisti is                              -                                  115.W1)                              41175                ____
nwicultual populatin               .         other                                         total
birw_ PnPulatin(Po                                                         72990                                 2ti37 9a77
annnw l sa    incom                     awicullul irncc                     non-ricultaral inci                                   total
___________l            per capita _yn)                                   ?         _24                                                                    Wi            _     __
lamth                    ~~~~min read                          lif&  roaid                                    tOtal
stat.ist.ics
tatist                      .iM W! ffy                                     9.725                              lil   oi9.725                                                     _      _
1a"1 r9 ultivated larxl                                                             othrs _total
0tl.                                      it. _. ________.__
ntinn                                     .      __~~~~~h                      _ __ _ ___                              __ ______  
tcvt7cy lUKi                  ~~~~~~cultivated land                      o thers        -total
. ._   _.  _____   azen   tul        _        ._       7dlr =___16____.____                                                                         otl=_      _-
_                   _  _                                   in~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~bildir,lD                                                     others_        _
buildin          Il civil buildir                                                     enttdes c41                     ___-           pu.blic riacities irn
~~   ~ j~~jtzrul ~~state-owinod                     collactivo  .Private                         -                      
und       _______                  i         Iivetlu   &r-         i shops  others                 Others              L      ie      sholi   hImPi- others b-eloing  lw   -
rela-    quantitylNos.)        571                8                                                          2              =    -I  __                   _                          13
.rm...... .a                           212                                                         l   _                    _______.           .  __ _.
_Item        a tberor railies                             population                       in.        from    uricultw_  614
only h-iims to b affected               25      _0S                                                       _r__                       _          19       _-__
t W 1t-orwy           both huo and land affected               32                                        n-                     fria both                            394
to be         _      __   subtotai                                  57                      378                  __       _           uitolal                             1027
arrectd  th bowos           losins cultivated land                  207                                    or     Ple  bing n rixd imw   (pwum)   -_
outaldi or the    losing othe eulowr,t basis               2                        II I
ridt-or-way       utotal                                  299                      1239                               total  (plranil                             1617
._ _ _ ___         total                                 266               1__ 1i7              __  _            ______ _                             _.
..______    __    ittm               __ .___.u __        __    _                                  p lation   _____
nt needing restttlIf by buildirng dewrll ahant               __                    _______                         i_                   __     ____
rual.tlarnI                acmtinufg l to b  rewud In wrrcultUre                                .3
or iser r1rri               StIaying tolM in ateWiSs                                                                                   19       ____
tn ho rupswd in both inlitry and airiultum        _                                                      27_
abanduinlg  rwicultu  for in=ustry                                                                       Z3_  z
...... . . ..._iuli4...........  ..   .._....__. _.  .......   _ ... ..___.__._.
nun-mviczltuaul
Item                                                                        Crops________    ud tioubeenlrandes                  othwrs                 toa
.Oist    § li zns  | g=-| ig=oc   |ractarios  shops  sool hospital others ws      xtisitiwod      tnonwic|
fKKNN  twe-  [Jvqstock                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oocupst.ion
private      139.2               3.2        16.1    ___              ___35.9  __________ 39.5                                                                  229.9
cul latave                   ____ _____10137.4                                                                 29.7                                            ;37I
(10,01),;-                  -         -l 3Z___            -       -g   ____        -      -    __35.9           -_         -- _____         - -    -----.         ---
iua) subtotal      136..       2         2       .11       _______35.9                                807.4          29:7      ____ _            39.5   _            14157.0
32.8                                   contioarc     1                    77.9                            ,    .
Romres: IS_duatlon ror toobs Is included In the land requiastion few and will paid to individaslI from tht r.evs



K-wvlomg l'ar. Nim'nin LWamLv, Ilwnilax ity;L                                                                                                                                             Tabl 7-1i
total ami    6qu. kul               wo   of cultivated laid             001 ava m r or cultivated laid per capita    (a.
utaL-tistla                                                                                                                                                                                    --.Z1Miif1.1
berom                ~~~plp atE Ia    Piswicuitwal Ppqulation                                                  other                                           oa
ad   awgr  m iw                        arlc-ultural 1mm                     nwlcultwal                                ____________
per rApita (sonn                                  711                                     500_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
*   length                                win road                               link  road                                        total
atat.i.tlon                              wi                                                                                                             _  __  _ _ _  _
aftor                  __    __   __2.53                                                                 __    __    _   __    __2834
l&ow fahp;  (i                              cultivated land                  -oth                             --                        total             --- -
conntruaction-                                      _    __                _    _    _    _    _   -                                _ _       -   _    _   _    _   _   _    _   _    _   _
t"  ~~~~~~~clivated land                                                     athrm                                           total                 ____
____________________               ~~~~24                                                                                 26 _ _ _ __ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
clvii bulIdl,ia      ___________           cntbuildrwtatoe
won  (mi . ml             76                                                                                                                                                             13
Item                  na~~~~~~~dar    o thaulem    populathon                                     rio.he   a-m clte                        1 -
Puand                          a    iint  eafcedI);p- fxd~.                                                                                 ro  lm 3tr                 toM.I
an  ri        y        both bmmairnm   land afrected                                                         Ca__  _ _ __ _ _~un      frrs both                                Is
tobab                        sub__   mtotal                             10                       58__ _ __ mtotal                                                                  290
affuctacd  then howi.         clemm  culLlvated land                    52               -~or                           meope luvira no fixed imw  (poiso)                           85
Outslide or the     losins othwr cwloviumt blusi                                                       MYn                                                     -              -
right.-or-wy       u*t.otal                                   52                       31b                                  tota I (Smu.                                  375
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ~~total                               62                       3 6_                           _   _       _   _   _   _   _                  _   _
Item                                                                  ______populatIon______
not. neodiws rewettlii hrinb bul ldins drAu,likmrnt                                                            45         ____              _____
n'netLlou.nt                 continuing to bho ewwmip In nasricultiro                                                                       1h  ___
oWr labor lorca              MauRveiorkidrx In .mt.rwinm                                                                                     I
Lo boe voutwd In bxnth Irw&in"r and   rI,lw
aiun*mliw agricultum for inhiatu                                                                               57
buildings
item                   inlcatia                                                              ln  to bo        cmy          nnw-cli
hulImlveuml                                                  Cri~j id   dn   lIe    ops  lanod                       others                subitotal
private       48.8                                                                        12.5                                                   2.0 ______3_              3
collective           .2F03                                                                                            .          _____    M*5
~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~111.3                                                                                                                                   10IO3
(10,1Kl10    ta        48.8                                             10.3      ______ 1.                 ~                 .                    71210                  3-  .I
~~~js,of~~~~~~~~ ~11.0                                                       continsc                            25.7
Rewwrm: lomuxiutlon tor tnua Ia Inclu&d In the land requsitfon  erow ad willI paid to Indivliduals ti. tOat tee.



ii. owisii p Aveori Wwwwmnzioaai vm.xprommwy 'ro.et
Habitm To'm. Tcwt'mn tOuLy. Xtiteif liti                                      ____                    _______                                                                        Table 7-12
ftosal arms    Ui. kmn)            aro  or cuiLivuatd land  ia)        avar=  mm oruaiivatedod  mpuw capita       CMi
berwe      populatirm (PM=)                        aul~wcuitwal voulatlon                         other                                          taotaI
bororo   population (~~~~~~~~~~rnuin) ~~297(                                        -            7442Z198-
annual averreIncbom                      asriruitural Income                  non-awlcultural hnca.                                  totalI
par mp Ila (stin)                                1(1)0                                 482                                            1482
statlatles              th                              m~~~~~~~~uin raid                      l ink  road                                     total 
artw          I M IN-                         -               7.031                                  o        -                                    7.03
liwwoay Igad                               cultivated land                            others                                         total
M.=OOt~1~?.Iarc                 - -110                               3-                                                               113-
bui ldinw                                                                             Ur
bul lpain                                buldnimntrrietepu-                                                             .                    blir. frilitim ab                          lotw.'
ilwa I Ig  If  f- 11 Im"    mstote-aunc              coll :Intvn                private.b
g=Cm    llw*tQck    r-    dom    oth rs  r-   shop  other          shope  othes       schoo    hamwi- others  Ien5gu
rnIo-1   qrntityWos.)           ID                 I____
ars   wt. ml      1434                51                                                                                                                   -     - 
lteu1                         numlr or rasilIlis           ropulaticut                    Irlrom wlcuiltwo                     -6
triin-  1haauo t h arocedpa    fixed ircutwo                                                                                           -- --9
im raL-r  wa           both huom  nd land atTnuiu'              2                                         ice_Iip-    ~            rsboth                                 ISO
(hiNt    ___         iwb~~"ttoli___  ID 0                                                               on            _____  ZibtLb                            
arrmr.tud fho hot.           lesIo  cultivatod land                  114                      578                    paiphvn    fie  inon          p-sm             - --
outside or th      Ionim othe ewloymnt bauls                                                        ra.   
Hright-va-y        sitotal                                  114                     578                                  total  (parson                               529
______    ~~total                         --       124                      62                                      _ _                               -.a..-
not.nainrmtigb building dkwlshwmnt                                                      _ __27 -                             --              
re.'Lt Ingot.       c~~tontinuing to ho cenegd in awric-ubturo                                                                   PI
oF' alabr romn'             staving working In mwtrpiqmn_____                                           ____                              17                            .       ~       .--   
to be mwwd in both indirntry and_agriculturo                                                               91                     .
atanvutinm Sriculturo ror lnehIu___                                                       __                104
uam  ~ ~ I~jI;w~I  hal ldirw    school hospital others __                       Lc~~twarary    non-awicultural
private       21.5               0.8                                                   21.3                                                                         4356
..icv                       __        -                           _      ......J479.                        41J.'4.  -.  .
itmal uaittotal  21.5  __    ~0.8                                                   21_ 2 .3   470.3          4U'.4                      1
rn OL.                        ~~~~~~~~~17.4                                                                  3A
Eonraa  w     ntlm  for tad. Is inciuded in the land requisition foe and vi II paid to Individuials fr-ee that ree.



At. Tav,lup l,oyal For Ikam,ie.*r ImrIC lqr r  1 a ! I IUI
lbxlarim Town. TopesnlnwiLy. Xisu.m. City7                                                                                                                                            T*blo 7-13
.. _. _ ........... .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. . _... ..__...,. .                                                                                                          . ...............hbzTt.rrr  t,xnsIi1_Tbo71
total nrm    L(n. hm)              ann cV cultivated land  (mu         avsc      wrm or cultivated lami par cmita    tMl
teiiiahip lan                    .-6.00423                                                                                           04
atatlatlcu                    -                      -       -_                                                                                        _ _  __ _  _ _  _ _
bierm                        population (_)                           ricultural population                         others                                         total
ONPrOFM_                               _                                     GM__ ____  53                          11037                                _        7000 
eaYstruetion                 anna avers_   incom                       aricultiral Incme                   non-aricultwal Inrm-                                    total            __
____________________ pwr copita Isuanl                      __s___o -_                             _                                                                1340
z            t  ath                            in rwd                                link  road                                      total
starL4trcel                  1 =¢s hr1P                                      5.744                                                                                5 S.744
land to be                                 cultivated land                            othos                                          total
apr.mu1                     rwquls   t,oned  1S1                                  -2                                                     ___________________________________125
co nstruction-                   -     -    -_                     _   _    _   _   _   _    _   _                                           _   _    _    _    _   _    __          _    _  -  -
Cultivated lard                             thau                                          total
_         __         rtio                                                                       ___-__.___                         ____           __        60_
.   _ _________      _                                   bull dlnws          ________________    ______b  d___                                 other
buildira        Item                d vii ilbIdings               soterprias                                                                Pu_blic rwilities           tabs             home
~~hi~llltw  imitura             stte-owned                collective                  private
vesi ieptkl                   es             shatp    others          s        thops   o E i- o             tlv  b      ,blew
______,u,ea_W. al      8       =S __          _  .__                          11=111 =Z =     =        =       =.==9_5=    _                                                      _ SS
_ _ _             i          ______  _  nushOr or ruwaml     .  _            populationnpol   rn                          ro.in-icuitai                          24i2_ _
n- -                           olai                      people having      -r   rclr                              4             -
Ihe  mawy                only hios to bo arrt:lid                 8                        42                                       Fr.m lniAtAS                             46
. tgion la-  rIwIl-ur-wa    aboth Wm  and land aTrecLod II  _         _               _-   rixod inc oea-
POPUrI  Va,.uifl  in..          _____________________                              L~~~~~                      ~~~~~~~~~t a  frra  both             494
tobe _b_e                                                             is     ---_                0totoj _ _ _. __  - It)  Or  t             total                               782
affrected   he km"           losing cultivawted lad                   193        _   _         939    ,t     e_ or-          having no Fivd Income (parson)                _   E_
outaido or tip-    losing othr ewloymot balis                    __                   _  .             Yon
rWit-or-wy         Smtjal                                   193                      939                                  total (I  ani                               1
total                                 211                       104.                                                                   . ._ .
_  Ito.                  .      ..                                              population
not neding rmti i y b        _uidin dmilihwt                                                                 31                   ___*-
resottlemwit                 antinui to bo cem  .u In agriculture                            ___ _186_________._._                  ._
of labor (crm                 taylm jwkimr in  terprims        .___         _        -_._        4*
to ha mraued In both lnitr and agriculture              ___                                                 139
aanming auriculture -or Iuimtry                        ______._                                            310                    ___   ___ 
builIdiwa                      . --ne-rai.u
Item                                                                                        land to        ln _A  t e                     ethonons wia,ltut
privatn       411.3          |   2.l 1-                         - |                     22.3 _   _____Z   _     |         |        -     _ 1.4            -           13..
collective                    1                                                                    U.1            ZIA_____                                          2.
ran )~  subtotal       401.3         j    2.1                                                   22.3       60.              16      ______                              -
ei:L-I                                        17.8                                     contima       |                     34.9                              .
Resit Cltelmtion  ror toes Is includad in the land reulsition fa  aNd will paid to Individuls frm that fees.



i i  a. a. cn  rue or am   s     . on lid ROWEL l.mmL
*                              At 'roai p In cl For C)jmo bXiwir  I-mp my Prject
lion Tmin. ra'an wnity, Xiam ni itr                                                                                                                                              Table 7-14
* total area   (sw. ki)                                                  ars or cultivated laId  Cmi)      awe am or cultivated land p  capita    (m)
___t_c__ l                                     62.0l0                               27916                                        _.77_
bofcr                     population (                   -       aslcultral population            _______total
exnfio_y                                                                   35____ _444                           499 _  __  _   _                            35943
eipw t a              ..-                         - -      - .                                     _  s_ _ __  _ _ _ _ __ _ _ ___.   ._  __  _ __ _
cotrurtinn                                                             icultaumr avE   in   wrl al income  non-wicultwal inc                                 Ltobl
coestruetion             spLa(no)                                    aomua
__ __ _ _   per apila Cyimni                                           500                                        31U 100
statistics                 jl5         ¢th                               in rind                             I Ink rnod '                                   total
arter                                                                                                      __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _3.51
law                           ~~~~~~cultivated lad____                    Uu_________                                  oa
exprio_mu                                                                                                       othws                                        totaI
eonstrutio291.3                                                                                                  19.3                                         30
tewrr lpnd                                cultivated land                           othI                                         total
217                                                                       _       217
l _uIdinl                                                                         others
civil buildings                                       enterprises        _        _______.
building        Ito.                                                                                                                   pubic facilities           thm am
~~       a~~¶rljtural          state aime                c lletie                  Private
. and                                        I ivs| t     orIes _.~I     otlhr                    othwrs  Sri m     o-s   ots                       oti    beonin                 b_
rl  qmtnity"&.)3
am   ("W.               w                     178                 __.
Item                         nuatr or families           poulation                                   fn  am'iculttre                        96
only hmm to he arrected                                         ~~~prople loving   -r   wciue9
W                                                                                                    r~ol  a.e  ob  fece  _________    ixod Inom  from nIMMEry  9
......a                 _ _ ___._ ._ __ __ __ __ e _...._ _ _
Nu rTg*>r.       cboth hoeand land afre-tedI - fi   bt1
to ie  _____   bmAtotal                                  _                                                  on  (Pso)                ________                            24        _
affectedI the hins          las culivaing   ited land              7n                      370                    P     hi_baving nrix_ ig_ _p__ 13il
outside of the     losing other edoyment biss                            _.                   _ -                                                 1
right-of ray      sutotal                                  72                     371                                total (parin)                              371
total                                 72                     370                                                             1
item             1..._                                                       poulation
nrt noWding resoeUling by building domolialmnt                 __                                          _       ___ --_.                    _ _          -
reetLlmnt                  continuing to bh enrsed in aicultur_n                                                                    79
or ilaw Inm       n        stayIn  workin In enterprises           ____._                                                             U ________   ____                         ___
to ba   i     In both lndm$try and agriculture                   -                                       85
.:____  _aboninn  aFricultwre or Industry                      - -          -       .      - .7 _                            _  _      _
buildinws                  _      _                                            n-rlr
,tm                   aicultural                          . r                           land to la,    b IP         nhonriculL          o                 s
I .         _       _      .      i      h _sn| a:hool hospital othrs          requisit.iennd              entepris_s
private~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ocpto
prIvate      .__ |_2.7                                                      _        10.6 L                                             _:1_  _                13.3
cal- bcoileetlve  ---______________ ---|-----|37.9                                                            78.1                 _   |_        _    _       316.11
*           ~~~~(10.01)0
yuan) s|total                          2.7    |              -       -                     10.6      237.9         78.1        _               -      t -.3 .
10.0                               . I6.9                                                       1                                    1;
Remiks: UCnemtion for tombs Is included In the land requisitIon fres ad wiIl Paid to Individcalas 1ro  that ree.



*          ¢                                 A StaListiChl Tablo For land Rqwisition and Resottlommt
At ToImslip level For (hazo-XIam  LNwas   Project
Xlke mTn. Tnr'an Coumty. Xlaan City                      *                                                                                                                         Table 7-15
vnshp land               ____total area              i(u. k)             wans of cultivated laid  (xi        a1wo   of cultivated lad pr caita            (NJ
Statistics                                                                   833am                                                                               .1
St*tl.A   'oulation 'p     l .                  wicultwal population                           ot_eti                                        total
ber                           _ p_pulation Ipe_nn43402                                                *            721                                          U123
exnutrucion                 annual aver   Ineom                      aiiultwal _ncm_                      non-uricultual income                                 total
_____________________  pr capita EsmnI                   8-0                                                       153                                          1l03
statltlamexP alawIth                         min road .                            lInk  road                                      total
afterl.si                    t     pT t~ IRS)                               3.52 _                                           . _   _                           3.52
oiqre.qwy    ~      ~       la?tlnF d t)                -          cultivatcd lad                            atlus                                         total
ex          '               resuisl tl_n__  (ul                             34_.7                                  21.3                                            0     _         __ _  .
teqmr y    d                              cultivated lard                            others                                        total
__O_______or_(a                                 181                     ______   ._ _            _                                  1_1
._________________                                     buildings                                                                     o_     hes ._        _.
buli il       Ila                 civil bulldi!ng              stste______nterprism                                                      pblic racilties            tiS             iml
agi iwa                      ntate-evc                 collective                private                                                            a
I _ __                      at                                   - i    1do|ss        oti s       shwa
and                                             I_                                 fac             1 .   toicenn                                                 toaIf 1g a_l
rle       wmLty0u.)l           8                                                     1                                     ___.__ 3I                                      _  _I
aWes (_ _. .    92 _2                                                      5 __. ..           _   -__
___________ t Iiteln m                              m_____  __  nuber of familIes  pGOUlatIon                               flem in-ilt _p_                        155
.mlyh      stobe arrsld                  3               -       19                     people otimr       rimt ary                              to
eainl.-  vilintr                                                                                                     fixed incm
Lion  rs,mt-ou-aY       bnth hesa and lwa arrfeted               5                        31            trion    (pe,              from both                              9
to  lot   __   __    __      a  tota I                               8                        50                        __    __    _  Adtotal                  _     __     523
affected  the I ur.           lsa cultivake  lan                     118                     0                           e having no fi  iucm        ..) _w.                         _____._
outlsfin of tUr    lunsr oUter euslowunt. bwls                                                    i!Yn
rightlofvay        subtotal                                Ila                  .    9                                  total  (s   )                              679
..__ ...  tolA                                  126                     5719                      _ __ .__                                                    __
_________________    .tem                         ________                                        po  ulation
not. ntain. remettIlng by bualldinx dli ish=nt                                                             15
rnttleannt        -  .      continuing to be enuatd in waicuture                                                                       2D4
or labor rco                staying vorking I   tenises                                                        ___                      10a
to b e w4wd in both imistry and avicudture                                                                1 ____-_  152 .    _ _ .    . _
_ _ .__._.       .... _  ahunasming agriculturn rf  ln,si...                                                  __ _          14Z                  _____
1-             fnctorbuiliansao a   dzlioqt
Ita:                              -                                               a       larn to be     teqrar       non-sr t               1
sa    IIveatock                                                                 eccwtlon
_. _            . iI-k  ____.  ti_                                 _  . _           ___   _____   ___                                       .                                       -.
private       14.7             _               -.                                     12.5                            .                        t       _           Z.z
col lective                                  8.8              _|                                   1 -  _  281.9  f1.2      -|--
cO       statq-t                  ,                                                   
(El.000-                       I- -!--- -  --  - -  - 6. 2 =----- -
mn  utetal           14.7                         48                                         12.5 2'1.9                6.2                                                 I   i 
__     _     _________*________________________|____ __                                     _   _   _  _   __    _  _   _   __                                       -.__ .1__    
emrks: LUoweatlon for tds ia inelslW  In thE JIand requisition fets and will paid to individjals from tEt fees.



A A Statisticl Table For land Ilcquiriticn wd RtttlcmL                                            -
At TOnship laVel For (nOu-XaIn          sy ProJoet
Xtqmio Toem. Tem'an Cunts. Xim   city                   *_-                                                                                                                       Table 7-16
toemeleip  .~                          tobtl arma   (squ. a)             urea of cultivated lwd   (31)       uverarea r cmltivated lmd por capita    (m
-AowuLP land                                   63.500                               3516S.2                                       0.831
statistics_                                                 .     .                       
population person                       ri4lctuwa  population                        others                                       total
i___nrn  _________l nl   _             41162                                  t51                                          41913
t ticn                      auwval averam irna                        aewcultwal Inucom                  non-agrioultl inme _   _____              __           otal.             _.
._ . __ru __._t_.___      per capit  (Yuan       __99_                                                          159                                          10..
mtatiat.m                           -y ewib                               min read                              I Ink read                                     total
stafttst r                             t)                                   5.U6 m                                                                             5.846
afterw                      rewitt7o°nesi IIUn                         cultivated ld_                               tws        _                               total
tXIiactf                  I_____ ______ _____603__3                                                             153.6                                        756.9
ocrwtructlon  _   .                       a culivated land                           others                                       total
_ _ _   ______________                           ~~~~~~ ~~~~~99.5        __    _   _   _   _   _   _   _    _   _   _   _   _   _   99.5                  _   _
bu.ldim_                                                                           othes
bulidlort       Item               civil bulIdin         |                                entelme |Ilic facilities                                                   tob r e_
~~  agj¶~~jtAral ~~state-owned                      col lective                Private
arid   . __ _                   j                ~FU~Iote   [jj                                      ewm  oar| others  _    t         9- there  ac  -____
item_                             or        Ia aieaS      PeWatirn                                     rr     ricultwe                      464
threa  (aqua. .3    5c4nly _hosst_ea_ _                                                          I         pe r    vin __rr_ ind_s                   __
t unla-  rvt o5%    I       both  ou  and ld arfetod          .      9                        38             Ice                      rrim both                              94
to boe.    subtotal                                                  27 t3_7                                 i on ___ __   puteotle               __                   __
afrected tho heeng.         l-im cultivated land                    136           _6                               people uiins no rixed Ints! pse)                         225
autbdn or thn      losang cther eploymtn  heels        _                ,       _                .
rit-ht-ov          s zbtotl I                              138                     US _                                total  (Forson)                            SI5
total                                 163                     UtS                                     __
____ _-    Item                                                                          papulation
not neindl,E recIlttlI  by buiildinwi ditu,ldm mL         ___.                                            71
re.wUnUlam,                 ceatfrultiw to be htarewd In arficulture                       _       .3_1___  __19_.   ___    9  __ ..                      _          __
or labor reeve              stayviw vekiwm  in entlrrilsen              __                         _                                   22
to be  we_ d In both Industry and aeRicultue               _____                                           43                 _
ab lm aeri, wl,ulLure fir inatry                                                                           95
___________ bulldinme                                                           twnu         ri-lctzl
item  a~~I?jI~~6  tartorirs ~Jw;  neuieml hanpltal otJr        requIsimparary    iot No pueral
itm                                                                  land to 6!~~~~~~~~crw  lndahes                                     atoa
-   1-f  4   tg   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ftols i - -Elxi ho--Ita oter  |  n  s                                                            |                        t
private      85.3                4.3                                                  25                                                                        11_  _   25.8  _I ______  ______  _  335.4
collective  _    _             _                                    _|D.S|                       m579.7   ||.8                               -                  8_5._
Yun      ttl        85.                 .3                                                  25.8 5s.7                 35.8                                            7u .   .
costs                                        22.6                                    cetlgecy                           481.
Remrks: Cituticn for toas Is Includid In the land rewisition rees and wvI paid to individbals frm that fees.



9~~~~                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,    I n  ! ~,i JI -:Ijin. I.:;  I' II  41  !. . I                -    
w   S                             C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t ~.i it 1  forl  I b '.j iU  I o   II - 1lNI 1. pI !M i I  INIl 1.1, 
Iblmi Tos. Jinol Dtstrlatl. Xfaan City                       _______Table 7-17
total uena~      . km bl           area of cultivated land   (.u      avran  Wm of cultivateod   i pIr eita    (M)
dtatistit c                 Fspulation IP"sonl                     avicultanal population                         ether                                         total
beforeo                     population (Perni gm)3715                                                              4885                                        3SE
cuil.ructln                 wwanul averase Incno                     walcultturl Incn                    non-aicultfral incofm                                  total
contrwil_ on                per eapIta tman)                                 50                                    37U                                           96D
fateIrLcm                                  th              omln road                                           lIlk  roed                                       total
afra,r                      "M         1S ,            -                    5.24?                  .__________-                                                5.247        ___
lawd t                        *.          cultivated lan                            others        _                               total
exn tI am                   rMOa                                            75u8.                                   21.0                                        779.5               _   _
constr Srt.nn                _
teUO rInd                                 cultivtd land                              othes                                         total
__ _; __                                                 *  n (t18IU.59                          42.61                ________________      _    2i1.2  _ _ ____8 5
_lvii bulldli~s  _______________ntaibulinss_                             o_____
biul dinr       I ta               civi l ilul ldins   _                                   nterprise         _611 bl i fIc litie                                     tob                m
billdins         ItU              -o ai  i                       state-owned               ol lective               Private               puii ii. laLaes             ts prvt
__._._    _    _____ i          llve =       faaei  |dsn    others                                    shws   btj          h      |                 eoiiw   |rm
refMj.   qimntity    ) I       17    _ _             _ 23                                                             II |_ i    __=_=J             =      t     _     L     =   ___ Mib
area  ( MMMqM. .          196                                                                                                                                  35E __ --      -
_____________    Itee    _________                  nadms, of fu IIs            PoIulation                                  free oaricultue                        440
pooplo havl,ns      ~                        -
t   _ q           only hso to be afrected                  7                        37                                       from inristry                          39
Ima-   rithI Mjn.            1--48                                                                            w-  fixed Income       ff-s-bot
pan   _r lan-o-ay         both iandla  f                           10        --             48rjtexF   (pedm                          O5 both                __
to bo    _1___   sind t                 _ _           =7                                      85                   ____               sibtotaIl                              585
arffeate  thI  wmws         losirR cultvatedla lad                  114                                     orZ       poople havini no fixed inmew  (Pewm)                   213
out.aiii or the   leimi other ewlowynt w is                 11                      51_               n
ri,h't-or-awy     aijitotal                                125                     713                                 total  (putawl                              798
___i_   --               ola                       _    I4i2               _    798   _                                ___ ____ __t___2____-.
itm                                                                        - -.p   o_.lation_____ ____ _
nlo needing resettling by buildiro &=Illishrot                       -__ __                                27          -_-__                      _-
.restl.lnts.                cnntinuins to ba snnged in agriculture
or labor rfom               staingm wrkins in enterprIses                                                                              39   _ _   ____
to bo onagod in both InrAetry and agriculturo                                                              79 P3_
aa6int; agrlculturo ror lIrAatry-                               ._      _     _                        1134-_
_  _ ____hlbuIldinrs
iles                                  faetrio aagbapnirc |  scol hihospital  then        roquisitlaio      ctt_prioam
raim         ~~lJvQOtnck                                                                   ocw'atlo
private      23.5       -        2.7    |_          | 8.7  |£.6                                                                                                  11____._  _   _  _  _  li7.5
col iotive                    ____L1l_                                                          597.0           738   .  
-         1on       n _ _                 _     _     _    _l         _      _                  5.6--1 --t-
(l0")  subtotall   2- .       1   2.7    1___          8.7-                                      597.0           72         L    .41.-
I rmp o  2Z.5                          rontif                               I                                                          ]iZ5
ioaurks: ompa  twl   fror tod, Is includd In the land reuisitlon fees and will paid to individaIs from that fes ..;



.:.~~~ ~      ~~~ r,/!.! .4                 l. . tY IYI 
At    I  i  1Iil n oI '   url:Io  IL 1iiii  PU'I lt, k:.
Ihtmnkou Ton, Jiltol Dlstrictl. Xialn CiLy                                                                                                                                         Table 7-1 
toeahip lwd                            total area    (m. km)              Wm of cultivated land   ui)        avto wre of cztiatad lid tt capita    (m_)
statistics                                                                  70.MD                                 36811                    _.1.0____
il6fitCt pqetloulation  IraIcuitl  spoplation                                                                     othes                                         total
_ _ _    _  _  _     _  _1565                                                          m
cuItrtut.ln                  nwul  avera  Inom_                      aricultuiraI l Iacoaso              un-aricultral intm                                    tota4 
___________              parw eapita (Yuan)                                 894                                   401                                           12=
.thLiatlrn                  t a    I~th                   _main ra  _                                       link rtl                                       total
sbtisU   slXtt mJ                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~                                                       ~ ~~1.3   .~_ ._     _ ___
_.                  ~~~~~~~lmd LO *                             ttlit!tivaa  Iland                         tthes14m
_____(__ _    .    .4     _ _ _      _ _   _     ,___ _ _ _  M___ _      .   _     _                 _.
_ultivated lawl                           Oth        _.s                                total
civil                                                buildiwa, t__t __
bu lldniq       Item                                                                                                                     pubil  rc. _._._ts ,__  cnombsisea  _li
istl ldin   It  l IiIltAwn l        state-omn                col lective                private                                                           _
uad      _-_        .                  to_     I otqk             shops               men |  IPS   others           shops  Others       _ -Jh¶i- ioit            bel_ing   cm--
re  qtmntitOwm.)                                                fr _--                                                     ----  -  I-,E -
a _irn    itco2                            n -  m   of families pcpulation                      people          rvigiculre                              28
tbe how.          only oNem to beo afrectoed     _eoplo_havin_                                                                r.. indutry                           2
ton I ua  Wn        y       both how  and land arfectod                             _lui -nca.                                         frboth                                 so __
to   bo         __    __     a attaxi                                                                       or__ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ m otal                    ISO
.__    ._ar_.____or
affected  thno ,om           losing cultivated land                  61      p._3                                         hapeopl   vin gn rixed ir  (wrsan)                  67
nuabfin or tue     lusiri o r floWn bou          _      _               _ __         _     _._ Ia t
righl.-r-y         su"total                       _                   _ l            3                                  total  sn.11              Zi3
total                                 61                      253
I____                                                                         population      _________
not needins rn?ttlini by buildins damollsihut          __________                                         ______
resattleunt                 conLinuing tn be engaed In aricultwro                     ____-     --- __    . _                          102         _                     _         __
of labor lo        n       n s4iyrvring In enterprisem                                                                                   2_-________
to be eme in both inuatry and  xrlcultare         _Z
alnuinrig ao cultun for inlatry           _            _-                                  -                       _ S)                                    _
_______. =_   huiIdinsar  __ ___                    ___ _.                                 r.-_icul
Item                  a      tg u raolr                                                   land to betal
hsilinK  lrom     racole   sho     nduool houvlal ollym               rrqulaalLioncd              entorprmu
private           -     -                           I      I       I                   _.    .                                                                   9 _  .9
_ collective  _  -           I                                                                   221.6      ____ -I=-
saTIn~   antantq-   -   _               ___        r                          -§
(r0.Um0) "total  -___                  __|_ .__.                                                          2216                     -    -- -                                I '5
elpp 0f  7.1                           c0ntiu rny                          11.8                                                        J
Ra.ms2: CUtolnmaon for        Is i8 nelud  in the laIn s iition rem anwd will paid to individuals rr. that feQ.



I  .i~ i~, i,       * Or lard I1e"laitil udl mttleme t                                      a 
<.                                           A ft X  ,..1 I las 1 tLel For Osin -Xian Eares   Project
Xinulin Town. lineUn Oistrict, XIln City                                                                                                                                           Table___1_
tohp land                             total Wue    (M. kl                 wr  of cultivated lad   (a)        averme w.  of cIutivted IJi per cpita       (11a
sbtatlat54.000                                                                                                                       .                         0.516
btfurt                             at miwltami povulation                                                         others       =                               total
berore lmul________                                                         35197                                  3014                                        38211
annml avee  n I                         asricultral   wnwo                  rnonasultwal ln                                        tobl
.______________________   per emits   (uan)                           612.4                                 911.6                                          1531
statistics                                   th      .min road                                                  link rld                                       total
arter                                                                                                __ __ ___3__ __4_ __1_                                    3.461
.   ldisStewed   cwoultivated lard                                                  othes                                         total
requOi&Wdct                                          a 547.2                                                                      S47.2
tuPera¶Y= pEd                             cultivated lad                    _         t_e         __total
ea(ruYY                                  93 g.0                                                                             Sb
bul Idinao
holidlaw                 ~~~~~~civil huilldliw                                                                                  palltallti                  t               hm
bioulding       Itee                                                 |1dns  st atr-ovned  collertive                private                       tis                                  m
ad                        X:;                                       LL ___  iorles i     others  shape |ots  sdol 1i-i0ters bteal_ing|
red    qmt/luam oso.         27                                                                    _I I3E T                                                     ,
Itell                        nuAr of    lilz              Plw___twin                                   fra aricwlt                          377
, -rule  only  iAes to     ffet e                                    IS                      8so                    find                            P_ln  r__ _ _t_ 2             5 0
Vpl                    both hause ad low arfecedw               12                       70                    thu                f ram both              2_________0             __
to bo                       subtotal                                 27                      156            ath                     lad  8bpo
arffcted  the hot.          losing cultivated lad                   I56                      ON                    poople h__              _ no fTind in___e _____          223
outalda of the     losing other elont bads is                                 ____          _.
rIiht-of-uy        edAtotal                                158                     906                                 total   a )                                 1062
total                                 185                     1062
it"                                                                           poplation
not neeIng remtti Ins by buiIding dmolihmnt                                                                68
rrnttleent                  contiming to bo euwed In awiculture                                                                        2
or labor frce               stalna  rIng In entrprlses                                                                                 212
to be  esawd In both Indattn and aicultAre                                                                127
abadoning ariculture fr Indatry                                                                           155
-            =                             o~~~~~~~        ~~                   ~~uilIdins_ 
It"                     1ul2ltLral                                                      land to be                   nonlcultaal
ans      nss       factorles |shoe  school h|opital |aothemln rrws       sitid    landenterurise                   Oths                  Xtl
prlvate       49.8               7.5                                                  18.6                              |---- --75_9                                                I__  |
(10.900
mn) atotal           49.8   |           7.5    |__*|                                         18.6      419.2          3        |15_ ___                                            _
ulr- $                                    16.2                                   contlc                             33.8
Remss lCom_ tlon for tank  is Inlu   in th  lad requisition r   ad  ill paid to lndlwldmal from tht fto.



The List of the Administrative Villages along the Route of
the Quanzhou-Xiamen Expressway Section of Fuzhou-Xiamen Highway
(for Land Requisition and Resettlement)
Table 8
I Lichen. DistriCt ocf OuanZhCO1 Oit%o I
I                                                                 -IhII
I njf I      msh C i ev NeAC o                            ti                                 I  *#  A
I  .                  I     _                                                                I
I Oleniiong           I huanirvi rihu >t ngiAng  Xineji  *   hi  aon  Donow I
*I                     I                                                              -  
I nrolne I           I ?luraocuj  i4J1ahu *H@usg      LO u      t                           I
r      I  I                                                                                  I
I%anjanw Citv(of  0.n.%ezu. Cio .e¶' aV naiwueJ CS%I
Maine  of tCwnsfhP                               Name of Villges                            I
I                     I u
No lcli an           I|lec.  Liushe ri          Xt.sno nLindian  Chidimen                    |
n                     I z
Xikoene              I S    ut...X hngou                                                    I
Xiarq                 I SIoCogHBa
I  nama               I tanrcuc   Stou  NUJSOrn  LiC3uo  SutaI      g                        1
!                     II
I ow zho              I *.IlI I  npn0ftheu  .1iRPu  Dawra   !heli I   yaqeono   Guant Ian I
II                                                                                           I
Guaokhu               I Gue-  an She d T man                                                 1
* Neiicena            I Cevue   Ganezhe   Kiafari   Gushan  Tin..  Noushang                  I
I anhed i             1t5hano  I e   N.e a enIchun                                          I
I  _
Name of tow=shIP   I                             Name of vI I I aes 
StUitOU IiSn.anolin  Put   Xchen  L mnf,u  Laoke h
I icOnanong For       I                                                                      I
ITone'an County of Keanmen Cit 
I                                                                                            I
INteme Of tenh IP   i-  Name Of vilIlages*-I
*   I tlicuo               I iiOOf. shailfetig  Xmna   Liantane  Zenecuo' teshan                 I
I                     I 
pliane               I Zencg IIn  Ntongxi  Naiguan  FNacuC
I  .                  I                         
tt-onegtaneg          I Sanzhone  K Iadun  Da I area  Lone Juedone  Lone JueN   Shlxu~an    |
I                     I
*I Xilaneqa                I VaOtOu  Putouz *(P   Kiasheteo    eVgO 
I                     .                            . 
S~ ~        IJim.i District or Xiamen City                                                                I
I                                                                                            I
I Name of tonsh IPs  I                           Nam. of vl lages                            I
.;,#        ~~I                    I                 *            '                                       1    
|IHouxt       I          V arnn. I Dangzha IO Ci gaLa                                -
| Geaakou    -I Sanshe  Tleshan                                                            *1.
I                     *1  I                                                                      :
I Xlnel In District of Xiamuen CitY                                                          I
Nsmeof t h IP   |                         N_m of VilIlages                            I
Xlnol in              E xiting   Jln.un   Olanchanog                                         I
;         ,                                        :~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Monitoring/Evaluation of Land Requisition and Resettlement
for Quanzhou-Xiamen Expressway At Village Level
Table 9
Name of Vi lIge                                   5 a
I Name of TownshiP                                 I                      I
ITotal fund received (Yuan)
I          .                                                              I 
iFund retained for develoPment (Yuan)              1                      |
IBudgetary shortfalls  (Yuan)                      I                      I
ISPecify whether there is addit!orial funds Provided by village ard other   I
I source of funds, if anys state how much for each :                      I
II
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I                                                                         1
I If there is other resettlement subsidy (for individuals) specified in the I
Icontracts, state how much :
I 
II
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I State the deve Iopment P Ian f inanced by' the fund reta ined for- develIopment:
II
II
I                                               
I Compensation for croPs (Yuan)                I                        *
-I..                                             II
ICompensation for structures Per sq. m. (Yuan) I                          I
I                               .                                         I
| Total number of Persons requiring new iobs    I
I                            .    ~      ~      ~      ~     ~~~~~~I  ,  I
INumber of iots given bY various                  p private   I  townshiP  I
I.                                             I             I            I
1 tYpe of enterprises                          I             I            I
IAverage age of Persons                        |   mate    5   female   I
Irequiring new jobs                .                         I !
I &mber of PeoPle Yet to be given jobs:                                   I



Monitoring/Evaluation of Land Requisition and Resettlement
for Quanzhou-Xiamen Expressway AL Township Level
Table 10
I                                            I
IName of rownship                                  I                       I
INumber of wiltages affected                       I                       I
I                            .I                               .I1
ICwoensation received (Yuan)                       I                       I
ICoPensation disbursed (Yuan)                      I                       I
I                                                  I                       I
ICompensation retained (Yuan)                      I                       I
Budgetary shortfalls  (Yuan)                      I                       I
I                                                                          I
ISPecify whether there is additional funds Provided by townshiP and other  |
,source of funds, if anvy state how much for each
I                                                                          I
I                                                                          I
I  ..I
*1                                                                          I
I                                                                          I.
I                                                                          I
I State the development Plan financed by cowPensat ion retained            I 
^        ~~I                                                                         .I
I                                                                          I   -  
I                          ..I.
I                                                                          I
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. I
! S



II* Institutional  'ramwork for Land Requisition and Resettlement IVnagemenLt ol (JuHmrvu-Xiamu, F  roobrww   dUmLrix:Liin
U -tisio)n-kilinx t;SvtH.                          CoxtdinmLing XSY%Lp                        biallmtr!¢"n. ',-.41i'                       'A-irK llsim;N
i Popwle'% Gover_renL ol tuiian Province Iv _ _i_i_n Provincial leading (roup  F-I IFuiinn 'rovintial lIirteai! Urfire I- I  fwinneri u     amd TeimoIiw  Division
|  _-  ;  -   - -  |  * - -                       J   | *.  ... _ ... ...  .                     w   ' ~~13 psm)
I
Uuanzhou I|'1i-.
I Ie's tkivernPnnits.             I      I-[       City 4.euding  -r--s   t         ----1 Iiireit;aL,      *;ILIt U       !Vel I        i:iLwri
I                        Xiamn    Iamu L0 pws                                                                                                                    ro 1add .    -_....g    a;0WSISr
I                       Lichte   District I
I                       .liniiana Cityv    I
I           IHn'an L ou nl.v  I                   r                         ---_--I _
I IJPAeW    liovrnmmenLs al                1- --i CoUnlylI)isLriitl.J l.wlinv T-;XWX I   1  )iJ;r,aItj* -i   l it'-wi      i.
I                             Hlongan  t.nunt.   I  '                               -'    f       CcwunWDti%sri:L lweerl  t        -i L:mu:v lDistrictI  lffices
I                       JDjiEe; I};lmmI District.   I                                                                      I3 IJ5 Pmns for sach)
Xingl in Dist.ric:i. I                                                                                                -----
I People's tiovernants or 18 towns or townships [                                                                                          T --  - ---  -  1Torn and Towshp Offic .e
',12 pr;s  fw ea).   -



rLN IW OF -1AZ0XIAMF*7 srEcaENr 01 -UIJAI10-XlAWfFJ JIlFrW
F QIJAITJ5OU         ..
PLA VILW     gJ u IR
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ADI                                                              W .Af&tS¢   rz
'11
IAuruuu~'t'  4.)~;L:;                 0    1~ .0    A
I urnAA.%                           ~%(d rBi,,, | ^X4AM L4
c                                   X SM                   X     IN                    _
O V -10 1\ R .  .  I                              )4* q   .  (         V lR ' I CA 1.  P R 0 F 1I i-  M AP   ( V i T A     l :  .  C R4  :  l
G4-                              /    \                       o'           \/         \~~~~/ 
*... I            \ X          ,G.,                                                            ,
co xo.j , ' .               . .      ........ -...... ........  ..  . .    . 
O~~~~~
*     IflflflIJ§  Il  31  t  .   i    :3       R    !3  .a,                   x ,   ,8  &             _    _   _    _
.~~~~~~~ ..                                                                                 A
±                                                                .&    -    U    *3 A-ANXWO



-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-.      -~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .....
Ii~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t
~~~~~~~~~aj~~~~~~~~~~~~~v
4+u12ojI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   1~~K
CO)~~~~~~



