A~~~~~ s  e si:nDQ
Rev,,rts-                                ,<  t   F
.Report. E0052
. . Chxina
V   ;> Fu j l ~~an   ro   icial                      4 i "; '  ''"A  J T ' IM,
i gzhway Project
EA Category A
Environmental Impact Statement
4 of 6
September 1992
This report has been prepared by the Borrower or its Consultant
.* -. .   ..; . .. ... ...........



REcEIVEID
X  'toS $  >  .         ~~~93 u rl 17  l
FUJIAN PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJEcr
BNVIRONMENTAL ACTION PLAN FOR
THE QUANZHOU-XIAMEN EXPRESSWAY SECTION
OF FUZHOU-XIAMBN HIGHWAY
FUJIAN PROVTNCIAL EXPRESSWAY CONSTRUCTION DIRECTORATE OFFICE
March 11. 1993
1



ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION PLAN
FOR THE QUANZHOU-XIAMEN EXPRESSWAY SECTION
This Environmental Action Plan (EAP) is prepared on the basis
of the Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) for the Quanzhou-
Xiamen Section and the appraisal on the EIS by the Environmental
Protection Office (EPO) OF MOC, and the State Environmental
Protection Bureau (SEPB) for the environmental protection.
activities in the construction and operation periods.
On the basis of "Environmental Protection Law of PRC" and the
other relevant laws, and 'in compliance with such a policy as "
Through overall planning, rational arrangement and comprehensive
utilization to turn harm into good, and by relying onl the masses
and mobilizing everyone, so as to protect the environment and
benefit the people," EAP should be carried out on the principle
of " putting prevention first, combining prevention with
treatment, strengthening management, promoting treatment by
enforcing management and making those who cause *polluttion take
the blame for the pollution abatement," in order to ensure that
the pollution will be controlled and eliminated gradually in the
process of the design, construction and operation of the
expressway project so as to protect the environment'and benefit
the people.
1. The Key Issues in Respect of the Environmental 'Protection
for the Quanzhou-Xiamen Expressway Sectinn
The issues in respect of the'environmental protection for
this expressway project are advanced  in view of the pntential
environmental problems arising from the project, inicluding:
1.1 Noise and Vibration
(1)  the  intermittent  noise  and  vibration  from  the
cnnstruction equipment in the construction period:
(2) the non-stationary random noise and vibratinii from the
motor vehicles in the operation period:
1.2 Atmosphere
(1) the dust from the constructioni activities and the fumc
from the asphalt heating and asphalt mixtures:
(2)  Llie exhaust gas from  the moLor vehicles duritns  tiie
operat ion:
1.3 Water Quality
(1) the rainwashed materials from the construct.ion material
-yards during the construction and the domestic sewage from the  -
construction camps;
(2) the rainwashed materials from the road in the phase of
-'  2



operation and the domestic sewage from the living quarters at
Pul i;
1.4 Soil Erosion
The soil erosion caused by the rain in the construction
phase;
1.5 Protection of Historical Relics
The protection of 'Tongming'an" antiquity on the top of Mt.
Xiaoyingling Tunnel during the construction:
2. Implementation of the EAP
The EAP is aimed at formulating a detailed action programme
and laying out. a schedule for the above-mentinned environmental
issues identified for. the Quanzhou-Xiamen Expressway Sertion. as
well as proposing the detailed requirements for- stuch activities
as regards to the environmental surveillance aind mana-gement and
the environmental monotoring in the phase of the project
implementation(including the phases of design and construction)
and the operation.
The grounds on which this EAP for the project is compiled are
the "Environmental Protection Law of PRC".  the * Mieasures for
Environmental Protection Management of Construction Project". the
Stipulations  for  Environmental  Protection  Design  of
Construction Projects" issued by SPC and (he Environmental
Protection   Commission of the State Council. the "Measures for
Environmental Protection  Managemenit of Transport Cnnsiructinn
Projects" and the ' Stipulatiolls for Envirotinmental Pl.ruteclion
Design of Highway Construction Projects" drafted by MOC.
Fujian Provincial Environimental Protectioni Bureatu (FPRPHi) is
an agency in charge of environmental prolectioni Linder the
provincial government and responsible for thie unlified supervisionl
and administration of environmental protectinit Activities in the
province.. The  administrative  and  monitnr-ing  organizatiniis
responsible for the environmental protection in the areas where
the project is located-are shown as follows:
twi. P .-ttir     1i. 
l1 I   I1 -  i U..0t. I
H-- Kme.t- vir. I--  I
,I,.    ON,..   r------   I   IJ--Ji  I
*ir K.. *- 1a IL-i I Hit>r 
I  -    I1  ISmir.m   I    1   S   I
I   I   ih.1LT S.  I  I C'- '
Ti       I.DtINO I
I I;------"    I  I   I I i F,wlr  I f
lri.  I  t.wi .hm I    lr- .  t
11mmamgk   I  *
Ifavir. N"itl    I  I
IlL  I  I  .  .
_- -   I :Tmx ,.'ti 1
I Ilavir. ul"Lt I
i   *      '
: lnhCi:sri. I_l
3



Being administrative authorities under the m'unicipal
Government, Xiamen and Quanzhou Environmental Protection Bureaus
are responsible for carrying out the unified environmental
surveillance and administration. in the respective realm.   The
Environmental Protection Bureaus -at city/county levels are  in
charge of the-environmental quality in the respective realm, and
take measures to improve the environmental quality. The Fujian
Provincial  Environmental Monitoring Center  (PPEMC)  , together
with the municipal and county-environmental monitoring'stations.
constitutes a monitoring network. so as to take charge  of
environmental, monitoring and management in the respective realm.
In respect of the environmental surveillance and management
of the project,Fujian Provincial Expressway Construction
Directorate Office (FPECDO)--- the future Fujian Provincial
Expressway Administration Bureau (FPEAB) will assume the
responsibility for the implementation of the EAP for the
Quanzhou-Xiamen Expressway Section. Fujian Provincial
Environmental Protection Bureau (FPEPB) is in charge of
supervision and Fujian Provincial Environmental Monitoring Center
(FPBMC) is responsible for the monitoring data management and
technical guide'. FPECDO ----the future Expressway Administration
Burreau --- will consign the environmental monitoring stat'ions in
the cities or counties by which the expressway will pass, to
conduct the periodic observations of the environmental quility
along the expressway.
3. Management Objectives o-f Environmental Protection
In order to mitigate and prevent the'-adverse impact on the
environment in the phase of the expressway construction and
operation, all the environmental protection activities will be
carried out during the implementation of the project in
compliance with  the environmental  protective  measures  and
countermeasures identified in the BIS for the Quanzhou-Xiamen
Expressway Section. so as to ensure that Lhe etivironmental
facilities are designed, installed and puL into operation in
phase with the main works. The main points in the implementation
of environmental protection in var-ious phases are as follows:
3.1 Design Phase
(1) In the design of -the expressway. after havinv given full
consideration to the land acquiisition aid resettlement eor the
right-of-way. soil erosion. water resources. the- protection of
the cultural relics and such environmentally sensitive spots as
schools and' residential quarters, the survey crew and designers
selected the route which was economically rational and. at the
same time. benefitial to the protection of environment with
economic benefits, social benefits and environmental benefits
skillfully integrated with one another, and kept the alignment as
far as possible from the towns and villages, schools, factories
and antiquities preservation areas.
4



At the starting point of the expressway, the selected line
was adopted simply because the selected line would make no
contact with the Overseas Chinese University and less disturbance
to the railway under construction and cause less soil erosion. At
the terminal point, the alternative line was selected simply
because the line would pass by fewer villages  to make  less
disturbance and require less land acquisition and resettlement.
What is more, there were no sensitive spots and facilities.
(2) In the phase of design, adequate considerations have been
given to meet the convenience of the farmwork of the villages on
both sides of the expressway, interpersonal communications and
local traffic, so as to minimize the adverse impact on the
farmwork due to the obstacles of the embankment which separates
the living quarters from their fields. Along the 81.4 KM
expressway. 41 grade separations and 145 farm paths and the
tractor roads are to be set up along the whole line on an aver-age
of 1.78 sets/ KM. Also, 6 interchanges will be constructed to
meet the basic demand for the l6cal traffic. interpersonal
communications and farmwork.
(3) In respect that the residents living within 30 meters
from the road may be impacted to some degree by the noise and
atmospheric pollutions. such comprehensive environmental
protective measures as planting trees, greenins, construction or
sound arresters. resettlement.etc. shall be taken to mitigate the
impacts resulting from the noise and atmospheric pollutions on
the residents living along  the route.
(4) The Effects To Be Taken 1-nto Account On The Regional
Hydrology In The Design Of Bridges And Culverts
The apertures of bridges and ctulverts shall  meet  the
requirements for flood discharge.The small bridges and culverts.
mostly serving as i-rrigation and dewatering facilities, shall be
able to provide smooth inlet and outlet, and the reverts shall be
set up to prevent the scour of water. Along the 81.4 KM -lonig
expressway, 76 bridges and 292 culverts have been set up, so that
the existing local hydrological conditions wi-ll remain unchanged
to meet the requirements for flood discharge and irrigation.
At the lower reaches of Xiwei Large Bridge. to be more exact.
at the eatuary of Shijing River. there stands Anping Bridge built
sn the Song Dynasty--the culEit-al relic untder the SLate
protection.  Taking  this  into consideration. -the design of the
bridge should ens-ure that the antiquity shotuld not be scoured by
the flood discharge sv as io guarantee its integrity.
3.2 Construction Phase
(1) The Prevention and Abatement of DtLst from the
Construct i on.
Tn the construction phase. TSP pollutant mainly comes frim
fine grained.-imaterials easy to lose and from the flying dust cof
5



disturbed soils at the construction sites in drought seasons. The
Contractor shall strengthen the management of the dust cargoes.
And these materials shall not be piled in the open air and be
covered when necessary. The storage places shall be located on
dry terrain at least 500 meters away from the villages   on the
lee side of-the perennial prevailing wind direction.
In high temperature and dry weather , the sections under
construction, access roads and borrow areas must be watered at
least four times a day from 9:00 to 18:00 to abate the flying
dust.
(2) Noise-and Vibration at the Construction Sites
Noise and vibration stemming from the construction are
featured by suddenness, random, discontinuity and high intensitv.
The in-situ surveying data indicates that the noise at the
construction sites does not exceed the standard for Category I
mixed area. and can be mitigated by adopting appropriate
operation and managerial approches. Such operations generating
high noise  will be carried out in the daytime (6:00---22:00) and
the timing of various mechanical execution should be properly
adjusted. The Contractor is required to strengthen the management
and mitigate such sound sources resulting from the construction
activities as material transporLation, knocking, striking and
shouting, etc. during the construction. by means of rational
execution and .intensified management. In the sensitive sections
near the villages, the construction during the night will be
forbidden.
The influence area of vibration is within 20 meters from the
roadsides. The pile driving shall not be permitted during the
night near the residential quarters.
(3) Atmospheric Pollution Resulting from the Asphalt 'Mixilig
Plants.
The plant mixing should be adopted for the asphalt mixing.
and the batch bin must be of dust prevention. and the fume
recovei-y system should be installed and used for asphalt heating
and refining. The mixing plants should be away from the
residential quiarters at a distance of ahbtil  1000 meters on the
lee side of the wind.
(4) Effects on the Land Resnurce and Water Resource
The embankment fill. cutti:ig excavation and bnorrow cU t of Lhe
expressway construction will requjire muich land and produce
adyerse impacts on the land resource and water resource. Thc l.-ss
in the land. resource will be compensated to some extent through
the reclamation made by the State in a planned way and the water
resource be protected by such technical measures as river
straightening,  river improvement   and the construction of new
river embankments.
6



(5) Precautions against the Soil Erosion.
During the construction, the sections with a digging depth of
more than 10 meters and the embankment of *over 8 meters. the
borrow areas are considered as the areas sensitive to soil
erosion. Before the slopes of the embankment, cut slopes and the
slopes of borrow ares are densely compacted, paved or vegetated,
they are liable to be eroded by rain so as to cause slope wash,
resulting in soil erosion. The mud and silt scoured will come
into the farmland and irrigation channels with the surface run-
off to cause sed*iment and produce adverse impacts on the
ecological environment. In the light of this, the Contractor,
before the commencement of the subgrade construction. will be
required to build various drainage systems to divert the water
into the natural rivers, ditches or channels so as to reduce the
water accumulation in the subgrade and soil erosion. When the
construction is carried out in the rainy seasons, every effort
should be made to ensure the excavated materials will be cut,
carried, paved and compacted in one continuous operation so as to
minimize the loose earth and soil erosion. In pursuance of
different geological conditions. such protective measures as
slope protec.tion. rubble retaining walls and turfing should be
adopted for the   embankment and the slope of cut so .as to
stabilize the side slopes and prevent the slopes from being
scoLired or collapse. Around the borrow areas, the intercepting
ditches and drains should be set up to diminish the catchment
areas and- soil erosion. At the same time. the borrow sites shall
slope as gently as possible with its gradient to be controlled
under 4-8% . When silt has a serious influence on the-ecological
environment at the lower reaches. the sedimentation basins should
be  constructed  and  cleaned  periodically.  The  subgrade
construction is required in phase with the constructin of
intercepting ditches. drains. side ditehes. After the completion
of the project. such reclamation operations as turfing; planting
trees and rehabilitation of farming should be required.
(6) The Impacts the Material transportation May Exert on the
Traffic and Measurement of Control.
At the points where the expressway will intersect the
existing highway. the construction activities may make
disturbatice to the normal traffic on the existing road and the
transportation of the construction materials will cause the
increase of vehicle stream. In view of this. the Contractor shall
be required to construct temporary access roads at the points
where the expressway may intersect the existing highway prior to
the commencement of the construction. And the. construction period
shall be reduced in every possible way lest the normal trafficc
on the existing road should be affected. Meanwhile. the earth and
stone. as well as sand-gravel aggregates shall be secured in the
nearby material yards and trasported through the constructed
access roads. However. the transportation of the construction
materials may make the. traffic even more heavy, cspeciallY ona
some traffic arteries. Int respect of this. the Contractor shall
formulate a transportation planning. so that  the construction
7



traffic may be kept away from the traffic peak lest the traffic
congestion might occur.
In addition, in the process of the material transportation,
management should be strengthened by the Contractor so as to
prevent the spills and leakage from the trucks and the traffic
accidents from happening.
(7) Contro.l on Water Body Pollution.
The main pollutant source of the water body comes from the
defective management of such construction materials as butimen.
cement, lime. etc. which are piled up at discretion. In the rainy
season. the detrimental substances are brought by the rain into
the ponds.  rivers and ditches nearby to contaminate  the water
quality. In consideration of this, the prevention can be assured
by strengthening management as a major countermeasures. so as to
ensure that the construction materials mentioned above will not
be stored in the open air and be kept far away from the water
body to avdid direct impact of runoff. In order to prevent a
great amount of silt from entering the water body, the advanced
technology of bridge construction shall be adopted. At the same
time, the direct discharge of the construction wastes. oil
polluted water into the water body should be strictly prohibited.
(8) Disposal of Was'te Materials from the Construction Camps.
The waste materials from the construction sites are,.
generally speaking, daily life rubbish and domestic sewage. The
Contractor shall be required to strengthen the sanitation
management in the living quarters and build three-stage septic
tanks in the construction camps. The domestic sewerage should be
piled and disposed concentratively and buried at the designated
places. The domestic sewage can not  be discharged into rivers.
ditches until it is treated. Meanwhile. the builders are required
to diet at a designiated place and attention should be paid to the
epidemic prevention. The wastes from the construction sites are
mainly packaging materials and the left-over bits and pieces.
This rubbish shall be disposed and cteared on time so as to keep
the site in good order by persuasion and supervision.
(9) Effect of Quar-r-ying on the Environment
The location of quarrying site mtust be far away from
residential quarters, schools and hospitals. The Coritractor must
make an estimate  of the dangerou's range of the blasting
operation. and take effective protective   measures. provide the
timing for blasting. set tip clear warniing signals and warning
lines.so as to disperse the people. c.attle. and vehicles from the
dangerous areas on time and make a good checking-up before
blasting.
The storage and disposal. of the exposives must bc strictly
controlled  in compliance with  the  safety  regulations.  The
management of environmental protection and safety of quarries
8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



will be strengthened under the supervision of the local
environmental protection units and the public security organs.
(10) Plan for the Protection of Historical Relics
Since "?onguing'an" Pass is located on the left side of Mt..
Xiaoyingling section. the design department and the Contractor
are required to pay attention to the protection of it in the
alignment design a.nd construction of Mt. Xlaoyingling section.
The high-tensile blasting should be forbidden for fear of
damaging it.The Contractor has the responsibility for educating
his staff on the subject of protection of antiquities.   In the
construction. the construction activities should be stopped
immediately whenever coming across the antient tombs and
potential historic sites. In that case, report to the antiquities
preservation units and ask the. to deal with them.
3.3 Road Operation Phase
(1) Harm caused by Spill- Accidents and the Emergency
Countermeasures
In the process of the transportation of pernicious chemicals.
the leahage may occur to contaminate the road and surrounding
environment. This problems may be solved by strict inspection of
carriages and wagons at the entrance before trucks are allowed to
run on the expressway and by enacting legislation for highway
traffic controi. The highway administration shall be equipped
with. monitoring and rescue car-s according to the design
requirements so as to keep abreast of the operation conditions
t.hrough effective surveillance and take emergency measures for
such accidents as leakage. etc..which shall be cleaned on time.
(2) Control of Pollution from the Moving Traffic and Service
Areas
According tt2 the projection of environmental  impact at the
stage of operation.- in the predicted years. the infltience areas
in which the daytime noise surpasses the standard are limited
within about 30 meters. liowever. the influence ares in which the
nighttime noise surpasses the standard will be larger. what is
more, such influeicne ar-eas will expand with the  increment Of the
anniual traffic. Except that tlhe preventive measures are adnpted.
the management of lhe vehicles running on the expressway will be
strengthened by imposing restriction. step by step. -on the
numnbers of the mol.or vehicles running on the expressway at a low
speed of no more t.han 50 KM/h. Only those motor vehicles
travelling at high speed will  ke allowed  tn rijn  on the
expressway. In this way, no thoroughfare of the low-speed
vehicles and the construction vehicles will not only ensure that
the motor vehicles can travel at high speed. buit ensure the use
of horns w,ll be limited, so as to abate or eliminate the high-
level noise r...diation from the vehicle's deceleratiorn. braking
and acceleration occurtring in the mixed traffic. IL is suggcstcd
that the vehicle inspection departments should be called in to
9



prohibit, at last, to knock out the old vehicles characterized by
low speed, great noise, high oil consumption and limited
transport capacity. In accordance with the international
practice, the motor vehicles running on the expressway shall make
a signal by the flash of their headlights instead of using horns
when overtaking. In compliance with 'Regulations Regarding the
Abatement of Ambient Noise Pollution of P.R.C." the motor
vehicles in operation shall be equipped with mufflers and
qualified horns with good technical validity so as to ensure that
the resultant noise shall not surpass the criteria.of noise
emission. The driver's licenses will not be issued to those motor
vehicles not conforming to the criteria.
In the traffic peak, the pollution from the waste gases will
surpass the standard up to 100 meters in the daytim*,  In the
design, such measures of prevention and control as greening shall
be taken in accordance with the overrun in the sections. In
addition. the vehicle performance and the State Criteria for the
vehicle emission control should be strictly exercised in the
vehicle management.
At present. the atmospheric environmental background along
the route is fairly good and is slightly influenced by the
external  world.  The  prediction-results  of  atmospheric
concentration indicate that in the nc*rmal meteorological
conditions, the concentration index of various- waste gases, in
the short and medium terms, will not exceed Class I State
Standard beyond-100 meters. When overlapped by the backgrotnd
concentration, they will still reach Class IT ambient air quality
standard.
Seeing that the pollutant source of the ecological
environment on the side of the road comes mainly from the lead in
the exhaust gas emitted by the motor vehicles, for this reason.
it is required that 20-meter-wide green belts on1 both sides or
the road should be kept in advance to mitigate the Pb pollution,
and is suggested that no vegetables be planted 100 meters from
both sides of the road and within 50 meters, the economic plants
should be cultivated instead of grain crops.
The oleaginous materials and hazardous substances leaking out
of t1he motor vehicles running on the expressway. ra.in wash and
such facilities in the servi:e ares as the bus stops. the filling
staLtions as well as mecl-anical repair. shops conistitute an
important pollutant source for the waters near the road.= In
actnrdance with the prediction presented in E{S. the rain wash
from the sections in which failure-rree traffic operation is
conducted will produce little impact on the water areas. Although
the pollution concentration of the rain run-off in all sections
may exceed the pollutant concentration in the nearby waters in
normal times, yet the concentration of various pollutants will
drop sharply after a certain duration of rain wash. The
pollut.ants willI be decomposed with the increase of resting time.
In consideration of this. such strengthening measures as traffic
management. the limitation of vehicle emission. the supervision'
10



of operating staff and administrators of the facilities in the
service areas shall be taken to exercise control and prevention
over the pollutants. The sewage treatment plants should be set up
in the service areas, and the domesfic sewage should be
discharged after treatment.
(3) Maintenance of the Drainage System
In the operation period. the drainage system of the road may
be blocked by the sedimentation of the sand and silt scoured by
the rain from the road surface and side slope of the subgrade.
Therefore, the sediment should be cleaned periodically and the
side ditches should be paved with rubbles to prevent scouring. At
the same time, the management of vehic'les carrying bulk materials
should be strengthened, and the erosion gullies on the slope
protection due to the rain wash should be mended and reinforced.
(4) Organizations in Charge of Administration and Monitoring.
The administrative organization  for the Quanzhou-Xiamen
Expressway Section is the future Fujian Provincial Rxpressway
Administration Bureau under two-level managerial system ( Bureau-
-Sections / Administrative Offices).
The managerial, staff in the organization in charge of the
environmental protection will be responsible for the
environmental protection of.the expressway. Their basic tasks are
to or,ganize. to implement and supervise the prevention and
abatement of the environmental pollution in the system of their
own, and- have the. responsibilities for cnnsigning the
environmental monitoring stations in the cities/ counties through
which the expressway will pass to conduct the periodic
observations.
4. Environmental Facilities and Implementation Plan
In accordance with EIS. the residents living in the certain
r-ange along the route will be impacted to some degtree by the
noise and atmospheric pollution. Such an influence area and
impact effect may gra.dually expand with the iiicrease of the
vehicle streams. For this reason, such measures as greening.
tree-planting, demolition and construction of acoustic barriers.
etc. shall be ta.ken by stages on the basis of the needs. to
mitigate the impact resulting from the noise and atmospheric
p;olitLon on the residents along the route. Ihe list of villages
for which the acoustic barriers should be built in the first
sLage (1997i is presented in Table I and the list of villages for
which the anti-noise countermeasures should be taken in the
second stage- (2005) is presented in Table 2.
The Villages in Quanzhot-Xiamen Expressway Section
for Which the Acoustic Barriers Should Be Built
in the First Stage
Tl'ahble 1
No.   Villages     Estimated Length       Chainage       Remarks



(meter)
-----------------------------------------------------------.------
I     Dongxin           200                K4.3
2     Guken             200                K13.3
3     Shangwulong       200                K21.4
4     Gouwei            200*2              K34.3
Total             1000
The  Villages  in  the Quanzhou-Xiauen  Expressway  Section
for Which the Acoustic Barriers Will Be Arranged for
the Time Beins in the Second S.tage(2005)
Table 2
No    Villages     Estimated Length      Chainage       Remarks
Imeter)
-----------------------------------------------------------------
I    7.huangren         200                KO.4
2.   Chengzhou          200:2              KB.9
3    Zhengcuo           200                K13.7
4    Neizhengcuo        250                K31.7
5    Shanglin           200                K33.6
6    Santou              150Z2             K41
7    Guoxi -            200                R69.2
Total              1750
Note: 1. The struclural fornis, length and height of the acoust1ic
barriers will he examined and approved  in the f ina'l
design. -
2. As for the exact locations of t.he acoustic barriers.take
the  names  of  the  villages  as  lhe stanidard. and the
chainages provided are for reference only.
Before the second-stage works is commenced. t.he afforestatiiini
should be adopted as a countel-measure for the villages. 8--1O
years after the expressway is open to traffic, the planted trpes
will niake up an acoustical shield. so a.s to protect the villages
from the noise damage. At the same time. such a shield will act
as a protective shield for the abatement of dust as well. After-
the anti-noise countermeasures are taken.  the nnise will  he
aba l ed and redtu:ed hb  5--15 dR (A . As feor s..me houses.  tl h
resettlement shnuld he carried otit with the apprnval nf tle
house-owners provided that the standard can nTot b;e met after such
prevention and contril  ieasures as construct ion of acutist i-
barriers. greening.etc. are taken. The number of displaced.
petrsotis. lhe reseltleinenL places. and the displacement date will
depend on the future need.
In compliance with the design, the revertment,walls and the
turfing will be used in the sections along the route where the
high slope of cuts will be located. The slope of embankment slhal!
be covered with turf and Arees shall- be planted aloiig l(li
12



roadsides.
Except that such special measures as acoustic barriers.
protection works and afforestation, etc. shall be taken for noise
prevention, the abatement of dust and the mitigation of soil
erosion, the open-graded bituminous concrete pavement will be
taken-into consideration for the sections along the route
sensitive to the noise. As for the cement concrete pavement. the
good smoothness shall be required with the Joints between the
pavement slabs well finished. In addition to that. it is
suggested that within the influence circle,  the management of
architectural programme should be strengthened, in principle, the
forbidden region should be set up within 100 meters from the
roadside so that no schools and living quartersA will be built
within this region.
5. Pollution abatement Cosl.s
The quantity of the'roadside embelli'shment., acoustic
barriers. pollution-prevention forest belts and the amount to le
invested can be found in Table 3.
List of Pollution Abatement Costs
Ta8le 3
Item            Description        Quantity    unit     Amount
Price  (RMB.10000
(Yuan)    Yuan)
Roadside            toe of           30000      15/head   45.00
Planting           subgrade          heads
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Turfing          Medium strip        150000     6/m2     90.0(1
and side slope        sq.m
Acoustic.          4 places          1000 m      4O0/in    4 U. Uu
Barriers
Pollution-       4-meter-wide        50000       4/m2    20.00n
Prevention       for Sections         sq.m
Forest Belt      near Villages
---------------------------------------_-----------------------__
I,and Acqui-                         50030       12/ilr 2 0. 03
sition for                            sq.m
Fnrest. Belt.
.TataI                                                    2 55
Note: The quantity and the unit price in Table 3 are prn fnt-in  -
costs. for reference onlY.
6. Tlie Organization Responsible for the F.nvirconmen', M.n.*.,T; '
and Its Responsibilities.
.13



The task of the environmental protection in the
transportation industry is to ensure the transport enterprises
and establishments can make rational use of various resources and
energy sources, control and eliminate the pollution step by step
in the process of operation and,construction so as to protect the
environment, benefit people's health and give an impetus to the
development of tra,sportation.  The  Environmental  Protection
Commission established by MOC is responsible for the unified
organization and coordination of environmental protection in the
transportation industry.
The main responsibilities of the managerial staff in charge
of the environmental protection in the Expressway Administration
Bureau are:
(1 the implementation and exectatinn nf the envirnnmental
policy acts and laws issued by the, State and MOC for its *wn
sector.
(2) preparation of Environmental Action Plan for the
expressway and in charge of the statistical work of environmental
protection.
(31 the management of the environmental protection for its
own capital construction works.
(4) the abatement of the pollutant source and the
investigation and handling of the contamination accidents.
(5i responsible for consigning the  environmental monitoring
stations in the cities/countie's through which the expresswa-
passes  to conduct t,he periodic observations for the expressway.
(6) the establishmenit and perfection of the techn-ical
inr'nrmaLion files regarding the envirnnmenttal protection.
(7) supervising and inspecting the execution of Environmental
Action Plan in the operation period.
7. Environmental Monitoring Progranmme
1. The Objectives of Environmental Monitnringat Vat-rious
Stages.
-   'rhe ennvironmenta1 Impact in the Cnnstruction Phase
Ul) Fume.
The fume from the asphalt heatingwui I  cauise seriouu
hazards. In consideration of this. it is required that the olpen-
air operation shall he replaced  by 'the closed-type asphalt
heating-plants. which shall be located at the places conforming
to the envieronmental requirements. so that the pollution hazar-ds
can be alleviated.
14



(2) Noise and Vibration.
The noise and vibration come mainly from the construction
equipment. It is forecasted that the noise at the construction
sites can reach the Standard stipulated in the "Noise Criteria
For Construction Sites" and meet the noise standard for Category
I mixed area(55dB(A)) 200 meters from the central line of the
road. The influence area of vibration are within about 20 meters
from the roadsides..
(3) Flying Dust
The influence areas of the flying dust can be up to over
100 meters on the lee of the wind direction. So it is required
that watering shall be frequently carried out for the purpose of
dust allayment. Meanwhile. the passive dust collectors shall be
used to measure the dust fall, so that the humectation can be
controlled and the watering times can be-determined.
(4) Except that the protective measures should be adopted for
the Contractor's transportation facilities for the purpose of
controlling the flying dust and-leakage occurring in the
transportation of the construction materials.   the environmental
monitoring shall be well carried out and the environmental policy
acts shall be strictly implemented  in cooperation with the local
environmental protection units at the prefecture / county levels.
(5) The local traffic departments will be responsible for the
management of the construction vehicles. Such measures as traffic
channelling. and traffic diversion will be used to solve the
problems caused by the heavy traffic on the public roads. When
necessary, the Contractor is required to cons£ruct the temporary
access roads for construction traffic. so as to ensure that the
construction vehicles may go to and fro witihout ariy interference
to the other transportation media.
II. The Environmental Impacts in the Operation Phase...
(1) Noise.
With reference to  A'Ambient Noise Sia:idard  for Urban
Areas"  (See Table 5). priorityl has been given -to the noise
standard on both sides of the traffic arteries. In the
davtime(6:00--22:00).  the noise along the whrle line does not
exceed the standard(70dB(A)). However, it is forecasted that in
2010. the noise will surpass the standard -withain 40--180 meters
frnm the roadside  in the nighttime. mainly at Xindian and
Yun.qian. The ncise ma- be abated by planting 'rees to keep it
under the Standard (55dR(A). As for all sections along the route
sensitive to noise. the fixxcd-pniint observations shall be made
pcriodically.
Ambient Noise Standard for Urban Areas
(GB3096-82)
Table 5                                          unit: Leq(dB)
------- - ------------_-_-----------------------------------_____
Areas Applied      Daytime    iiighttime            Remarks
15



Special living       45.          35        To be especially quiet
Quarters
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Residential &         50            40         Purely Residential.
Education                                     Education & Institu-
Quarters                                      tion Areas
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Category I           *55          45         Ordinary Mixed Areas
Mixed Areas                                  of Residentce & Com-
merce
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Downtown.            60           50         Commerce Concentrated
Category II                                  Area & Mixed Area of
Mixed Areas                                  Industry. Commerce.
Residence with little
Traffic
Industry Con-
centrasted Area      65           55
Both Sides of        70           55         Traffic Stream > 100
the Traffic                                  veh/h   -
Arteries
-----------------------------------------------------------------
(2) Atmosphere:
Along the expressway. there is a fairly good atmospheric
backgroud. The concentration of CO. NOx and S02 will meet Class
1I State Standard. TSP also meets Class II-State Standard with
the exception of some special conditions. It is forecasted' that
in 2010. in the peak hours under the adverse meteorological
conditions. NOx will exceed Class II State Standard within 200
meters. and NOx. CO around the interchanges will exceed the
standard. The Ambient Air Qualitv Standard can be found in Table
6.
Ambient Air Quality Standard
( GB3096-82
Table 6
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Pollutants         Concentration Limit(mg/ standard cu.m.)
Sampling Time   Class I   Class iT   Class rII
i-,t  st.        St.           st.
SPM      i Daily Aver.        0.15       0.30     :   0.50
Any Time         0.30   .   1.00          1.50
TSP        Daily Aver.        0.05       0.15          0.25
Any Time     :  0.15   :  0.50            0.70
i Annual Daily .:
S02           Aver.           0.02       0.06          0.10
16



Daily Aver.   I  0.05        0.15    1   0.25
1 Any Time      0  0.15   1  0.50    '   0.70
-----------------------------------------------------------------
NOx      I Daily Aver.   I  0.05. .   0.10           0.15
I Any Time      l  0.10   1  0.15          0.30
-----------------------------------------------------------------
CO       1 Daily Aver.      4.00       4.00          6.00
Any Time     '  10.00  :  10.00          20.00
-----------------------------------------------------------------
(03)     I               '  0.12   :  0.16    1   0.20
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Pb        t                   0.0015
-----------------------------------------------------------------
(3) Rain Wash from the Highway
When there is a rain after a long drought. COD
concentration will be high. but after a duration of 2--4 hours.
only 50% of it will remain. indicating. that the rain wash is
liable to degradation and the pavement of the expressway is
cleaner than that of the ordinary highway with fewer pollutants .
The independent highway drainage system will prevent  the rain
wash from being directly discharged into the waters so as to
produce an impact on the aquaculture and crops. However. the
monitoring points should be-set up to conduct water quality
analysis periodically.
(41 In.EIS. the pollution factor-- the concentration of Pb
emitted by the motor vehicles has beeni forecasted. The findings
indicate that the lead in the waste gases emitted by the motor
vehicles will produce an impact on the soil and crops near the
road. and its influehce area will be limited within 100 meters
with a Pb content of 76 mg/Kg in the. soil.                -
Tn consideration of this. the economic plants should be
cultured instead of grain crops and vegetables within 100 meters
from the road. According to the foreign data. when daily traffic
volume is more than 20000 veh/day. the lead content in the soil
will be 10 times or more than the background valute. So it is
necessary to keep abreast of the impact the Pb particles may
produce on the crops through the monitoring-.in the operation
stage. so as to provide scientific basis for the construction of
the project and the development planning along the route.
IT. Environmental Monitoring Programme
(1)  Environmental  Uonitoring  Progra.mme  during  the
Construclion Period
a. Noise Monitoring
Noise monitoring shall be carried out according to the
State  Standard--  "Noise  Criteria  for  the Constrisction
Si-tes"(GR12521,) for the sensitive areas and Quanzhou CiT.y proper
(near Chengzhou) once a month.
17



b. Monitoring-of the Atmosphere
Periodical monitoring should be carried -out for the waste
gases emitted from the asphalt mixing plants. the dust from the
construction, the key sensitive areas and the sections in which
the considerable complaint was heard from the local people.
c. Monitoring of Water Quality
In the area of soil erosion. particularly'the river course
down Jiasha Large Bridge. the monitoring of suspended
solids (silt) should be carried out once -a month until the.
construction activities end. The main monitoring programs are
oils, COD and suspended.solids, etc.
(2) Environmental Monitoring Programme during the Operation
Period
a. Monitoring of Atmosphere
For routine air monitoring of Quanzhou-Xiamen Expressway.
five monitoring points should be set.up- to carry out the
monitorings of NOx. TSP. Pb in the dust and CO in the air with a
monitoring frequency of four times-a year. i.e. January. April.
July and Octobeir. Each time five days will be spent to carry out
the monitoring with a frequency of 4--5 times a day in fine
weather.
b. Mlonitoring of Water Quality
Eight sections will be set Up in Jinjiang. River. Nanqu
Channel.  Jiuxi -River and Xixi River. etc.  In addition. one
monitoring point. will be established at the outlet of the
sewer system in Puli Service area to carry.out the nonitoring of
PH, oils. SS. CODcr. BOD5, Pb and permanganate index in the water
body. Such monitorings will be conducted two times a year. i.e.
in high-water period( from May to June) and drought period (from
December to January). Each time, the monitorings wil.l be
conducted two times. As for the key river reaches. the lower
reaches of Jiasha Large Rridge and Puli Service Area. monitorings
should be carried out once a month.
c. Monitoring of Soil and Biological Monitoring
The Pb in the soil. rice and vegetables in rice-growing
zone at Cidian. vegetable-growing zone at Tong'an County and
Longan-growing zone in- Jinjiang County will be monitored once a
year. Samples should be taken when rice and fruit are ripe and
harvested. Meanwhile. soil cores of the top soil should be taken.
d. Monitoring of Noise and Vibration
It is proposed that the monitorings of vibration and noise
be conducted for the villages within the range o'. 100 meters from
the road with a frequency of two times a year. Such operation
18



will be divided into two parts. i.e. in the daytime( from 6:00
a.m.to 8:00 P.m.)and in the nighttime ( from 8:00 p.m. to 6:00
a.m.) or the monitoring will be carried out continuously and
automatically.   -
e. Accident Monitoring
In the operation period. if severe traffic accidents occur
to result in the environmental contamination, monitorings should
be carried out to track down oils and harmful materials.
8. The Obligations of Environmental Management Organization
As far as the environmental mangement organizations for the
execution of the project are concerned. the competent department
in charge of the environmental protection under the State
Council-- the State Environmental Protection Bureatt. in
compliance with the Environmental Protection Law of P.R.C.
exercises the unified supervision and management of the
envieronmental protection in the country. The administrative
service divisions in charge of the environmental protection under
the local People's Governments above county levels ( Fujian
Provincial Environmental Protection Bureau) will exercise the
unified management and-supervision of the environmental
protection within their jurisdiction. The traffic departments at
various levels (Expressway Administration Bureau) will. in
accordance with the regulations of the relevant laws. exercise
the supervision and management of the abatement of the
environmental con tam ination.
(1) Fujian Provincial Environmental Protection Bureau
Fujian Provincial Environmental Protection Bureau
exercises the unified supervision-and management of the
environmental requirements under its jurisdiction. in cooperation
with the departments concerned to make the investigations and
evaluation of the environmental conditions. on the basis of which
the environmental protection planning shall be prepared and
submitted for approval before implementation. With the help nf
the local environmental protection units. FPEPB shall provide
assistance to the Expressway Administration Bureau to carry out
the environmental management both at and off the road
construction sites.
(2) Consultancy Service
Fujian Provincial  Environmental  Protection Research
Institute is an advisary service in charge of the scientific
research on the environmental protection under FPEPB and is
responsible for the investigation and evaluation of the
environmental conditions for the projects and preparation of the
Environmental Impact Statement and supplementary informatiorn.
(3) Fujian Provincial  Pxpressway Construction  Directorate
Office ( the future Expressway Administration Bureaul)
19



Fujian Provincial  Expressway Construction Dlrectorate
Office is responsible for the preparation of all documentation
for the Bank's loaning, the preparation of EAP for the Expressway
and the project implementation. Through its organizational
framework, it exercises the effective management of the
environmental protection both in the execution of the
Construction Contract and the operation period.
(4) Environmental Protection Management Procedures
---------EIS
----------FPECDO                   FPEPB-----------------
:         :   :                      I    '             :    :
:---collaboration----'
…:--…----------…FPEPRI--colla-    : FPEMC
,                  boration ---
:    ~EPM Design.
Monitoring'!
-----Des--gn                     Programme
FPCPDI
:   :     :       ~~~Project:                          :
:  :      ~~Design'                  untiteG 
:  ---------- :                     ueiin-
:   :                      & 11~~~~~~anaygement
'    OS -    CotructionS CIntrator
SuDervisinn      :
:     ~Project:
:-:=--- lmptemaenlation-agmn
*         *                     :--------- --------------
:---- operatini … -------
9. Summa-' e'r Resettlement Aclinn Plan (See lhe Appendix)
The Summary of 3AP for
Ihe Quanzhou-Xiamen Expressway SecLion
---- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- The    Cl. auses
EnvironmienIal       Actisn TakenS/                   lesponsible   -efer to
Issues            To Be Taken                         Entity    :reclinical
A pre-conistrtu-                                                    specifica
ction/design                                                      the Con
phbase                                                            -rc
I Route Selection   Alisgiment selected on the           FPCPD!     -tract
priciple of minimizing land
20



acquisitin and impact on the
residential areas and historic
sites and water-soil conserva'
-tion.
2 Impact on the     Design provides for safe and          FPCPDI
Mobility          adequate access across the
highway for local traffic
through 145 pedestrian or
tractor roads, 41 grade sepa
-rations and 6 interchanges.
3 Noise & Atmos     Such protective measures as           FPCPDI
-pheric Pollu     acoustic barriers,tree-plant         FPECDO
-tion             -ing,resettlement will be used
for the protection of such sen
-sitive points as living quart
-ers, schools in the certain
range on both sides of ROW.
4 Flood Discharge   76 bridges. 292 culverts and          FPCPDI
& Irrigation      perfect roadside drainage sys-
tem have been designed to satis
-fy the requirements pf local
rlood discharge and irrigation.
B Construction
Stage
I Flying Dust       (1) The management of bulk mate   Contractor Clause 205.10
-rials and dust cargos shall be               Clause 603.01
strengthened and not be piled up
in the open air.
(2) Goods yards shall be located              Clause 102.13
at the dry places at least 500 m
from the villages on the lee of
wind direction.
(3) In high temperatuire and dry              Clause 201.05
weather, ihe construction sites.-
access roads and borrow areas
shall be watered 4 limes a day.
(4) The management of the trauis-
portaLionl of earth/stone works as           -latise l105.0'
well as road construction mater-              Cn
ials shall be strengtilened to pre            Clause 203.07
-vent spilling.-
2 Noise and          (1i Cniistruction aclivilies gene  Cnntraret'r Clause 102.13
V:ibrationi       -rating excessivee noise will be
conifined to day light hnorsi6:11ff
--22:00).
* 2p Unneressary noise from haotlitnA.         clause 102.1,
blasting and ather consIructinn
activities will be controlled  an'j
mtinimitz.ed.
'r ite operating time of vzir1O:Is            .:ause lUZ.I k
r'ns iruictticinm plants shall be pinnere,r
-!y adjusted to redur-r tht t      -          Clause tl
noise.
' Aimr Peil lu'on   '1l Plant mixing shall b- .td. dpled  (CgillI':e::: A t:.!:.;e t:
21



for asphalt mixing. The mixing
machinery shall be equipped with
dust-removing devices.                          Clause 307.05
(2) The mixing plant shall be loca
-ted at least 1000 n from the resi
-dential quarters on the lee side
of the wind direction.
4 Land & Water       (1) The loss ot land resource wi-   FPCPDI
Resources          ll be compensated by the planned    Quanzhou
reclamation.                          & Xiamen
(2) Some design measures will be   Municiple Clause 102.13
applied to protect the water re-   Govent
source---river straigthening.
river improvement and construc-
tion of river embankments.
5 Soil Erosion       (1) Before the construction of    ContractorClause 201.05
subgrade. the temporary drainage
system shall be first built to
reduce water accumulation in the
subgrade and alleviate soil ero-
sion.
(2) In rainy season. earthwork                 Clause 201.06
operation of subgrade shall be
cut. hauled. paved. compacted in
one continuous operation so as
to prevent the existence of loo
-se earth.,
(3) In pursuance of different           FPCPDI
conditions. rubble retaining walls    FPECDO
slope protection. turfing shall be
adopted for the slope of embankment
& cut so as to stabilize the side
slopes and prevent the slopes from
being scoured and collapse.
(4) The temporary drainage system. C'ontractor Clause 201 .05
such as intercepting ditches.dra-ins
shall be set up arnund the borrow
areas tn reduce water-coilecting
areas and to mitigate soil erosinn.
(5)The borrow sites shaIl slope as
gently as possible with their gra-
ieni to be controlled under 4--8S..            CIause 202.Or
(61 The sedimentationi basins shall            Clause 102-13
be busilt and cleaned periodically
lest silt shotIld exert an impacI oin
tlIC ecological environment at thea
I b.we: reaches.
(71 Arfeir the completion of the      FPI.:CDO
project. the reclamation opera-
tions.e.g. turfing. tree-planting.
r ehabilitation of farmi ng shall be
required to prevont borrnw p;i1s
fromi rain wash.
6 Trafric            !  II Bcfore constructiun.Letpnrary 'nltractnr CIat2sip  n:: : 
Triias;ujr t ai on   access roads sha I be cemnstructod
22



at the points where the expressway
may intersect the existing roads
and the construction period shall
be mininized lest the normal traf-
tic on the existing roads may be
influenced.
(2) Isprovement s1iall be made       FPECDO
for the related highways so as
to increase the road capacity
and reduce the traffic loading
generated from the haulage of
road construction materials.
(3) Every effort shall be made    Contractor Clause 104.03
to secure such construction
materials as earth/stone. sand
-gravel aggregates. etc. and
the construction access roads
be constructed for the haulage.
(4) The transportation plan-                   Clause 102.16
ning shall be forsulated so _
that the construction traffic
can be kept aparL from t-he traf
-fic peak on the existing road
to prevenl traffic congesLion.
(5) The transportation manage-    Contractor/
ment shall be strengthened to         Lncal
prevent spilling of the mater-        Traffic
ials and traffic accidents.        Departments
7 Water Body          (1) The materials such as lime.   Cnntractor Clause 205.10
Pollution          cement. bitumen.etc. shall not
be stnred in the open air and
shall be kept far away fron
the water body.
(2) The advanced technolngy                   Clause 102.13
shall be adopted in the hri-
dge construction. The construc-
tion wasLes. oil polluted wa-
ter shall not be discharged
into the water body willinti
Lreatment.
8 Domestic Sewa       (I) Three-stage septic taniks       coniractor
se & Rubbish         shall 4e built at the constrii                Clause 102.13
-ction sites.The cunisiruict.ors
are required to diet al*> des
-iginated place. The domestic
sewerage shall he disposed nr
concentratively and cleanied
perindicaly. The dnwtstic sr-.
wage shall be discharged into*
tile rivers and ditches arlf'r
treatine.it.
(2) The solid wastes suilh a%s               Clautse 102.13
packaging materials anld th1
lefl-ovei bits and pi.ces
from Ilh- -.nsirucii- n e   ci tis
7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.



shall be piled up at the de-
signated places and cleaned
periodically.
9 Quarrying &         (1) The quarry sites shall be       Contractor
Blasting           kept far away from the resid-Clue2.0
entlal quarters.                                Clause 201.04
(2) Around the blasting points.                 Clause 202.03
the adequately wide safety clea
-rance zones shall be set up
with warning signs and warning
lines.
(3) Crowds, cattle and vehicles  Contractor.
shall be dispersed on time and   Local Envir
the safety inspection shall be   ProLection
carried out before blasting.       Units and
t4) The, storage and disposal      Public Secu    Clause
of the exposives shall be car-   -rilty Organ 202.03 .43)
ried out strictly according to
the safety regulations.
10 Protection         Miin the alignment design and   FPCPDI &
of Cultural       construction of Mt.Xiaoyingling  Contractor
Relics            section.   attention  shall  be
paid to the protecLion of the
-     historic site--Tongmin an Pass.
No bulk blasting shall be
adopted.
(2)The 6uilders shall secure        Contractor
the education on the protec-
tion of the cultural relics.
C Operation
Stage
I Leakage nf          (11  The strict inspection of       FPEAB
Hazardous          the motor vehicles to be run-
Materials          ning on the expressway slhall
& Wastes           be carried out at the entran
-ce.
(2i The license system shall        l:PI:AI% &
be enrnreed nn Jhr vehicles         Public-
car-rying perniciltpus and pnii S"t    Secsir it y
-ous materials.          a-rcans
(3) The leaks shall he cleaned
cin time and the penalty stiall bt-
imposed onl those who act against
the regulatinns.
2 Vehicle Emi         (1) The low-stied cars will be       -PRAl3
-ss ion alprub iii led tl *'tiu n n the exprt's
-stway. The limited slpced shalt
ihat he less than sn0 Kk1h.
(21 The use of horns shall be
limited.
3) The mnoor vehicles shall be    Traffir
equipped with mu(f!c:rs sa as. tn    ?tgItaiaIn
satisfy the requirements for nt'i    I n i I 
-se emission criteria.
24



(4) Along the expressway. trees      FPEAB
will be planted. acting a the
noise shield.
(5) The acoustic barriers will        PPECDO
be set up-along the 12 sensiti-
ve sections.
(6) The motor vehicles shall meet
the requirements for waste gas
emission standard.
3 Highwav           The periodic maintenance shall be   Traffic
Drainage           carried out for the road drainage  Regulation
System             system'. The sediments shall be     Units and
clened and the side ditches, de-      PPEAB
watering sumps and drainage pipes
shall be dredged.
-----------------------------------------------------------------
D Envir.
Monitoring
1 Environmen         (1) The environmental policy         FPECDO(
-tal Moni-        acts & EAP shall be Implemented.    ruture
toring In          (2) The periodic monitoring t        FPEAB)&
Construc-          once a month)or the construc-        Local
tion Phase        tion noise shall be conducted         Envir.
In compliance with Noise CriLe       Monitor-
-ria for Construction Sites          ing tta-
(GB12523-91).to ensure Lhe noise    tions
within 70 m from the central
line of the expressway will not
surpass 77dB(A).
(3)The periodic monitorings shall
be carried out for the fume from                 Clause
the asphalt mixing plants and the               1105.12.3
flying dust from the construction
qctivities so as In ensure the ef
-fectiveness of the dust control
measures.
(41 Periodic observations shall
be made for suspended solid mate-
rials.silt in the snil erosion areas
and oils. COD and %iipended sedimenis
at the lower reachies af Jiasha
=s      Bridge.
(51 Inspections shall he made for   FPECDO &
the Iransporf vehicles so as to   Contiaclor
ensure the safely in the transpor
-tation of bulk materials.
2 Etivir.            .1) Five regialar atmospheric moni    l.cal
Monitoring          -toring pninis shall lie set ut  i)   Mgniitor-
in Operation       conduct the moniitinring of NOx.TSP    ing Sta-
Plhase              Pl and CO with a frequiency oa  4    1 iolls
Iimes a year. Each time. 5 days wi   cunsisn
-I I he spent I els c-hltit I the mon i tar  -ed hv
-ing in fine weather. 1-5 persons/  FPEAB
iine wiil le inpuI "ach day.
25



APPENDIX
Summary Of Resettlement Action Plan For
Quuanzhou-Xiamen Expressway Section
Of Fu2hou-Xiamen 'Highway
1. Alignment location and impact
In  accordance with principle in route selecting nf "away but
not far from and close to but not entering cities and tnwns", and
"locating  alignment close  to  mountains  and  hills  with  less
occuzpation of fertile farmlands and less demolitinrt of hnotses".
it's  decided   that  the   starting  point  *of  Ouanzhou-Xiamett
Expressway  Section shoul,d  be located  at Xifti in  the northeast.
suiburbs  of Qfuanzhoni City, about  10 km  away from  the downtown
areas. The rouite  stretches souxthwestward along the  eastern part.
of Quanzhnu City LO crnss over Jinjiang River at Chenzhou Village
(6 km  in the  soiii.heast subuirbs nf  Ouan7hnlu) and  go along  the
northwest part  *f Anhai T'nwn  and Shutiton Town oif  Jinjia.ng City
and the southeast fringe of  Cizan lown and Guangqiao Town. After
passing by Shbtitou 'lown. ttie  rctite tturns northwestward tn  cross
over Shijing  River and go throutAh Sulcuo  Tunnel. Shantout Ttinnel.
Xi any i ng Ii ng Tunnel  and  Xi asthax i Tunllne i.  Then  the  al igntmet
travels along the northeryi fringe of Maxiang TnWTI, southwest pat-
*nf Trng'an Contnty  -.na nort.h part of Jimei  District. After gonjig
t lnough  Damansihan  I'uiuiie. I .  it. 'rids  uip  at. Guan in tou in  h.he
northwest of X;inri  n it bistrict *f Xiameni CliLy. Th'e wti'Ile al igtninr':
is 81.441 km in length.
The  expressway  s.ictinio  transverses  n  ctiunties   (ei ties.
d i s tr i cts)  concernii n- 18 towns. 10406.7 mu Iiand inciiudin£: 9076A.
mut  farmIand  wi I i  oe  reaulsi l.io ned.  96954  sq ;are  tneters "v
buiildinigs  will be deiuliisne.d and relocateci. including 68819 sq.m
.af 394 dwellIn; h:..-.;ses.  l51 Sq.m uf 4 schools. 25191 sq.m  tf 'i'2
Cac.Lories and' 169,  sc.m olr 108 livesLtock sheds.  2019 tLoubs Wi i;
be  removed. 16.830 people are expected  teo bc affected. Although
the  requisi t ioneed  lands   are' rather  large,  yet.  there  ar e
relatively  less fertile  farmland to  be  acquired and  dwe1ling
houses thi be demnlist#-dl. In the areas along the expressway rnuti.
with  the rapid  dlevelnument  oir  individuaL. 'jitir-venturc  ind
Lownshir  enterprises. the rural ectnomv- has trarnsferred frnm trie
singic agriculturall economy Ln thc diversiticed ecCn-3my (including
agr i cui  ture   i ndiis1..ry.  btoi liciing industry,  transij!,rt  industry.
c-ofnmnrrrfi,  w Lr-.  wI it. thrr.(c ea'irttommir. sei.torrs   is  I.(L-
owned, nniler.ive. and individiial sonncrvmy. Mnre. and more peasai.nts
become  the. labourers. etniaging in bnth awricul t'ire and indtustrv.
More and more self-employed persons appear who abandoned farming
for business. Step) by step.  these farmers are leaving their 0.45
mu of  farmIland  and gPtting  fairly well-off.  Of 16.830  peovie.



affected by the expressway, only 31.6X are engaged exclusively In
farming,   while  about  38.3X  have  income  from  industry  (or
commerce) and agriculture. About 4.2X work for enterprises or
Institutions, and the remaining 25.9X have no ability In economic
activities. In the  respect ot impact  on properties, about  7.3%
individuals are, merely affected by houses demolishment, 85.4X are
affected  by  land  requisition.  and  only  6.1% are  under  the
infliuence of both. The remaining 1.2X are affected by other
factors.
2. Policy basis of lana requisition and resettlement
T'he provincial Directorate Office of Expresswav Constructioin
is required to obtain SPC's  apprnval of the feasibility study toi
the project and MOC's approval of preliminary engineering befnre
initiating  action  *on  land  requisition  and  resettlement  for
Quazlihciu-Xi amen I3xpressway construction.  The l.and Adminis tral. i .v i
Laws   Of   P.R. C..   The   Bnforcement   Resgtia.tions   or   I.and
Administration Of  P.R.C. and  'i'he Enforcement.  Measures Of Lana
Administration Of  Ftujian Province are  the legal basis  for land
requisition  and resettlement to be tindertaken in cotnnectiont with
the expressway construc,tion.
3. Compensation policy
On the basis of the above-mentioined laws, and considering the
economic bearring capacity of the project, the compensation policy
has been drawn upy so as to ensure the rightis and interests of L.he
people affected.
(I1). Compen1sation. standard  or  land  requisitinn  .and  iLs
.ppIi cati1on
According to Trhe Enforcemenl Measures Of  L,a;td Administrat.i nn
o(f  Pujian Province.  the land  requiisitin n  rees consist  if t Y'
compensations fnr land, young crops and resettlement stubsidy. *tihe
cnmpensationi standards are shown as fol l(ows are:
a.  Compensation   for  land   =  annual   oi tput  vaue i     1 -
reqtiisitionted land s 5 tyuana/mut)
h. CompensaLion  for young  crnps =  annuai  tiutptit value  oii
requi  s i t i oned i an&d S 0 .5 (Y uanimt'zi
:.   Suibsidy  for  resettlement  =  anniiz.i  utpiiit.ut  vaiiij' *-
requisitioned land s 2 2 agricultural poputlatiocn /  lanad quanti 1.-Y
(ytuan/mu )
l'he  compensatinn for land  and resettlemenit suibsidy  will ii-
paid to  the g..vernments at  township level. 'ihey will  mainly he
used for:-
4v. develo-ing t*oY.nzh-a', enterpr ies tu absurb!:     I .. Z I
anid subsidib.ing the individuials who are uniable t"i work.
k.    fina ncing   vYi llae-run    eriterurises.   aquacu i tnire.
4evelopmen'  and   c.nstruction   oef  siai i  indtrial   .
reclamttion oil wasteland and improvement of le1w-7ieiJ farm iands.
- .  reclaimng  the  lands from  t.he  sea for  the purnosr   r
enlarging  the area of  cultivated land and  p rovidin-g emplonymenilt
opportunities to arrange the surplus labours.
!n  the. use   of  compensation   fees.  the   Village-levei.
2 



administrative organizations will obtain appropriate right of
controlling means of production.
The compensation for young crops will be paid directly to the
ownerss.
(2). Compensation  standard of temporary land  occupation and
its application
Compensation fees for temporary land occupation incltide the
land borrow fees  and land reclamation  fees (if necessary).  The
compensation standards are shown as follows:
a. Land borrow fees (including compensation fnr young crops
in the borrow lands) = corresponding land requisition fees * 10%
s borrowing term (irn year)
b. Land reclamation fees = corresponding land requisition
fees 2 10%
The compensatinn for young crops and the reclamation fees (if
necessary)  of the  borrow land  will  be given  directly to  the
nriginal land users.  who will resume the  cultivatinn cnnditinns
themselves. 'I'he other compensatinn will be paid to gnvernments at
township or at village level for developing collective economy or
for resettlement subsidy.
(3). Compensation for building demolishment and removal and
its application
rhis compensation will be determined with the "replacement
price method":
a. classify the  grade of the buildings to  be demolishecl and
removed  and   determine  the  un.it  price   (yluan/squiare  meterl
necessary for rebuilding the htuses ot thLe same grade.
b. determine the percentage nf quality level oft the buildintas
according to their service term and conditinns.
c. fix the base price *F t.he hbildings:
Base price =  uinit price s "naiiaity  p.ercentage" (yian/square
mc't.er)
The  locai governments  will be  responsiile  frtr the  detail
resettlement works, sn they will  I <ni.ract the uise rn  eoimpensatitoi
ees of this item and draw tip cincrete compensai. itn standards.
1The   compensation  fees   f.r   buiildirur  aemolishmenrt  a:;:r
rel%ication will be paid direc tiy Lit Lite twners.
. (4). Cnmpenisation for demo Ilishiment annd remiavai of power-.
telecommtinication  facilities  and  various- nrieiines  and   its
application
C:ompensatinn for reiocation  cof power. telecommunication  A.td
various pipelines shiould be calcxilaied accordin.  tn Budget-makiaiV
Regulations drawn tip  by the utili vLy administration  agencies and
wi i i he. i,aid iiirectly t e the owners of s-c.h fac- - i litis.
(5). Compensatioin  foir demnlisiiment  and relocation  of other
accessaries and i:.s application
The accessa-ies axdnerinx  to land suich as  tomb.s. brickki Ins.
t.ilekiJns.  pumt3 houses. we! Is. anul'osures a:ir.i lavatnries wi lIl be
c.nmpensated  properly by the inoal znvernments in accordance wx.th
the real losses.  T'he compensatinn fees wil11he  paid directly r.o
the owners.
(6). Other policies and rules
3



Fujian  provincial  government  stipulates  that  during  the
implementation of the resettlement plan nf this project, variolus
local taxes and funds are exempted, that the agricultural tax and
the task to sell grains to the government can be cancelled as
soon as the land is acquired, and that the farmland occupation
tax is free except 30X of'it which must be turned over to the
central   government.   As  to   the  rebuilding   of  factories,
enterprises, organizations, schools and dwelling houses, the
local governments and the land administration departments should
help to  apply for the land required for  the rebuilding so as tn
resume production and work as snon as possible.
4. Resettlement principle
(1) resettlement of labouirs affected by land requisitinn
Six counties  and cities  (districts) with  18 tnwns  will ne
involved  in the land  requisition of Quanzhott-Xiamen Rx0ressway.
10406.7  mu land will be  requisitinned and 1662  mu land will tie
requi red for temporary  occtupati on. These acc.ouint fnr  about 2.3 
of the total farmlands. Because  of 'Inw prnportinn. t.he influence
is small. In addition, with developed township enterprises along
the alignment  the agricultural activity  is not the only  way Lc
make  a living  for roadside  residents. it  is easy  to resettle
these  labours.   After   consulting  with  the  county   (citvyX
governments along the  rotute, the following meastures  are decided
to be taken to resettle the sujrpltus labours affected by the land.
requ si tion.
a.  readjusting  the "responsibility  farmland"  to make  the
farmers affected have lands to cultivate:-
b. providing land  compensatinn fees tn develop  the vi I laze.-
level agricultural production. tn reclaim lands from the  sea, ;'2
reclaim  wasteland nr  transform low-Yield  lands  as we.ll  as t.o
develnp  farming and sideline  production and to  expatnd LOwnShip
enterprises so as tn absorb surplus labours:
c.  emplnying a few persons in nearby state-owned enterprise-
and  changing their Eholsehold  register from agriclt Uirc  !.n ntun-
agrictilture  tinder  an  over-al l planning  carried  oul.  hv loc yI
governmen ts.
(2)  resett lement of  the persnns  affectect by the  bui ldinic
demolishment and relocatinn
a. T'he  fakrmers. whose  dwe I Iin. houses  wnt,lId be  demui i shed
will  demolish  and  rebutild hnouses  themseives  in  the vicini;.y
according to lncal planning.
b. The factnries.  schnols and hospitals will.  in princ-iplIe.
demniisii aTid  rd;u.il di the  dwelt insg  ho;ses of  t I;,hr  It.a..  'rhe
ronstructinn unit will pay the cnmpensation fees.
c.  *I'ie governtment  instituti'ns  w1ill resc.1i.c  Llci:-  t: L.Cr
tnemseives. 7-e. c-nnstruictinn  uni twill pay rnmrensation  ,ees i:.
replacement  price"   for  dwellitng   houses  dcamolishment a-n
reincation.
(3) resettlement subsidy
I'he subsidy for  resettlement fnr the whnle  pro.iet is 2'9.9t=
miliiorn yuan. See the following table for details:
4



I           . region              1 resettlement subsidy  I
I                                 I IRP  10.000 YUAN)    I
I                                .I                     -
I Liche  Dl)istict or Ouanhou CiLv  I      479.9         1
I Jin:iians  City                 I        1150.t
IHan'an   CounLy                  1        547.1
I Tont'an  Cunty                           56 .5         t
i Jimei District of Xiamn City    I        151.Ii
I XinKl in Disirict of Xiame City   I      1P1.U        1
Lo1ta I                                     I M.  I
5. Expenditture  for  land requisition  and resettlement
(1)   Acctrding   to   the    arrangement   of   Ftujian   provinciai
government about the land requiisition and resettlement for
construction  of Quanz.houi-Xiamet   Expressway.  the city and   county
(district)   governments  -along   the    route   will   contract    the
expenditure of land requisition and resettlenient. The contrac ts
will be made in April, 1993. The quantity of the land to be
requisitioned or borrowed and the contract price are listed in
the following table.
I                                                       I
i                       item      Iquantity of land (nu) I
i            I          mtract price  l
I  regiom                         Irequisition I borroT  IIRIB 10,O00yuan) I
I                                I                                       1
ILicheng District of Ouanzhou city 1    1307    1 177.9  1    1820.3     l
I Jin:iiang City                 1       .7     I 77. 1  I    3022 2
I~~                               ~     ~~~~~~  I  I  j*1_ 
I Han'an  Counl.t                 1    1932    1  1 12       2011.3      1
1 ----  I-I t-. -      __
ITang'an Counur1a                 I    85.2   1 670.5  1    2842.1       1
: I                                           I,_I
!.irn:mp. !is:ricL sof Xiampn City  1    1076    1 23  1      1139.3
: |~~~~ ----  l-,-*-_--                                  -
I Xirxl in Dlthrict of Xiarnen 'City   I  397.2    I  93 '   410.6       1
I    h   *  t  , , -- - t~~~~~~~I 
I   tolal                         1  10407.1   1 1661.7 1   11245.6      1
Tile    con Erac. L  Dr i ce    cons i s ts   of  cumpensat .ion    for   L and
requisition,   crimpensaLioti  for    land   borrow,   compensati on   ro, 
resettlement,   farm   land   occupation  tax,   and   stibsidy   for the
differences  betweern  par price and   negotiated  price of grain. The
former  three  items   of the price will be given   tei individiials  or
5



collective  units,  including  the  cost  for  rebuilding  public
facilities and the development fund for labour resettlement. For
the latter  two items, the  expresswav construction unit  will go
through all the formalities specified by the relevant gqvernment
divisions.
(2) Compensation for land requisition or borrow, exceeding
contract quantity
1.  the  comprehensive  compensation   for  land  requisition
(yuan/mu) = (contract price - compensation for land borrow in the
.contract) / quantity of requisitioned land in the contract
2.  the   compensation  for   land  borrow:   Based  on   the
comprehensive compensation for land requisition, the  calculation
is the same as that in the contract, i.e.
1) the  compensation for  borrowing the land  which   must be
reclaimed  (yuan/mu) = the  comprehensive compensation fnr   land
requisition s 10% 2 (tenure term + 1)
2) the compensation for borrowing the land which is not
needed to be reclaimed (yuan/mu) = the comprehensive compensation
for land requisition * 10X
(3) Subsidies for enterprise remnval and prnduction stop
Besides compensation for houses demolishment. subsidies for
houses removal and productinn stop wili be separately paid to
those  described  in  Section  4  (2)  b  accnrding  to  concrete
situtation. Subsidies ftr enterprise removal and prodtuction stop
are generally  taken from  the contract price  by local  city and
county  governments.  If   such  losses  are  qusite   heavy,  the
expressway construction   uniti  will   properly  subsidize  these
ci ties   or counties and the suibsidies will be taken from reserve
fnd.
(4) Reserve Fund
Accorrding  to  The Estimation and  Budget-making  ltegutiations
.rawn   up by  MOC in  1992 and  takin% the  situatinn in  fr,,ijian
preovince into  account. the total  reserve ?:mnd is  7.159 millinn
Yuan, which will  be mainly used for unexpectted  costs within the
approved  preliminary  hbudget.  setting-ou3t  inf rfght-of-way  and
dealing with aftermath o)f resettlement.
(5) Land Managemen. ExpetIse
l,and   management  expense  or  maintenance  cost  for   land
requisition and  resettlement. equal to  3 percent  of the  total
land reqtuisition  fees,  is taken  from  the contiact  price  and
mainly used  for the  costs for  administrative wnrks  concerning
land   requisition and  resettlement. 'Ihe  mai T)tciiance costs  for
the  administrative organizations  below  coitunty  level  will  be
aH!ocated  b-y  the administrative efrices    1  city   and rnisntv
(or district) level.
6. Scheme and Procedurc tor -Q"-rryin , Ju. thie Action Plan
(1) scheme
lo  ensure  the snnnessfu! C-..v!struct iost n ' the expresswayv  nd
to   let local  governments play  positive rciies. the  provinciis
gcivernment decided  that   the land reqtuisition and  resettlement
should    be under    unified  leadership  and direction  and  ni.
6



fulfilled   in  one step.   The expenditure  for land requisition
and resettlement will be contracted to city governments along
the  route   and   then divided into  subcontracts one by  one to
each county, who will   be responsible  for land requisition  and
resettlement works in the area under its jurisdiction.
(2) procedure
A. survey of compensation standard
Provincial  Directorate  Office of  Expressway  Construction,
accompanied by Fujian provincial Land Administration Buireau and
Communications Planning & Des*igning lnstitute, made a survey of
compensation standard on land requisition and building relocation
from January to April, 1992. They collected such data as total
area  of farmiland,  population and  types,  growing area,  per mu
yield, selling and buying price of crops as well as price of
buildings.  Based  on these  data,  the  annual output  value  of
requisitioned land and the unit price of compensation for land
requisition and buildirng demolishment are calculated. See the
following table for compensation standards.
I item          I wit lunit pricel                              I
I               I    Il(R}B nJ I            remrks 
IlI drequisition fee I mu I 8000  I
:           ,1    1  --:I   I                               I
Iland bwrovfee  I mu I        ISeeClause5.2.2 for dtails.
Ibuildin&       I sq. I    150  I                               I
Iiildix    I m.;I   I9
*I   I lnin. Iit;chi    1NM.  'I    400  1  . 
Ifruit:        I             I-I 
I banana   I NG6.    10  I                                 I
:Lree    I                    I ,I
I'others   I NM.I   SD   I 
I tz;b   .MImNGS. I  100   I inc luded in land requisition and borroy rees. I
.~~~to                 I                            .in I  0    icue
B. Establisimenit of  the nrganizations fnrr land   reqtiisitin
and resettlement
The organizations for land requisition and resettlement have
been established duiring  April to October, )992.  The arrangemcnt
is as follows:
-11  The provincial, city, colinty and tnwnship governments are
resputtsibie for cdecision-making on their respecLive ieveis t.m ril;
into  effect t.he la-nd  ac-qutisition and rese-ttlement onliries and
Prjocedut-es.. Leaditig xgruras  liave been rormed al  provincigi. .-.'Y
and county levels by the heads  nf planning, Jand administratinn,
lurban  construction. cormmtnications.  labour, agricuitutre.  water
conservancy. elecLric  power, post, and  broadcasting depar:.menris
responsible for  coordinating land  requisition and  resettlement
activities in their respective sectors.
2)  The DirectoraLe  Offices  or expressway Constrticti^n  aL
-    7



provincial, citY and county levels are in charge of the execution
of resettlement plan.
a. Three persons fronm provincial Directorate Office of
Bxpressway Construction  will be responsible  for formulating the
action plan of land requisition and resettlement, verifying the
range,  quantity and costs.of resettlement. making contracts with
city and county governments and guiding, supervising, examining
the work of resettlement organizations at city and county levels.
b. Staffed by ten persons respectively, the resettlements
offices at city level will be responsible for: 1) taking and
fulfilling, the tasks from provincial Directorate Office; 11) the
works concerning land requisition and resettlement in the area
under  their  jurisdiction;  III)  disposing  of  civil  disputes
occurred in expressway construction; IV) helping the provincial
Directorate Office with its work; V) helping the Contractors toi
acquire or borrow pits and quarries, to establish temporary power
lines. water lines  and roads for constructinn and  to begin site
preparation.
c.  The   offices  of   expressway  construction   at  county
(district)  level are the enforcement bodies for land requisition
and  resettlement  staffed  by  3--5   persons  respectively  and
totalling  about 30, whn are responsible for land requisitlion and
resettlement in  the  area tinder  their  iurisdiction.  vcrifying
resettlement  data,  allottinig  compensation  fees  according  tn
relevant laws. disposing nf civil  dispittes and leading the  work
of resettlement offices at township level.
d. The offices  of expressway construction at  tnwnship level
are the working agencies for land requisition and resettlement
staffed by 2 pe.rsons respectively and totalling about 36. who' are
responsible  for  land  reaujisition  and  resettlement   .   each
township,  verifyinig resettlement  data, alloltting  compensation.
disposing of civil disputes and drawing tip resettlement pians. In
addition every  village will  assign a  specific person  for land
requisition and compensation.
C.   Setting-oult   ol'  right-of-way   and  verification   nf
requisitioned land and removed structures
During Nnvember. 1992 to March, 1993. organized by provincial
Directorate  Office,  more  than 130  people  with  the designing
institute playing the lead staked out the right-of-way. marked
the  boundary  and verified  the  quantity  nf  the lands  tQ  be
requiisitinned  and the structures  to be demolished.  After that.
with the help  nf resettlement organizations at  different l eve l s
and local village committees, they re-verified and  siummed tip the
daLa is atn  i LLe-check sheeL  of unified formAt, which were signed
and then  suibmitted tn the  couinty resettlemerit offrices  as basis
for reseMLiemrWiL cuznLr.acls. It was completct in March. 1t,5-.
I. Signing or contracts
It  is  schedtled that   the  provincial Uirectorate  C3rrjce
of  Exprnssway Construction' wili make contracts wit}}  eacht couinty
gnvernments 'in early-April of 1993. The subcontracts between
counties and towtnships  wi Il be made before the  middle of April.
1993 and then the subcontrac:ts between the townships and the
8



villageu  will  also be  made.  All  formalities  for   the  land
requisition will be approved by the end of March, 1993.
E. Completion of land requisition and resettlement
The structures within the right-of-way are scheduled to be
demolished and  removed  during  April to  October,  1993.    The
properties   till  be  removed by  the  owners in principle.  The
resettlement  organizations  will  be in  charge of  disposing of
those  )wnerless proper-ties.   After  the  buildings   and  other
properties    are demolished  and removed  within specified time,
their owners will receive proper compensation. The resettlement
of disloCated people  should be completed by the  end of October,
1993 and land redistributinn should be finished before the end of
June, 1993.-Fujian  Provincial Directorate Office of   Expressway
Construc.tion,  accompanied  by  the  relevant  provincial,  city,
county (ore district) governments, will make an inspection of land
requisition   and   resettlement.   All  right-of-way   will   be
transferred in December, 1993.
(3) Progress and Schedule
1) January--April, 1992: sturvey on the compensation standards
(completed).
2)  September,   1992:  determination  of   the  compenisation
standards (completed).
3) April--October, 1992:  establishment of the  organizations
for land requisition and resettlement (completed).
4) November, 1992--March, 1993: setting-out of right-of-way.
5) March, 1993: verification and atuthenticatinn of the
-quantity of the requisitioned land and btuildings.
6) April,  1993: signing  of contracts  and subcuntracts  for
land requisition and resettlement.
*) April--October, 1993: demolishmenL and relocatian.
8) June--October, 1993: completion nr resettiement.
9) December, 1993:  transfer of right-nf-way ainng  the whnle
roti te.
7. Appendix
See the attached appendix for detailed data.
9



Table I       Suary of' Land Resquisition for Ouanzhou-Xiaaen Expressway Pro.iect
iten        present area and population       the land to be requisitioned          average fa  land Per capita
] resion                     far. land     population    cultivated   non-cultivated  total     before requisi-  after ruisi-   dSicrmi        rewg.
!~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~(u 1S                    per.son)     land (mU)    land  (mu)               tion  mf/Per Sn  tion (mvper-so) ratio  (X)
I Lim Lowns and townships in      29O0         795            1055.8        251.2          13U7       0.363           0.350            3.581
L.icheng l)istrict                                       I                                                                       .             .
Iyeven towns and townshiPs in     190523      .527179         2469.9       369.7          2839. 6     0.378           U.374            1.058
I nlniang city                                                       .                                                                        .
one town.qhip and a farm in      44775        IU091S          1576         356            1932       0.444           ).428            3.604
Han ain countNy.                                                                                   -.
rive towns and townships In      157001       237187         2530.8       324.4         2855.2       0.662           0.651            1.662
Tong'an county                                             .-
tLIb towns and tonships in      72811         72369          1046.7        29.3          1176        I.U06           0.99P            1.392
Jimal District__
one town in Xinxlin District.    19733        38211          397.2                       307.2       0.516           0.506            1.938
total                    522903      1055806         9076.4        1330.6       10407.0                     _         _        _



'rable 2    Summry ol Buildings Demolished and Relocated for WUdnzhou-XIawen lUxpressway Pro.Ject
bui ldings£                                                    others
I  tam      rdwellin.arilcultural and enter-   ror use of wublic uoo rs
pris bui Idimns  t./Hus.)           racilities ( 4os. I         total                            rish pon&  home
re*ion            \            dwellI I    agricultural enter-   school  hospi- other           (.Z)      belonging   owner-    (mu/place)  rWiChIti
\  houses    !  bui ldings  Prisei          talsa to b.                                less
I Lwo Wma~n  NMI townships in    18611(V2       58/4        15303/18 1567/2                    34558/149      288                   10.3/B       3483
I  l.k4honi   D istrict._______________                                                                                            _______
| .li:hn.Uiilr|liana | 5tY  |_         _   I                                                                                   OIX 23i7/Z2||4    12E60/6  SS; 
I seveLWnm  and townships in    10246/80      IUl/4       7510/30                             238°I3/114     1210                 23.7/Z4       IW6
1i         tt                                         _                                 _       _                            .  I
one towishIp and a rara in,      17O/85       212/8        1208/2  68I                         19170/96      250                  38.0/24      4132/23
Han'an county                              I                                         _
rive tows and townhips in   i 11845/18 1  6/40             584/I       .                      13117/118      157                  147.9/55       96/1
'ronc'ain countL                I                                                   I               I                 I
I two towns and townships in      19W17        180/20       580/11                              2724/48        41                   6.5/5
Jimel District                    I.I
one town In Xinglin District    2528/19  1  454/23                                             2982/42        73     1             12.2/5
total                   68819/394 i 1693/108      25191/02  1251/3                   961;!WW         2019      _         23S.6/119     58345/1



Table 3   Su.mry of Cowensatlon for Land Resquisition and Resettlement of Uuanzhou-Xiauen Expressway Project
(unit: ten thousand Yuan)
* I                   compensation ror land requisition and resettleenL1
I.~~~~~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~~ i1e                                                             - -. *.,         .       .
I               .                        individuals                      collective units          'ubl                          ca;ts or; prwvisiami
________    ________    .______    ._______  ,    state-    utilities          resettler
reRion  *eans f Iqn o     easof   refuisiLi.,d                owned  (powr &      toLal   met             an
t.vo .owis and LowshlIn    iproducti           hood subtotal priA4ction or borrowed    subtotal enter- comunica-                aMnis-
(e.g.crop)  (eg.housW)          and ofr ioe  land                    prises Lions)               tration
IsevenLowns _md towrrshivs In     44.6       319.4     364.0       54.5       1061.1        1115.6  149.9   171.3        I8                      U08 54.6  145.3
1 U.ichewnx l)istrieL                                                                                                                     _
I seven l;ow  and townships in    96.9       350.0      456.9      17.1       2287.4        2304.5           221.8       2983.2    90.7       185.3
I Jiniiang city                                  _    .                                  _         _                                                      .
lone towmship and a rarv In       65.8       347.4      413.2                 1518.7        1518.7   10.3    39.__)       I 90.3              141.5
Ran'an County
I rive tovms and towLshiPs in     97.3       189.4     28ff.7      8.8        2427.9                          4 243.7  46.6   2770.0    85.3  163.5
I Tong'an oeuntv               _
I two towns and townships in      36.7        40.9      77.6                 903.9          903.9             145.1      1126.6    34.2        54.6
I Jii l)istrict                                                                           I
one town In Xinglin District     13.5        44.7      58.2                 337.8          337.8             4.1        400.1      12.3    |  25.7-
total                   354.8   |  1301.8    1656.6       80.4       8536.8      |8617.2  160.2 j 628.8        11052.8   337.3    1715.9



Tat 4       sumrv or lhe PaputiFSaLn ArrecLed By the IhmrJan-Xi;aa  F        7Amuy JhCL
IoIulaLHon to ba affected .pers.ni                                          I
I                                            a*Lbvbuildinrilishm  Iby land nquisitlan     Iby bulidid &mlilishnL  I br lsimu other
'n -                               an' Id land rm.quixitimi    IaUDOaL biisr        _    I
raclun              \yhain; rirxw    1t.fM  n                h inc find h3r[                                  no       ls fi:      irman         hi ir     iuvijm  Mc
I _______________           gnc~                f tied inclaa  I inem  ri:  rncm     f Inf x   fId ina     in                   risd Inca..  ifixed i. 
1-                     -   t-- I                            --                             -1 I_ _                                      -- 
I WS I*Unat sUI tmnF1hiW  in    I  31          I   82          1IS7        I484                2        I     53            45            13         213S           ;Z
I NV                                                                                                                  I I  I  t  53 I  II
1*-                                     I                          -                                 ___.1._
IwiYan t       d> ini toiwmhls in  1  172           57           4)73          1156            IGU             0            5322   1 445S12
I JiLiiarnK  it.                        I              I       _
Ine toauhip Va a ram in    11!5  *3                            143             751             178       . Il2              7       1     4 -I                     - MD
I Ibn' an cwntv                         
I                    .          I               I            I                                                           _ -                   _  
IrI  tva  tol  .dtmhl  In   1  156              1             1 I2417      I  932              117            401  I                                            I 1= I13
I Tc'man rAntv                                                                            I                           I I  I  I
-     I          I             1             I                    I t------   ---t-- I-                                          i 1--I
two to awd tovmhlp  In    1   27              |        Ib                    24  35                          13           37      1      14     |       7|          1
I JImI District                                
oretown  Xincin District          55         j    14          .527           140              32          _9     i      i                                    J1 1
total 1O D315 loi002                                                36_    _        747             7            IU42          53       1 124U7 



71
J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Table 5~  Sut'7* 01 Ihe i!lCaacLlnumL 0r Ihnai,-XinamS Fieznltlua i'rJ
Ito.  ___________           rei*nLtiiwmL or Itbonu                            I        tJbI ishmt or tb! sLreuturen   I
I                                                                                           wicutol--tura-- - I 
trur adiusting it I nrter a4titutimlDnd I ISin                    WI   u                   a cisl  Ptlic
I            . { slmora amnLinulim  I . Jabors cancumAtLIy I imterpriaN I sabtotol  aRuIn  t  iam      buIdias  tmC b4
I rmdm                         Sitelme wicultwtuml I eiuauw. in uecwd   I           I            nalrd IIU,UUU1            Ia,s ml      Idii
nri.ivh itim erlanl  I t.r-rt!ion ttrnl I  Imerotil I I'mm) I   l ml
I tUmm mnni tJsiltin  In    1    12S               1     74             1 I547    1   1G49        1 11.57    I rebuilt   IrebulIL  adim to tw         IlIwrikItw_el1
I L.iwrlc lxhtrict            I                                         I           I                         ML           O ral plus nllat miuwl.t rd wiII
*I                                                                             nmbybi-- I                                          d nb  k  ii   r
Iuavan tmi  aN  l.a  Aio in  I    1014             I    17M             1   1168        31741     284.2       PlFa                                    e1o1tiem;iadrim
IJin.ilaw t'lb                                                                                                0     inn_IAr .  __ _  I _rdiw.t         1c1  fr  the
. .                                                  I           j      e     o to  rba                                    ate.) ad gapaia
C,tmaship md.a ra  in                                                                                                                                         i 715  371  l402  1q¶ mod S m  t  0 hm  or 0wXy
l , I           _d r                   lw d-    imm
i rive .mZ  wZ L. nship   in       7111i7                     I                      _ 1   7N   1        2I                                                     "I    e
I Te^tm'an                                                                                                                                           Ito th a 10-  I I  I  I  I
._%                                                                           _d _.___'tret
ttwo Loins am] townshiui in .     432                   9U                I61          03b2   1040.6                                                           te e5i
IJiasI bistr. let._                                                                                                                                   tdita. teld le
.aj  t   a      "n In Xi1i In District  I    i       !104                              MD       351.3                                               lbj fiiby            l tir
total                  __3562       __         3827            j  3176                   8401i.55     W1__.5
Notes: AricuIturl daveloont rnd Inclu es  t or tim co.erticn ror land rnuisition and te.ow-  land a.tlmu - well - the r.d ror lad r.clatim  r.m the m
and tawulD eniarvrisn   IOuaant.



lb* he it.itrMiAleil Fnmilwrk rur InmI Rquisiti;,n In  RettleuPmt I_mnimmmt or inrmihou-Xin SnEufe*rrau.LmmtLim
Derisin-wi1kirx Syrsl                        lgnxintinLc SYdAnn                      Fnrforson.t System                              Ikdies
I Pibpl's  nernmnt ori tiian Pravimrui-  -   Fhjjinn Proin.ilal lidira Group F-I Fuiian hI incial Directrate OrrDcr I-i Faminmring ud Tecimlo  Divisim
: __, __                          --                                                             I 1 (3 pesam
I                                                                                                 I--~~~~~~~~ 
I People's Gnvernwnta of                      I CRYi I,in  Group   1  ------i Directtrte urrim  at Cit, j.i I  ---i cit orrie
t                      Xlauin - -------~-~--' _                                                                                 u f  I .t1  1             _Prs  re   - _
I                      I.iduw Distriet I
I                      .IinJiani City    I
I                ih~~~Nn'rAn  rAunt   I ,,.                                          - 
I People's Gnvnnmmts of                   --   COunty(District) lmadig GroCups -II Directorate officsI
Toes'an Cismty  I    '                               - '  I   at Camty(District) lAvel          -        Caumty(District) Orrfis
I                      Jimi District   I                                           '1 3-5 pes6    rwe sd                                                             I
Xirsi In DistrictI
I.
I People's GoVwm tLq or 18 i.ws or tnhips  1---           ---                                                                   I Tm ad TAip Ofafim
-j                                                                                I (2 W.    fsatw



REcEIVED)
THE; AMI  PLAN OF ENVOOYiENTAL
PROTECrION. FOR THE PROGRAM OF UPGRADING
THE brDUM AN) LOW CLASS RURAL ROADS IN
FUJIAN BY USING TEE WORLD BANK LOAN
.  .
I ,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
FWIAN ADMINSTRAMlON OF HIGHWA
*i



The   for1 1t punof eat in nmet protecton for the
.pro ira  of upgrading the                and low  clas rural
road  in PuJian China by usg the World Bnk loan
With regard to measures ot environmental protection. ail sub- A
projeots are reconstruotion projeots baving the same Inrivence on
invironment.So we hbive worked out the same olusentto see appendix 1) .
but there exist ditterences ;mong the three organizations in oharge of
the activities of enviromental protection and the three monitoring
lnstitutes.But Influence of sub-5 projeots on environent.  however. is
liloted.Tbe enforoement plan of enviromental proteotion Is to be
carried on according to the version which the World Bank has agreed
and adopted.
I Practio of environmental protection and monitoring lnstitutest
I.At design stageidesign lnstitues take oharge ot the  pratice  of
environmental protection of the seven sub-B projeots. At construotion
stageuoonstruotors in obarge It according to the clauses.At operation
stage that Is traffic departments In various areaas.
2.Under the guidance of Fujian Enviroment Projeot units.the seven
sub-projects are to be oarrled out by Highways Network Reconsiruction
Adoinistration ottioe affiliated to Fujian Highway Administration
Bureau enstrusting Fujian lighway Engineering Consultation Supervision
Organisation with supervising the practice of environmental protection.
MM W   the assistance ot  monitoring  instituos  of  environmental
proteotion In Fujian.varioos areas take charge of their own practioe
and monitoring of enviromental protection at actual spot.
A list of monitoring institutes and executive units of onvirvoental
protection as folowing.
eutive "its of eavieetsal preteotioe
projet                                                  saitorwkg orgalzatios
&sip stpg            eostrutis stage
pojwect 1         Fujias Traftis Pregas     trter    Fr  floreent Protetlic lureas
(Ti|gjiaag-Lisajiasg) lILsign listult                  Furis lqginy Adsisistatiie lures
Project LI        Sui14 Trattli Prgras      ertor    &utIwS EMIrommat Prootetl  lures.
aXiuko-oDtosping)   Resip ln utile                     S     ligy  dsiisalie kreal
project 13        Frai  lisarul Preup       ostvter    Skm Esiromt trotetleo lure s
(tieu-Sham city)   esroc lastitte                      Shaom ligy   s1iastatios uileau
projet Al        Fhji. Fliv                estractor   *Ige Farirfesest Protetle lurus.
1lsiao-Zbeeiaa)   hbaistrstie lures                         ligivay Lisalmiiates ture
pfrojet a         FrJiaa lluh.             esetrastr    Singh Enviroet Proteslee lBurea
(Ita ltbu-Sbeiasg)  £biaistrstis ure                  -11logde liginy .Aisiaistati.s luresv
projet 11         rop Fuj ligimy           wetractor  4ligds Envirunenrt Protastlee hurau
(Zoning-ZlegIaa)  £Mislitrati. hro.                  ' |la s  lhiny hdstisialuie sure"
projot U4         Fujian ighway            ctrastor    L1egs hEwireemt Protecties urea
(laa- tlaqiae) hdisistratiu lhres                      Loaaysa llgwy  Iaaiasttie lureat



I.Environmental projectlon training
I.This can be seen In the whole training plasChaving been reported
to the World lank).
2.Training abroad.The environmental admInistrators will be trained
on Engliah and nvironmontal soenoe for three months in China before
they are tralned abroad ainoluding two-part traintng.onsejn theory.the
other In actual operation to conduct theoretical and practical training
about nolseedust.waterqualityeatmosphere and other respeots and master
not only theory but also have on-the-job training.
3.ralning subjeot, ioluding those will probably take part In
environmental management in the future and staff members who will be
transferred to adainistraotive post of environental projection.
Jf.Fro- point of view of Fujian Highway Administration Bureau. we not
only have the guarantee of organlzations# but the management of
environmental projeotion In various areas at aotual spot. Under the
efforts otfdeaign institutes and oontractors the plan of enviromental
projeotion can be carried out satisfactorily.
S
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 



The environment plan olauses of .nvironimntal ptoteotion for
program of upgrading the sodium and low olaum rural roads In Fujian
China  by using  the  World  Bank  Loan
Appendix I                                                                                    pagel
Mairoamul problis         iure to b lavw l   t.             ititus i s laorg                            r
L prior to b  trr-   (1 1 Ch biag reds from the sosideredf hjl  1ighiy    aistratie  lure
otie   duip stag)   al&eratiw   to su-  projects dm    Fujm tratle Prram bulp lutitu
rk  if latae am a  trpqlsitime of  Fath. Urba hI l Prqorai lrch Istit  t  oe  dilp
I.elowhg rote    lIad  uidatial aerass ad listoric  Sksuieg Trftiic Proam Duilp latitu                doonants
rites to a mlai.mThe prieiple of   trafflc btflo   in waro  arems
cholang  ghiny rotd  Is to  be
close to  itl  ut ot amoUn  sitis.
(1) Ik sb -proJets    lae ta
ralutwr   aod flood lato onesldratimn
ead try to moid riss mas_ IF to. Fujia  Traffic Proram Delp lstitu               to mm dulp
b dsglp Jrln*   aording to flood                                                 deements
2. raitura SW        frequy  wn Pr o hoored pes   F_o  Urha & hal Prograo luran  Jatitu
flsd risks            ror larp brl*seeos pr fifty yrs
rer  sdluiud ad ml bri*    as  Smuiag Trafflo ruMa Bsip lstite
well a rod o amd ivert.
(2)To mid nil wrlson  aw plan-
Wd to plat wptatloa ea side sloe
to probte  tn..
(1) To  urface a  roa Is order to  huji. Traffic rlogru Dosg lstitwe
;    i3f l_ms of  oln  redce aois uad air ps lvuti                                                    to ao dsip
ad air polltlos ae   (2) To plnt tre  Is the _oso*15 up   halrkom & la] Proram bg1h lstitu    d_emts
wel livw e ar          to 20 mtrs lop270  trm wide et
both sIde ot ro  bkrder and suplZy   Smg Traffis rogra .elnp lutitu
|usitiwe arau wthi tra proteotion.
(1)11 piea 16r' Motent Is being                 eostrators is chup
lI.etrwtiee stage  asd aud stirrd shoId sad am                Fujia hligha  I  htvwk  remetmrtlos    to geoetraet
tror iitivw  aedat leut WlO          Aidhimsratie. Offi  wvill etrst vith    decumuti
utres any.                           joist pratiser  tmc    t of eari etai
(2)511 teepray sad Wprmet isnt    protWctiol ib wriIous aea  ad upevisle    teslology stan-
oud fill sad eacewatlo thudW  bs    grou  In vrios soties ot a hig1y.           dard
protec     iiti worigp or is the   *11 ativities ae to be sevised by -th
L.alr pligtiom      treot-protitg uyspriuklng             wits of  rir_tli prot ltem ia Fiji         ocntract olams
vater  aimully to sop det tre         ad Frji  lNhy EAgiaeri.g Ceulatis   20.1
flylig  .                            Sspsisioe Orps-atloe
(3)OPmig of qrry Aoid be iept at
let 2D witre any t e sasItive
Arg  to avoid air polltie   labhe
ouwus of pt ing up.
(.ls earryiog dterial viat tunb
ws"eid try eVlbt to kw dirt
free ta iling (Wiulily  "loryg 
earth).
(6u61kide  oidtims  shud Is ma-
lawed reguarlyeot wing the  tht
give off Us t        epar staad to
r      Pltlee



sovlrumwtal preoble m    msr  to Is  ov  e   tb          | iutilm  In harp| reamu
(leuustruot ativitis In aswitiv
.usaubird  stiig aud other areu
whie molts ai hum  utivity my                                                 sostraot ClAm
2.:0sss piltim      Minans i  m1in  life ople *loud                                                i0.1
be liiltsd aid/or prolibitedd dri.                       .
minsig ad early mollsu haiws.
GMb stratl  traffii osatrol to  . to                  .
roh     i "#       llliOlS ta wo
Wiliam.
(Marrylig uad by sip at bst to
r_s poilutiom  usdw by ve.iviss
kausport.
(D)hAterals strape sites Aid bs
. pt fa my free rivrs ad river 'otrat olusse
L.uter PI oltit     owree.                                                                         20.1
W)Rod euosmtto aid II II shold be
pouidod wvii teprary draimgp ad
reglar uaislmim  to pmt segp
fr(o ollesteU  ad pliltIoe_
(D)Eaploive dterial storae shid
i.ord viii saety stpuatloes.                                                 aoairast slhus
G)l. fix Ately ao, ad  r.ott It.                                              20.3#20.4
I.qN.9y epsiag      MU say avmy Irm  midtial sem
rflua                 (O1 pq selal atltliom to slur
eat the mlIl stem filiyg off to
avWid trsfUi rids ithe ownrs of
le1om. 1.
.EI)Doulo mis .euld be disposed
S.solid note tfet- is or renl the sostraotor's tapa                                               ustracs olausg
Mt                   sBL                                                                            20.4
(dafter oostruvtilu aotul sites
should Is cleured .
(DtI moier relarly CG.E toal
I.uItoriig        _       t of uspud partiol.vtw    lldor th pldsos of Fjia teviremt               lorn spweial
mitorla  at Aosetre- qulltyv.mols  ad wIrbralie oud    protisat  lhpairtimtodVertmts of aviro- olau
stie ad epmratisa    ootrt   alts .              _tal protties Is vriew ams  r  It
sta       .           Wo maer seus        lly ad&iy ad      t.L
saigt     cA      lout of   _dI
pnlrJtllsuer qUIftyaOWIsIlbr-
.          tlaiosswn ad   deosrbp   *a long
.eriod of   m.



'I
AppendIx 2
All temporary and permanent fill/spoil placement sites and exposed
batters are to be protooted against erosion by use of mulch. franc
and/or planting of vegetation as roon as possible( espeolally during
rainy seasons)s
HaterlaJs stores(eopecally fuel storage and dispensing areas)
should be protected by a ring drain and collection pit to prevent
spills and mobilization by runoff water.All bitumens oement# ohemicals
and fuels should be properly stored and covered to prevent spills and
mobilization by runoff water.All lubricants should be colleoted and
reoycled(lf recycling Is possible.othervise disposed Into an acooeptable
location)i
Periodloally water down temporary roads, exposed road surtaoes
during construotionafill/spoil sites until suob can be vegetated# and
all other exposed surfaces from which dust could be mobilized In
unacceptably high vollumes
InstalLUtion of adequate temporary drainage along construction work.
spoil disposaliquarry and borrow sites;
Temporary store and stabilize all top soil rdeoved along the ROW
vin preparation to the opening of now borrow and quarry areas.and other
areas-wherever possible(to be used In rebabilJtion of construction
sites&quarriespborrow pitspet0)s
Rehabilitate.where possible.to previous land use those areas used
for borrow pits.quarries.and spoil disposa.lWhere this Is not possible
.rehabilitate to the most appropriate land use possible, considering
surrounding land uses
Provide traffic control at areas where road  construction  support
faoilites(ottfoes workshops  and  stores. o aintenance  yards. eto) and
quarries/borrow areas could cause traffic  impacts. Post  and  control
speed of construction related vehicales along acoess and within-the ROWg
Ensure all c-nstruotiom equipsent is fitted with proper  equipment
for the oortrol ot aoise and engine exbau4ti
Construction activites in sensitive Ireas(for examples residential
areas.hosplials.bird oesting and otber ar1as  where  noise  and   umoin
activity may disrupt animal lito cycles) should be limited and/or
prohibited during eveving and early morning boatrs: 
Prohibit poaching under terms of employment of construction statt:
Adequate temporary pedestrian and vehicle crossings are to be
provided.oontrolled and maintained during oonstruotions
Spoil from excavatlon(out to spollptunnels-eto)in areas witb slope
greater than 40Z should be trucked to a suitable spoil disposal area
#not  side-tipped' In steep terral;.
Spoil disposal sites  should  have  bottom( seepage)   and  uphill
interceptor drains Installed.SpoilA4hould be placed and compacted  and
the downslope side stabilized to preveot slips.



I



