               Document of
            The World Bank




                                            Report No: 29288

IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(TF-22534 CPL-36810 SCL-3681A SCPD-3681S)

                  ON An

               IBRD LOAN

 IN THE AMOUNT OF US$121.89 MILLION

                 TO THE

      PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                 FOR A

 FUJIAN PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT




               June 9, 2004

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2003)

                             Currency Unit = RMB
                                RMB 1.00 = US$ 0.12082
                                 US$ 1.00 = RMB 8.2769

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                          January 1      -  December 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BMS     -     Bridge Management System
CAS     -     Country Assistance Strategy
EDB     -     Expressway Data Base
EAP     -     Environmental Action Plan
E&M     -     Electrical and Mechanical
FEDC    -     Fujian Expressway Development Company
FEPC    -     Fujian Provincial Transport Department
FPECD   -     Fujian Provincial Expressway Construction Directoration
FPEPB   -     Fujian Provincial Environmental Protection Bureau
FPHAB   -     Fujian Provincail Highway Administration Bureau
FQE     -     Fuzhou-Quanzhou Expressway
MIEO    -     Machinery Import and Export Office
MOC     -     Ministry of Communication
PAP     -     Project Affected People
PMS     -     Pavement Management System
QXE     -     Quangzhou-Xiamen Expressway
RAP     -     Resettlement Action Plan
RDB     -     Road Data Bank
RNIP    -     Road Network Improvement Program
SEPA    -     State Environmental Protection Administration
SPC     -     State Planning Commission

                           Vice President:   Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
                         Country Director    Yukon Huang, EACCF
                          Sector Manager     Jitendra N. Bajpai, EASTR
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Supee Teravaninthorn, EASTR

                                            CHINA
                      FUJIAN PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
6. Sustainability                                                                11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 12
8. Lessons Learned                                                               13
9. Partner Comments                                                              14
10. Additional Information                                                       22
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             23
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             24
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             27
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             36
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             38
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                39
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            40

Project ID: P003626                                                  Project Name: CN-FUJIAN PROV HWY
Team Leader: Supee Teravaninthorn                                    TL Unit: EASTR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 17, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: CN-FUJIAN PROV HWY                                       L/C/TF Number: TF-22534; CPL-36810;
                                                                                                     SCL-3681A;
                                                                                                     SCPD-3681S
   Country/Department: CHINA                                                              Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Roads and highways (99%); Sub-national government
                            administration (1%)
                  Theme: Rural services and infrastructure (P); Municipal governance and
                            institution building (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 01/05/1992                                     Effective: 07/21/1994                07/21/1994
     Appraisal: 10/06/1993                                         MTR: 11/01/2004
      Approval: 12/14/1993                                      Closing: 06/30/2000                 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOC/FUJIAN PROVINCE
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Gautum Kaji
Country Director:               Yukon Huang                                    Shahid Javed Burki
Sector Manager:                 Jitendra N. Bajpai                             Paul Stott
Team Leader at ICR:             Supee Teravaninthorn                           Otto Raggambi
ICR Primary Author:             Jacques Yenny


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
    The project has been designed to (a) support the continued development of road infrastructure in Fujian
    Province to facilitate mobility and increase the efficiency of road transport in the interest of stimulating
    economic activity; (b) develop an action plan for the strengthening of the provincial road construction
    industry; (c) assist in the development of institutional capabilities for transport planning and investment
    prioritization; and (d) facilitate the transfer of highway construction and maintenance technology
    through staff training and the provision of equipment.

    The project objectives were clear and in line with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) presented to
    the Board in August 1993 and the sector assistance strategy. They were also consistent with the
    Government request for continuous assistance of the Bank in the highway sub-sector. In
    February-March 1990, the Bank undertook, jointly with the State Planning Commission (SPC) and the
    Ministry of Communications (MOC) a screening mission to make preliminary assessment of nine
    highways which had been proposed for Bank financing. From this pre-selection process, it was
    concluded that the construction of the Xiamen-Quangzhou expressway, as Phase 1 of the longer-term
    objective to build a coastal expressway from Fuzhou (the provincial capital) to Zhangzhou, (at the
    border with Guangdong province), warranted consideration for Bank financing. In terms of priority, it
    was agreed with the Government that processing the Fujian project would follow preparation of similar
    projects in Zhejiang, Guangdong, and Henan provinces. The Bank's identification mission visited
    Fujian in November 1991.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives were not revised

3.3 Original Components:
The original components of the project were:

    -   Construction of the 81.9 km Quanzhou-Xiamen expressway (QXE), including the electrical and
    mechanical (E & M) equipment for tolling, traffic monitoring, telecommunications and lighting;
    -   Upgrading of three road sections (58.3 km) and paving of four road sections (200.7 km);
    -   Construction supervision for the expressway and other roads;
    -   Procurement of equipment for operation and maintenance of the QXE, road laboratories and the
    development and application of a Road Data Bank (RDB) and a Pavement Management System
    (PMS);
    -   A study of the provincial road construction industry; and
    -   Staff training.

3.4 Revised Components:
    COMPONENT;                                                                 COST;           RATING
    CONSTRUCTION OF QXE & FQE;                                            $470,400,000.00;         S
    ROAD NETWORK IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM;                                     $40,300,000.00;          S
    CONSTRUCTION SUPERVISION OF QXE & FQE;                                $12,100,000.00;          S
    CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY STUDY;                                          $400,000.00;             S
   PROCUREMENT OF EQUIPMENT;                                              $3,900,000.00;           S
   INST. STRENGTHENING & TRAINING;                                        $1,000,000.00;           S
   ROAD DATA BANK/PAVEMENT MANAGEMENT;                                    $700,000.00;             S

    Due mainly to the devaluation of the RMB in early 1994 and to some lower than expected bid prices



                                                        - 2 -

    for all four ICB contracts on QXE, savings of US$47.2 million appeared early during the project
    execution and were recorded already in 1995 supervision mission reports. After fairly lengthy
    discussions, the Bank agreed to the province's request, supported by MOC to include a new component
    in the project. The new component consisted of pavement construction, supply and installation of E &
    M equipment, and supervision for the Fuzhou-Quangzhou Expressway (FQE). FQE was a logical
    continuation of the Bank financed QXE. Once completed, the FQE and QXE would link Fuzhou, the
    provincial capital to Xiamen, the province's most important port. On July 27, 1998, after Board
    approval, the Loan and Project Agreements were amended to reflect the new components and extend
    the closing date from June 30, 2000 to December 31, 2003.


3.5 Quality at Entry:

    Quality at entry is rated satisfactory overall. The assessment is based on: a) the consistency of the
    project objectives with China's priorities for the sector and of the Bank's strategy for future highway
    lending in China; b) the importance given to improving the capabilities for transport planning and
    management of the road network in the province; c) the transfer of highway construction and
    maintenance technology through training of the local staff both in China and abroad; and d) the
    attention given to following Bank policy, in particular regarding environmental protection and
    resettlement. As with most Bank-financed projects at that time, no performance indicators were
    explicitly developed (no baseline and benchmark figures established).


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
    The project objectives were substantially met and the overall achievement of the project objectives is
    assessed as satisfactory.

    A. Supporting the development of road infrastructure in Fujian Province

    The two major highways, the Xiamen-Quangzhou Expressway (QXE) and the Fuzhou-Quangzhou
    Expressway (FQE) were opened to traffic as scheduled, in late 1997 and 1999 respectively. The
    objective of reducing congestion in the corridor has been met with long distance traffic being diverted
    to the expressway.    However, diversion to the expressway, at about 40% of total traffic, is lower than
    forecast. This is due in part to the relatively high toll rates (0.55 Yuan/per car-km). The rapid
    urbanization in the corridor, promoted in part by the improved accessibility provided by the
    expressway, traffic in the corridor in 2003 matched the forecast after having been lower than it for a
    few years. On the other hand, the economic benefits are considered sustainable, without any
    predictable element of risk, as traffic has been growing rapidly since opening.

    The Road Network Improvement Program (RNIP) has had a very beneficial impact on the local
    communities served by the upgraded and paved roads. The seven roads in this component were opened
    to traffic between 1994 and 1997. The upgrading of three higher class roads (the A Group) has
    reduced congestion, despite the continued rapid traffic increases. On all three roads, the traffic
    increased faster than forecast immediately after opening. Recently, the traffic on two of the roads
    decreased somewhat because of the opening of a motorway in one case and of a shorter alternative in
    an other case. In the case of the four newly paved roads (the B group), improved access and easier
    transport of local produce have enhanced the living standards of the population served by the roads,
    according to evidence gathered by the borrower. For example, in one of the road service area, the
    annual average per capita income increased from 2,123 RMB at project completion (end 1995) to



                                                      - 3 -

3,864 RMB in early 2001. The rate of school enrollment went from 93.5% to 98.2%, the illiteracy rate
fell from 16.1% to 1.1% and the number of health service workers per 100 people increased from 0.16
to 1.2. Along another road, famous local products such as flower wise mushrooms can now be
transported quickly and exported to Japan. Other products which can now easily be transported
include timber, block stone, bamboo, tea leaves and Chinese medicinal herbs.

B. Developing institutional capabilities for transport planning and investment prioritization

Institutional capabilities for investment planning prioritization were developed through the introduction
of a road data bank (RDB) and pavement and bridge management system programs (PMS and BMS)
for the core arterial road network of the province. The province adopted the Chinese RDB, PMS and
BMS programs, developed for nationwide application. Both the CPMS99 and CBMS are now
available. The CPMS contains data for 2-3,000 km of bituminous roads, although the data dates back
to 1999, when MOC required the CPMS to be used by all provinces for a census. The CBMS has
some data on about 2,500 of the 3,600 bridges on the main road network. Although available, the
CPMS is presently not used for planning, primarily because of the lack of sufficient funding for
periodic maintenance. With the current funding levels essentially sufficient only for routine
maintenance, there is no incentive to use the CPMS and update its data base.

C. Transferring technology of highway construction and maintenance through training and
provision of modern equipment

The impact of technology transfer through training is not easy to measure due to difficulties in defining
baseline parameters. However, the eagerness shown by the leaders of the Fujian Provincial Transport
Department (FPTD) to engage their staff in training activities under the project is evidence of the
importance they attached to acquiring modern technology. The province requested the Bank to increase
the amount of the loan affected to training twice during project execution. The total amount spent on
training ended up to be 2.5 times the original allocation. Over 200 staff members from various
branches of the FPTD were trained in 14 countries in North America, Europe and Australia. The
topics of training included: construction management and supervision, financial control, planning and
design, material tests, road data bank, financing activities, E&M works, operational management of
roads and expressways, safety, quality control, tunneling, soft soil treatments, environmental
protections, human resources development, etc. There was also numerous training courses organized
locally, in which trainees returning from abroad lectured on what they had learned. Through overseas
training and study tours and participation in studies and supervision during project implementation, the
FPTD staff received satisfactory exposure to new concepts and practices in highway management and
technology. There were also evident of the effective use of new skills by trained FPTD staff.

D. Developing an action plan for the strengthening of the provincial construction industry

The Provincial Road Construction Industry Study and Nation Wide Survey were carried out with a TA
grant from Japan PHRD Funds. It was completed in 1997 by a team of foreign and Chinese
consultants. The Bank reviewers deemed that the study report was well prepared and gave an excellent
documentation of the construction industry in China. The Bank found the recommendations generally
reasonable, although most of them would have required further detailed work to explore the range of
solutions appropriate for Chinese conditions and make specific recommendations. The FPTD staff
found that the recommendations were not suitable for China at the time. For instance, one of the
recommendations was to establish a construction equipment leasing company. The FPTD had tried
this in the early 1990s, but found no takers for the equipment and the company had to be disbanded.


                                                  - 4 -

    By the time the study was completed, the State policy of developing infrastructure was having a major
    impact on civil works construction companies. Fujian province was no exception and soon contractors
    from outside the province started winning contracts in Fujian. This combined with the policy of
    commercializing the industry, created pressure on the local construction companies to reform and
    restructure. New staff and new management were hired and some consolidation took place to create
    competitive modern companies. While at the time of appraisal, the largest contractor in the province
    had an average turnover of 6 million Yuan, last year, the turnover of one of the largest local contractor
    reached 100 million Yuan. With all these development unfolding, the FPTD did not see the necessity
    of developing any action plan for the industry and the Bank did not pursue the matter.

4.2 Outputs by components:
    Civil Works. Both the construction of QXE (81.9 km) and the pavement of FQE (154 km) were
    successfully completed within schedule and works were of good quality. At the beginning, two of the
    four contracts on QXE fell behind schedule. This was pointed out by a Bank supervision mission in
    1996. Following the Bank's mission, the FPTD and the Provincial Government took a variety of
    measures that greatly improved the situation by early 1997. In particular, the vice-governors of the
    province met with the contractors impressing them of the importance attached by the provincial
    government to opening the project on time. New time schedules were defined and more funds were
    made available to the contractors in the form of advance payments and domestic bank loans,
    guaranteed by the province. Quality of construction on both expressways was good. A Bank mission
    driving on the FQE in late 1999 remarked that the expressway appears to be of excellent quality, in
    fact one of the best the mission could see until then in China. The surface of pavement is very smooth,
    protection of slopes is well done, obstacles are well protected and the general appearance is very good.

    Electrical and Mechanical Works (E&M). The two supply and install contracts (QXE and FQE) for
   these works were delayed by lengthy procurement processes and progress, after contract signature was
   slower than expected in the case of the QXE, which was the first contract of that type in the province.

   E & M Works              Expressway          Bids invited     Contract signed     Work started    Work completed
                              opens
    QXE                       1/1998              10/1996            12/1998            8/1999           7/2001
    FQE                       1/2000              10/2001             9/2002           10/2002           10/2003


    The bidding process for QXE E&M works took two years. Bidding documents were prepared
    according to the relatively new two stage bidding procurement model established by the Bank for
    supply and install contracts. In addition, because the procurement involved imported equipment, the
    province needed the approval of the Machinery Import and Export Office (MIEO). Clearance from
    MIEO has affected numerous Bank projects, as it usually takes at least 6 months and some times up to
    one year. Given the rapid pace of technological innovations, such long procurement procedures often
    create difficulties in acquiring the latest technologies. Installation of the E&M equipment for QXE
    finally started only in August 1999, almost three years after the start of the bidding process.
    Completion was postponed by about six months due to delay in importing foreign equipment.
    Contracting for FQE E&M also took longer than expected despite the experience gained on the
    previous section QXE. The original plan, reported by the supervision mission of September 2000 was
    for the installation to be completed by March 2002. Although the procurement process was faster than
    for QXE, using prequalification rather than two stage bidding, work only started in October 2002 and
    the project closing date had to be postponed by one more year to December 31, 2003.

    Supervision. The construction supervision of the two expressways was satisfactory. It was carried out


                                                       - 5 -

by a joint supervision team of local engineers and international consultants. The joint team approach,
with the international engineers playing an advisory and training role proved effective in assuring work
quality. It also helped the local counterparts to appreciate the importance of quality control.
Supervision costs were substantially higher than estimated, in part because of the added project
component.

B. Road Network Improvement Program (RNIP)

The component included the upgrading of three road sections (58.3 km) and the paving of four road
sections totaling 200.7 km. The roads were widely dispersed in the northern and northeastern parts of
the province and the works were not suitable for packaging. Therefore, the seven projects were divided
into 16 contracts awarded under LCB procedures. All contracts were completed by the end of 1996.
A detailed supervision mission carried out in the fall of 1996 inspected all seven projects, traveling
almost 3000 km. It concluded that "overall implementation of the 16 contracts has gone rather
smoothly, supervision was effective and the quality of construction is satisfactory" However, due to
poor upfront design and insufficient planning, particularly of traffic growth expectations on the
upgraded roads, extensive variation orders had to be issued. This led to an overall 65% increase over
the original contract prices. After reviewing the variations orders, the Bank concluded that two,
frequently issued, major changes were clearly outside the original contract size and scope. These were
the change in pavement structure from bituminous to concrete and the large increases in width of the
road base and pavement. Since the Bank had not been informed in time about these substantial
changes and feasibility studies had not been prepared to justify the changes, the Bank could not
reimburse the Borrower for works outside the scope of the original contracts. The Bank reimbursed
other variations of a "normal and reasonable nature"

C. Equipment

Equipment to be purchased under the project was for the operation and maintenance of the QXE, for
road laboratories and for the development and application of the RDB and PMS. The procurement of
equipment went smoothly and was completed by 2000, very much in line with the SAR estimates.

Equipment Purchase                          SAR                                  Actual
Maintenance equipment                       2,050,400                            2,180,000
Testing Equipment                           428,395                              315,130
PMS equipment                               418,660                              379,600
TOTAL                                       2,897,455                            2,874,730



D. Road Data Bank, Pavement and Bridge Management Systems

The Fujian Provincial Highway Administration Bureau (FPHAB) is in charge of the RDB/PMS for the
province and the Fujian Provincial Expressway Construction Directorate (FPECD) for the
expressways. By mid-2000 the Expressway Data Base (EDB) had been completed and was functioning
well. Regarding regular roads, the FPHAB developed its own GIS based road data bank, with the
support of a university in Nanjing. They have also assembled their own road centerline measurement
vehicle to provide road alignment data for the RDB. Most equipment is of Chinese origin and the
system appears well designed. Alignment data have been collected on about 7,300 km of the 14,171
km national and provincial highway network. The RDB is able to store numeric as well as image data



                                                 - 6 -

(video and digital photographs). However, the FPHAB does not conduct any roughness surveys since
they do not have the appropriate equipment. On the other hand, the FPECD imported a road data
collection vehicle in 2001 to collect expressway data base including roughness survey. It is estimated
by the operator that the vehicle has conducted only some 700 lane-km of surveys since it was
commissioned 18 months earlier. Although there are some problems with the vehicle, which the
manufacturer still has to correct, the overall system is operational and suitable for road surveys. Some
arrangement should be made between FPECD and FPHAB so that the latter can use the vehicle to
collect roughness and other data on the general road network to increase the utilization of this
expensive equipment.

E. Training

FPTD gave great importance to the training program included in the project. This project was the first
foreign financed road project in the province and unlike other provinces of China, Fujian highway staff
had not had any opportunity to receive training abroad. By the end of 1997, some 75 trainees had been
abroad to Australia, Britain, Canada, Italy and the USA, and the original allocation of US$600,000 for
training had been fully used. The province, with the agreement of MOC, requested to increase the
allocation by US$500,000 to continue the program. The new amount was used up again by 2000 and,
in 2001, the Bank agreed to a further allocation of US$500,000 for training in 2001 to 2003. Other
details on the training program were given in section 4.1.C

F. Provincial Road Construction Industry Study

As already mentioned the study was carried out satisfactorily and concluded in 1997. The status of the
industry since completion of the study has been discussed in section 4.1.D

G. Safeguard policy

Environmental Protection. The environmental assessment (EA) report specified measures for
monitoring and mitigating impact related to social disruption, air quality, control of noise and
vibration, water management, cultural/historic locations, soil pollution. The project also included
forestation of designated areas. For both the expressways and the RNIP, the routes were chosen
among alternatives to avoid environmentally sensitive areas, minimize land acquisition and the negative
impact on the local populations. The engineering design and technical specifications incorporated the
mitigating measures required to be taken by the contractors during implementation. For the added
expressway, the locally prepared EAP was reviewed and updated to Bank standards, to include
mitigating measures similar to those applied to the QXE.

In April 1997, FPECD with the provincial environmental protection bureau (FPEPB) held a training
course in environmental protection with 60 participants from the employer, design institute, contractors
and the supervision company. The FPTD submitted regular reports on environmental monitoring on
the QXE and FQE. These reports show that the construction had not adversely impacted noise and
water quality in the vicinity of the construction sites. The only reported problem was that of dust.
Only two of the four contractors were using water sprayers and not that effectively, only one of the
trucks transporting construction materials was covered. FPECD although aware of the problems was
not enforcing the terms of contract by penalties and/or work stoppages. They did not have enough
personnel. No monitoring reports had been prepared by FPHAB for the RNIP roads.

An environmental supervision mission in late 1999 reported that: Along FQE the embankments have


                                                  - 7 -

been well protected by stone paving, grass shrubs and plants. The ample vegetation was well cared for
and aesthetically pleasing and the excavated and spoil areas were rehabilitated and replanted.
Similarly, along the QXE, the grass shrub and plants were well established and tended. 63,300 trees
and shrubs were planted.· Some 1,790 meters of noise barriers were built on both expressways. The
same mission, having reviewed reports and noted that lead levels in the soil were below the criteria
established by State Environmental Protection Administration (SEPA), suggested that FPECD should
discontinue monitoring of lead in soil.

Land Acquisition and resettlement.

Land acquisition and resettlement proceeded smoothly and followed the principles and criteria for
compensation set forth in the Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) for the QXE and the RNIP. For the
FQE, land acquisition had already begun before the Bank got involved in the project. Compensation
and rehabilitation standards for land acquisition in this section were somewhat below the level agreed
with the Bank for the QXE and a remedial plan was developed to cover the difference. With this
amendment, the RAP for the FQE, which also described the work already completed, fully satisfied or
even exceeded the Bank Guideline requirements. For the QXE, resettlement work began in June 1993
and was completed in December 1997 and for the FQE, started in September 1996 and was completed
two years later. Resettlement was closely monitored by the Provincial Resettlement Office together
with local Resettlement Offices (RO). In addition, a contract was passed with the Fujian Academy of
Social Sciences (FASS) to provide independent monitoring of the RAP. FASS made continuous
surveys on the life-stiles of the project affected people (PAP), evaluated the resettlement work and
reported issues to the PRO for remedial.

The surveys showed a steady increase in the standards of living of affected households both with and
without agricultural relocation. For households remaining in agriculture, part of the land compensation
fees have been applied to improve the productivity of the land and diversify into higher value crops
such as forestry, fruit trees and aquaculture. For households with non-agricultural relocation, local
governments provided assistance in developing private businesses and through training for increasing
employment opportunities. In some cases, local administrations provided substantial subsidies to the
PAPs over and above their entitlement to endure a smooth transition. The expressway fostered
industrial development and many farmers moved to either full or part-time employment away from
agriculture. Bank supervision mission found that newly established village enterprises were performing
well and employed local people at wages well above their previous agricultural incomes. House
affected households moved from their previous often poorly constructed and equipped old houses to
more comfortable and modern residences, with access to piped water, electricity and telephone. After
relocation, the structure of 90% of the houses, of the relocated households, was brick and concrete
versus 60% before relocation. Enterprises that were relocated have made an easy transition and have
been growing steadily since resettlement. Managers were satisfied with the rates of compensation for
their assets. Basic infrastructure in villages and towns along the new expressways has also been
upgraded. Finally, sample surveys of affected households after relocation showed that 94% of the
households thought that the resettlement was well done. Regarding compensation for land acquisition,
only 5% thought that it was too low.




                                                   - 8 -

    The impact of the two expressway sections and the RNIP is summarized in the following table.

                                         FQE & QXE Expressways                           RNIP
    Major Items                      Planned          Actual             Planned            Actual
    Land acquisition (mu)            26,197           29,207             1,928              1,489
    House demolition (sqm)           485,546          572,778            20,085             19,974
    Relocated Household              5,197            6,356              n.a.               989
    Project-affected people          n.a.             27,968             689                177
    Relocated Enterprises            87               87                 n.a.               13
    Total Resettlement Cost          428              483                19                 14
    (RMB: million)

    Source: Planned QXE and RNIP from SAR, FQE from President Memorandum June 15, 1998
    Proposed Loan Amendment. Actual (partial) from Internal monitoring report of FEPRO dated
    February 14, 2000.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
    The economic re-evaluation comprised the two expressways and the seven road sections under the
    RNIP. The Fuzhou-Quanzhou expressway section was added later to the project and was therefore not
    included in the appraisal economic evaluation. At completion, an economic evaluation was undertaken
    for this component following as closely as possible the original appraisal procedures and using the
    most recent data on vehicle operating costs (Annex 3). The re-estimated EIRR for each road section
    ranges from 15.8% to 38.5%, with an overall weighted EIRR for the project of 17.9% versus 25%
    estimated in the SAR. The main reason for the lower EIRR (for expressway) at completion is the
    lower traffic diversion to the expressway than anticipated. While the total traffic in the corridor is as
    forecast, only 40% of it uses the expressway instead of the forecast 74% (see section 4.1.A). For the
    RNIP roads, return on the B group roads is somewhat higher than in the SAR and slightly lower for the
    A group roads.

    Economic and Financial Evaluation Summary

                                                   The ICR                              The SAR
                                         EIRR ENPV FIRR           FNPV EIRR ENPV FIRR                  FNPV
                                          %      12%,      %      4.5%,      %       12%,       %
                                               RMB:m             RMB:m             RMB:m
                                                   il                il                il
    1. Fuzhou - Xiamen expressway
    a. Fuzhou - Quanzhou                 15.8    1,685     - -      - -      - -      - -       - -      - -
    b. Quanzhou - Xiamen                 19.0    1,657     6.5     834      24.3    2,146       - -      - -
                  Subtotal               17.1    3,000     - -      - -      - -      - -       - -      - -
    2. RNIP
    a. Group A (3 roads)                 30.5    173       - -      - -     26.2      168       - -      - -
    b. Group B (4 roads)                 38.5    261       - -      - -     40.4      166       - -      - -
                  Subtotal               33.2    314       - -      - -     31.3      334       - -      - -

    Total                                17.9    3,280     - -      - -     25.0    2,480       - -      - -




                                                    - 9 -

4.4 Financial rate of return:
    There was no financial analysis in the SAR. On June 28, 1999, the Province established the Fujian
    Expressway Development Company (FEDC), by transferring the assets of QXE from FPECD to
    FEDC on a thirty year concession. After expiration, QXE will revert to FPTD. On February 1, 2001
    with a no-objection from the Bank, FEDC issued stock in the form of A-shares on the Shanghai Stock
    Exchange. The funds generated by the sale of shares were to be entirely reinvested in expressway
    projects in Fujian Province. Dividends have been paid and the share price has increased since issue.
    The FQE was also transferred to the FEDC, but so far shares have not been issued for this section.
    The financial situation of FEDC is presented in Annex 3 and appears sound. Its cash flow was
    sufficient to fund loan installment.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
    Within the project, measures were taken to strengthen FPTD and its relevant institutions. The
    experience with competitive bidding and having works done by contract rather than force account has
    been successfully integrated and all new construction and major maintenance works in the province are
    now done by contract. The project introduced the FPTD, FPHAB and the FECD to prequalification of
    contractors, competitive bidding and good supervision for the first time in the province. Bank's
    requirements for procurement and supervision of civil works improved the construction quality, cost
    control and timeliness of contract completion, while reducing opportunities for fraud and corruption.
    Modern highway planning and management tools (RDB, PMS, BMS) were introduced and provincial
    staff developed a detailed data base for the road network. The staff training program financed by the
    project was successful and has been described above. A significant transfer of knowledge and
    technology took place during project implementation as local experts, together with foreign experts
    supervised construction of the first expressways in the province.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
    The devaluation of the Renminbi in 1994 from 5.75 to 8.25 Yuan per US$ resulted in massive loan
    savings, amounting to one third of the loan amount. The province, with the support of MOC, strongly
    argued for adding new components to the project, rather than canceling such a high proportion of the
    loan. There were lengthy discussions with the Bank, which finally agreed to using rather than
    canceling the remaining funds. A modification of the loan agreement was submitted to the Board in
    1998, four years after the devaluation and resulting cost savings.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
    Project implementation was to be the responsibility of the Fujian Province Transport Department
    (FPTD), with the FPEDC being the executing agency for the expressway construction and the
    acquisition of maintenance equipment and FPHAB being the executing agency for the RNIP and
    acquisition of the RDB and PMS equipment. Because of the importance attached by the province to
    the construction of its first expressway, the FPEDC was placed under the direction of a leading group
    headed by the Vice-Governor of the Province. This clearly led to the dominance of the FPEDC over
    the FPHAB with regards to the implementation of the project and contacts with the Bank. Attempts to
    include additional roads in the RNIP in 1996 were not pursued and costs savings were affected entirely
    to completing another expressway. Another costing saving found in late 2000 was cancelled in Oct.
    2001 instead of using for further improvement of RNIP. All equipment was procured by FPEDC
    including for the PMS (see comments in section 4.2 D).

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:



                                                     - 10 -

    Because the implementing agency (FPEDC) focused on the timely completion of the civil works and
    lacked experience with the type of E&M works required for expressway operation, the formulation and
    design of this component was delayed. Projects in neighboring provinces of Zhejiang and Guangdong
    (effective over one year before the Fujian project) experienced the same problems. For instance, in
    Guangdong, the bidding documents were issued only in November 1996. Had there be better
    communications and sharing of experience between provinces, the delays in Fujian may have been
    reduced.

    Planners for the upgrading of three roads including in the RNIP failed to forecast the rapid economic
    development and resulting traffic growth. After bids were issued, a decision was taken to widen the
    roads from 9 to 12 meters. Because of unfamiliarity with Bank rules and pressed by the need to
    shorten the construction period to minimize the traffic disruption created by the works, FPHAB was
    unable to claim reimbursement for the large variation orders it had issued, without former Bank
    approval.


5.4 Costs and financing:
    At appraisal, the total project cost was estimated at US$528.8 million, of which US$140 million were
    to be funded by the Bank Loan. The total actual cost of the project, including the added FQE
    pavement, is now estimated at US$465 million, of which the Bank's share is US$119.9 million.
    Details are in Annex 2. The borrower cancelled $18.11 million on October 22, 2001, and the
    remaining US$0.5 million was canceled unilaterally at project closing. Loan disbursements were either
    in line or ahead of the SAR forecast during construction of the QXE. However, because of the delay in
    procuring the E&M installation, disbursement slowed down as the project was extended.

    All project components show some cost overrun, except for Studies and Training and indeed the total
    project cost exceeds the base cost estimate by over 23%. However, because the contingencies
    allowance was so large at US$35.9 million for physical and US$104.9 million for price contingencies,
    the total actual project cost is 12% lower than the estimate. Civil works on the QXE came within 95%
    of the estimate, but E&M works turned more than twice as expensive as estimated. Supervision also
    cost more.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
    The operating rights granted to the public-private expressways development company provide
    incentives for the provision of a high level of service to road users, including adequate routine and
    periodic maintenance. The rapidly increasing traffic ensures sustainability of project benefits.

    The sustainability of the RNIP under the project depends upon subsequent adequate routine and
    periodic maintenance of the roads. This is unlikely to pose a problem for the three upgraded roads.
    However, the maintenance of the smaller roads paved under the project is the responsibility of counties
    that have to rely on local revenues for the additional capital and recurring expenditures for the roads.
    For instance, one of the roads (B2 subproject) completed in November 1995 was found deteriorated
    and damaged in 2001, after less than six years of operation. This was caused by the low design
    standards, poor maintenance of the drainage system and overloading of trucks using the road. Due to
    the rapid growth of the provincial and regional economy and traffic, the upgrading from class 4 to class
    2 has already started with local funds. The equipment for maintenance and operation of expressways
    procured under the project should provide adequate long-term service, since sufficient stock of spare
    parts has been purchased and maintenance facilities provided.



                                                     - 11 -

    The lessons and knowledge learned from the staff training program have and will continue to be
    disseminated within the provincial institutions involved and have a long term influence on provincial
    road administration and management methods and highway specific technology.

    The methodology and application of the Chinese RDB, PMS and BMS programs is well understood by
    highway staff in the province. The system being developed will provide the necessary output
    information to help make better investment decisions for road improvement and maintenance when the
    funding situation improves.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
    The two expressways started operation promptly at the end of the construction. They were operated in
    the first three years before the installation of permanent E&M equipment and tolls collected at
   temporary facilities with paper tickets instead of electronic cards. With the completion of E&M
   equipment installation, by 2001 for QXE and 2003 for FQE, all mechanical, electrical and electronic
    facilities are now operated on a permanent basis. Toll revenue leakage in the initial three years after
    opening of the expressways was reported to have been negligible due to heavy supervision.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
    The project was identified by a joint mission of the Government and the Bank and its objectives were
    consistent with the Government requirements and the Bank strategy for the sector. This was the first
    foreign financed project in the province and there was no experience with international practices and
    requirement of foreign lenders. Bank assistance in preparation was highly satisfactory. The Bank
    team had adequate skill mix, covering the areas of engineering, environment and resettlement,
    procurement, institutional development, and training. The Bank also arranged to have foreign
    consultants financed by Consultant Trust Funds (CTF) to provide assistance in the preparation of
    design, technical specifications and bidding documents. Because problems of soft soils had been
    identified, a 2.7 km long embankment was constructed ahead of the start of the project to test treatment
    methodologies that could be employed on the expressway.

    The main risk had been identified as implementation delay in the construction of the expressway,
    because of the difficult subsoil conditions and the relatively high number of bridges and tunnels. The
    lack of previous experience of Fujian province as a first-time borrower also increased the risk of
    delays. To mitigate this risk, the project was designed with the assistance of foreign experts,
    prequalification of contractors was made particularly stringent and supervision arrangements were
    carefully formulated to ensure regular monitoring and effective quality control.


7.2 Supervision:

    The Bank mounted 16 supervision missions in the 10 year implementation period from 1994 to 2003.
    This relatively high average of 1.6 missions per year is explained by the need to reappraise a new
    project component and by the start of a second project in the province, which allowed combined
    missions. There was a discontinuity of staffing early on as the initial task manager retired and one year
    passed before a new manager was assigned to the project. Although the previous task manager served
    as a consultant in the interim, dealing with the matter of cost savings was delayed. There was only one
    further change in task manager later on and supervision performance was satisfactory. A QAG review
    also concluded that supervision was satisfactory. Resettlement and environment specialists



                                                      - 12 -

    participated in most supervision missions from 1997 onwards and followed the project not only during
    construction but also during operation of the two expressways. Since those were already opened to
    traffic in 1998 and late 1999, they had a rare chance to monitor impacts, such as noise and lead in soil
    for three years until the project closing date. Unlike in the neighboring province of Guangdong, where
    many variation orders issued for reasons similar to those in Fujian (see 4.2 B) were accepted, the Bank
    applied its procurement rules rigidly in Fujian. Over US$18 million were cancelled in 2001. The
    Bank, however, showed flexibility in extending the closing date twice.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
    Overall, the Bank's performance was satisfactory. The supervision team paid adequate attention to the
    borrower's compliance with Bank policies on resettlement and environment. It should be recognized
    that the Province was a first-time Bank borrower, not familiar with international business practices and
    FIDIC conditions of contract.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

    FPTD preparation of the project was reasonable, considering the limited base of technical and
    managerial experience in developing large scale complex highway projects. It was also FPTD first
    experience with a foreign lender and its requirements in terms of project preparation, execution and
    safeguards.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
    The Government was fully committed to the project. The provincial authorities quickly intervened
    when contractors' difficulties affected work progress. Counterpart funds were provided on time. The
    process of obtaining clearance of bidding documents for the E&M equipment and installation was
    slower than expected, particularly from the part of MIEO as already mentioned. MOC helped
    implement capacity building measures by coordinating overseas training activities.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

    Overall project management was satisfactory. FPECD demonstrated strong commitment and effort to
    open the expressways on schedule. Both the environmental and resettlement action plans were
    implemented satisfactorily and expeditiously. FPHAB made good progress in developing road
    management tools and staff training. The coordination between the two implementing agencies could
    have been improved with stronger leadership from FPTD.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
    Overall, the borrower's performance is rated as satisfactory. The borrower has complied substantially
    with the conditionality of both the loan and project agreements. The Bank's procedures and
    requirements were generally followed. The cooperation between the borrower and the Bank was good
    throughout the preparation, appraisal and implementation of the project.


8. Lessons Learned

    Coordination between executing agencies. Clearly, the province's priority was the construction of
    the expressways. The FPECD was placed directly under a Vice-Governor of the province and became
    de-facto on par with, rather than under, the Provincial Transport Department (FPTD). Typically, the
    FPECD became the prime correspondent of the Bank and the role of the other executing agency,
    FPHAB, in the project was minimized. When the use of cost savings was discussed, the only project



                                                     - 13 -

    for consideration was another expressway. Attempts by FPHAB to include other roads in the RNIP
    were not followed-up. In the end, about 15% of the loan amount could not be used, despite the
    shortage of funds in the road sector of the province. Over US$18 million were cancelled and about 0.5
    million remain undisbursed at the closing date. Although Bank supervision team in 2000-2001 had
    made same efforts to broaden the dialog in the road sector and try to establish more direct relations and
    access to the provincial transport departments in order to improve coordination between agencies
    dealing with different classes of roads under the PTDs, the effort came a bit late to change FPTD's
    decision to cancel the saving cost. However, the effort were not in vain as such required coordination
    was drastically improved for the remaining work currently ongoing under the Second Fujian Highway
    Project.

    Preparation and execution of E&M works for the expressways. The one-year delay in project
    completion is attributable to the delay in the E&M procurement and works. Similar delays occurred
    under other Bank-financed projects being implemented in the mid-1990s. In some cases, Bank
    financing for this component had to be cancelled. The Bank now ensures that the bidding documents
    and engineering designs for E&M works are completed more or less at the same time as those for the
    civil works contracts and that tendering activities commence at least two years before civil works are
    expected to be completed. There should be more exchange of experience in general between provinces
    facing similar problems in project execution and dealings with the Bank. MOC could assist by
    disseminating provincial best practices (not limited to E&M works) to save time and avoid going
    through the same learning process over and over again.


    Toll rates, traffic diversion and overloading. Toll rates on the project expressways are high. They
    are comparable to rates charged for instance in France with a much higher level of income than China.
    As a result, diversion to the expressways is only half as much as forecast, about 40% instead of 74%.
    This lower than expected diversion is also due to the wide spacing of the interchanges (15 to 18 km).
    In rapidly urbanizing areas along the expressway such as between Fuzhou and Putian, more
    interchanges may need to be added to increase usage. Another consequence of the high toll rates is that
    overloading of trucks is becoming a common means for truckers to bring back their profit margins they
    lose on high toll cost. So far, weighing stations have not been included in the design of expressways in
    China, as trucks were smaller than today. The regular inclusion of weighing stations should be
    included in future projects and legal axle loads would have to be enforced more seriously than at
    present.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

    A. General

    1. This report summarizes the experiences learnt during the implementation of the Fujian Provincial
    Highway Project financed partly by an IBRD loan.

    B. Project Description

    2. Project objectives are to:
       l give impetus to the communications development as well as improve the efficiency of highway
            transportation with the purpose of accelerating the economic development by supporting the



                                                     - 14 -

        development of the road infrastructure facilities;
   l formulate an action plan for strengthening Fujian provincial road construction industry;
   l help develop the capability of the organizational institutions for the traffic planning and
        optimized investment;
   l transfer the road construction technology and maintenance techniques via staff training and
        provision of equipment.

3. The scope to the project includes:
   l Construction of a grade-separated and access-control four-lane highway between Quanzhou
        and Xiamen with a total length of 82.3 km;
   l Road Network Improvement Program (RNIP), including the improvement of highway technical
        standards, 58.3 km in length, and paving of 4 rural roads;
   l Construction supervision of the civil works of Quanzhou ­ Xiamen Expressway and
        sub-projects under RNIP;
   l Procurement of equipment for the highway operation, maintenance, laboratories, Road Data
        Bank, and Pavement and Bridge Management System;
   l Fujian Provincial Road Construction Industry Study;
   l Staff training; and
   l Additional civil works, E & M installation and supervision of Fuzhou ­ Quanzhou Expressway


C. Achievement of the Objectives

4. The main objectives have been achieved via the successful implementation of various components
under the project:
   l The construction of Quanzhou ­ Xiamen Expressway, Fuzhou ­ Quanzhou Expressway and
        RNIP, with the main line of the expressways of 236.3 km in length, 25.9 km of link roads and
        reconstruction and paving of 258.83 km of highways, has come to a successful conclusion.
   l Since Quanzhou ­ Xiamen Expressway was open to traffic in 1997, the traffic volume on the
        expressways has been increasing rapidly. The average daily traffic increased from 8,568
        vehicles per day (vpd) in 1998 to 13,490 vpd in 2003, a growth rate of over 8% p.a.. In 1998,
        the toll revenues from Quanzhou ­ Xiamen Expressway amounted to RMB 124.94 million,
        while in 2002, the toll revenues were RMB 287.09 million an annual average increase of
        23.1%.
   l As for Fuzhou ­ Quanzhou Expressway, since it was open to traffic in late 1999, the average
        daily traffic volume increased from 7,223 vpd in 2000 to 10,281 vpd in 2003 with a growth
        rate of over 15%. The main reason for such rapid increase was the obvious advantages of the
        expressways in the traveling speed and the saving of transportation costs which resulting in a
        division of traffic on the parallel route, NR324. Congestion problem on NR 324 has also been
        resolved. The toll revenues for Fuzhou ­ Quanzhou Expressway also increased from RMB
        251.84 million in 2000 to RMB 350.70 in 2002, an annual average growth of 18.1%.
   l On traffic safety issue, before the traffic opening of Quanzhou ­Xiamen Expressway, the
        casualty rate due to the traffic accidents on NR No. 324 and the economic loss from such
        accidents increased from 722 people and RMB 4.056 million in 1995 to 1,037 people and RMB
        7.553 million in 1997. With the said road open to traffic in 1998, the congestion on the
        existing road were relieved to some extent, as a result, the casualty rate also dropped.
   l The construction supervision organization was established in accordance with the requirements
        set forth in FIDIC's Conditions to exercise control over the rate of progress, quality and costs.
        With respect to the control of rate of progress, the detailed construction organization plans
        were formulated to ensure the works to be completed as scheduled by focusing on the


                                                  - 15 -

        construction critical path. In the control of quality, a quality inspection system was adopted,
        supervised by the independent supervision entities and self-inspected by the contractors. In the
        control of costs, optimized designs and variations were made according to the technical
        requirements to lower the investment in the works, and at the same time, the strict
        measurement and payments were made to ensure the smooth implementation of the works.
   l The completion of the 7 RNIP sub-projects in the poverty-stricken regions obviously improved
        social and economic conditions of local communities. For example, the per capita annual
        income increased from RMB 2,000 without project to about RMB 4,000 after the project.
        Indexes concerning the improvement of the education, medical care and health, living
        standards, etc. have also been improved to a certain extent.

D. Formation and Preparation of the Project

5. The formation and preparation of the Project is regarded as the result of the collaboration in the
real sense. From the beginning of the 1990's, many organizational institutions under central
government, and entities at provincial and municipality levels participated in the formation and
preparation of Fujian Provincial Highway Project.

6. The preparation work for Quanzhou ­ Xiamen Expressway started internally within the Fujian
Communications Department in 1989. In November, 1991, the project proposal was formally
approved by the State Planning Commission in its official documents with the reference number of
JIJIAOTONG(1991) 1816. In February 1993, the State Planning Commission gave its approval to the
Feasibility Study Report for Quanzhou - Xiamen Expressway in its official document with the
reference number of JIJIAOTONG (1993) 340. In May 1993, the preliminary design of Quanzhou ­
Xiamen Expressway was approved Ministry of Communications (MOC) in its official documents with
reference number of JIAOGONGFA (1993) 484 and in December 1993, the detailed design was
completed.

7. Parallelly, the World Bank was involved in the project started with its project selection mission in
February 1990, project investigation mission in May 1991, and finally project identification mission in
Nov. 1991. All required preparation process followed in 1992. The project was ready for Bank
appraisal in July 1993. The loan was negotiated in October 1993 in Washington D.C. The Loan
Agreement and Project Agreement for US$140 million was signed in April, 1994.

8. Due to the change of exchange rate, the low bidding price of civil works and the high contingencies
provided under the unallocated category, a loan saving of US$ 47.52 million was identified early on in
1998. With approval of the Bank and the central government, Fujian decided to use the saving for
additional works on Fuzhou ­ Quanzhou Expressway.

E. Project Implementation

9.   Design.         The Quanzhou ­ Xiamen Expressway was designed by Fujian Provincial
Communications Planning and Design Institute at the design speed of 120 km / per hour. During the
construction, the said institute sent the design group to the construction sites to be responsible for the
variations and perfection of the drawings. The seven subprojects under RNIP were designed by the
prefectures and municipalities where the subprojects were situated.

10. Construction. Quanzhou ­Xiamen Expressway is 82.291 km in length, divided into four contract
packages. The contractors were selected on ICB basis. One soft subsoil treatment trial section, 2.7 km


                                                 - 16 -

in length, need to start ahead of other contracts and thus was financed by counterpart funds. All
contracts were commenced in July 1994 and completed in December 1997. Accepted by the
completion acceptance commission, the Project was ranked as Qualified.

11. Supervision
    l Quanzhou ­ Xiamen Expressway is the first expressway constructed in Fujian and is also the
         first World Bank financed project in the province. In accordance with the requirements set
         forth by the World Bank and the international practice, the FIDIC's Conditions were adopted
         for the management of the construction.
    l The joint supervision team of foreign engineers were used to supervise the construction. The
         foreign supervision engineers were selected according to the Bank's consultant selection
         guidelines and on the basis of ICB. The successful bidder was Kampsax International A/S
         and Danish Road Directorate (DRD). As for the domestic team, the job was directly entrusted
         to the Fujian Communications Construction Engineering Supervision and Consulting
         Company, Ltd..
    l The three-tier structure was adopted by the supervision organization, i.e. the Representative
         Office of Chief Engineer, the Office of Senior Resident Engineers, and Resident Engineer
         Office in various Contracts under the control of a chief engineer.
    l During the whole process of supervision, the control over the quality, costs and construction
         period was exercised.

12. Monitoring, Assessment and Acceptance of the Environment.
Great attention was attached to the monitoring of the environment during construction and later at
operation stage. During project construction period, monitoring of fume from the asphalt mixing plants,
and dust form construction activities were done periodically. Effective measures were taken promptly
to ensure that all environmental indicators are within acceptable level. After the expressways was
opened to traffic, monitoring of noise level have been performed on a semi-annual basis.

13. Environmental acceptance inspection were performed at project completion by the State
Environmental Protection Agency in June 1999 and February 2001 for Quanzhou ­ Xiamen
Expressway and Fuzhou ­ Quanzhou Expressway, respectively. Results of the acceptance inspection
were satisfactory. The expressway projects could meet all conditions required by state environmental
regulation. The whole process of environmental protection activities enabled staff of Fujian
Communications Department to heighten their environment consciousness, learn environmental
protection knowledge, and formulate a team capable to perform works to satisfy the requirements of
environmental protection for the expressway projects. The expressways have been equipped with all
necessary environmental protection facilities. A total investment of RMB 82.04 million was made in
the environmental protection for Quanzhou ­Xiamen Expressway, accounting for 2.95% of the general
estimate of RMB 2.78557 billion of its total physical investment cost. Under Fuzhou ­ Quanzhou
Expressway Project, investment in the environmental protection amounted to RMB 214.332 million,
accounting for 4.43% of its total physical investment cost of RMB 4.838 billion.

14. Environmental Impact Statement (EIS). The environmental assessment for the Quanzhou ­
Xiamen Expressway was made by Fujian Provincial Environmental Protection Scientific and Research
Institute. The organization began its work when the reconnaissance survey was carried out in 1990. In
February 1992, the Environmental Assessment Outline for Quanzhou ­ Xiamen Expressway passed
the review of the experts organized by the State Environmental Protection Agency and in May 1992.
Based on the approved EA outline, a full EIS data compilation was completed in December 1992. In
April 1993, Fujian Provincial Expressway Construction Directorate prepared the Environmental


                                                 - 17 -

Action Plan for Quanzhou ­ Xiamen Expressway, which was submitted and finally approved by the
Bank.

15. The EIS for Fuzhou ­ Quanzhou Expressway Project was mainly carried out by Xi'an
Communications University and assisted by Fujian Provincial Environmental Protection Scientific and
Research Institute. The environmental assessment was divided into two phases. The first phase is
related to the approval by the domestic organizations, the Outline of EIS was approved by the State
Environmental Protection Agency in October 1993 in its official document with the reference number
of HUANJIANJIAN (1993) 255, while the State Environmental Protection Agency granted its
approval to the EIS in the document with the reference number of HAUNJIAN(1995) 014 in January,
1995. The second phase of work is associated to the review and approval of the domestic organizations
and the World Bank. Since the subgrade construction of Fuzhou ­ Quanzhou Expressway was
financed by domestic sources prior to Bank involvement at a later stage, the EIS for Fuzhou ­
Quanzhou Expressway was done twice. Based on the first EIS, it was revised in 1997 to be in line
with the requirements of the State and the World Bank.

16. Equipment Procurement.             The equipment procurement under Fujian Provincial Highway
Project is divided into three lots. The first lot is the procurement of the laboratory instruments for
highway construction quality control costing US$315,130. The second lot was for maintenance
equipment costing US$2,180,000. The third lot of procurement was for detecting devices (one set of
multi-purpose road data detecting vehicle), costing US$379,600. The first lot of equipment was
procured using International Shopping method while the latter two lots were done on the basis of ICB.

17. E & M Tunnel Ventilation and Lighting Works.                The E & M Tunnel Ventilation and
Lighting for Quanzhou ­Xiamen Expressway was jointly designed by Highway Scientific and Research
Institute of MOC and the Fujian Provincial Communications Planning and Design Institute. The
bidding was carried out on the basis of ICB in two steps. The first step of bidding started in November
1996, during which a total of 14 suppliers submitted their bids and 5 bidders successfully passed the
review and evaluation in December 1997. The second step of bidding began in February 1998, with 3
bidders submitting their bids. After the evaluation and review, SBH Electricity Company from
Germany was the successful bidding. Its contract was reviewed and approved by the World Bank in
August 1998 and was signed in December 1998. The E&M installation was started in August 1999.
The system was put into operation in August 2000 for which test run and modification of the system
continued into 2001 and 2002. In December 2002, the works was finally accepted and handoverred.
Supervision of E & M work was done jointly by Beijing Xingtong Traffic Engineering Supervision
Company, Ltd. and Kampsax International A/S. Currently the system is running in good condition.

18. Training
   l Under Quanzhou ­Xiamen Expressway Project, a total of 206 man-month of overseas study
         tours and training courses were organized by Fujian Provincial Expressway Construction
         Directorate with a training cost of US$ 1.6 million, which was found to be within the budget.
         The main training courses were related to the expressway construction and management,
         financial management, planning and design, material tests, road data bank, financing, traffic
         engineering, operation and management, safety, quality control, tunneling, human resources
         development, soft subsoil treatment, environmental protection, post-appraisal of projects, etc..
   l Supervision Service and Training. The consulting agency of Quanzhou ­ Xiamen Expressway
         Project is responsible for the construction supervision of the civil works and traffic engineering
         works. The Danish Road Directorate provided 179 man-month of consulting service, among
         which, the foreign experts spent 11 man-month in the training of domestic supervision


                                                   - 18 -

         engineers, including a group of overseas supervision training, 150 man-month in total.
    l Environmental Protection Training and Monitoring. Fujian authorities considered the
         environmental protection an important aspect in its expressway development. A special
         training on environmental related subject was carried out to benefit 15 staff of FPCD.

19. Scientific Study and Research.
    The following five scientific and research studies were conducted under the project:
     (1)      Utilization of the Excessive Moisture Soil;
     (2)      Soft Subsoil Treatment;
     (3)      Settlement of the Embankment at the Bridge Head;
     (4)      Joint of Simple Supported Continuous T- Beam;
     (5)      New Austrian Tunneling Method in the Tunnel Construction

     Those were done with effective collaboration of various institution including:
     (1)      Fujian Provincial Communications Planning and Design Institute;
     (2)      Overseas Chinese University;
     (3)      The Highway Scientific Research Institute, MOC; and
     (4)      Fujian Provincial Expressway Construction Directorate.

20. Land Acquisition and Resettlement. Land acquisition and resettlement were completed
successfully. In accordance with the RAP, the external monitoring was executed by Fujian Provincial
Academy of Social Science. Various levels of local governments attached great concerns over the
resettlement issue resulting in a smooth implementation of the resettlement plans. Hence, the living
standards of the PAPs were restored quickly and enhanced yearly. The inspections and supervision
made by the World Bank's experts indicated that the implementation of the land acquisition and
resettlement were satisfactory. Along Fuzhou ­ Xiamen Expressway, a total of 1,947.1 hectares
(29,206.06 mu) of land were acquired, 5,722,778 sq. m. of various types of houses were demolished
with 28,510 people in 6,237 households resettled. Also 87 enterprises and institutions were relocated,
33,803 tombs were removed, 354,000 fruit trees were cut down. Under the Project, the compensation
for the land acquisition and resettlement amounted to RMB 482.7 million, among which the
compensation made by Fuzhou was RMB 168.90489 million, RMB 89.35323 million of compensation
was made by Putian, RMB 162.97692 million was compensated by Quanzhou (including the
compensation for Quanzhou ­Xiamen Expressway) while Xiamen made the compensation of RMB
61.46571 million, 12.7% higher than the original RAP estimate of RMB 428.26 million stated in the
RAP.

21.    Construction Industry Study. A Fujian Provincial Construction Industry Study Report was
completed in September 1997 and submitted to the World Bank. The report not only gave an impetus
to the improvement and perfection of the organizational structures of Fujian's construction enterprises,
its the efficiency and quality, but also increased the competitiveness of construction industry in Fujian
Province.

22. Road Network Improvement Program (RNIP). The RNIP component consisted of 3 new
construction subprojects (58.1 km in length) and 4 paving subprojects (200.73 km long). The sixteen
contracts of civil works started in 1994 and completed in 1996. After having been opened to traffic for
a few years, the RNIP subprojects were in good operation condition with stable increase of traffic at
about 4-18% growth rates depending on the sections.

23. Closing Date. The original closing date was June 30th, 2000. The closing date was extended


                                                 - 19 -

twice to June 30, 2002 and to December 30, 2003. The first extension was done to accommodate the
inclusion of additional investment of Fuzhou-Quanzhou Expressway. The second extension was to
accommodate the unexpected delay in the internal approval of E&M design and procurement.

24.   Implementation Entities. In order to build the first expressway, Quanzhou ­ Xiamen
Expressway, in Fujian Province, which is also the first foreign project financed project, Fujian
Provincial Expressway Construction Leading Group was established in June 1991 to be responsible for
its preparation. The Fuzhou ­ Xiamen ­ Zhangzhou Expressway Construction Directorate was
established by the Fujian Provincial People's Government to replace the original Fujian Provincial
Expressway Construction Office. The new entity has direct responsibility for the execution of Fuzhou
­ Xiamen ­ Zhangzhou Expressway. The Administrative Service, Engineering Department, Financial
Department, Material and Machinery Department and Planning Department were set up to work on
procurement, review of substantial design variations and claims, land acquisition and resettlement,
measurements and payments confirmed by the supervision team etc. In August 1995, in order to meet
the requirements of expressway construction in Fujian, Fujian Provincial People's Government
renamed Fuzhou ­ Xiamen ­ Zhangzhou Expressway Construction Directorate as Fujian Provincial
Expressway Construction Directorate. It was given the responsibility to plan and execute expressway
construction in the entire province of Fujian.

25. Main Problems and Suggestions:
    l High contingency allocation resulting in unnecessarily large amount of loan savings. There
        were a loan saving of about US$ 47.5 million identified in 1998. The saving was applied to
        an additional component i.e. Fuzhou ­ Quanzhou Expressway. However, due to low bid price,
        there still was a loan saving of about US$18.11 million which was finally cancelled. This led
        to a waste of certain amount of front-end fees and commitment charge. In view of this, Fujian
        authorities would like to suggest that the World Bank's loan agreement allow a floating
        withdrawal percentage system with an agreeable band of disbursement percentage. During the
        project implementation, especially at the end of project construction, on the understanding that
        there is a loan saving, the client should be allowed to withdraw the loan proceeds at a higher
        withdrawal percentage within the allowable band.
    l Unnecessary study imposed on Fujian COmmunications Department. FPCD was asked to
        carry out some studies under the project. The practice showed that some studies were
        necessary and effective. However, some studies, such as the Highway Construction Industry,
        and the Highway Maintnenance Study, produced little effect leading to the waste of money,
        human resources and time. In consideration of this, it is suggested that the Bank take full
        considertation of the actual situation both in China and Fujian as well as local opinions to
        select useful study topics. The study should be conducted accoding to local demand and with
        clear objectives.




                                                 - 20 -

H. The World Bank's work
26. Cooperation with the World Bank. It has been more than 14 years from listing Quanzhou ­
Xiamen Expressway in the proposed projects to be financed by the Bank in 1989 to present when the
second Fujian Highway Project is ongoing. During this period, an excellent cooperation between
Fujian Provincial Communications Department and the World Bank continued. Due to the different
national conditions and cultural background as well as different cognizance in respect of engineering
design philosophy, modes of economic analysis, land acquisition and resettlement and the
environmental protection, etc., a lot of exchanges of views were made between the members of Bank
missions and FPCD. Such an exchange was not limited to the project itself. Via different
methodology, the World Bank have had deeper cognizance of China's national conditions and
understood its operational approaches. At the same time, any rational proposals and requirements from
the World Bank, especially the technical proposals, was accepted by FPCD with an open mind.

27. Sharpened Understanding of and Benefits from the FIDIC's Conditions. Since QXE was
financed by the World Bank, in line with the requirements set forth by the World Bank, the contractors
and supervision engineers were selected on the basis of international competitive bidding. Project
management was in accordance with the FIDIC's conditions. Strict technical and organizational
measures were taken to exercise management and control of works in combination with the national
and provincial conditions. Since this was the first time for Fujian Province to introduce FIDIC's
Conditions, it was inevitable that such an introduction would impact upon the existing construction
management system. In addition, there was an adverse influence of World Bank's procurement practice
which require an award of contract to low price bidder. FPCD was skeptical at the beginning on how
effective and applicable such requirement was on local situation. However, with the constant
development and perfection of the market economy in China, Bank procurement rules and the FIDIC's
Conditions for project management have now been widely accepted in Fujian. At present, the
construction management of expressways in Fujian is exercised fundamentally on the basis of the
FIDIC's Conditions, simultaneously, taking into consideration the local situations of China and the
province.

28. Benefits from the Training Program. As for most of the training courses, the participants
were mainly composed of the engineers and technicians in relevant field. Appropriately designed
training program enable them, on the macroscopic basis, to keep abreast of the management experience
and practice in foreign countries to be applied by taking into account the specific situations in Fujian.
Via training, the new technologies, the updated knowledge and new methodology learnt abroad have
been applied and populated by the participants. What is more, the training program provided the
engineers and the operational staff with an opportunity to widen their horizons by understanding and
updating their knowledge, which is regarded as a critical factor for intellectual growth.




                                                - 21 -

    29. Heightening of Consciousness of Environmental Protection. The environmental protection
    plays a very important role in the expressway construction. QXE is the first expressway ever
    constructed in Fujian, In every step of project identification, preparation and implementation FPCD
    carried out strictly the related laws and regulations of China and the relevant requirements set forth by
    the World Bank in respect of the environmental protection for highway project construction. It had
    implemented every environmental protection facilities required for QXE. The current achievements
    made in respect of environmental protection for QXE attributed not only to the constant development
    and perfection of policies of environmental protection of China and the strengthening of environmental
    design, but also to the environmental impact assessment by the Bank during project preparation stage
    as well as the strict supervision carried out during implementation stage. During the process, a subtle
    influence of environmental protection was exerted on the staff of FPCD and the related contractors.
    The heightening of consciousness of environmental protection greatly benefit the implementation of the
    China's sustainable development policy and the construction of the other expressway projects in Fujian
    Province.

    30. Promotion of the Traffic Development. The experience from and the exemplary role played by
    QXE gave impetus to the acceleration of construction of the related road sections linking to QXE in the
    cities and counties nearby. It further promoted the development of highways along the corridor as will
    as the construction of related harbors. During the ninth Five-Year Plan, Quanzhou City made an
    investment of more than RMB 5.0 billion in the construction of transport infrastructure, among which,
    more than RMB 4 billion was for the construction of highways. Quanzhou Cities took the lead in this
    respect in Fujian province. In 1997, highways linking 2,257 administrative villages under the
    jurisdiction of Quanzhou Cities were open to traffic. In 2000, paved roads were further expanded
    linking to 1,851 administrative villages with 82% of rural roads were paved. Such achievement was
    ranked among the top cities and prefectures in Fujian. In 1999, there were 26 highway reconstruction
    and improvement projects in Xiamen City with a total investment of RMB 1.056 billion. Up to the end
    of 2000, the total length of highway opened to traffic in Xiamen was 1,051 km with a road network
    density of 68.36 km per 100 sq. km. Meanwhile, the county and town roads were rapidly developed,
    and as a result, 100% of towns and villages were linked by highways. With the development of the
    highways network in Quanzhou and Xiamen, the construction of ports were obviously accelerated. The
    implementation of coastal development strategy and development of the foreign-oriented economy were
    accelerated too.


(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                     - 22 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                          1
               Indicator/Matrix                       Projected in last PSR              Actual/Latest Estimate
This was not part of SAR and was retofitted
later.
                                            Estimation at Appraisal
1A. Traffic on Quanzhou-Xiamen
Expressway (Vpd)
1998 (opening year)                         17,998                             8,586
2003                                        24,305                             13,490
1B. Traffic on old Quan-Xia Road
1998                                        6,260                              18,373
2003                                        8,532                              19,499
2A. Traffic on Fu-Quan Expressway
2000 (Opening year)                                                            7,223
2003                                                                           10,281
2B. Traffic on old Fu-Quan Road
2000                                                                           13,134
2003                                                                           12,682


Output Indicators:
                                                                          1
               Indicator/Matrix                       Projected in last PSR              Actual/Latest Estimate
                                            Estimation at Appraisal
1. Quanzhou-Xiamen Expressway (81.4km)      December 1997 (100%)               January 1998 (100%)
2. E & M for QXE                            June 1999 (100%)                   July 2001 (100%)
3. Fuzhou-Quanzhou Expressway (155km)       December 1999 (100%)               January 2000 (100%)
4. E & M for FQE                            June 2001 (100%)                   October 2003 (100%)
5. Group A-Upgrading of 3 road sections     December 1996 (100%)               December 1996 (100%)
(58.3km)
6. Group B-Paving of 4 road sections        December 1996 (100%)               December 1996 (100%)
(202.7km)
7. Procurement of equipment                 December 2000 (100%)               December 2000 (100%)
8. Construction Industry Study              July 1995 (100%)                   December 1997 (100%)
9. Planned Staff Training Program           June 2000 (100%)                   December 1997 (100%)

1End of project




                                                             - 23 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)


                                              Appraisal  Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                              Estimate    Estimate      Appraisal
                   Component                US$ million  US$ million
   A. Works
     1. Quan-Xia Highway                        314.9       299.7          95.2
    2. E&M works (Quan-Xia)                      6.5        13.4          206.2
    3. RNIP                                      29.0       34.3          118.3
    4. Fu-Quan Pavement                          0.0        64.8           --
    5. E&M works (Fu-Quan)                       0.0         8.9           --

                     Subtotal                   350.4       421.1         120.2
   B. Supervision
    1. Quan-Xia Highway                          8.4        11.1          132.1
    2. RNIP                                      0.3         0.3          100.0
    3. Fu-Quan Highway                           0.0         9.3           --

                     Subtotal                    8.7        20.7          237.9
   C. Equipment
    1. Highway E&M                               2.3         4.2          182.6
    2. Laboratories                              0.5         1.1          220.0
    3. RDB/ PMS                                  0.5         0.0           0.0

                     Subtotal                    3.3         5.3          160.6
   D. Studies & Training
    1. Road construction. ind.                   0.3         0.2          66.7
    2. Staff training                            0.7         0.6          85.7

                     Subtotal                    1.0         0.8          80.0

                                                363.4       447.9         123.3
    Total Baseline Cost
    Contingencies:
       Physical                                  35.9        0.0           --
       Price                                    104.9        0.0           --
           Total Project Costs                  504.2       447.9          88.8

    Land acquisition                             24.6       17.1           69.5
    Total Financing Required                    528.8       465.0          87.9




                                             - 24 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                               1
                                                      Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category               ICB                NCB                     2          N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                           Other
1. Works                              421.80             40.30               0.00             24.60            486.70
                                     (122.10)           (10.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)           (132.10)
2. Goods                               2.90               0.00               1.30             0.00              4.20
                                      (2.70)             (0.00)             (1.00)           (0.00)             (3.70)
3. Services                            0.00               0.00              13.30             0.00              13.30
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)             (4.20)           (0.00)             (4.20)
4. Miscellaneous                       0.00               0.00               0.00             24.60             24.60
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)             (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                       0.00               0.00               0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)             (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                       0.00               0.00               0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)             (0.00)
   Total                              424.70             40.30              14.60             49.20            528.80
                                     (124.80)           (10.00)             (5.20)           (0.00)           (140.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                               1
                                                     Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                           Other
1. Works                              312.60            108.00              0.00             0.00             420.60
                                      (75.60)           (37.90)               ()             (0.00)          (113.50)
2. Goods                               4.20               0.00              1.10             0.00              5.30
                                      (0.40)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.40)
3. Services                            3.30               8.90              9.80             0.00             22.00
                                      (3.30)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (3.30)
4. Miscellaneous                       0.00               0.00              0.00             17.10            17.10
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.30)            (0.00)           (0.30)
5. Miscellaneous                       0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                       0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   Total                              320.10            116.90             10.90             17.10            465.00
                                      (79.30)           (37.90)            (0.30)            (0.00)          (117.50)

1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
  of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
  managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                      - 25 -

Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                     Percentage of Appraisal
       Component              Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate
                          Bank      Govt.       CoF.    Bank       Govt.       CoF.   Bank   Govt.   CoF.
Works:
Quan-Xia Highway          184.00    48.70      82.20    179.80     52.50      66.90   97.7   107.8    81.4
Quan-Xia E&M               1.30                 5.20     3.60       1.10       8.70  276.9           167.3
RNIP                      21.80                 7.20    21.00       6.10       7.20   96.3           100.0
Fu-Quan Pavement                                        28.50       8.30      28.00
Fu-Quan E&M                                              4.80       1.40       2.70
Construction Supervision   6.20                 2.50    13.80       4.10       3.30  222.6           132.0
Equipment                  0.40                 2.90     3.70       1.20       0.40  925.0            13.8
Studies and Training:
Road Constr. Ind. Study    0.10                 0.20                           0.20   0.0            100.0
Staff Training             0.10                 0.60     0.40       0.10       0.10  400.0            16.7
Contingencies             101.60               39.20                                  0.0             0.0
Land Acquisition          24.60                         13.20       3.90              53.7
Total Project Cost        340.10    48.70      140.00   268.80     78.70      117.50  79.0   161.6    83.9




                                                 - 26 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits



                         Economic and Financial Evaluation Summary
                                           The ICR                           The SAR
                                 EIRR   ENPV     FIRR    FNPV       EIRR  ENPV     FIRR   FNPV
                                   (%)   (12%,   (%)     (4.5%,      (%)   (12%,    (%)
                                         mY)              mY)              mY)
  1. Fuzhou - Xiamen
  expressway
     a. Fuzhou - Quanzhou         15.8   1,685    --       --         --     --      --     --
     b. Quanzhou - Xiamen         19.0   1,657    6.5     834       24.3  2,146      --     --
             Subtotal             17.1   3,000    --       --         --     --      --     --
  2. RNIP
     a. Group A (3 roads)         30.5    173     --       --       26.2    168      --     --
     b. Group B (4 roads)         38.5    261     --       --       40.4    166      --     --
             Subtotal             33.2    314     --       --       31.1    334      --     --

               Total              17.9   3,280    --       --       25.0  2,480      --     --


                       Number Of Motorized Vehicle Per Day (1998-2003)

                                     SAR                                      ICR
                    Old Road                     Diversion     Old Road  New           Diversion
                     (G324) New Road    Total       ratio      (G324)   Road    Total    ratio
                       (1)     (2)     (3=1+2)    (4=2/3)        (1)     (2)   (3=1+2)  (4=2/3)

  1. Xiamen- Quanzhou Expressway:
          1998        6,260  17,998    24,258      74.2%         18,373  8,586 26,959   31.8%
          1999        6,665  19,165    25,830      74.2%         19,227  8,934 28,161   31.7%
          2000        7,097  20,406    27,503      74.2%         17,537  9,987 27,524   36.3%
          2001        7,557  21,729    29,286      74.2%         17,560 11,303 28,863   39.2%
          2002        8,048  23,137    31,185      74.2%         19,103 12,478 31,581   39.5%
          2003        8,532  24,305    32,837      74.0%         19,499 13,490 32,989   40.9%
          2010        9,668  27,014    36,682      73.6%         22,218 22,905 45,123   50.8%
          2017       19,314  48,586    67,900      71.6%         24,632 33,884 58,516   57.9%
     Average growth pa
       2003-2017      6.0%    5.1%      5.3%         --            1.7%  6.8%    4.2%     --

  2. Fuzhou- Quanzhou Expressway:
          1999          --      --        --         --          16,200  5,807 22,007   26.4%
          2000          --      --        --         --          13,134  7,223 20,357   35.5%
          2001          --      --        --         --          12,603  7,519 20,122   37.4%
          2002          --      --        --         --          12,410  7,737 20,147   38.4%
          2003          --      --        --         --          12,682 10,281 22,963   44.8%
          2010          --      --        --         --          14,680 18,082 32,762   55.2%
          2020          --      --        --         --          17,354 33,645 50,999   66.0%
     Average growth pa
       2003-2020        --      --        --         --            1.9%  7.2%    4.8%     --


  Sources: FPCD and the Bank staff.




                                               - 27 -

                                 Fuzhou- Xiamen Expressway Project
                        EIRR: Quanzhou- Xiamen section (million Yuan)
                                                                                     Page 1 of 3
                              Costs                     Benefits (Savings)            Net cash
                 Capital     O & M    Total     VOC     Time     Accident    Total     flow

  1993              134.81             134.81                                          -134.81
  1994              183.41             183.41                                          -183.41
  1995              277.16             277.16                                          -277.16
  1996              525.49             525.49                                          -525.49
  1997              957.82       0.78  958.60      2.40    0.43       0.03       2.86  -955.74
  1998              233.42     18.76   252.18   230.06    41.47       2.73    274.26      22.08
  1999              316.33     26.48   342.81   257.37    48.32       2.89    308.58     -34.23
  2000                         28.52     28.52  311.95    67.65       3.37    382.97    354.45
  2001                         33.02     33.02  347.63    81.84       3.72    433.19    400.17
  2002                         27.41     27.41  381.10    97.72       4.05    482.87    455.46
  2003                         29.13     29.13  418.14    116.65      4.41    539.20    510.07
  2004                         30.95     30.95  459.17    139.20      4.76    603.13    572.18
  2005                         32.90     32.90  505.77    165.91      4.95    676.63    643.73
  2006                         34.98     34.98  566.01    200.93      5.17    772.11    737.13
  2007                         37.19     37.19  635.60    243.73      5.37    884.70    847.51
  2008 /_1                    217.70   217.70   716.49    296.23      5.56   1,018.28   800.58
  2009                         42.07     42.07  811.15    360.95      5.74   1,177.84  1,135.77
  2010                         44.77     44.77  922.84    441.20      5.89   1,369.93  1,325.16
  2011                         47.64     47.64  983.99    493.64      5.87   1,483.50  1,435.86
  2012                         50.70     50.70 1,049.30   551.56      5.81   1,606.67  1,555.97
  2013                         53.98     53.98 1,119.01   615.38      5.70   1,740.09  1,686.11
  2014                         57.47     57.47 1,193.39   685.52      5.53   1,884.44  1,826.97
  2015                         61.21     61.21 1,272.69   762.36      5.29   2,040.34  1,979.13
  2016                         65.21     65.21 1,516.13   919.41      5.29   2,440.83  2,375.62
  2017 /_2                  -1,244.8  -1,244.8 1,670.10 1,106.66      5.25   2,782.01  4,026.76

 Total            2,628.44 -303.88 2,324.56    15,370.3 7,436.76     97.38   22,904.4  20,579.9

                                                                          EIRR           19.0%
                                                                          NPV (12%)     1,656.7


/_1: Major maintenance
/_2: Includes the residual value.




                                                 - 28 -

                                 Fuzhou- Xiamen Expressway Project
                        EIRR: Fuzhou- Quanzhou section (million Yuan)
                                                                                       Page 2 of 3
                              Costs                       Benefits (Savings)            Net cash
                Capital     O & M     Total     VOC      Time      Accident    Total     flow

  1993              0.00                  0.00                                               0.00
  1994              0.00                  0.00                                               0.00
  1995           164.07                164.07                                            -164.07
  1996           684.30                684.30                                            -684.30
  1997         1,712.67          0.00 1,712.67     0.00     0.00        0.00       0.00 -1,712.67
  1998           936.87          0.00  936.87      0.00     0.00        0.00       0.00  -936.87
  1999           708.33          0.00  708.33      0.00     0.00        0.00       0.00  -708.33
  2000             85.90         0.00    85.90     0.00     0.00        0.00       0.00    -85.90
  2001           182.77        58.33   241.10   408.52     96.17        4.37    509.06    267.96
  2002             37.92       48.42     86.34  417.44    107.04        4.44    528.92    442.58
  2003              0.00       51.46     51.46  562.95    157.05        5.94    725.94    674.48
  2004              0.00       54.67     54.67  621.68    188.47        6.44    816.59    761.92
  2005              0.00       58.12     58.12  688.68    225.91        6.74    921.33    863.21
  2006              0.00       61.79     61.79  774.39    274.90        7.07   1,056.36   994.57
  2007              0.00       65.70     65.70  873.81    335.08        7.38   1,216.27  1,150.57
  2008 /_1          0.00      384.58   384.58   989.75    409.21        7.68   1,406.64  1,022.06
  2009              0.00       74.32     74.32 1,125.87   500.99        7.97   1,634.83  1,560.51
  2010              0.00       79.09     79.09 1,286.98   615.29        8.21   1,910.48  1,831.39
  2011              0.00       84.16     84.16 1,377.45   691.03        8.22   2,076.70  1,992.54
  2012              0.00       89.57     89.57 1,474.41   775.02        8.16   2,257.59  2,168.02
  2013              0.00       95.36     95.36 1,578.32   867.97        8.04   2,454.33  2,358.97
  2014              0.00      101.52   101.52  1,689.59   970.55        7.83   2,667.97  2,566.45
  2015              0.00      108.13   108.13  1,808.67 1,083.42        7.52   2,899.61  2,791.48
  2016              0.00      115.19   115.19  2,180.84 1,322.50        7.61   3,510.95  3,395.76
  2017 /_2          0.00    -2,133.7  -2,133.7 2,431.56 1,611.23        7.64   4,050.43  6,184.12

 Total         4,512.83      -603.28 3,909.56  20,290.9 1,0231.83     121.26   30,644.0  26,734.4

                                                                            EIRR           15.8%
                                                                            NPV (12%)     1,684.6


/_1: Major maintenance
/_2: Includes the residual value.




                                                 - 29 -

                            EIRR: Fuzhou- Xiamen Expressway Project
                                             (million Yuan)
                                                                                       Page 3 of 3
                              Costs                       Benefits (Savings)            Net cash
                Capital     O & M     Total      VOC      Time     Accident    Total     flow

  1993           134.82                134.82                                            -134.82
  1994           183.41                183.41                                            -183.41
  1995           441.24                441.24                                            -441.24
  1996         1,209.79               1,209.79                                          -1,209.79
  1997         2,670.49          0.78 2,671.27       2.40    0.43       0.03       2.86 -2,668.41
  1998         1,170.28        18.76 1,189.04      230.06   41.47       2.73    274.26   -914.78
  1999         1,024.65        26.48 1,051.13      257.37   48.32       2.89    308.58   -742.55
  2000             85.90       28.52   114.42      311.95   67.65       3.37    382.97     268.55
  2001           182.77        91.35   274.12      756.15  178.01       8.09    942.25     668.13
  2002             37.92       75.83   113.75      798.54  204.76       8.49   1,011.79    898.04
  2003              0.00       80.59     80.59     981.09  273.70      10.35   1,265.14  1,184.55
  2004              0.00       85.62     85.62  1,080.85   327.67      11.20   1,419.72  1,334.10
  2005              0.00       91.02     91.02  1,194.45   391.82      11.69   1,597.96  1,506.94
  2006              0.00       96.77     96.77  1,340.40   475.83      12.24   1,828.47  1,731.70
  2007              0.00      102.89   102.89   1,509.41   578.81      12.75   2,100.97  1,998.08
  2008 /_1          0.00      602.28   602.28   1,706.24   705.44      13.24   2,424.92  1,822.64
  2009              0.00      116.39   116.39   1,937.02   861.94      13.71   2,812.67  2,696.28
  2010              0.00      123.86   123.86   2,209.82 1,056.49      14.10   3,280.41  3,156.55
  2011              0.00      131.80   131.80   2,361.44 1,184.67      14.09   3,560.20  3,428.40
  2012              0.00      140.27   140.27   2,523.71 1,326.58      13.97   3,864.26  3,723.99
  2013              0.00      149.34   149.34   2,697.33 1,483.35      13.74   4,194.42  4,045.08
  2014              0.00      158.99   158.99   2,882.98 1,656.07      13.36   4,552.41  4,393.42
  2015              0.00      169.34   169.34   3,081.36 1,845.78      12.81   4,939.95  4,770.61
  2016              0.00      180.40   180.40   3,696.97 2,241.91      12.90   5,951.78  5,771.38
  2017 /_2          0.00    -3,378.4  -3,378.4  4,101.66 2,717.89      12.89   6,832.44 10,210.88

 Total         7,141.27      -907.16 6,234.12   35,661.2  17,668.6    218.64   53,548.4  47,314.3

                                                                            EIRR           17.1%
                                                                            NPV (12%)     2,999.6


/_1: Major maintenance
/_2: Includes the residual value.




                                                   - 30 -

       FIRR: Quanzhou- Xiamen Expressway (million Yuan)

                      Costs                   Financial     Net cash
             Local    IBRD       Total        benefits        flow

1993           118.35   29.18       147.53                       -147.53
1994           161.00   39.70       200.70                       -200.70
1995           243.31   59.99       303.30                       -303.30
1996           461.31   113.73      575.04                       -575.04
1997           840.83   207.30   1,048.13           -15.15    -1,063.28
1998           204.90   50.52       255.42          109.62       -145.80
1999           277.69   68.46       346.15           82.37       -263.78
2000                                                 76.15         76.15
2001                                                 96.05         96.05
2002                                                113.26        113.26
2003                                                135.43        135.43
2004                                                159.52        159.52
2005                                                184.03        184.03
2006                                                201.94        201.94
2007                                                221.17        221.17
2008                                                155.43        155.43
2009                                                310.82        310.82
2010                                                338.09        338.09
2011                                                362.38        362.38
2012                                                388.18        388.18
2013                                                482.61        482.61
2014                                                515.70        515.70
2015                                                548.12        548.12
2016                                                577.22        577.22
2017                                                607.81        607.81
2018                                                528.21        528.21
2019                                                778.94        778.94
2020                                                819.88        819.88

Total        2,307.39   568.88   2,876.27         7,777.78      4,901.51

                                           FIRR =                  6.5%
                                           NPV (4.5%) =            833.6




                              - 31 -

                          Xiamen - Quanzhou Expressway: Income Statement
                                          (Y million, year ending 31 December)
                                                                                                          Page 1 of 4
                                    1997     1998   1999    2000   2001 2002     2003   2004   2005    2006 2007

Traffic (million veh-km)              --     255.10 265.44  296.72 335.82 370.73 400.80 437.82 478.32 513.26 550.75


Revenue
 Tolls                                 2.68   146.11 189.67  201.17 251.11 275.92 330.66 361.20 394.61 423.44 454.37
 Others                                0.00     0.00   0.95    2.01  2.51   2.76    2.76   2.76   2.76  2.76    2.76
 Total                                 2.68   146.11 190.62  203.18 253.62 278.68 333.42 363.96 397.37 426.20 457.13

Less: Operating Taxes                0.00     0.00   5.48   11.68  14.58   16.02 19.17  20.93  22.85   24.51 26.28

Net Revenue                            2.68   146.11 185.14  191.50 239.04 262.66 314.25 343.03 374.52 401.69 430.85
Operating Costs
  Operating and management             0.68    16.39  15.86   16.65 16.93   16.00  19.00  20.75  22.65 24.29   26.06
  Maintenance                          0.11     2.55  11.43   12.78 17.32   12.28  15.36  16.13  16.94 17.79   18.68
 Total working costs                   0.79    18.94  27.29   29.43 34.25   28.28  34.36  36.88  39.59 42.08   44.74
           Depreciation               17.04    17.55  18.76   18.76 18.76   31.22  31.80  31.83  31.87 31.90   31.94
 Total operating costs                17.83    36.49  46.05   48.19 53.01   59.50  66.16  68.71  71.46 73.98   76.68


Operating Profit                    (15.15)   109.62 139.09  143.31 186.03 203.16 248.09 274.32 303.06 327.71 354.17
Financial charges:
   IBRD                                    -       -  37.57   37.29 34.51   32.86  31.10  29.19  27.15 24.95   22.58
   Local Bank                              -       -  16.78   25.81 47.90   21.30  13.95   5.97      -      -       -
 Other income (expenses)                   -       -      -       -      -      -      -      -      -      -       -


Profit Before Taxes /1              (15.15)   109.62  84.74   80.21 103.62 149.00 203.04 239.16 275.91 302.76 331.59
 Income tax                                -       -   2.37    4.06  7.57   35.74  67.61  79.64  91.88 100.82 110.42


Net Profit After Taxes             (15.15) 109.62   82.37   76.15  96.05 113.26 135.43  159.52 184.03 201.94 221.17


Actual: 1997-2002, forecast: 2003 thereafter.
/_1: Opened to traffic in December 20, 1997.
/_2: Starting 2003, income rate = 33.3%




                                                           - 32 -

                  Xiamen ­ Quanzhou Expressway: Sources and Applications of Funds
                                         (Y million, year ending 31 December)p
                                                                                                                        Page 2 of 4
                   1993  1994 1995 1996        1997    1998 1999       2000    2001 2002       2003 2004      2005 2006    2007



Sources:
Net profits             -      -      -      -  (15.15) 109.62  82.37   76.15   96.05 113.26 135.43 159.52 184.03 201.94 221.17
Depreciation            -      -      -      -    17.04  17.55  18.76   18.76   18.76   31.22   31.80   31.83  31.87  31.90  31.94
State contribution  26.74 36.38 54.99 104.25     190.01  46.30  62.75       -        -      -        -      -      -      -       -
Provincial
  contribution      54.97 74.78 113.00 214.24    390.51  95.16 128.97       -        -      -        -      -      -      -       -
Borrowing: IBRD     29.18 39.70 59.99 113.73     207.30  50.52  68.46       -        -      -        -      -      -      -       -
             Local  30.48 41.47 62.67 118.83     216.58  52.78  71.53       -        -      -        -      -      -      -       -

Others               6.16  8.37 12.65    23.99    43.73  10.66  14.44       -        -      -        -      -      -      -       -

       Total       147.53 200.70 303.30 575.04 1,050.02 382.59 447.28   94.91 114.81 144.48 167.23 191.35 215.90 233.84 253.11

Applications:
Capital
  expenditure      147.53 200.70 303.30 575.04 1,048.13 255.42 346.15    2.88     3.02   3.17     3.33   3.50   3.68  3.86    4.05
Other expenditure       -      -      -      -        -      -      -       -        -      -        -      -      -      -       -
Loan repayment:
       IBRD             -      -      -      -        -      -  21.65   39.83   24.18   26.01   27.98   30.09  32.37  34.81  37.45
       Local            -      -      -      -        -      - 140.00   95.00 119.24 118.46 138.75 102.89          -      -       -
Change w/ capital       -      -      -      -     0.27  14.26   4.44    1.25     5.02   2.49     5.45   3.04   3.32  2.86    3.08


       Total       147.53 200.70 303.30 575.04 1,048.40 269.68 512.24 138.96 151.46 150.13 175.51 139.52       39.37  41.53  44.58


Net Funds Flow          -      -      -      -     1.62 112.91 (64.96) (44.05) (36.65) (5.65)    (8.3)  51.83 176.53 192.31 208.53

 Open balance           -      -      -      -        -   1.62 114.53   49.57     5.52 (31.13) (36.78) (45.06)  6.77 183.30 375.61

 Closing balance        -      -      -      -     1.62 114.53  49.57    5.52 (31.13) (36.78) (45.06)    6.77 183.30 375.61 584.14

D/S Cover           --     --     --     --      --      --     0.63    0.70    0.80    1.00    1.00    1.44  6.67   6.72   6.76




                                                       - 33 -

                          Xiamen ­ Quanzhou Expressway: Balance Sheet
                                   (Y million, year ending 31 December)
                                                                                                       Page 3 of 4
                            1997   1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005    2006    2007

Assets:
Fixed Assets
 At cost                   1873.27 1929.04 2061.79 2061.79 2061.79 2061.79 2061.79 2061.79 2061.79 2061.792061.79
 Less: Depreciation          31.31   48.86   67.62   86.38  105.14  136.36  168.16  199.99 231.86   263.76 295.70


       Net fixed assets    1841.96 1880.18 1994.17 1975.41 1956.65 1925.43 1893.63 1861.80 1829.93 1798.031766.09

Current Assets
 Inventory                       -    0.07    0.10    0.10    0.13    0.14    0.17    0.18   0.20     0.21   0.23
 Receivable                  0.27    14.61   19.06   20.32   25.36   27.87  33.34    36.40  39.74    42.62  45.71
 Cash                        1.62   114.53   49.57    5.52 (31.13) (36.78) (45.06)    6.77 183.30   375.61  584.1


           Subtotal           1.89  129.21   68.73   25.94  (5.64)  (8.77) (11.55)   43.35 223.24   418.44  630.1

Other Assets                    --      --      --      --      --      --      --      --      --      --      --


        Total Assets       1843.85 2009.39 2062.90 2001.35 1951.01 1916.66 1882.08 1905.15 2053.17 2216.472396.17


Liabilities & Equity
State funds- Equity         829.02  880.45  941.14 1014.41 1107.44 1217.53 1349.63 1505.65 1686.00 1884.082101.20

L/T loans: IBRD             449.90  500.42  547.23  507.40  483.22  457.21  429.23  399.14 366.77   331.96 294.51
            Local           564.93  628.37  574.34  479.34  360.10  241.64  102.89       -       -       -       -


           Subtotal        1014.83 1128.79 1121.57  986.74  843.32  698.85  532.12  399.14 366.77   331.96 294.51

Current Liabilities              -    0.15    0.19    0.20    0.25    0.28    0.33    0.36   0.40     0.43   0.46

Other Liabilities               --      --      --      --      --      --      --      --      --      --      --

Total Liabilities & Equity 1843.85 2009.39 2062.90 2001.35 1951.01 1916.66 1882.08 1905.15 2053.17 2216.472396.17


Debt: capital ratio         55.0   56.2    54.4     49.3   43.2    36.5    28.3    21.0     17.9   15.0    12.3
Debt/ equity ratio         55/45   56/44   54/46   49/51   43/57   36/64   28/72   21/79   18/82   15/85  12/88




                                                  - 34 -

                                 Xiamen ­ Quanzhou Expressway

                                 Assumptions for Financial Forecasts
                                                                                                      Page 4 of 4
1. Traffic (AADT):
                      Small     Medium    Large        Small        Medium     Large      Tractor
                        car      bus       bus         truck         truck     truck      -Trailer  Total

         1998              2,275    760         731       2,183         2,197      282          158  8,586
         1999              2,368    791         760       2,272         2,286      294          163  8,934
         2000              2,647    884         850       2,540         2,556      329          181  9,987
         2001              2,995  1,000         962       2,874         2,892      372          208 11,303
         2002              3,307  1,104       1,062       3,173         3,193      411          228 12,478
         2003              3,575  1,194       1,148       3,431         3,452      444          246 13,490
         2005              4,266  1,425       1,370       4,094         4,120      530          294 16,099
         2010              6,070  2,027       1,949       5,825         5,861      754          419 22,905
         2020             10,432  3,484       3,350      10,011        10,074     1,295         721 39,367


2. Tolls (Yuan/ vehicle- km):
                                 Small  Medium         Large        Heavy      Extra
                                vehicle  vehicle      vehicle       vehicle    heavy

   Before December 29, 2002      0.50      1.00        1.50          2.00       2.70
  After December 29, 2002        0.55      1.10        1.65          2.20       3.00



3. Operating Taxes                5.75% of total revenue.

4. Operating Cost:                     Increase 5 % pa.
  a. Operating and management      5.7% of total revenue.
  b. Maintenance                   3-4% of toll revenue.
  c. Depreciation                 1.51% of the book value, after 2003.

5. Income tax rate                33.3% of profit before tax, after 2003.

6. Borrowing:       The IBRD       7-9%, 20 year maturities, LIBOR US$ based single currency,
                                        5 years grace period and the foreign exchange risks.

                    Local         5.76%, overall weighted average, total 5 years maturities,
                                       no grace period.




                                                    - 35 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              05/14/1992                3    HIGHWAY ENGINEER (2);
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC. (1)
              03/28/1993                6    HIGHWAY ENGINEER (2);
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                             RESEARCH ANALYST (1);
                                             RESETTLEMENT SPEC. (1);
                                             CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY
                                             SPECIALIST (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              7/01/1993                 4    HIGHWAY ENGINEER (2);
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST;
                                             REEARCH ANALYST


 Supervision

              05/06/1994                3    RESETTLEMENT SPEC. (1);          1               1
                                             HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
              12/11/1994                1    HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1)             S              HS
              08/05/1995                1    HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1)             S               S
              10/20/1996                2    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             HIGHWAY CONSULTANT (1)
              03/25/1997                4    TRANSPORT ECONOMIST (1);         S               S
                                             TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC. (1);
                                             HIGHWAY CONSULTANT (1)
              11/12/1997                6    TASK MANAGER (1);                HS             HS
                                             HIGHWAY CONS. (1);
                                             INSTITUTIONAL CONS. (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC. (1);
                                             RESETTLEMENT SPEC. (1);
                                             OPERATIONS CONS. (1)
              11/15/1998                4    TASK MANAGER (1);                HS             HS
                                             HIGHWAY CONS. (1);
                                             INSTITUTIONAL CONS. (1);
                                             RESETTLEMENT SPEC. (1)
              03/29/1999                2    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1)
              12/05/1999                5    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);
                                             INSTITUTIONAL CONS. (1);
                                             RESETTLEMENT SPEC. (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENT SPEC. (1)
              07/24/2000                4    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S



                                              - 36 -

                                           HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);
                                           INSTITUTIONAL CONS. (1);
                                           RESETTLEMENT SPEC. (1)
               03/24/2001              7   TASK MANAGER (1); SR.              S    S
                                           HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);
                                           HIGHWAY SPECIALIST (1);
                                           HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);
                                           RESETTLEMENT SPECIALIS
                                           (1); HIGHWAY CONSULTANT
                                           (1); SAFTY/IST CONSULTANT
                                           (1)
               11/02/2001              4   TASK MANAGER (1); SENIOR           S    S
                                           HIGHWAY ENGR. (1);
                                           HIGHWAY ENGR. (2)
               03/15/2002              2   TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1);          S    S
                                           ENVIRONMENTAL SPECIALI
                                           (1)
               11/09/2002              5   TASK TEAM LEADER (1);              S    S
                                           TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1);
                                           SOCIAL DEV. SPECIALIST
                                           (1); DISBURSEMENT
                                           OFFICER (1); SR. HIGHWAY
                                           ENGINEER (1)
               03/28/2003              3   TASK TEAM LEADER (1);              S    S
                                           TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1);
                                           SOCIAL DEV. SPECIALIST (1)


 ICR
               12/01/2003             1     HIGHWAY ENGINEER                  S    S



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation             n.a.                        260.6
  Appraisal/Negotiation                  n.a.                        171.2
  Supervision                            n.a.                        443.8
  ICR                                    n.a.                           40.
  Total                                  n.a.                        915.6




                                            - 37 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 38 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 39 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1. The World Bank, Staff Appraisal Report, China: Fujian Provincial Highway Project, November 17,
1993
2. The World Bank, Loan Agreement, China: Fujian Provincial Highway Project Between The People's
Republic of China and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
3. Fujian Provincial Transport Department, Fujian Provincial Highway Project, Resettlement Completion
Report, November 2003
4. Fujian Provincial Transport Department, Fujian Provincial Highway Project, Environmental Monitoring
Reports, 2000-2001
5. The World Bank, Fujian Provincial Highway Project, Supervision Mission AMs and PSRs from May
1994 to December 2003




                                                  - 40 -

- 41 -

