e s S .                     , .  a?      0 :We   !XA+  1      ......* 
.f? VII rVIS4Y
Rtpori E0052
China 
Fujian Provinlcial
Higlhway -Project
EA Category A
Environmental Impact Statement
1 of 6
September 1992
This report has been prepared by the Borrower or its Consultant



~O~1( r
EMVIROHAL IMPACT.STATEMENT
QUIMIAR .-XIAMEH SBfION OF U -XIAME  EXPRESSWAY.
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
S~~                                                   ;
*    ~   ~       ~       pVgo"CMcA4A                 >
f ~" B# j2 i 0fl



4,                     .~~~~~
Environmental Imact Statment
*                       OQum=u-xia.n Section of Fuzhou-Xia.n Expressway
Contents
I .Adinistrative sumry
1.1   Origin of the Project
1.2  Staff Asigned to EA Work
1.3  The Review of Environmental AssessmenL in Retroset
1.4 The Laws.Regulations and Criteria Applied in EA Vork
1.5  lhe Main Methodology Used in EA Work
1.6  Public Participation in EA Work
1.7 The Main Conclusions of EA Work
Il.ProjecL Description
2.1  The Route Strike of the Expresswayand Lhe Main Wurkw
.22  Comparison and Selection of the Engineering AlLernatives
2.3' T.rafric rorecasl for the Epressway and Econuoic BeneriLs
SLemming from the Expresmw
2.4  The Imets of Encineering Goology and Hydrolog
: .5  'Ihe Constrution  F Plannirn an Environmpnli.1 abnagmwnt
2.6  Iraff ic .4angebnt Plan at the Cxntrution Stage
2.7  The Protection Plan of Culturai Relics
2.8  The Displacemont of the Lal Pec.ple
_-I-



1IL.T11 StAtus quo of the Fvirarnt
3.1 The Scope of Studies
3.2  Natural Envirommt
3.2.1 Mateorolo
3.2.2 Terains and Toporaphic Features
3.2.3 Soil Category and Distribution          ,    .
3.2.4 Vegetation
3.2.5 River System
3.3 Social Environment
3.3.1 Population and Cultivated Land Along the Route
3.3.2 Industry and Agriculture and the Struture of Agriculture.
Forestry.1IusbarduR.Sideline Production and Fishery
3.3.3 Agricultural Production Conditions along the Route
3.3.4 Traffic Conditions along the Route
3.3.5 Cultual Relics and Landscape
3.4 The Status quo of EnvironmenLal Quality
3.4.1 The SLatus quo of Atmospheric Environment Qwality
3.4.2 Ihe Status quo of Acoustical Environwent Quality
3.4.3 lhe Status quo  ater Envirnm t Quality
3.4.4 The Status or Vibration Environment
IV.The Projection or Environmental Im1t
4.1  The Assessmt or Atmospheric Environmental ImPact
4.1.1 The ConLents"'to Be Assessed
4.1.2 The Source Intemsity Analysis of the Pollutants
4.1.3 The PredicLive Nodel and uw Parameter Selection        -.
4.1.4 The Prsoection of Atmospheric Environmental Iwact
4.1.5 The Anlysis or lhe Projection Outcomes
4.1.6 Suggestions
2



,... -  7
4.2  ihe ProJection of Rolm. and Vibration Environntal Iwacts
4.2.t The Analysis of Roie and Vibrition Fhvironmntl Iwact  at
the Construction Staue
4.2.2 The Projection of Evlroni tal Noise Ipct at the Stage of
Orjrt ion
*                     .     4.2.3 The ProJectlon and     Aswet e _mnt of Vibration Environment
4.2.4 Countermasr  and Siuestions for the Control of Noise and
Vibration
4.3  The Environmental Imat Projection of Soil Erosion
4.3.1 The Status quo of Soil Erosion along the Route
4.3.2 Cntributing Factor Analysis of Soil Eosion Caused by the
Construction of the Highway
4.3.3 The Piecewise Anlysis of the Sensitivity of Soil Erosion
along the Route
4.3.4 The Projection of the PoLential Soil Erosion Caused by the
Expreswa
4.3.5 The Potential Impact of Soil Erosion on the Eological
Environuent
:  4.3.6 Measures and Suwestions
4.4  The lupect of the Eressway on the-Ecological Environment
alons the Route
4.4.1 The I439t on the Ezologicl Environnenl. along  the Route at
the SLa-e of Construction
4.4.2 The Iuact on the Ecological Environuent, along the Route at
the Stage of Opetion
4.4.3 MiLigsl.ing Measures and Stwpestions ror the Ecoigical Environ
-ent ImPact Caused by the Exrssway
4.4.4 Suggestions as to the Afforestatian along the Route
-3-



4.4.5 The Iect an the Wild Aniuls and the ProJection hsuwes
4.5  The Projection of Watdr Environmet Ict
4.5.1 Analysis on the Water Pollutant Sources
4.5.2 Prediction ModI1
4.5.3 Outoms of the ProJection
4.5.4 Conclusions and uSuwstioes
4.6  Public Perticipation
4.6.1 Paels and Investigation Natho&
4.6.2 Findinss
4.6.3 Probler and Susgestions
V.Environaental Managemnt Plan
5.1  The Objectives and Groda for the Planning
5.2  EnvironmentaLmnageent Crunizational System 
5.3  Fjvironntal Mnagement at the Stage of Construction
5.4  Environmental Managmnt at the Staoe of Lhe Operation
5.5 Environmental Monitering and Training Prvgrase
VI.Conclusiom and Counterneaswes
C. I Conclusions
6.2  Countermeasues and Suestions ror the Environmental Protection
-4-



Enviromntal Ipat Stitement
Qunzhou-Xiamn Section of Fuzhou-Xlann Expressw
I.Achintstrative Sorn
1.1  Origin of the ProJect
In order to mt the dund raisod for the open-door Pollcy and the
devlopmnt of the highwa  transport  facilities along  Fuzhou-Xiaun
hluhv.y to solve the proble  of sharp  inmresing  of  trafric  on  the
existing coastal arteries. it's simested that an expressway be first
constructed between Qumhou and Xianen.  After that. Xiamen-       Zhangzhou
Section. Fuzhou- Putian Section. Putian-Quanzhou Section will be built
step by step. The design or the  expreswy  was conducted by  Fujian
Provincial Coummications Planning and Design Instituts (FPCPDI).
Being a component of National Route 324 from Furhou to Kunoing.
Yunnan Province, Fuzhou- Xiaoen Exressway serves as a trarfic artery to
connect Fuzhou Econosic Development Zone and Xiaoen  Special  Economic
Zone and the Xiamen-Zhangiiouandm Economic Development Zone in  the
southernpart or Fujian Province. acting not only as a collecting and
distributing route for uritime car8os at ports, but also as a window to
the world.
wiCnzhou-Xiauen Section of FuzhwouXiamen  Expressway  comprises  an
area with fairly developed econow and its influence area covers 5696. 5
XNf  with a Population of 5. 242 mill ion and an  avr     population
density of 920 gmperson/12axnd Gross Industrial Output value of RMs I
2. 595 billion yuan. Since the reform. Fujian has witnessed a  rapidly
developed economy and a fast growth or trarfic volume. According to the
obsevations  ade by the traffic volue observation stations between 198
O and 1290. the -daily  ixed  traffic(converted  into  mediui trucks)
increased at an averae rate or 14. 191. resulting in frequen road
accidents and 1kw travelling speed.It's Predicted that by 20M0 th*e Oross
Output Value or Agriculture  Ind Industry along  Quaou-Xiaimen  Section
will reach RMB 42. 70 billion yuan(on the-basis of fixed price F 10980).
the daily average traffic volume is 29. 983 when converted  inLo  si I I
cars and 14. 992 wien cnverted  into  m.diuu  trudcs on  the  existing
_ I _



QCn,ehiw-XIasen Hishway.In' order to Improve the trnpwort infrastructure
and investment environment and to develop exprt-oriented econow, it's
extremely urgent to constrwct QmnWiou-XIamen Suction of Fuzhou-Xiunen
In line with "Environmental Protection  Law  of PRC', "nmnt
Guildline on Environoental Protection of Construation Projects. No. 003
issued by the State Environmental Protection Commission. State Planning
ComissionPC) and the State Enomic-Comission-:) and "Nsres for
Envirormental Protection Mbnamnt or Tmransport Construstion  Projects.
No. 17 issued by  MC  of PRC. Fujian  Provincial Office of Freeway
CotruLtionOC) entrusted  in September,  1991, Fujian  Provincial
Environmental  Protection  Research  InstitutePRI)  to  prepare  an
Enviromental Jm)act Statement for Quan*wouXiamen  Section  of FuzLou-
Xiauen Expresswa.
1.2 Staff Assigned to EA Work
.PEPRI, awarded Licence A after the examination held  by  the SLate
Environmental Protection Bureau CEB) and qualified for EA work for the
project as a juridical persbnality. is responsible for the envircnmental
assessment work.FPEPRI has once undertaken EA work ror over 30 large and
medium construction projecLs and the personnel in charge of the
assessment comprised Mr. Zhou Shi Liang. senior engineer.director or the
Assessment Department of FPEPRI and Mr. Omn Zhen Jin. senior engineer.
direcwtr ow  FPoP RI. Ihe assessment woup was cowd  of 3 senior
engineers and 10 engineers and 86 Nunsmonth was spend on it.
Among the Parteners was Highway Science Research Itati.;uteUlSRI) of 
HOC or PRC. which was also awarded Licence A by the State Environmental
Protection Bureau. Hr. Song Gwo 2hen,senior engineer and director of the
Assssment Department or HURI was held  lhe respibility  for  the
-2-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.



ensineering Job analysis.
Since the environmental  wonitoring  was condchited  by  such  local
statutoy units for environmental wonitoring as- Quanhou Environmental
Protection Monitoring Station, Tong'ean County Environmental Protection
Monitoring Station. Material Structure Research Institute of the Chinese
Academy of Sciences, Quanzhou Gage Station, Xiaume University and Fujian
Agricultural College. therefore, the basis data of  the  aessment are
rel iable.
1.3 The Review of Environmental Assesent in Restrospect
FPEPRI was involved in the work even at the beginning of 1990 when
the alignment of road was secwed. From then  on.  the  units concened
participated in the discsions on the route selection and the  relative
environmental problems. and the findincs was fed back to the design
department on time. During this period four substantial modifications
wer- inde. each adding new measur   or environmental protection. Tne
relevant suggestions vere mide by the units involved in rA work in th-
form of 'Precies of Environmental Iwact Statement  MMIS)  or  Fuanz-hou-
Xiamen Expressway Section of Fwhou-Xiaamn Highway".
When the plan of the expressway was subsitted and approved in
Rovember. 1991. Lhe units in charge cr the assessmnt loSL  no  time  in
Preparation of "Outline of EA  and submitted iL La the SFPB for review.
which Passed the examination swonsered by the SEPB in February, 1992. On
the basis of the comments nude by the SEPB and the suggestions wade b; 
environmental specialists from the Vorld Bank, EA work was condur".d. in
July. 1992. the field survey and 1. 4 The Laws. Regulations and Critwria
Applied in EA work
1L4.1 The Basis on which the Assessment was nade.
(I)Environmental Protection Law of PbC.
-3.-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



(2)Atmospheric Pollution Abtement Law of PRC.
(3)Vatr Pollution Abateent Law of PRC.
(4)nauement Guildline on Evironmntl Protection  of Corntru-
tion Projects. No.003(86) issued by the SEPB
(5)N MO   for EivIro btal Prottlion Ihnuemnt of Constu-
tion ProJects, No.117(86) issued by Ministry of Urban and Rural
Cnstructlon and Environmental Protection.
()Operational Directives 4.00 of the World Bank
(7)Vasures for Environmntal Protection l       ;anaemet of Transport
Construction Projects. No.17 issued by IOC of PRC
(8)The Trust Deed of Fujian Provincial Leading Group of Fuzhou-
Xiam-Zhangzhou  Freewa Construction(September Uth, 1991)
(9)Engineering Feasibility Studr Report on Qumzhou-Xiamen Section
Project of Fuzhou-Xiaen Ep        a  by FPCPHIOIoveuber.1991)
(IO)Engineering Feasibility Study Supplementar, Report on Quanzhou-
Xiame'n Section  of Fuzhou-Xiamen Expresw   by FPCPDI(Y..1992)
(1 )The OuLline of EA for Ouanzhou-Xiamen Swction or Fuzhou-XiaMM
Expressw13y by FPEPRI(February. 199)
C12)Reply on the Comments on the Outline of EIA for Quanzhou-Xiaaenr.
Section cf Fuzhou-Xiamen Expressway, No.056(1992) issued by the
(13)The Comments on the Location of Quan*ihou lntervchange, No. 1007
(1992) by Quanzhou Huniciple Government.
(14)lhe Notice on Land Acquisition and Resettleient of Fujian Peo-
Ple's  Governm      r   hej Construction  or Frhumu-Xismrn-
hanou EipressmNo.270(1992) issued by riujian  Provinciai
Government.
1.4.2 lhe Scope of the hessment.-



EA work or Qmuiu -Xismn Suction Or Puvhu-Xlamn Expre-
ww coprisose
Ml)the Expresway Sectlon (81.40 104 in length)  betwen  Xiu  lit
Quanzhou and Guenlilntou In Xiamn;
M2)Class I automobile aacouochtion Hlihwa  (7.57 Kil In length )
froa Tianeoo to Jimi, Xiam.n;
(3)Class 11 Highway (6.26 KM in length) trom Vulins to Shedian.
Jiniiasng;
The Asessment work is cowsed of the survey -and ameL on  the
status quo of Environment in the key areas along the sections mentioned
above. the Prediction of environmental ImWPcts during construction and
operation and niking  environmental  Protection counLermeasures  and
sugstions.
lhe sowpe or the as   mnt on the atLusprhric environmenLal  iwpact
covers an aera 500  eter rro weach side or Je central  line or the
proposed expressway. The noise and vibration studies include a Lalt ares
up to 500 meters rrom each sliould&r of the oxpressway.
1.4.3 Environmental Stancards
Ml)Atmospheric Backgod QualiLy SLandardl M   095-85)
(2)AmbienL Noise SLandard For Urban Aras (0B3006-82)
(3)Maxiamuu Permissible Concentration of Atmsheric Pc-IluLants
for the Proecl.ion oAgricultUral Crops (0B9137-83)
()Famland TrrisiLion Voler QualiLy SLardards (0B5084-r5)
(5Wnvironmenal Qualty Standrdso oSurrace Vte (03-338-&)
(61&ca 1bte. Quda ity SLandfrds (08309-&2)
(7)En&ironienta  qiL-jtion Standards in Ciy Rdwior!s OBIOO7G-83)
(8)Lead and Inornnic Compounds Iygicniv Standuirs or Atn wPhrii
(GB 7355-87t)
(9)Noise Criteria for ConstrucLtion Sites (GBI2t-9i)
Th criteria ror ea Iluation Cor the areas :rn be seen in Tab  1- Ii.
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*r                                                                  -'



1.5 The ain Nthodolow Applied In EA work
The  thodolog applied  In IA work coisries field  monitorins.
collection of data,an.logical survey and cowputerized simulation.
Since every effort ws mad to kep, the alisnment of the exprussay
away frcs town. and residentlel areas and there is few original data.
field mnitorings were adopted, Including atmospheric environental
monitoring. water environmental monitoring, acoutic environmental
monitoring, vibration environmental monitoring  and aquaLic ortgaism
environm.ntal monitoring. On the whole, the  meeorological   and
hydrological data required a lon-term au sulation.Such being thU Case.
the data rrom the relative meteorological observatories and hydrologic
stations were used in accordane with the relevant resulaLiona in China.
Some suplementary obsrvations wer  zade.  or  instance. lhe  locai
turbulence and ground wind field were observed by using triaxial vind
meters.
lhe ecological environmental a -essMenL was carried ouL in hth  ,erm
of field investigations and. the survey was made  in every  vi I:jge and
town to obtain the-first-hand inforration. on theo.basis or which Lhe
*ssessment and predictions were conducted.
In order to 1.^t more local people participate  in  the a::s-s;ment;
work; Lhe suplingr srveys of the r-sidents living along th  r;uLu  were
carried out. rums held and visits, paid  to sm   famiilies  and
individuals.
In the envirnmwental Prediction. Ihe firsL place was given t t.he
coawterized simulaLiuns.at the sam  tim, in combination with analogical
- surveys. The eatha.atical models applied were the mature- ones both  in
China and abroad. which'.mere so examined and approved by the specialists
i.~~~~~~~.



In the prooem of the rnu.mmt o  the outline an  to   hance the
relibilIlty of the prediction.
1.6 Public Partlcipetion In EA
E work in Chim Is for the rpom of protecting the living
onvironmnt of the people.In aonfority with this. the EA work should be
curried out with the Involvent of the local people.
GennllY speking, hrinnso are adopted In the developed countries.
Anyone who is willing to participete my so to the matings to obtain
the relative inforutlon. and to air their views and make requiroumnts.
However.the walkse of this type of investiation lies in the fact that.
on the dy people should leave their posts and give up  their rests  to
attend the meeting, therefore. the nuwer of mople who can so to thi
meetings my be limited. In addition. fewor peoole will havoi a chance to
air their opinions due to the limitation of time. As far as the units in
charse of the amsemnt are concerned. what they can do is to add  the
opinions and comments from th  hearins to their cowleted EA  reports.
Taking al-I this into accounts.Aho herin  my be no are than a Passine
assessment method.
The actual conditions in China. the wide distribution or the famiiies
livinm along the route and the different understanding aboul the
environmental Problems may mke hewrings unpmractical. and the local
people my not sped s much  time and money to participate  in  the
hearings. For this reason. what was adopted in EA work was tha EA
assessors mie a direct observation on the resiints alorn  the  )route.
which was an active assessmnt. The A asessors held face-torrace taiks
with the local People to infora th  or the environmentl problems ad
hear the opinion and requirements of the local residents. Suchd a way of
doing things was characteristic or:
.7-



(A) lnvolvins mo  people and xrting no Influec  on their work and
rest and adding no additional outlay-.of local peowle.
(B) eins able to collect widely different opinlona,for exawle.soue
pople W     in favor of the proJect while others wer aainst it:
Sm  raioed problem  while others put forward sugmations.
(C) uaranteeing all people, - and womun.old and young.the freedo.
to air their idmes regardless of their educational backoncids.AAt
the same tine.no bodb felt constricted when airing their views.
(D) Scientifically speaking, such a stochastic method blad adwNuate
representation and the dbta obtained in the process was in con-
formity with statistical theo.
--erefore. wvht was adopted by the Environmental Assessors in the
direct observations on the local people alons the route is in line wiLh
the national conditions of or country. adopting itself to the current
states of the social, political and economic acLivelies and  living and
educational levels and is on the basis or science and rationality.
In the process of the sample srveys of Lhe residents along the
alleient. 130 households were investigated, amon  which  51 wculd be
displaced. The outcomes of the survey would be adkessed in Section 4.8.
The results of the surveys revealed that  ir the problems of the
resettlement were properly solved, the livins standards or ille People
along the route wouldn't be lowered and the would give suppwrt to the
constlrucion of the epresswa 
1.7 7he Rain conlusions or EA work
The details and cnclusionso   EA work will be addressed i., the
following chapters.
Here the comprehensive assessment on the Envinxuent lIm-ls
stening from the proposed highway will be carried  ouL by labulating.



mthod, which is also a ood wa ror environmental s.creenins.The results
my be seen in Table 1-2.
The Tabulatins ithod is on the basis of xrdins Lechnolog. and the
impacts ae sraded by their swerity, advanLuses and disadvantages. The
negative f;iues represent advere lpacs. Positive figures stand  ror
favourable  influences while zeros represent no  iwpats or  little
imPacts. In the overall evaluation. if the lotal suw or Lhe pWsitives is
greater than that of Ihe negatives, the results indicate that the
favourable impacts exceceds Lhe adverse ones. From Table 1-2. iL my  be
concluded that Lhe sum of Lhe ravw,ble  impacL values  in operation
phase stands aL -22. and thLar Lhe advre impact. values at -9.  the
favo;uable impacts during construction sLand at -1. while  Lhe adverse
impacts aL -9. indicating that the adverse impacts only exisl in t.he
construction Phase. After the cowlteLionor th expressray.  ravourable
rators will supass the unravowrable onrs.Eherefoce. iL's very necessury
to cdnstruct Lhe expressway.
The enviranrmnLal ProLection measures will be eoiborailed in Saction
6.2. Conclusions are as follows:
(1) Through Lhe environmntal assessment. the Principles rollowed In
the process or location or line to keep the alinmenL away from the
residential areas and minimiz  the demolilJon arme cunsiderd   as
appropriate and thl laYot,l or the al ignmnt is ratiXt.
(2) It's recommended lhai. the alignment near Xiahxuba villac aut the
footL or  L.Xiao-Yingling be rukher comPared.keeping ii rrom the villawe.
(3) Ho residenlial quartLrs. insLiLuLions and sciooli; should be
established wilhin 100 metrs frm each  sides or the expressway  in
fuUtre.
(4)EEA work revealIsLhaL the vro.iect. is envirofmentally accepLable on



condition that various Protection maswr  identified in  the following
chapters be applied.
11. Project Description
2.1 The Route Strike of the Expressway.and the lain lorks.
Quanzhou-Xiauen Section or Fuzhou-Xiamen Epresay is 81. 40 IN0  in
length. The starting point will be located near K185+720 on the existing
Fuzhou-Xiamn Hishay in the vicinity or Xifu of Ounizou. The terwinal
will be at Guanlintou  in Guankou District or Xiarn.n intersecting
National Highww NO. 319. BAtending southward from Xiru.its origin.along
Ihe eastern side oa the existing Fuzhou-Xianen Hiwy.it passes by Xiru
at KOJ600 and through Yulan Village and Doning Village. continuing its
route through ML. Dapinguhan Road Tunnel (1100 M)at K5+200 to K18588 to
intersect Quandwu- Xiutu Highway. where an  int rchag   is  to  be
constructed. ArLer passing by Chen;dhu and crossing over Jiniiang River
at [+9950. it takes its route via Liushi Lo intersect Qizho- Qrmitshi
Highway near 1(13+700. After passing by Zencun. Chidian. 5Shantou.Laicuo.
Zhanglin. Shangwulons to Vaulin at K21+500 wher an inhange  will  be
erected.Lte alimnt takes its route southward fuwr by way or Banwei.
Dazhai.Ciyuan.Gmnshi,Shangling or Ieikeng at K25.180,Louzi at 1(278O in
Nan'an County. the intermediate zone between Xivei and Shanglin to go
throu4h Xiwei Bridce (206 meters) at K33+500. Pass.ing srou   Zhang.hai
and at K34*180 inLersecting the c'siLing Fuzh-Xiamen rishway by Puli
Interhnge which is located at 226-840 on the exisLirng Fuzhou-Xiazmn
flighway.it Lravels via [anglong Primary School.and Sucu= to Pass thr;wug
Sucu  Road Turn. (350 meters) at K39+630. Slhntou  Road Tunnel  (580
meters) at K40.500 and Shantou Village.Along the slopeon Lhe right side
or the exIsting FuzhoutXiamen Highw. iL runs by way of Jincuo,Xiah.uba
to go through Mt. Xiaoyingling Road Tuinel (560 meters) . After passing
*-~ ~ to - 



throh Xiashaxi Road Tunnel (250 .eters)at K465300.the route carvs out
its way via Xiashaxi. Tiwaniongyng. Liantang, Nixianhu and the Junction
between Zenulin and Hou'an to Intbrsect [253030 on the existing Fuzhou-
Xiamn Highway at K55+780 in Luitou by an interchange. Before passing
through Shixun Lae Bridhe  (606 meters) at [6980  in Shixun and
crossing over Xixi River in Tong'an  Conty at K61+850. it go   via
Xionman, Neiman. Lonsjuedon. LonIjuexi.  After passing  Putou, it
intersects the existing Fuzhou-Xiamn Highway by an intecag  at K65+5
00 in Hou'an. After running throsuh Sungcuo Large Brkidge (126 meters) iL
goes by way of OCuantulou of Shanwei to pass through Mt. Damoshan Raod
Tunnel (850 meters) at [71 and Tianeuo by an interchange. ending up at
Guanlintou. the terminal. by way or Dongzhai.Tiantou and Ilumei.The route
alignment can be seen in MEIp 2.
lhere are two link roads rr the exressw  section:
(A)Class I automobile accoiodation rabd belween Tiancuo and Jimei.
totals 7. 57 IK with Tianew Interae  as its origin and Jiuei as  iLs
teminal via Duishan and Suncuo.
(B) Class 11 highway between lulin and Shodian totals 6. 26 IK  with
-ulin Interchange as its origin and Shedimn as its terminal via Thanglin
and Goasqian.
Te main works for aOanahou-Xiauen section of Fudiou-Xiamen
Expreswa comprises six interchanses,five large bridws,six twin-barrm!
tunnels. lbs details or scale or construction and technical criteria can
-be seen in Table 2-1.
lhe findinss or Proection or lhe fuLiore traffic volume of Quanariou-
Xiamn ExPressw  Section ay be seen in Table 2-2.
2.2 Comparison and SelecLion of the Engineering Alternatives.
-Prom the beginning of 198I, Ehree years wee spent by Fwa'I in
^-                   *                                                                         . . - c~~11.



eEking fleld reconnaissanes. investiations.surveys and designing.During
this Period. "Prefeasibility Study Report for Cu,uiJhou-Xiamen Section of
Fuwiou- Xiamen Expressway"."Prefeaslbi I ity Study Supplementary Report","
Engineering Feasibility Study Report for Quanzhou-Xiamen Section or
Fuou-XiabnE   Eprs"sway   and   'Engineerins   Feasibility   Study
Supplenentary Report" were Prepared one by one. and for four times, the
specialists from the province and other provinces were organized to make
prmject appraisals and the departmnts coerned and  local sovments
were called in for csultations. In Lhe location survey. FPCPDI devoted
every effort to keep the alinment away from such sensitive spots as the
residential areas and schools ror the purpose of reducing disturbance
and protecting natral landscape.
lhe starting section of the altenative  line  would pass Oversees
Chinese University. which might "exert a -great inrluence on  the
environemnt.
4   Closely parallelling Fuzhou-Xia.en Hishway. the alianent would pass
by severil viii;ses rrom lJlu'an to Duishan and the noise iu'act problem
could not be solved .AL lasL.it was decided tha the alignment would cut
throush Tian  Stud. Taking all into accounts. the two options were not
environmentalIly acpeptable.
In March,1993.Chiia Internatiowal Ensinoering Consuinrg Crporation
c-arried out _sIsmts :::d screwning on the alternat:ies.
At last. t6e route strike was dcided wi£h Xifu in Quan;ou a; ,!;s
origin and Guanlintou in X.aen as its terminal.
2. ^ Traffic Forecast for FEpressway and Economic benefits SLeuuin
From the Expressway.
I In accordance with the relevant relationship between economic
development of Fujian Province and the highw  freight/ Pessgwr volume
-12 -



in the 'province.four prontic equations can be obtained:
l.lhe Relationship between Hishway Freisht Volume and Industrial and
Asricultural Output Value.
Y=5420.791 + 13.5833X    RO.77)
where: Y-Highway Freisht Volum, in 10.000 tonnes;
X-Industrial and Agricultural Output Value (IAOV). In
RB 110 milliI onya.
2. The Relationship Between Hishway Freight Turnover and IAOV.
Y= 14M3.939KDw"17' (R-0.96)
were:  Y-Freight turnover-  (10.000 tonnesM
X-IAOV (RI 100 million Yuan)
3. The Relationship Between Passenger Volume and Per Capita National
Income
Y= 74.29X=- ' cI 0. 96)
where:  Y-Pass_er n  Volume on Roads. in 10.000 Persons:.
X-Per Capita National Income MPCI), in RMB yun:
4. The Relationship between llighway Passenger Turnover and PCNI.
Y= 1555.7W.9Bs    R=0. 98)
*-Are:   Y-Passenser Lrunvmr -n Roads (10.000 Pe1} sns/E)
X-PtI (RDB yuan)
-On Lhe basis or tx! above prognostic eqatLiwns. the Predicti=s hate
been made and the outcoms can be seen in Table 2-3.
.Traffic strucures -in - the area wiII be chansed due to  the
onstruction of QCnzhou-Xiamen Section  or Fuzhou-Xiaen  Expressw.
resulting in the acceleration or  senger/gxo,&  unover. the reduction
-13 -



of intercity travel time and more rational distribution of economic
nodes between zones to induce higher rate of economic growth. Based on
the experience both at home and abroad about  induced   econOmic
development. the induced econory in the direct influence zone is
predicted to be 2Z of the economy of tenden  in  99.and increases to 5
X in 2400. IOX in 2005. and at a stable rate     .idency thereafter. The
cowpletion of the expressw  secent will. thereby.give a direct impetus
to the ecnomic development in the region.
In addition, the foreign experience  shows  thaL a  (.mmercial or
service center my appear around an interchange.  Thus. a new counercial
netwrok and towns my be established near or around the six interchanges
in future.
The completion of the expressway will provide a stiwulus to the
tourism in Quanzhou and Xiamen. And Z(e7e nz (a national hero)Toub
in Man'an CounLy will probably becow a new hot, resort, creating new
scenic spoLs from Anping Bridbe to Jenc gong Tomb.
The benefits obtained by the all-social road users may wmprise: Lhe
reduction or                opermtion costs due to the construction  o:
the highway; the reduced transport costs because of the shortened
mileage;the benefit.s frcm the induced trafric: savins of travel time and
decresoroad accidents. daaed carg    and traffic congesticn. 11T
beefits of natioral econw havo been lisLed in Tabie 2-4.frou which ws
can see that the reoarkable benefits gerted from the expresway  wili
reach RMB 11.42 billion yan diring s period or 20 Years.
2.4 The ImPacts of Engineering Geology and Geohyd-r logy
The Elevation and Hi leage along Quanzhou-Xiamen Eicpresswa  Section.
There is a 29. 9 1*- long section dt the elevation of 0-10 meters.
accounting-for 36. 92 of the total length-The 18.1 Ki- long alignment is
-14-



seated at the elevation of 1020 mters.aountlng for 22.31.1he 19.9 KM
-long route is at the elevation of 20-40 meters.accounting for 24.5%The
mileae at the elevation or over 40 mhtes is 13. 2 I, accos nting ror I
S. 3S. The lowest elevation is zero mter at 1(33+500 where Xivei Larse
Bridse over Shijins River is located. The maximn elevation is 140-200
meters above the sea level at R71+200 where Mt. DOaoshan Road Tunnel is
to be cut. The key sections which n be iwpcted by ensineering geology
and seohydrology are the segments at the elevation or 0-10 meters.
( tl)he sections at the elevation of 0-10 meters.
The total length or the road sections at the elevaticn or 0-10
meters is 29. 9 KR. alone which 3 extra large bridges and large bridcas
with a total length of 2281. 8 -eters and  21  sediumr  and sIll-sized
bridbes will be built.The surface runofr of rivers in the drainage basin
converses into Luoyang River.Jinjiang River.Shijing River and Xixi River:
respectively. Because these rivers are close to the Ebst Sea. the runofr
of peak flood causod by the rain storms can empty into the sea ver
quickly. Because they are affected by sea tides to some extent. mn-m-ie
em2bankments are builL on: both sides of  the rivers. Thnemr  are- six
ewbankments at the elevation of 0-IO meters.
a. In the section (about 4.6 XMGrrom K0^000 to K4*600.hhe rivers and
surface runOffr cnve  into LUoyans Riner. There are two laure bri-iges.
Yulan Large Bricie and Doneing large Br1d6W. 2 medium- andrnii-siS:d
briWes and 30 culverts.averase 6.5 culvqarts per kilowrer. Th rHver bed
has been consric-Led md the wator discharges  itself freel.* 6i 'ut
anything to block the water rlow to produe an impacLt n the ecolcgical
environment.
b. 1he section from 17300 to .K11-200 is 3. 9 KM long.the rivers and
surface runorr come into Jinjiang River.Exura Large Jinjians Bridse is I
15-:



980 meters long.aocountins for 51.0X of the total length or the section.
There are no medium- and smell-sized bridges and culverts. The narrowest
Part of Jiniiang River Channel is about 300 meters. The river wall level
is 6. 2 meters with an average ground elevation of 2. 7 meters.It is 3.5
aeters froa the rud to the top of the embankments. The lensth or the
designed bridse is 6 times the width of the river channel.  Ihis river
section viII produce no impact cn rfltS d.fscharge.
c.In the section (6.4 KM in length)from K13*300 to K19+700.5 medium-
and siall-s4ized brides with a  total  length :or 311 meters and  16
culverts, averaging 2.5 culverts per kilometer.will be built to meet the
basic requireuents for agriculLural irrigation and flood discharse.
d.Xiwei Large Bridge and rive medium- and small-sized brides wiLh a
Lotal length.of -175 reters and roir culverts will be built in the 2.1 Km
-long section frum K2+300 to K34+400.In this section.rivers and surrace
runoff converge into Shijing River. All these structures Lo-be built can
basically conform Lo the native state or- the rivers.
e. Five britMcs. including extra larc- Shixun  Erde. Pu4tu Large
Bridce and other medium- and small-sized bridges with a total !ersgth of
1662 meters will be builL in the 8.4 KR-lons section from K56'30! to K64
'700 where rivers and surface ruworr florw into Xixi River.In adiTtion.29
culverts vi I! bI  ua ..nstUced. averasing 3. 53 c-ulverLs pe ri lokmLr. to-
saLisfy the requiremeLs ror farmland irrigation and rloodS disbre..
f.bero are threc mediurm and small-sized brid6es in the secT..cn vk.
3 KIH in length) f,r;m K733+200 '.o K78000. totalling  128 metes  ind n
culverts. averasing 3.1 culverts/ bridges per kilumeter.,ill  e btuilt to
meet the basic requirements ror rlood discharre and farmland irrigation.
In the design and construction. attention should be Paid  i .heJ actual
need.
-  -Ii-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.



ie Section at the Elevation of 10-20 Meters.
aetion is a sesant in the balance of cuts and fills. or a cut-
ransition section. There are ten sements or lhis kind along
-on with a totbl legth or 38 Ku. In this section. two large
otalling 956 meters. three mdiumr and soall-sized bridaes.
132. 6 meters and 16 culverts will be constructed to mel the
nd fw, flood discharge and ramland irrigation. However. in the
tLf7 efrort should be made not to destroy the native state of
systeu.and measurs oust be made to restore the damaged native
on. In the construction. entries and exits of culverts must be
*, ensure that the water my flaw freely.
Ltions at the Elevation of cver 40 Hters.
L the attention should be paid in this section is  l; prevent
an. There is a little rain in winter and  fall. however. the
; abundant with annual rainrall or 1. Ill-I. 667 mm. which is
ec in spring and saer. Th period from July La SeLaeber is
i seofin when the Lyphoon str  account for 35% of the annual
ion with strong scowrina for. In addition cr    the subsurface
in Granite Eluvium. attention should be Paid to gua-r the
xiy, against slump whim working on cuts and tunnel cutting. In
the mortar-bonded rubble slope should be ad)rpted LW Protect,
.1c.p.The wastes frvum t  tunnel cut'ting shuild be disoxmse  of
place, occupying nro ;r little faraland. P.rot:ctve  wanSureS
aJe Wa prewent soil loss a-A Progams ba cutUir.aI for land
.afrorestation and rehabilitation of vegetation in Protection
aiclm  environment. be aie to prevent soil loss and program
utlined ror land reclanetior-.arforestation and re-habl*litation
on in protection of. the ecological environoent.
.  17 -



(2)The Section at the Elevation or 10-20 Meters.
The section is a seuwnt in Lhe balance of cuts and fills. or a cut-
and-fill transition section. There are ten segments or this  kind  along
this section with a total length of 38 Yu. In this section. two larse
bridges. totalling 956 meters, thre  medium- auid samll-sized  bridges.
totalling 132. 6 oters and 16 culverts vill be constructed to meet the
basic deaand for rlofd discharse and farmland irrisation. bowever, in the
desimn. every efrort should be muie not to destroy the native sLate of
the water systeu,and measures ust be made to restlo the danged native
waLer sytem. In the construction, etries and exits of culverts must be
-repaired to ensure that the water y flaw freely.
(3)Sections at the Eleration or over 40 Meters.
To *haL the attention shoild be paid in Lhis section is l; prevent
soil erosion. There is a little rain in winter and 'all. however. the
rainf'all is abndant with annual rainrall or 1. Ill-1. 687 -. which  is
conccntraLad in spring and summer. The period from .UIy Lo Se-Ptmber  is
'*he ty:Phcn sas3-n when the typhoon storns account for 35% of  Lk,o unnual
precipiLaLion with strong scouring free. In addition  , Lthe subsurface
void wdter in Granite Eluvium. attenion shoule b paidi to guard the
monlain bouy against abs lump !fl working on cuts and tunnel cuLtins.  In
the design, t he mortar-bode  rubble slope should be adoptLd t  Prrtc-cL
the earth SlC-e.Th  wastes rranm Uth  lunnel .utLinrs should be d.ispsd or
in a proper plare, occupyint nc ;r- little farmland. Prtok.tive  a-asures
should be ii  c Prevent so.l lcss arp progra   Lbo- wut.;in,d  .'or  :ard
reclazation,afforestation and rehabiliLaLion or vewetation in r.-toction
or fte ecological environment. be wade to prevent soil loss and programs
shoul;' be outlined for land roclamation.arforestation and rehabiN iation
of vegetation in protection cr. the ecclogical environment.
_ 17'-



2.5 Construction Planning and Environmtal Mbnageusnt.
Ile sross investmnt of the Project Is RNB 1. 670 billion yuan.amons
which RNB 1. 59 billion yuan will be spent on the construction ofr tho
xpresseay and R)4 80 alIlo yih wil1 be spent on the  link roads.
Detalls.are givn In Table 2-5.
To ensure the quality and the timely completion of the project. it's
assuwd that contractors with Grade A quallfications should be involved
in the.construction and the subsections should be.under construction aL
a labowr-equipt ratio or 1:9.
Besed on "Engineering Feasibility Study for Ouanzhou-Xiamun SecLion
or Fuzhou-Xiamn Express" cowpiled by FPCPDI in November. 1921 and
Engineering Feasibility Study Supplementary Report' in May. 102. the
commeceent of the project is scheduled in July. 1994 and the COeMiAL.n
of the project viII be exrpected at the end of  1i97. The mrin wcrk-.
uwnpower and materials required are given in Table 2-6 and Table 2-7.
Since the soft grounL treaLment. intem:han;es. pavemenL. eince;ritz.
.unnels and extrd large bridies are the key cowpnents in the prc.itx.. u
. 7m-lon& section or sort ground will beI arrangd Lo be treated and
tested in advance within 1992 to enure the construction quality.
EnvironmenLal Imnamet in ConstrucLion:
lke construction  cmst be carried  out  in  accorince with  Liho
environet al 'action  Plan  in construction  and  tlhe   envir ronmntal
protecLion provisions mu0t be stipulated  in  the bidding  ontrac:.  r
LrstucLion. including the Lime bar or the construction activil.ks. IN;
environmental Protection faciliLies aL Lhe coantruction cams. water ar'd
soil conservaLion in cut and rl1. and afTrtation. eLc.In cdap.er S.
details will be addessed.
The i,vclvement or environmental nagmrrnL in the project reads as
-18--



follows:
C1ln the pha  or feasibility study: EIA
2)WIn tho Pha  or design: Evironmental protectIon FacilIty Design.
(3) In  the Phase or Construction: persons  from  Environmntal
Protection department will be snt to supervise the construction  sites
and on-the-spot monitring wilI be curied out when necury.
(4) In the phase or acceptance of cowpletion: The environnontal
protection department wirll make an acceptance check of the environmental
protetion Cecil[ties and carry out  eptance tests.
(5) In the phase or operation: Periodical environmntal amnitorings
wi II be exercised.
2.6 Traffic kasneemenL Plan in Contruction
l-b main iiacts te construcLion or the expressway my exert ori the
trarfic can be divided into two parts:
ii) the trarrimc *gstion in the constrution; ß2) an' increase v'
vehicle streams and Ltrarric loading due t&thui satrial transporLation
for hiwiy buh Idinr. T'herfore. a Traffic manapww.n Pl3n has eXeIn Pil.
rord and reads as follws:
R.Before the coue vemenf the Frojeclt.taperary accss ruh Q;St
be  ostrted  in  theu  sctLions  in  which  frlyiwg  junctions   and
inltimnges wvill be buill, to  intersect  Lhe exiSting  Fuw-XrXiatrn
Highway and tr3ff:c arttrits. The const:ti.n Pmriod must be rcducd i:;
everry Possible wy to avoid trarric cor.t Gojs. In. the socil wra
accesS roads are not avai lable and  it's  nmecssary  for   trafil-
interruption.con;truction should will be built to interserct the ecisting
Fu-hou-Xiamcn Highway and traff it: arteries. Vne constrution Period mist
be reduced in.every Possible way to avoid trafric  consestions.  in  thIe
sectionwhereaccessroads-arenot available an   it's  n-cessary  for
..     ~-19- .  I



trffle Interruptlon. constructlon should be rried out durinc a period
from 20:00 to 5:00 nut du and the circular be ihued.
B. 10. 70 mliilon cubic  tors ofarth andston  required  for  the
fill construction of the hihlhwy v iii be sured n.by.From the IIYt of
borrow areas and filling areas  S Table 4-3-3 and Table 4-3-4) we can
soe the haul Jistance Is 1-2 KR on average. Since the haul roads don't
intersecL the existing highway. the temperary access roads can be built
for transportaLion and Produce no impats on the transtporation on the
existing arteries.
C. Other Raw Iblerials: Sand. crushed gravels and block stAons arn
available in Lhe material yards nearby.
'D. 510.000 tonnes or building materials such as steels.timbur.L%esnt
and bitumen will be transported from ather places. requiring 120. 000
trucks for their transportation. Calculated on the basis or S yearts. Lthe
trafric stream will increse by 120 vehicles per day. on Lhe avrraw. As
far as Lhe current t-arric condiLions aro concerned.tiiere will be no bi;
Problems. buL Lhe rush job of transportation of bulk comuuditits should
be done in the evenings.
2.7 Plan ror the Protection or llistorical Relics.
Cul.ural relics are the precious hisl;rical heritages. TheY Lean   U
deminish gadually in stead or rere.ea. For this reason. they shouuld bc
treasured and c-herishLd. The current ulcomes fr the surveys show that
no historical sites and ancient. Lomb grtoups have been  rnd  ilcn; Lth
route except Tonmninrr'an  pass on  Nt.. Xiao,inglifg.   which0   .. J.
anquiLiLies preservation unilt u. COLY lev3si.
In the construcl.ion ;r lhe expressway. ar.tgntion sblould be F  ' ;o
the protection of cultural relics. On Lhé baskis or this. amaswm  havc
been made as follows:
-20 -



A. Particular attention should be paid in protection 6f Tonsuins'an
Pm  in the design and the costruction of ML. Xiaoyinuling Une.laish-
tenile Blasting should be forbidden for fear of degsins the historic
site.
B. A person  In chaise of the  protection  of anquities  in  Lhe
construction will be send by each construction unit to stuid in the
Cultuial Relics Research Institute.
C.Prior to the construction.allPersons involved in the cOIInLrucLion
should scare the education bout the Protection or the unt.qu!t.ies
along the route.
D. In the construction of the expressway.the construction acti.'vtieS
should be sLopped immediately whLnever coming across Lhe ancient tomibs
and potential historic sites. Report to the antiquitities Prese-rvut or
units and ask the. to deal with thoe.
2.8 Displacement or Lhe Lxoal People
Quanzhou-Xiauen Section of Fuzhou-Xiaw.on Expressway is 3i. 4 M3i in
lengt1h hith a subgrde width cr 26 mtters. The link road between ?iamneu
and Jimei is 7. 57 Ks in Iength with a subgrade widh of 24. 5 merts.-ho1
link road rrol Wuling to Sdian is S. 26KM long with a sbgra6a  width
of i2. 0 meters.  In the areas 100 metLes from eaci side of lhkent r.e;r
iine of Lhe hishway, there are 52 towns and villages wi:h 1. 7410
hoef.lds.7.L10 persons 3re expectd to be impacted to sc  extnct.97.2
o5 sqa emwrs or structw'as  will be demolished due wo  LI?  land
acquisition f:r dire right -cf-ey.auong which 61.617 e of fimus are
built with wwod. brick and stone, and  15. 677 ce   are siwPir-
ccnstructed dwollinz houses. The huses to be demoli:shed in the ities.
counties and districts can be seen in Table 2-8.
Land acquired for the pro.jecL is given in Table 2-S.
21-



Coxmtion for land aquisition for the expresswa   and  the  link
roads is given in Table 2-10.
The resettlement plan should be Prepared imediately after the
proJect is officially approved. This plan will be crried out by 8
.stages. 
(1) The design deprtmnt viII determine the scope  or rwselItemont
and the number of households.
(2) Fujian Provincial Office of Freewr CDnstruction will prepare a
Reselltement Action Plan.
(3) The provincial sovnmnL  will work  out 3  uniform  -uhsidy
standard and preferential Policy.
(4) -The provincial xovernment will call a  meting  with  the
involvement of municipality/county governments l'or roselltmemn..
(5)7he aunicipality/cuanty govenmts will take full r*sponsibility
for the resettlement undr their jurisdiction.
(6)Displacementor the local people.
(7) Revisit the displaced people arter Lhc reseLCeIwu'. tu solve the.
problem lert over from thce resettlement.
(8) Prepare a umury report on the reseLtlemt. for the provincial
government.
At Present. the provincial government is making an oerall p   ;[i nd
arirngement for the rstctlerent. lhe .inicir;:lity/cntLy sovernmenUs
wi i l  be held ru ll rcspOnsbi l ity for putting the Plan infto pradiCti. Dx!
detaileL. prora  is in prearatian.
IL. Tne Status quo of tbe Environment
22



-.lToScopeqfSIiR i..a
The scope of studies is designted in an area 100-500 meters from
each side of the highway in the lisht of different environmental
factors. and is divided into 7 sections. 1. e. Setion from Xifu to
Omznou. Section r. Chendzou to Wuling, Section from Vuline to Pull.
Section from Puli to Luntou. Section from Luntou to Hou'an. Section from
Hou'an to Tiancuo and Section from Tiancw to Guenlintou.
The scope or studies an the waters  is 500 wters at the  lower
rches of four major rivers-Jinjiang River. Nsnqu  hanntl. Xixi River
and Jiwi River over which the exwessw  wiIIi cross.
3.2 Natural Environmen.
3.2.1 Meteorology
It's obvious that there is a subtropical rariLim usoon cSinate
with moderdte temperature and humidity alons Quanzwiou-Xiaaen section of
Fuzhou-Xiamen EIpressway.Summers.are long and winLers are sixcrt.AIl year
long,predomuinant wind is East wind.But in smer south wind 'rovai ls and
in winter east wind is prodkzinant characLerized by  low  frwuucy  or
stagnant air and  rt velocity* of wind. The Period  frm  July to
September  is .the  typhoon sesn, a disastrus weather. The main
meteorolcgical features.canbeseen  in Table 2-2-1.                          - -
TewperaLure: The tempelraures dirrer little in the Zxne 210xg Lhie
route.  the annual averags tem;orature iSh2E.4-2l.Ot.T    annual aer-age
hihest tmperaLure is 24. 4-25. S6t and the annual avi.rane !oest
temperaLure is 17.3-17.t.The absolute Leweratures.hiihest and h.;wcst.
are 38.3-39.0t and -1.8- -0.St: respectively.
--23



Ihe GroundW Vind: The annual averge wind velocity in the nrthrn
part of the route is rester than that in the southern part of the
route.Honthly mean wind velocity are given in Table 3-2-2.
Wind Direction: ME wind prevails in the northern part of -the road
while E wind predominates in the southern Part.The frequency of stagnant
air-in the southern part with 21. 5S in Han'an County and 23. 32 in-
Tons'an Count is rester than that in the northern Part or the route
with 13. 8X in Quan   and 10. 3 in Jinjiang County. In sum  . South
wind Prevails along the route. The wind rose of Quanzhou,Jinjiang CounLy
and Tong'an CounLy can be seen in Fig 3.
AtmOpheric Stability: D stability of atuophere doainates.accordihg
for 70. 72 or the various stabilities. while C and B stabilities accoumt
for 11.61 and 10.72 respectively.
Atosiheric Turbulence Difrusion Preorties: Tne hishwa  alignent
Passes through slightly undulatins hills and ton-aces.li resuts of on-
the-sPoL checks in the rlat and open areas indicate thaL the atmspheric
turbulence scale alons the right-or-way is greater than  that in  the
plain areas. The difrusivity is one scale higher than cross-wind
direction in the plain areas. and half or one scale higher in the
vertical direction.
There is a abundant rainrall along thc- rcute. ranging between 1000.8
- and 1478. 2 ma. Tne nwuber or rainy days () 25e1 is betweeL  12.0 and !
7. 7. ainly concentrated in a Peried From - lay to Septerbar. The
construction in his period w;i: easily give rise to soil erosion.
Details can bi seen in Table 3-2-3 and Table 3-2-4.
-24--
3'--



3.3.2 Terrains and Topographic Features.
The alinrent of the section passes through the southeast region of
*                             Fujian Province. in which the red soil tarraces and low hillocks account
for two thirds and river network, aliuvial deposit, diluvial deposit and
maritime deposit account for one third. On the whole, the region is
hacterized by a terrain which is higher in the west and lower in  the
east with a stepped increase from east to vest. The plain, belonging to
Quanihou nritime desxit Plain at the elevation oF no more than 25
meters. is densely interwoven with a network of rivers and a wain area
in which rice is planLed. Ihe red soil tarraces belons to graniLe
hillock. covered with a thick red sol soluu. 40-50 metes above the sea
level. This area is the main region Producing sweet potatoes.peanuts and
bens. The hil ly country is charadterisLic of denuded gnite  remanl
hills at the elevation of 50-250 mters with a   dient or 15-18.
Exoed on the ground are sLone chips and half-.watierw  resi-didua
suitable oro  forestry.
In brief. vtis sction nas a liLtle lo;Kitudir;3l underlation with an
average grund slope below 20t.
or the terrains in Lhe zones through which the alignent wi I! Pas.
the plains account ror lSX of Uhe lotal lengLh cr L  route.tarracos and
hills account for 84X and the dirference or relative alti.uAx3s is cnly
0 metem.advantagaus to the cunstruction or mxpra;y.
.3.30.3 SDi'l CdL -7 ;w nd Dis ribution
Accordiwt Ltc the ftUrgs of Lerrains.  Iimaas. hArAo     and
*                        geolooy,and in reference to the soi I invesLisatin made in tie provir.ce.
-25 -



Lhe soil along the expressa my. in the main, be divided into:laterite
red soil. red soilpaddy soil and coarse-textured red soil.
(1) Laterite Red Soil: The soil ho;izon is thick (8-15 uters) with
fully developed solu. The soil profile struttre  is A-B-C  in a
lateritious color from top to bottom. The oranic mtters in the topsoil
is 1. 14-2. 13: with a PH value or tb soil of 5.O-5.8.this type of soil
is mainly distributed in the section betwen Pul: and Luntou. Part of iL
is located rro Hlou'an to Hunei. Other sections have a -limited
distribution.
(2) oarse-Textured Red Soi 1:1ne Si I horizon is rather thin and less
saturated with a vague stratified difrerentiation and the soil structe
is A-C. The organic utters in the top soil is O. 5-1.4X with a PH-value
of the soil ranging between 5. 5 and 5. 6. Such a type of soi; is minly
dispersed in the-steep trains alonu the expresk-way.ror instance.at Mt.
Dapimp;han and near Ht.Xiaoyinling Road Tunnel.
(3) Pad;J soil: Tnis type or soil has been developed intu saturation
rrou-alluvion aM aotal sdinnts afler a  lona-term  or irricated
agriculture. Ibst or the paddy scil along the route  is or sub-ucrged
cult*iration. Tne ploushed soil is 20-25 cm  thick with clear-cut
stratirication.The onwic atLters in Lhc- topsoil is quite richkb*ins 2.
32-2. 812 wiLh a P}l value or the soil or 6. 5-7.0.SuCh a type ef soil is
mainly dispesed in the open and flat *terains along  the rouIte ;tith
betLer waler cunditions. In the sections rrom Guokem l.o Yular a-d rr
Xinmdian tc Heik= there is a large distribution sfa paddy wsil.
(4) RedSoil: Thesoil developed tos highdesrue  or satjrilY  rrom
2qg-



alluvial dposits and resididua after a lon-tem of dry  arauing. The
soil harison is 10-20 meters thick with fully i6turted solum and a
clear-ut stratified differentiation of A-B-C.The organic utters in the
Ploushed soil is 1. 65X-2. 52X with a PH value of soiI of 6. 2-7. 4.1his
type of soil is distributed on the trraces  within  the sections frm
Liushi to Cidian and rrm eikeng to Puli.
3.2.4 Vesetation
The regions through which the expressway passes are located in the
subtropical rain forest zmne. -The nritime monsoon cliimte provides an
excellent condition for the amowth or plants.Tradition has it that there
was a dnse plant counity in ancient tims with talI trees sticking to
the sk:t chacterimd by tropical rain forest. Due to the long term  of
deforstation. .the nativ v egetation has beeti out of existence.   The
existing vegetation is secondry and Planted vegetation.
(I)Secondary Vegetation
This kind of vegetation has a limited distribulion alonm  thr. r:ad.
Except r  the secondary vegetation outside Shantcu Village or Shuitcu
Town, mustL or the secondarf forts with few troe spaies arc  low and
thinly scattered.Even the lree establishaent.if anv.is rarefracLiona'.ex-
PhyLocom.Anity is mainly cposed of Pinus massoiana. Rhodetuwris
taenosa Hassl. burr. Taiwan acaoias and woods. mw:t cf wh;ch 3or
scatterid on the hills with 43.82 of planL. cov3rasem.
(O)Planted VeoetaLicn
he planted vegetLitionF rrrg  a dorinant prLpirunw:in  LIez
through which the expray will ass. aciumtins ror .34. 51. It an-nLt
separated into 3 iroup in 'Jiew or their featus.
27-



(MConifer Forest and Broadleaf Foret.
The comonly seen tree species  re casuarinm. Pinus i.ssonian,.
Taiwan acaclas.swaw uhumn.beuoo and China fir.omuying mlI aras
of the region and serving the function of Aield slhing forest and
proteclion belt along Lbe villages and roads.
(2Production Forest'
There is a  lare  distribution  along  the section  at Cizao  in
Jin3iang County and aL Shuilau in Nan'an County. Of the production
forests. orchards Predominate with longan trees. lchee trees.8uava and
persin trees.
(3)Agricultural Crops
Crops cultivation occupies wst of the areas along the route  in
which rice.susarnes. sveetpotatoes,peanuts,beans and vegetables rW.
3.2.5 Rivers and Water System
The big rivers over which the expressway strides are Jinjiang River.
Jiushiiiuxi River. Jliuxi River in Nan'an County. Xixi River in Ton'an
Count and Guanxunxi River. The others the expressway get over  are
brooks.
Jinjiang River. the fourth largest river  in Fu.jian Province. is
sepamted into two creeks at Lhe upper reache* known as East Creek and
Vest Creek. They meet at Shuansxikou in tln'an County to form Jinjiang
River with a 682- 0rwikstrea  and a  total lengLh of 302 104. lhe
atchuent are  is 5529 square kilometers.
The data provided by the hgag stations indicaLe that the anntal
average flow amount of Jinjiag River is 163 e /s. and the annual
runoff amout is 5. 13 billion cubic meters with a headwater channel of
Shanuei-Jinii Irrigation District to irrigate an area or 140.000 au.
Jiushixi River. originating in Mt. Fengchao in Rin'an Comnty. mets
Nanqu Chnnel in Jiniansg County at Jinshe  via Cidian. mergir  into
Jinjiang River and empLyin  iLseif into sea by way of Shuangsou and
Chendai. The total length orit is37 ViK wiLh a catch.mt area f F257
square kilometers.                                      I
Jiuxi River origintles in the bounSary betwen  Ran'=n CotY  and
Tong'an Count where Shibi Reservoir was built. lhe river emP.ies iLselI
into the sea via Shuitou.
I.e trunk stwm of Xixi River. the biggest river in Ton'ar. Cunty.
originateS from Mt. Fensguan in the west of Ton'an County with a total
length of 34 KM and a drainage area of 494 squmre kilometers.
The lenth; or the oLthr brooks the expressway rrosve. Qvv. is no
more than 20 KM with greaL variation or currnt veloeity. Teir water
levels go up and down sharply with  the rainfall volume. In  the dry
season. they my dry up.AI the upper reacies of w   brooks-.meium - and
small-sized reservoirs were built. And at the lower reaches of them.
especially al the river mouth to sea.the sluice ;ates were inse.aled  r
the farmland irrigation.
3.3 Social Environmenl.
The znes  Lhrough which  the exprusswly passes have  racurable
natural Londitionm witi abununt ariculturul resowces nd wgreat social
-ecormic develUMnMI Potential due Lo Lhe well-daveloped Lrarric. Km
towns and villages are -he faue hometown of overseas Chinese.   At
present. the asricultural economy has been gradually  trawferred  from
--28-         



self-ufficlent econoy   to Plaed, open omodity econom. Dhe basic
conditions of the cities and couties along the route are given Table 3-
3-1.
The features of the economic development in the ones are:
(i)Ektremely active export-oriented economy:
Along Ouaniou-Xim  Section of Fuhou-Xiaen Exprewy is a belt
*                              where export-orienl;ed ecmy is under active developmnt and it is also
an investment hub for forei8n investors. By the end of 1988,only Xiamen
Ebcnomic Special Zone saw 638 projects signed under agreements with a
foreign investment of S 957. 10 million and an output value of foreign-
funded enterprises or RMB 3. 577 billion yuan. In  1988. Qusnhou City
signed 2881 contracts for wrooessing and assembling with a volume or
business of S 61. 20 million. Besides Xiamen Economic Spicial Zone. the
regions along he route are experiencing an upse in large-scale  land
development. For instance, ChLenzhou Industrial Development Zone in
QuanJdh  is close to Quanzhou Interchange, Panlong Development Zone  in
Nan'an Couty is only 1. 500 meters from the expressway. Anping
Developmnt Zone is 3 IN from Puli Interhaie. Fupu Development Zone in.
Jinjiang County is just beside the terdinal or JinJiang Link Road and on
the side of the exrsswy terminal.Xiamen Asian Industrial City vi I be-
established.
(2)Rapid.Development of Township Entoprises.
The total value.,enerated by Jin3iang Conmty's township enterprises
was Rt0 1.093 billion Yuan in 1988.1RB 1.282 billion ;uan in 1989.RMB 1.
699 billion yuan in 1990 with an increase of 17.3Y in 1989 compared with
-that in 1988 and a rowth or 32. 52 in 1990 over 1989. 1991 witnessed a
sharP increase of numbers or towiship enterpises in Nan'an County.
Tong'an County and Jinjiang County.
(3)Great Traffic Volume
Being a priay port of the coumtry, Xiamen habour had a  handlins
capacity of 5.289 million tos in 19O  with 3.543 million tons of carms
inported and 1. 746 nillion tons or  argos  eworted. Vith an annwal
handling capacity of 1. 015 million tons.Quanrzou Harbour vitnessed-0.67
million tons of careos imported and 0. 345 tons or carwos exported.
Besides those mentioned above. there are some nediu- and smell- sized
Ports along the coast.
The traffic grew rapidly in Quansoh-Xiamen Section or Fu;ohu-XiaMen
Expressway.The period from 1980 Lo 1990 saw an increase of 2.0M times in
highway trarric with an annual averag  grwth of 14.195.
Therefcre, the corution or Quanzhou-Xiazen Section  or Fuzhou-
Xiaoen Expressw     will give an  active  impetus for the  economic
development in the Delta in the southern part of Fu.ian Province.
In order to have a better understanding of the social-economic
conditions in the zones alors the route. a detailed investigation has
been made on the- industrial and agriculural Prdution wiLhin a scoe^
50 meters fro each side or the hishway.The results wiill be addresse  as
follows:
3.31 The Conditions or Population and Cultivated land alen= the Route.
'There are 98 villages in Lhe scope 2O mewtstr rrO  ach side or the
expresswa  with 16, 300-huousholds and a  Population oR 66.  11s. The
-                             cultivated area is 40.00 7au.among which  1. 100/Ri is irriuated land and



19,600 Ua is nonirrigated land.
lhe conditions in the different auctiors are given  in Table 3-3-2
and Table 3-3-3.
Table 3-3-3 show  that the per capita farmland is low In  the areas
along the route. rangins betwen 0. 38 and 1.1 u.he averae works out
roundly at 0. 61 mu, lower than the province's avere (0.65 mu/person).
Especially in the sections of Licheng District. Jinjiang County and
Han'an Coumty. where the per capita farmland is below 0. 5 mu. the
cor4tradiction betwn mre poulation and loss faraland is remirkable.
It looks as if that the land along the route is quite precious.
3. 3. 2 Industry and Ahriculture and- the Strture of Agriculture.
Forestry;Huibandary. Sideline Production and Fislhy.
The regions along the  oposed expreay is an iporwtnt rice and
fruit base in the southern part or Fuimn  Province.  In the previous
Years.economic incomes relied minly on agriculture because industry was
underdeveloped. Since the reform and opening to the outside world, the
township enterprises have been developing very rapidly. The output value
of industry is getting a yearly increasing share of the Gross Output
Value of Industry and Agriculture, brinsing about great changes in the
social-economic structure. Based on the statistic duta or 1991 the total
output value or  industry and agriculture of  the 54 adiinistrative
villages along the route was RNB 319. 59. aillion yuan.among which RMB 20
7. 51 million yuan came from the output value of industry.accounting for
64X.7he rest RNB 112.08 million Yuan was generated from the output value
of agriculture with an industry-griculture ratio of 1: 0. 54. co pared
with 1:2.4. in 1980.However.the output valuos or indstry and agriculture
differ,greatly in the various sections along the route (See Table 3-3-
-4) .he output value is higher in the corridor or Jiniiang County.lan'an
County and Licheng District. Vhich is associated with .the great
development of ceramics and building naterial industry at the . township
level in recent years. -Though te sections of Tonz'an Cnty. Jimei and
Xinsl in near Xiamen Econic Special Zonesee-a   roth  in- the  outut'
*valwe of industry comared with the precious"years.yet auriculture still
dominales to soe desree at present.
in the economic structure of agriculture.forestry.animal husbandary.
sideline production and fishery along  the route  (ee Table 3-35)
agriculture (rarming indstry) accounts for 74X of the Lotal outPut
value. indicating that the revenues from Lhe rarming industry still
remin high. The second com aniul - industry. accounting for 12X.
Fisheries industry contributes 7X or the total. However.Lhe output value
rrom forestry is very low.amouning to RB 821.000 yuano.nly.i.e.0.7X or
the total output value. In sdoe sections. such as Licheng sectior and
Jiniiang Section. the revenues almost come to naught beaue  thre  is
less land with comparatively  re wpele.Because of good land resources.
m- st or the land is used ror faming industry and rishey.
-.3.3 The Agricultre Prodction alng the Route
On the whole. first place  is given .to grain  and sugarcanes as
concens the agriculture poducLion. which contains a certain  ratio  or
-  .   - .peanuts. fruiL (lorean) and rresh  water cultivaLion. The .outlays or
ec0nomic activity in ariculture in the sections along li route dirrer
due to Lhe reat diferences in Lerrains.:soil and water supply. Take
Lichems District for examPle. the culture of rice  ru  a  large
-30-



Proportion of the are  due to Its opn and flat teains and poad water
supply. while there Is few nonirrinted crops smcl as ugarcanes and
Peanuts Cee Table 3-3-6) .T  cultivated area of lonan trees along the
setions In JinJiang Couxts and Nan'an County is 346 au with an annual
output of 250. 000 JIn. lower then the yield of the longan trees of the
sane tree-age in other sections. All this  my  be related with the
atmospheric pollution caused by the developaent of industry along the
road sections in recent Years.
The conditions of asriculture Production in the section alone the
route are given in Table 3-3-6.
3.3.4 Traffic Conditions along the Route
Host of the sections along the expressway are close to the existing
Fuzhou-Xiane Hishway.and intersect the existing road at several Points.
resultins in the convenient traffic. The traffic stream observed at
different obsevation points are given in Table  3-3-7.   The hishway
transport network radiates in all directions to oonnect the villages and
tomns along the route. The buses can even reach the interior among Mt.
Dapingshan. Mt. Dbamoshan and Nt. Xiaoyingling. providing a. favourable
condition  for the trnpotation  of materials  in  the process of
construction of the highway.especially the construction of the Lunnels.
3.35 ultural Relics and lancpe
Thre are a lot or cultural relics and scenic spots from Oumnzhou to
Xiamen.However.no other scenic spots will be impacted except Tonsming'an
Pass on Mt. Xiaoyingling under which a road tunnel is to be cut. These
main =cenic spots are located near the  interchanges. which  beneri ts
toisism.
Ang these min scenic spots are:
Iuanzhou Scenic Spot:
Quanzhou is a famus historic city in China. its win scenic spots
are Kaiyuan Ancient Tewple built in AD 686 with a History of  1. 000
years. Qingjin TemPle built in AD 1009. Mt. Qinmuan in the northern
suburb or Quanzhou. Linshan Sacried Tombs in the eastern subwub or
Quanzhou in which the third and fourth disciples or Nohaimd (c.  570-6
2) . founder of Islam. were buried. and Luoyans Bridoe. the beam sU.nu
bridie built in 1059. All these scenic spots can be reached by *y or
Chenzhou Interchange.
Nan'an Scenic Spot:
In this district, there stands Anping Bridie.the earliest bean stone
bridge in ancient China. which was built in AD 1138 with a ttal  lanth
of 2250 voters and is under SLate protection. Loghan-Temple. Iacated in
Anhai Town. is the originator of over 400 Lonsshan Temples- in Taiwan
Province and Zha's  (a national hero) Tomb in Nmn'an Counbt.
It's  very convenient for the tourisLs  to visit Lhai via   Pu i
Interchange.
Xiaen Scenic Spot:
Xiaen is one of the ten picturesu  cities in China wiLh a  .c. *f
scenic spots such as Gulangyu Island. Nanpuluo Temple. Overseas Cintzse
Village in Jimei and Ht.Vangshishan.eLc. loi'an Interchange will PrUtvido
the tourists with a quick acces to Xiamen to pay a visit to iosc
tourisL attracLions.
All thinss conidered. Qunzhou-Xiamn SecLion or the BwEss,ra  is
beneficial to the development or tourism.
31--



3.4    The Sbtus quo of Environmental uality
3.4.1  The Status quo or A       lospheric Environmnt Quality
3.4.1.1 Ibnitoring or the Stuts qw or Environment Quality
In order to hae a better umndrstanding or the current states or the
etmosphric environment qality along the expressw . In June. 1992. the
current states of atospheric enviroment quality was monitoe.
(1Uwlyout of the mnitorins Points
On the basis of the futuree   of the route el ininent ard  uomraphy
along Qumnziau-Xianen Section.the necessity and possibility.9 monitoring
poinLs were set up on the vital comunication lines. the loctLions of
towns and villages and urban areas in Xianen. Quanzhou.Toag'an and other
plwaes;The sites can be seen in Table 3-4-1 and Fig 4.
(2)Honitoring Proram. Tim and Hethodolo
Based-on the ujor atosphnric pollution sources and thc ;win
Pollutants discharged in the am ent areas. and  in combirnLian- of
Project featu  or Lhe proposed expressway.it was docid LhatL T.SU-.4
O..Co.TC and pb vould be moniLored.
Measuremnts were taken,mintaining a period or S-day .asUrMntL in
suor ms as to make a rfrd if metaerolosical conditions suSci as wind
direction, wind velocity.air teuper"ture and air pressure.Tho ucnbjri.n
Prcgrae; 3t different monitoring Points are presend in Table! 3-4-l.The
analytical methods. sauwling frequencies and flow  awuunt or variou
monitoring program are given in Table 3-4-2.
"3,Results or the MonitwrinK
260 data seued in the   onitoring were PuL in ordnr 3ni the
sLatistical  theury  was applied  tc  mare   out the  instantaneous
centration ranges of various Pollutants at dirferent wnitoring
-32-



points. cailY avereh contratlon riw   and total min  value.  ihe
outc_   ar prented In Table 3-4-3.
3.4.1.2 Analy9is of the  rent State of Atomhohle  Envlronnt onIit
()CrIteria for Evaluation
In the asn t.the criteria of Nl.CO and T.S.P were selected
from Clan It State Standard stipulated In M93095-82. (See Table 1-1).
(2)Methodology Aplied in the A_smammnt
The results secured In the monitorlng of air qualilty were analysed
as contrasted with the stipulation. exreased in term  of verruns and
the rate or overruns.
(3)Analysis of the Results
mhe flucwuation ranse or ND    instantaneous values s;ood
between 0. 004 g/Nm *3 nd a. 087 m/ N m' . Mhe oxi!mm
instantanems value was 0.087 u/N a at Lantou wonitoring point.The
instantaneous values at all mnitoring  Points confored  to Class  I
3Sate Standard of Atmospheric Environmnt Quality. The daily averaew
concentration range at the monitoring points along Lhe route varied
betweeno 0. 004 ng/ Nel with a mxim value of 0.051 AN no at
Luntou monitoring point. all of which didn't surpass Class 11 SaLee
Standard.
In light of concentration distribution at the monitoring points
alon  the route. there was no oiwous resular ;ty.basicelly reflecting the
background level. of NL Contents along the mute.
(MmIe fluwtuation range or T. S. P daily avorao concentraticn stood
between 0.005 xsN uF and 0.195 W/N * with i'ximua value or 0.
195 u/tN ml aL Xindian wniLtring ooint.noL exceeding Class I State
Stanrrd of Aumospheric Environment Quality.
In the light or Planr distribution  along  the route. T. S; P
-3-



-                   :9 9 
cnctration at Xlndlbn monitoring&point ws hlgher.umining affected by
the chmlumY  of the villan n erbY and the traffic on Qmnrhou-Jinjiang
Highway. The conotrutions at the other monitoring points corresporded
to one another.On the whole.T.S.P contents were low.
ih l flctution ranow of CO irtntf neWs values stood between 0.2
5 /Nt e and 1.34U /N with a maximum Instantaneous value or
1. 34 ./ t at Jiuei nitoring point. The Instantaneous values at
all monitoring points  onfomed to Class I SLate Standard. The daily
avenge concentration rae  at all monitoring  points along  the route
varied between 0. 2B uN.n   and 0. 91 utN n' with . mximum
value of 0. 91 /N m at Ji,ni monitoring point.However.they didn't
surpass Class I State Stan$d.
In view of the planar distribution along Lhe route. the total mean
values at different mnitoring Points showed no difference and low
content. In coparison with Class 11 State Standrd or the environmental
gouls,there existed some environment capacity.
G.lThe fluctuation range of mic instantaneous values was between 0.44
mg/N u3 and 4.25 mg/K m3 with a maxiun value of 4.25 w/N m'
at Dongzhai monitoring pointSince no international standards could be
found, the sLandards or the former Soviet Union were used ror reference
with the result that all instantaneous values were found  in cuaroruity
with the standard.
(Mhe daily averaxe rfuctuation range or Pb stood between 0. Sx 104
mg/N   and 4.58x 1ff64mg/   with a umxiwum value or 4.581x 10'mc/
at Puli monitoring point, far below the Pb standard stipulaLedtoate
Stndard  k(GB735-8-7).
In the light of planar distribution. the total mean valucs at
different wonitoring Points showed no difference. and there existed some
34 -



environmnt capacity - contrd  vith the environmental goqls.
To sua  up. the atmopheic environmmnt quality In the surveyed areas
in which the proWaed expressway vill be built conform to Class I
State Stancbrd or Atmspheric Eivironnnt Qullty except for ME.   Pb
content Is also  in conformity  to State Stanad  0B7355-87)  . 111C
surpeses.to sow extent.the sbndard when compared with the stuAnrd of
the forr Soviet Union, because there is not a l1C standard  in China.
Even so, the instantneous values do not exceed the standard concerned.
When the atmspheric envirorment quality  at the dirferent mnitoring
points along. the route is covared with the environmental standards. we
will rind there is great atmospheric environmental cwpacit to be
developed.
3.4.2 The Status quo or Acoustical Environment Qual ity
3.4.2.1 The Principles Followed in the Imestisation and  esrmen
Cowered wiLh other pjects, the investigaLion  of the expreay
shld be ade in a larser a to deal with a wide              or subects.
Besides that.tiue was presing and the task heavy.Ho shuuld the limited
time and energ  be properliy applied Lo make an overall assessmet or
current status or the environmentl? In our wrk prominence was given to
two key Points:
t. Lhe Features of the Highw. In acordance with the six  inerchanges
along the proposed road.the whole lensth of the highway was divided into
7 road sections Car investigation and a     t.
2. the Residents Affected. Investigatins were made on  the Nsidential
qtmrters directly arrected by Uhe highway in the seven sectios;
mentioned above on each side or the highway.
(lIMlasuring Method    - 
The  tme   mts were taken in reference to -"Measuring Methods of
-35--



Envirnm tal  Noise  in  Urban Arms"  in  "Standard    Hethods   of
Evironrntal Nonitor" issued by State Environmental Protection  Bureau.
(Sfe) 03222-82).
(2)HOWring Devices
Among the equipment used in the meurmnts ware  M-1 Autmtic
Noise-bnitoring EquipmenL and HE 5931 Vibratory Niose-Na_ring  Meter.
ND-9 Sound-Level Indicator was used as an mound level calibrator.
(3)Neasurands
Investigations were .de on the around-the-clock ambient noise and
traffic noise. The attenuation oeasurements of traffic noise with the
distance on both sides or the highway and  the  coaparative simulation
monitoring interchanges were made.
The ambient noise monitoring were carried out in 7 sections
respectively:
Around-the-clock measurements of Lraffic noise were coxnducted
respectively at lIou'an. Lunuou and Puli on the existins Fuzhou-Xiawen
Highway. and at Yuanqian on QIanzhau-Xiutu Ihighway. and at Xindian on
Qzanzhou-Jinjiang Hishway.and aL Vuling on Jinjiang-Anhai lHighway and at
Guanlintou on Xiamen-Zhangzhou Highway.
The measurements ol attenuation of trarrfic noise with- the distance
on both sides of the highway were done at Xifu and Hou'an.
Ihe comparison meassrent or ambient noise distribution around  the
inLerchange was carried out in Ute area where the approaches of Jimei
See-Crossing Brid*e stood.
The locations or the zoniLoring points a4 presented in Fig 5.
(4)Assessuent Indexes and DaLa Processing
A Weight Sound Pressure Level was used as the basic amount of
assessmnt. EquivelanL Sound Level (Leg).statisLical sound level (Ln)and



standurddeviation i  [n-1) were ued ass            t        indexos.    Date
pwisr:L3a,L&o and Lao ve expresd by de surpased A
Noise Lvel In 10.502 a.d 9ax of duration respectively.
I    T    L  10                              I   n     L[10
Laq=1OlsgC--- I  10                    d)= IO Ig c --: 10o
T   O                                        N  i=1
/   1   n              2
n-l== ----                     ni
*N-1
where: LiUih soud level detected
L  arithmetic mean value of the sound level dtectwed.
n =total nmbers of somd levels. I00 or 200
L =noise level at the momnt L.
3.4.2.2 Results of Monitoring and the AsseamnuL on the Curment Status
Ol)The Results or.Monitorin8 oF Around-the-Clock Ambient Noise along
the Route
Based on the rield monitoring. we obtained Lhe ambient noise
distribution in 7 sections along Lhe ewxressway. i. e. Xifu-Cuenzho
SecLion; Chenzhou-Vuling  Section; Vuling-Puli Section;   Puli-Luntou
Section; bjntou-Hou'an Section; Hou'an-Tiancuo SecLion and Tiancuo-
-                            Guanlintou Section. Since comuzters  were  intrwucted  Lo carry  OuL
automitic monitoring. the artiricial errors were. dhereby.picked out.1he
outcores of the monitoring are given in Table  -4-4 and Table 3-4-11.
(2) The AsmEnt on Lhe Cuwrent SLatus of the Ambient Noise along
the Expres 'wa'
-37--



1taffic noiae,dwelling area noise and natural noise constituted main
ambient noise aloes the route with a common feature of a uniform planar
space distribution of noise in the zone where monitorings were
conmdcted.If sow monitoring Points where the traffic noise impacts were
remarkable were picked out.the standard deviation of sound levels at the
different spae points was <2. lbe environtental areas surveyed along
the route are cowosed of towns and villases. Since China hasn't worked
out a standard of environmental noise for the rural areas. and Lhe
development conerned have not delimited the functional zones of ambient
noise for the rurua  reas. whst we could do is to apply  mednically-"
Ambient Noise Staard  for Urban Areas" (0B3096-82) to our work on  the
basis of the inforution concerned (See Table 3-4-12).
lhe outcomes as cepared with State Stabdrd are listed in Table 3-4
-13.
A conclusion my  be dr&n  rrom Table 3-4-13  that the average
equivelant souni level in th day dirfers rfos that alt nisht by 3-10 dB.
7 dB below the aver . which shows that the environmental n-ckgnd is
somewhat higher. As contrasted with SLate Standard. the sound levels in
most zones can meet State Slandard for Categoy U Mixed Area. AL SOre
moniLoring points. the sound levels surpass  StaLe Noise Standard  at
night.
3.4.3   he s.essmnt or Status qu of Water- QmliLy
3.4.3.1 Ihe InvestigaLion an the Status quo of Vater aualitj
(I)Cruss SecLional Area Distribution
Six sample sections were  arr  d on the main rives over which  Lhe
expresswsay would cross. i. e.Jinjiang River.Han'an Channel.Xixi River in
Tong'anr CounLY and Jiuxi River in Nan'an County. lhe exact locations arem
given in Fis 6.Fig 7 and Fig 8 and Table 3-4-14.
-38-



(2)Mbnitoring Time and Frequenicy
The sawlin& times was designated in HuY. 1992 and JUIly. 1992 (high-
flow period)respectively.two tim in a Period.
(3)Monitoring Progran
The monitoring pr8m    included PH. SS.Per_n.anate indexesBOD.,
Oils and Pb,ect.
(4) INetholow.
The sawle collection. cosrvation and conveyance were carried  out
in cowpliance vith 'hArlytical Approaches of Vater and Vaste Water
Monitoring", 3nd Edition compiled by SEPB. 7he analytical approaches of
various  monitoring program  and  inferior i  imit or detection  are
presenLed in Table 3-4-15.
(5)The Results of the Monitoring of Status qw of Water QuaIiLy
The statistical findings of various cross-setions can be seen in
Table 3-4-16.
Analysis was carried out on the basis of the results of monitoringr
PH: The detected saipe was between 6. 80 and 8. 05 in six cross-
sections,which meet Class - Surface Water Standard.
Suspended Particles:The detected scope stood beLveen 25.6  lL and 2
17.5 wLt.nhe hish values were found in Jiuxi River in Han'an County and
Nanqu Channel.
Pernansate Indexes:Tbe detected scope was between 1.41 *eL and 5.
96 migL.Section I in Jinjiang River.Section 2 in Jin.iang River.Soctionl
.in Xixi River and Section 2 in Xixi River were round Lo meet Class Il
Surface Water Standard. Section I in Jiuxi River and Section  in Nanqu
Channel ware found to meet Class Ul ater.Standard.
BODb :The detcted scope ranwed between 0.50 milL and 3.31 mg/L.
All sections confonmd to Class I Surface Water Standard.
-39-
J



Oils: The detected seope varied between 0.010 ms/L and 0,180 n/L in
Sectionl In Jinjint River and Section 2 in Jinjiang River. SecLion 1 in
Xixi River and Section 2 in Xixi River to conform to Class  I  $urrace
Water StanNiard. Ihe water quality of Section I in Nanqu Channel and
Section I in Jiuxi River exceeded Class Ml Surface Water Standard.  The
ratio of overruns of Section I in Nanqu Channel was 50X and the ratio of
overruns of Section I in Jiuxi River WaS 100I.
pb: Tlh deLtected scope vsried between zero =JL and 0. 010 nWIL. All
sections was in conformity with Class I Surrace Water Standard.
3.4.3.2 The Assessmnt on the Status quo of Water Quality
(IMFactors in the Assessment
Ph values, perunuanate indexes. BODN .Oils and Pb were selected
for the assesseit.
(2)Criteria for Evaluation
The criteria ror evaluation was in  cmfomity  with  "Environmental
Quality Standards or Surface Vater (GB383S-88) . The sLandard values of
various kinds of racts are Presene in Table 3-4-17.
(3)Methodology Applied in the Assessment
The statistics or the outcomes of the monitoring were carried out by
use or an arithmetical mean value. The results were directly compared
with the criteria stipulated in State Standards (GB3838-88) to draw the
conclusions as follows: when the results were smaller than or equal  Lo
Class 1 sLandard value,they were derined as Class I waLer quality-Amen
the results were larser than Class I standard value, but smaller than
Class Ii standard value, they were defined as Class It waLer quality. ir
the results surpassed Class It standard value.  but were smaller  than
Class Im standard. thea were defined as Class m water quality. Thuse
results which were larger than Class Ml standard value, but smaller than
40



Class N standbrd value would be defined - Claw N water quality. When
the rsults exceedd Clam N stndard value hut were mller than Class
V itanwd   value.they were defined as CPss V water quality.
(4)Results of      nt and AnBlysis
*                                  lTe results of A_nt my be seen  in Table  3-4-18. From  the
results of the _n t of various item., the conclusions my be dawn
as follows:PlI value.BOD and pb met Class 1 water quali ty standard
in all sections: permanganate  indes meet Class  11 water quality
standard in Section I in Jinjiang River. Section 2  in Jiniians  River.
Section I in Xixi River and Section 2 in Xixi River and  meet Claw  1L
water quality standard in Section I in Hanqu Channel and Section I iiuxi
River. Oils meet Class IV water quality standard in Section 1 in Nanqu
Channel and Section I in Jiuxi River. The water quality or the rest
sections is in conforwity with Class 1 water quality.
Froa-the results or theassesseent in all sections.the water quality
in section'2 in Hanqu Channel and Section 1 in Xixi River reaches Class
IV standard. The sin reason is that the doae&tic sewage at the upper
reaches and the rain wash cause turbidity of water with high content of
oranic motters and oils which surpass the standard.
3.4.3.3 InmestigaLion on Hydobiws
Findings of the InvestigaLions
There were two cross-sections in Jinjiang River with ai lar.4e awsunt
or Phytoplantkton awing which aloae were -constant species  in P -
aesosaprobic zone -(A -is)and the zoo-planktons were indicaur s-c.ces -in
a -aesasaprobic zones and A -masosaprobic zones. The pol lution ievel was
*~~~~~ P-us.
The Phytoplanktons. in Ranqu Chael are typical indicator sPecies in
A -mesasaprobic zones with ore indicaor species in polysaprobic- zones
-41 



when cowared with thorn In other motions. The indicator xpecies or
zooplnictons in rnsosmprobio zones wre coatively  rich.  indicatins
that the oranic pollution in Nanqu fhonnel ws severe.
The planktons in the two cirss tion  In Xixl River or Tonl'an
County also bolonged to those In P -usosBprobic zone.but were fewer in
number when cowered with Jinjiang River and Nanqu Channel. indicating
that the water bodies wee less organically polluted.
The conclusions mentioned above conformed to the rindinhs of
investigation on water quality.
3.4.4 The Status quo of Vibration Envirunpent
3.4.4.1 Field or Investigation and Criteria for Evaluation
At present, the status quo of vibr-aLion environment along the route
results minly rom the road trarfic. After the completion or the
expressway.the vibration environment will also stem from such vibration.
The scope or evaluation cverd an area 50 meters from each side or the
higsh."Measuring  elhods of Vibration Environment for Urban Areas" (GB1
i0071-88) was adopted for reference while laying don evaluaLion
criteria(See Table 3-4-19).-
3.4.4.2 InvestigaLion and Selection of th  Itnitoring Points
(1) 1knitoring  or the SLatus quo or Vibration  Environ:m. in
Sensitive Areas.
In order to reflect the sLatus quo of vibration environment in
residential areas, one monitoring Point was set UP at Guanlintcu. one
monitoring poinl at PutoU Villaze.three monitoring points at Shirun.five
monitoring Points at Xiashaxi. rive monitoring  Points at Pulli. one
monitoring Point at Zscun Village, one around-the-clock  monitoring
Point at Xindian. on datime monitoring Point on the existing Ouanzhou-
Xiutu Higiray and six monitoring Points al Xif'u to measure the cuTrent
-42-



status of vibration environnmnt in sensitive arems. The results are
presented in Tasble 3-4-20.
(2) Monitoring of the current Status of Vibration  Environment  in
Contrast Areas
9                                  In order to reflect the vibration background in the zones alons  the
hishway.a monitoring point was set up at Neikeng Town in Jinjiang County
for coamrison.
(3) Monitoring of the current Status of Vibration Environnent in
Auxiliary Zones.
In order to reflect the relevant zones of the Proposed hishway and
the existing road. the vibration  iwacLs  on  the existing  road were
e-asured.Six monitoring points were arranged in the vertical sections or
Fuzho-Xiaren Highway at Hou'an.Details can he round in Fig 5.
3.4.4.3 Measur.ng Inslrummnts and Techniques
HE5931 Vibration Noise-Measuring MeLer was used for the measurement.
Ats ro- the  measuring  Lechniques.  "Measuring  Methods or Vibration
Fmvironment for Urban Areas" (GB1OO1l-8O) was adobped for rererence.
Tne measured anountL was plumb-line  vibration  level and  the
continuous  random  vibraLion  measurements  were carried out at  the
diereniit monitorins points. The sawpling in4ervals or vibration
environment in sensitive zones and  the vibration  environment  in  the
auxiliary avnes wem IS with a continuou  meamrwaLnt of  1.  OOES. 1Im
sapline intervals or the- vibrationnironment ir  the cntrast areas
werl? IS wiLh a  ontLinuous wasurmenL ofl' ]5WX.VL..Vl_..VL:o
.L-50!.VL-90!.VL-95! and VA -n-l! wCre wmsured and retwrded.
among which the value of VL,o was used as the er.shataion amount.
3.4.4.4 Results or Monitoring and Lhe Assessment on the Current Status
Tix vesuis ofr the rield monitoring can be round in Table 3-4-20 and
-43 -



Table 34-22.1he statistical reslts are presented In Table 3-4-23.
As for-the arithmtical mean value of the vibration environment in
sensitive zones VL,o is equol to 74.8 dB in the detim and 69.2 dB
at nisht, reaching the standird for the mixed are. co_mercial arear.
indstrial areas and the areas on both sides of traffic artery. 
As concens the vibration backrud Ut Neiken Town. VL1o   is
equl to 65. 9 dB. which mets the st;anrd for residential and education
quarters.
Mhe results of vibration mnitoring in the auxilisry zone at Hou'an
indicate that the cwrment status of vibration in  the areas 50 meters
from each sides of 'ie existing highway can met the standard for the
areas on both sides of the traffic artery.
IV. The projection of Enviromental Ilwacts
4.1 The Assessmnt of Atmospheric Environmental Iweits
4.1.1  lhe Kesuade
()Factors in the Assessmnt:
Co NO. and THC.
(2)Evaluation Criteria and Scope
Atiuospheric Backrond    lity Stanrd" (GB3095-82)was adopted ror
the evaluation criteria. The former Soviet Union's lMC standard was used
for reference. Details are presented in Table 1-1.
The scope or the Asessment.
The scope or th  assessment covered an area 500 maters from each
side of Lhe cenLer line of the expresw   and  the areas around  the
interhange.
.3) 1srands
A. The pollutants to be aswsed are C.NOM and MIE.
B. In the light of the features of the road sections. the assesmnt
-44-



was cried in 7 ctions and wound mix lntwrhne.
C. In abo           with the traffic forest;  the assesmmnt Wa
caried out on the basis of 3 b    Yes, i. e. hortterm  (1997) .dium
tem (2005)and long term (2015).
*                                 D.In view of the distribution of dbib traffic streathe as_asment
of the enviromenta  lwbts W  divided into two part: the aaeumnt
of the emvironmental  imacts of deilY average    traffic   stren
Oereinafter referred  to as AEIDA1S) and the assesmnt or  the
environmental  bacts of daily traffic stream  in peak hours (hereinafter
referred to as AEIDTSPH).
E. In reference with the meteorological oonditions in the different
road sections. the projection was concfted minlb on the repwtsentative
wind directions.averese wind velocity and the ost frequent stabilities.
laying special stress on adivers polluted meteorological conditions.
4.1.2  The Analysis of Pollution Sore Intersity
The rain pollution source is the waste 8ses emitted  by the motor
vehicles running on the expr1essw. The main hazardoms ujterials in the
waste sses am-CO. ML  , TNC and PB.The pollutants emitted by motor
vehicles vary with automotive types.  Fuels and running speeds.  In
accordance with the different projected traffic stream in different road
sections in different base years, different automotive tyes,. fuel
consuiption coefficients at different running speeds.and the contents of
oil Pollutants. the amunt of the pollutants emitted in. dirferent road
sections and around the interchanges in different base years were
respecLively estii.ted. (See Table 4-1-1 and Table 4-1-3)
-45-



~. I-.--  -   ; l -- 
4.1.3 The Predictive  oalsd Pva   utqr Selection
(I) . The Route Strike of the Road Setion. and the Relevant
Paramters.
The  terolaoicl cnditions vary slightly with the mnes in which
the road sectiom are located. The relevant parmters of various  road
sections are premented in Table 4-14.
(2). Ihe Predictive Mbdels and Parai.ter Selection
: Being a busy road .he eO  rway can be resardud as a continuous
line source.
In the light of GrASS Dispersion Model . the continuous point source
is eqiml to the intesration of the continuous points source alons the
length of line srurce. ghen the shape of the line source is  irrigular.
she sumnation process of numerical values can be applied to rind the
solution.
(.Suaumtion model of poinL source (applied to regular.irresular and
stereoscopic line source ,etc).
In the light or the model of line source adopted by Environ ental
Protection Asency, U. S. A. the line source is divided into ntI sections
with a length of Ail for eaci . Its ground concentration formula  is as
follows:            L             1                     n-I
c - -                C-(    r    ) 3+-Zf    f   )                             .
is               2.                     i=t
1        ~       ~-      YlI. e2t
f i -                   e x p C-                    ) ex p (
: v orya z                    2 er y2.   ¢ .;
where: c -    the round concentration at the monitoring point
-46 -



CL-  the oe inteiti of In  oue  W.S.&)
u - bdudwind velocityon the rod  ( a   )
ie-  the ava  effective heght of the lIne  urces    )
I y-  horizontal-vertlal disprion Permter W
* - z  horizontal-vwrtlcl dispemion Pr_mer (i)
Since the traffic on the road will bring forth an Initial ixed
altitud  end widths the wate as eitted  by mtor vehicles. Is iIOt
regaded as a ierfet line source.In ordir to  m  a   mre accirate close
-rn.e caltulation.the inginmry point source ws odified for 6 Y. J z:
J YQ YX + J Y
J zrj zx  *  zXl
-In theQaus tOhe  initial Jiswrsion pwmer-s 4 io and J zo hive
amthins to dD with s:h factors9 as etnssherlc stibility. trffic
stre_ badwrund wind direction. wind velocity snd iidtf of subade.
The groma  axctrtion in WA-stumlnt air is therefore:
f  i a-       a*                      c  p  <  O
1 4.1    Y /-X       o,:r  .
(2. them the vind direction nd    at right asngle  ith  the line
source:
'en the road is long enaish. it can be resrdd as a unlitef le  line
s 2ce. lhen the wind direction oales a right angle with  the  unliited
line source.the ground concentration is the,efbre:
*             *     - 47-_



2        /IL          Qzl
C(x,O,O) -                              -.            - 
.i               L. zUV z X)
Its coneentration has nothing to do with the crosswind direction
(3).1hn the wind direction Is In parallel with the line source.
When the unliaited line source is in puallel with the wind
direction. its wound conoentration is therefore:
I               QL
c (Y. O,) a
S 2s  ) qI a ;z(r)
where: 
a-        a.  /             (constant)
Its concentrtion bears no relationship with the dow-vind
direction.
(4) When the wind direction bkes an arbitrary cut-anle with the
line source:
When the wind direction awd the line src frm an cut ansle of
-  * its concentration is therefore:
2                           2                            2
co   Y: rc(.o,o)s!nO.               +.,cy,nq   c.:,01
-48-~~~~~ .9.   -



..
10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*
(5) The Selection Relevnt Ihdul Parameters
DispersIon Parmter.
In cobination with the dimsion Paramete rule auired in field
investlptions at Shuitou Town br um of triaxial wind velocity meters
and the toporaphic features of different road section., the rational
upgading modification of die disperion paraet  ws ade on the basis
of ground dispersion  parmaeters in the plain reconWd  by State
Stwadrd SB/T13201-91).
In the light of the highwa technical parameters and the results of
the field wnitoring by the departmnt concerned on the basis of their
experience.the initial dispersion is as follows:
A zol. 9     a yo.5
Since the wind velocities differ in the difrerent stions and the
wind velorituy informtion provided by the neteorologial observatories
is the data of wind velocity 10 mters above the ground.such daea should.
be subject to being modified to the wind speed on the pavement according
to the average wind velocities at the  elevations   where   the
meteorological stations stand.
4.1.4 The Projection of the Atmospheric Environtal I Iacts
(I) The Analysis or the Atmspheric Enviromental lmacts  in
Construction Phase.
Excavation.loading,filling opeatiaos and flyins dust constitute the
dust source in the construction phse.
In the dy and hot sessons , such operations will produce great
-49-



amount of flying dut , exerting Influence minly an -the neighbouring
areas near the construction sites. especially on the constructors.
The rue from the blbUt   bensting in the censtruction.  a kind of
hazardous gas with awful s,ell. which contains 3. 4 benzwpymrne. will do
severe har, to the health or peowle. For the benefit of the people's
health. the bitumen heating Plants should be kept far away from the
residential qurters. namely. 1,000 seters away from towns and villames.
Upwind heating should be prohibited.
(2) The Projection of the atsphwerIs environmental Iwacts in the
Operation Pliase.
In the light of the highway types and road seclions. the projections
were Made for 7 sections and 6 interchanges. If the forecasts for all
sections. interchanes, different base years, different pollutants and
statistical amounts and various. meteorological conditions should be
mead; the quantity of work should be tremedious, at the same tine
unnecessry. In order to elucidate the actual sitiations.analysis of the
road sections. interchanges and the emission  of the pollutants were
carried  out. In corbination  of the  features of   the   polluted -
meteorological conditions and locations of the road sections and
interchanges. 3 road sections and 3  interchang   were selected  for
Projection. i. e. Xiru-Cheou Section (near Quanrioul  . Puli-Maxiang
Section (with maxima traffic stea) . lIou'an-Tiancuo Section  (in  the
soutiern parL or the highwa)   Luntou Interchame (with riximuw traffic
stream) andl Pull Interchange. The analysis of the results or the
Projections read as follow:
The Features of the Pollution Concentration Prorile along the
Highwy.
he *oection  of the wollutants shows  thaL the concentration
-50 -



distribution his smthin  to do with the height of the rod fron the
ground and eteorolaslcal conditions.
When the paveent or the hinhway Is slightly higher than the grund.
ror instance, Pull-Wxin  Section which on the averg  I meter higher
than the wound. Th mximu  concentration values are always detcted
near the hishway and dcese by degrees with  the distace from the
hishway ( See Table 4-1-5 and rig 5( Pul -axiang Section) ) . When the
pavement or the hishway is uch higher than the ground .for exa.pleXifu
-Chenziou Section which is ,on the average .6 meters iro' the round.the
maxim concentration value can be detected about 150 meters from the
road side ,but deces  radually with the inceae of distance from the
highway (See Table 4-1-7 and Fig III
When unstable. the maxima concentration can be detected near the
hishway . taking, for example. Xifu-Chenzhou Section where the maxism
c:enLraLion of B Stability is  eared about 100  eters  rom the road
(See Table 4-1-6 and Fig lO).Lhe mximu  concentration oil D Stability is
deteated about 150 meters ror. the road side (See Table 4-1-7 and Fig  I
1) and the maxilmconcentrdLion or EStability will be round about 250
mers from the road side (See Table 4-1 -8 and Fig 12).
The concentration aistribution alons the route de;wpe- an the angslc
at which the wind direction and road cross. Resardless or the argle Khe
concentration near the hishway under the lee or the wind is higher than
isL in the places far.away rrom the road. However, analysis should be
Pushed further by taking such racUAl inl.o consideration as tke heigh.
from the- pavent of Ihe road -to  the mvond and Uie sULmwheric
stability. On the whole. under unstable oonditions.  he t oncant:raioun
values near the hihwy at a  rht. cut angel is sreater than  thlse  in
stable canditions.lifile the concentration values under stable conditions
-SI--~~~~~~~~~~~



ner the hishwa at a owll cut angle agre  ter thn thos In unstable
conditions. Under otherwi.& idntim  conditions. the nuter  the wind
velocity.the smller the conomLtion  aitus (See Table 4-1-9.table 4-1
-10 and Table 4-1-11).
C3) Short-Tem rorost (1997)
It Is predicted  that a  little  aunt of pollutants wi   bo
discharged in the ner ruture duw to the limited trafric strea   in  the
road secLion. rt is thus wncluded that the Pollutant ontrations  in
the road sectlions and arounK  Lhe  intirchanges will have a  li mited'
incrment in the environment.
When the wind direction cults the hishway at a right angle, the
various wol luLant conctration inremt under Lhe action of diirenv
wind velocities and various kinds or stabil ities is therere:
In Guokeng-Ceinh   Section. the daily averae 0) concenutstion  is
below 0. i40/t .tOx concentration is below 0.020 wW    and TC
- onenLraLion is no wre than 0. 007  /t  .  In the oask iurns. C)
comcentration is below 0. 22 mVm'.NOx conentration istbe;ow C.COD
WmVA  and MlC conenuriun is Llow 0. OM 2uVu    . In Puli-
lixiang Section.lhe daily mamn    concentration was below 0.270 .gf.-
-Nx citonntration  was beiow  0.040 mviP and 1C concentration was
below 0. 015 .iV.tIn the  Peak hor.a) concentratior wa: bklow 0.6-0
;11;;    M NOX concar.tjUOin  is beiow .0. 000 avi  an  MC
.toncenLraL ion is  ept unvr 0.040 aiim:.
-t's thus eviitdnt Ltir ti' vrnrius p Po: iutis  'mertcd  by tur.d,ou-
Xiamen Exvressw-a will PnAtce less inrlue ma: Lilt'L envirfnwr;.n and :jhg
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
instantarwus incnnt; will nI;t sass Cluss I Air ßssii'a Star4ard.
(4) NdisurTerm Forecat  ;!2i0)
-rt is predictd that the variow Pol lutants cunmentraLios ailn tih!
.1-
.  .                                           .                                - .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1



route will increase with the growth of  traffic strEn   in  the medium
tem.
When the wind direction arosss the road sections at a right angle,
the various pollutants.under the action of different wind velocities and
vwaious stabilities are therefore:
The daily averase CO concentration in Xifu-Chenzhou Section is below
0. 460 m/in3 . NOx concentration is below 0. 070 mg/s*  and  lHC-
concentration is below 0. 025 mg/in   . In  the leak hours. ca
concentration is below 1. 10 ouff/     . the  maxim  values of NOx
concentration in the breezeAcuzms) will reach 0. 155 o/tP  and be
detected within 100 meLers from the highway under neutral and unsntable
condition and within 100 meters to 200 meters  from  the highway  under
stable conditions. In the other places. NOx concentration is below 0.150
w/ut' .The measrement of lIC concentration has been taken and round
that it is no  ore than 0.  060 c/in' .   The dCily  averse CD
concentration in Puli-Maxians Section is below 0. 560 mgt/a  . NOx
concentration is below 0.080- ./u? and lHC concentration is below 0.
030 W/tIn the reek hours.CM-concentration will be kept urder 1.33
0 w/u.the mxiu value or NOx concentration in the breeze (uz 1m.
s) will reach 0.188 sdut and is above 0.15 ode' in neutral and
unstable conaitions within 100 meLers from the road'side. Under stable
conditions. it can be detected within 400 meters  frm  the  road side.
Generally speaking .NCx oncnLration is always below 0.100 uI/ie  in
other cases.l1C concentration is boloif 0.007 wg/u'. It is thus clear
Lha.L only in the breeze (u= i/s) will lOx concentration during the rush
hws surpass Class I1 stanrfrd (0. 15 .Vmt ) in medium term. IOx
cncetration under the action  or other wind velocities and other
pollutants will not surpass Lhe standard.
*5                              -r
*-53-
.~~~~



The CnctratIon Profile,wound the Interchness Is as follow:
Chenzhou Interchmnge.Undr condition of D Stability and Sbanont air
.the daily avenue surroundins C concentration is below 3.10  s/'.
NOx concentration Is abwe 0. 15 ug/t within an area 100-150 .eterts
arwond he interchanes. The naxi  value of NOx concentration is above
0. 40 Wg/vP in the lower section. of the interchanse. while litC
concentration is below 0. 18 u/rn in the lovwer setions or the
inLerchange. In the peak houm. the maxim  CO concentration detected in
the lower sections or the interchange is no more than 7.40 W.u Ax
concentration is below 0. 30  grn vwithin  an area 150-200 meters
around the interchange and above 0.90 u/rn in the lower sections or
the interu:hange.lTh  mxim DC concentration is below 0.40 iag/m" in
the lower sections of Lhe interchange. In the peek hours. when the wind
direction cuts the highway at a right angle with a wind velocity ofr 2. 5
v's. the exims CO concentration -around lhe interchange is no mr than
2. 10 ag/u" unde conditioIIs of 0 stability. Only in the soction
where the PavewrnnL Parrullels the wind direction is NOx aoncentraiocn
above 0.15 W/'il.whi le in other sections.NOx ecncntration is below
0. 15 g/u  .And i concmntration.on th  whole. is no rar  Lian 0.10
Wg/rn. It's thus evident that in the mdium tem .generl ly spekins.
various polutants arund the intercang  will not exceed Class 11
Standard in the nrml meworological conditions.However. in Lhe stagnant
air, the pol luLants will surpass Class IL Stanrd to om exLent arud
the interchange. In the peak hour. the scope in which -U  ;oliutant-
surpa  Class It Stndard will reach 150-200 meters.
Luntu Tnerchan:Umn r condition of stagwnt air and D stability.
Lhe daily avewg CM cncentration will roach 4. 00.:Va    in  the
expressway road sectiao  of the idLerchange.Vithin 200 meters aroud tse
.4~~~~~~5
.,54l-*                        4
M
- 4 *.
a                            



lnterchanwg. NOx conoentration Is above 0.15 mal  end abe 0.30 .
/12  within 50 meters around the interchg. MC  conntration  is
below 0.25 n/VIAn the pak hors.C0 conctration Is above'0.25 ms
/l   usirpsins Class I1 StmnxHrd in the epresaw  road uections of
the interag. In other Parts of the Interchanve.M conocntration wilI
not surpa Class 11 Standard. lOx eoneentration is above 0.30 m/.'
within 300 meters aronmd  the  interchanse. that  Is to ssy.  NOx
concentraLion exceeds Class Dl Standard.The uaximwa lHC econentration is
below 0. 60 C/*e .In the Peak hours.when the wind direction crosses
the highway at a right angle with a vind.velocity of 2.0 1/s.thi oximum
00 concentration around the interchange is no wore than 2. 6 ..e4
under onditions or D stability.NOx concentration is above 0.15 =/3
in the soNe local places of lee side. In most places of the
interchange, iox concentration is belcw 0.-15 Ng/1.IIC concentration
is below 0. 14 mg/a. It's thus evident that in the peak hours. .lOx
concentration will surps Class 11 Standard in some local Parts of  the
interchange in nornl meteorological conditions  in  the medium  term.
However.lHx concentration will exceed Class 1 SLmndard in a large s9c=e
under cnditions of stnant air andsupass Class  ml Standard  in a
SLcop of 300 meters in the peak houis.
Puli interdae: Its pol lutlans source is quite sinilar to Luntou
Inter;cange. What it differs from Luntou Interchange is in shape. so is
the concentration  distribution. %ever. tLhe rexularity  of   the
.                     concentration distribution is basically  similar. Under condiLion; O'
staint. air. Wx concetration will swrss Class 11 Slndard.  7n the
noml meteorological conditionsANOx concentration will suras:; Clasm 1L
standard in sao  local parLs or the interchang  in the Peak hours.
-. t) Lng Term Foret(2C015).



lhe pollutant concntratlon alonu the route will Inse rmurkably
with the noticable rwth of traffic stream In the future.
ltn the wind direction cuts the road sactions at a right angle. the
pollutant distribution under conditions of different wind velocitles and
stabilities will be a follow:
In Guokenh _hno Section. the c&lly aven  C3 concentration  is
below 0. 85 u/sP A,1xon centration is below 0.13 mi/m? and IIs
concentration is under 0.4! a'.'.In the peak hours.C0 concentrtion
is no more than 2. 10 i/mg.A con&6ntration in the breeze (ucla/s)
exceeds 0. 15 mr/' ,and it's territorial scope will expend with the
growth or the stabilities. Under conditions of F Stability, such a
territorial scope will reaech over 500 metes.In PMl-lxin Seoction.the
daily ave-we CO concentration will not below 1. 10 mg/n' . mx
concentration is below 0.15 / '.lHC conentration is below 0.0 m
It. In the peak hours.CO concentration is belo w 2.50 ug/t?.in
some local placer.NOx concentration in the breeze Cu, lu/s) is above 0.30
us/u' and above 0.15 ag/u with an increasing distance.1Ireover.
when the wind velocity is 2./s. mOx concentration is above 0.15 Wmd.
As conorns liNC concentration . it is below 0. 13 m/A  .1he dily
avene pollutant concentrations in Hou'an-Tianco Section is similar to
those in Pul -Maxiang Section. IOx concentration will surpa   Class  11
Standard in the breeze ner the hiish . In the peak hour-. NOx
concentration will exceed Class m Standard in som  locl places. It's
thus clear that NOx concentration. under conditions of the breeze. will
swass Class IL SLanda in the daytime within 100-200 aeters along
both sides of highway .and exeed Class m Standard within 100 meters.
The concentration distributions arund the Interchanges read as
fol lows:
-55--



Ownho   ntewha: Undbr conditions  6f stant air and D
stability, the chllY awngo  srouding W concentration vill be below
S. 00  aft, lOx concentration spus Clm  11 Standard within 300
mter and Cli   m Standard within 150   eter. lHC conntmtlon  Is
below o. 30 aft .In the peak lours,OM conentrtion is above 10.00
*eit in the lower sections of the interchanm.'fIC conentration Is
below 2.00 mgftR .Nx concentration surpass Class IL Standard in the
scope of projection network and most of the NOx concentration exceeds
Class m Standard. In the peak hours.vhen the wind direction crosses the
hishvay at a right angle with a wind velocity of 2. 5 a/s. M
concentration wnder conditions of D stability around the interchange is
below 3. 5 Wft .HDx concentration surpa  Class IL Standard within
about 100 meters of lee side. and lHC concentration is below 0.18 suIt.
It's thus evident that in 2015 . the win pollutants which will exceed
the standa  are NDx. which surpass reirbly the Standard not only  in
the stagnant air.but also on the lee side in the Peak hours.
Luntou Interchanee:Under conditions of aqtmg ant air and D stability.
the daily average CO concentration  is below 8. 50  Wmrnat, NOx
concentration surwpass Class IL Stardard  in  the scope or projection
network.The area in which ROx concentraLion .ec      Class l Standard is
250 wters frm the interchange.llC concentration is below 0.45 mr/a'.
In  the peak hous . CD concentration exceeds Class 11 Stanaird in an
area about 50  eters fro  the interane.  In the scope of projecLion
network.ilx concentration exceeds Class m State Standard. In the case or
utmost severity. it will be 7-3 tie Class DL State Standard . lIt
concentration is below 1. 10 a/rl . In the peak hours.when the wind
direction cuts the highway at a right angle with a wind velocity of 2mW
s. the axiimm C0 concentration is no more than 5. 00 onge   wader
-57 -



coiditions of D stbial1ty. NOx concntratlon  exceeds Cbsm  11 State
Stanrd in the area on the lee. and Clams m  State Stndard  In some
local plae. 1E conntation Is below 0. 25 mg/'. It's tim  clear
that in 2015 the lnterchanm will witness the remrkable overoellins NOx
concentratlon. In the Stagnant air. NOx conoentration will surpass State
Standerd noticeably around the intercdhnge, Ewen if there is wind. NOx
clonentration will exceed Class m State Standard in sam  local Places.
rhe Pollutants cronentration distribution of Puli Interchange bems a
centain similarity to that of LAmtou Interchanse. NOx concentration
surpasses not only State Standard rerkably under conditons of stagnant
air, but also Claws 11 State Standard in soae local Places on the lee in
the peak hours.
4.1.5 Analysis of the PrectonOtco
The above projections show that the increment of various pollutants
in the environment and the proper value of the environment will not-
surpass Class m State Stanbrd within 100 meters from the road and wiII
not exceed Class It State Sanrd  beynd the range of 100 meters in
short and medium teruNOx concentration in all road sections will exceed
Class II State Standard within 200 meters rro  the road  in the  ree
and surpass Class mII State Standard within 100 meters rro. Lbe highway
in 2015. CO and IHC concentrations will not go beyond Class 11 State
Standard. 'he interchange will be more severely. polluted as conmsted
with the road sections . In the medium term . NO concentration arnd
the intercha     will swpass State Standard in the breee and stagnant
air. Basically speaking. 00 and IlC concentrations vill not go beyond
Clase 11 State Standard.In the Ions teru,not only will NOx cnentration
surps State Standard in the breeze and stamnant air. but also CO
--58-



concentration exceed Clm  A State StandErd in saoe local places.
On the whole, the pollutants of variow  kinds viII produce  limited
inpect on the stmoapheric environinut In the short and madiu terms  due
to the open and flat landfora. greet average wind velocity and sood
ventilation along the route. Howener, the areas near the road sides and
the interwdanges vill be noticeably affected by NOx under conditions of
the breeze and stagnant air in the lons term.
4.1.U Suggestions
tl) . In order to mitiuate the iopacts of flying dust. in the
constrwction Phase,the construction sites should be sprinkled with water,
especially in dry seson.
(2) . Aphalt heeting should be located 1. 000 meters away from the
populated areas on the lee side of the wind.
(3) . In the operation phase. highway administration should be
stregthened to ensure that only clean vehicles are allowed to run on
the expressway.
(4).No new residential quarte    vill be built within 100 meters ro
each side of the hishway.
(5) .The interchanges should be located over 200 metes from downtown
areas so as to lessen the inrluence on downtown ares.
4.2 The Projection of Noise and Vibration Environmental pIwcts
4. 2. 1 he Analysis of Noise and Vibration Envirnmtal IPecLs at.
the. Construction Stage.
4.2 1.1 The analysis of Noise Nuisance id Construction phase.
(1). Noise Source.
In ihe period of contructin of the expressa. the win  equipment
which wi II produce noise coeprises sraders.rollersspreeders.generators.
59- 



*~~~~~~    ',a
hlh w  hopprs. bulld=urs ad   avutoars. t6.Thir sound levels rwos
frs 70 dB to 105 B .S( o Tblle 1 42-1)
(2). Inets and control of Costruction Nolm
In aoordno  with the field monitoring and aalysis of nolise  in
Envirnmmtal Iwct Asamant for BelJnr-Tionnln-Tlwu    swa
Projection. the iwact of the environmntl nolse  In the  Construction
phise Is within 200 metes around the construction sites. Suh being the
cas. it's winsed that the coemstuction activities be Prohiblted from
22: 00 at nisht to 6: 00 next day if any residential quarters located in
the areas 200 meters around the construction. sites. The installation
sites should be rationally arranoed for such equipmnet which vill
prodwce greet sound 'levels as the mixing plants . etc and every  effort
should be made to keep it away from the residential quarters.
4. 2. 1. 2 The Ehvironmental Imnact of the iVibration in the
Construction Phm
The utiliztion of construdtion plants of various kinds not only
produce noise . but also cause vibration. The results of the  onitoring
conducted by Japan indicate that machinary causins vibration should be
at least 20 meters awa from the populated areas.
4. 2. 2 The Projection of Environental Noise IlwacL at the Stage of
Operation
4.2.2.1 The Predictive Rodel or Traffic Noise on the Expresw
Models of Federal Highway Administration. US TWlIWA) are applied.
Assumia that the  tor vehicles or the sam  type are rwming at the
same speed on the expressway and there is treat trafric stream (1) . the
vehicle stream on the expreay can be resarded as equally-spaced
noncontinuour point source.
-60-



Th. the wefflicot of A  awid levl of the mm vehicim  at the
Oboervatlan Point P at lh Is therfore:
Leqm L.haILix# I 0  L A V V i , Ti
+  I C L      C r0  r ) r       -     S --1 3
where: L amax-   the mxiu  averae A sound level of the vehicle
of i type at the point of reference (PO)
T-- duration of the evaluation. I hour
N    i-  the trafric strem of i type of otor vehicles
Vi-   the speed of i tpe of otor vehicler
r o-the   distance from the point of refre   to the
*        ~~carriasm
the distance rrom the observation Point (Pa) to the
criagew
a   -     attentustion factor relative to the absortion of
mulch
-- lhe increment and dLcrement of various ractors in
the noise trasission
'he model presents a tpical condition or line souce. Idhen there is
a l ittle traffic stream. the third itee in the model is therefore : 20
(ro/r)- 10 Lg(ro/r)* ItOL(ro/r tt;.Fw this reason.the line source in the
daytime is calculated on the basis of the model mentioned above. and the
line source at nisht is calculated according to the following moel:
-61-



Leq- -Lairx-f   1 o  LgNVI f Ti
2 O Lg( rOr) 0                  I O Lg ( rO    r )Zo QS- 1 3
4.2.2.1 The Deteruntlon of Printers In the M"dI!
(1). the Detarirnation of L aix and r o
0D  he lhxiu.  Avere A Sound Level
As for L aimx   the coutational mthods and numerical valuos  in
the various inforation differ grtly.
(2) r. reprnts the distam   from the carriase   to  the
observation Point where the meaeurammnt of L aiax is taken. in the
different experiments,r o is designated as 7.5 meters,10.85 meters and I
5 meters respectively.
(3) Saipling of L aiaax and r o in the Askxsement
In accordencz with Engineering Feasibility Studb ReparL and the
relevant inforration. the motor vehicles ruwning on the expressway are
divided into 3 groups:
.ag-sized truck: L aimax : 91.2        r o = 10.85m.
Mediur-sized truck: L ainax   88        r o = 7.5m
Snal-sized truck:  L ainax   82         r o 2 7.5m
(2) The Determination of £  Attenuation Factor of Mulch
.Ihe acoustic enviroent along Quawnxou-Ximn Expray Section is
a cross between rree state and semi-free state and sond waves might be
absorbed by the vegetaLion to sme extent. a  attenimtion  factor  is.
therefore.desimnated as 0.5.
(3)Ohe DeLeruination of Various Factors in the Noise Trangission
(D) he Gradient of the Road and the Pavement
ihe gradient or the road and  he pavmnt have sowthing to do vith
-62--



the nois. In acordcnce with the winwrimn dwiln.the xim  rdlent
of the hishwa Is 2.J8.
In consideration of this ade     fctor  the coret value  Is
dsignted  a *0. 5 and the correct value for the pavement structure  Is
duluted as 0 Mi.
(D  Atical Attentutlon or Aoutic Briers and Structures
This projection aims at the noise pollution without acoustic
barriers. The acoustic barriers ror the key road sections viII be taken
into consideration in the environnumtal protection neasures.
ID Ihe Impacts of Vind Directions, Wind Velocity and Air Absorption
on the Noise
Based on the *eteorological cnditions such as temperature, noistr
and air preswe, it is safe to say that the jaster frequency  of sound
caused by the eresswa  will be attenuated, in the air by 0. 15-0. 36 dB
(A) /100meters.Therefore.the air abwrption is left out of considation
in the evaluation.
(4) The Selection of Hishway and Vehicle Pirameters
(1) The Traffic Streao in the Rod Sections( vehicles/ hour)
Calculations are carried out on  the bssis of the statistical
findines of daily avera  trafric strea  in 1997. 2000.2005.2015 and 201
provided by the design departents. At pesent. the daytime  trarfic
stream and nighttime traffic streaw in the win road sections or Fuzhou-
Xiamen Hishway is in the Proportion of 3: 1. After the completion.  the
*                          expresa will, in the win. accomodate the presenL Lirfic strem  of'
Qmrizo u-Xiamen Highway.It follows that this prowrtion is aPPlicable to
the oxpreswy. .e findin8s of vehicle streia frecast are given  in
Table 4-2-3.
Æ Roadwa Strutwe
-63 -



The filled-up wamnds alonw the route wiilmake the pavements hisher
than the onrth's arface. while cuttins sction will be lover than the
uround.I  addition.there are son viadcts. All the_ road sectlons will
serve the function of acoimtic biris and out of the raid sections in
which the residential quwrter  a   locted a   filled-up ground.
lherefor. only the acoustleal attenation of aoustic barriers  In the
filled-  sections are taken into consideration in the proJection.   In
accordene with Engineering Fasibility Study Report and Engineering
Feasibility Study Supplementary Report, the heisht of the expressa
sube-de is 2 a on the averge, and -the equivalent mound source of the
vehicles is 0. 5 meters while the monitoring point is 1. 2 eters above
the ground. Fresnel Coefficient of Reflection:                                         4
2(Sa3RO-SR)
,
14:~~
In accrdne with N value, the extra attenuaLion is calculaL    by
table look-upClJ) ( r is 486 lizot is 0.7 meters )or on the basis of the
fol lowing equation:
-64-



U~ ~~~~~~UP
D  20 La                          5
*                               1m~~~~~~~~~tgb (ZN.x )I
Qi The Selection of the Rumning Speed
In consideration of teat running speed and noise IweL during the
operation phase,the ruining speed In the Projection is 100 kJh.
@) The Distance frau the Road Side to the Cwrriamew
In the design.the width of the highway is 26 meters,with two caniwewys
(bx7. 5 meters) . the mdiLi strip is 4. 5 metersmlith this end in view.the
distane between the two crriagai  and the roed sides(L) is designated as
7 ineters and 19 meters respetively.
4.?2.3 The Freest of the Traffic Noise.
Calculations are carried out by inputting daytius and nighttime vehicle
stroem in the different road sections in the different years and the
distance (ro) between the xims avenge sound levels of various vehicles
and the point of referen(r o) . as we I as various parameters into  the
cowputel to obtain the sound levels ION. 20M. 40N.60H,80K,1201. 150. and 1804
respectively rro. the raid sides.                            -
The findings of the LraflTic noise wre overlapped accoding Co the
following eqution:
3       1.'OW/JO
L I  t      o L s; (  r X          + I -      -}
-65 -



NighttiUe traffic aoLs. level 1i calculated in the esae way buaed on
nLghttime model.
3   LlAD  3   Li/ID
L2.10Lg(Z ID    + r 10       )
n-l       1-1 !
Showino in Table 4-2-4 to 4-2-8, traffic noise level rises annually
with the increase of traffic volume. At night, the area In which sound
level exceeds standard requirement is larger than that in the daytime,
Judged by National 'Jnvironmental Noise Standard in City Areaa which
stipulates that roadside sound level in the daytime sbould be below 70dB
and at night below 55d3.
Before 2000. in the area within 20-30 metres from the road.
nighttime sound level exceeds national standard. After 2000,., it will
extend to 30-40 metres and -by the year 201t up to 50 etres. In 2015
daytime sound level will also so  beyond the standard within  30 metres
from the road.
4.2.2.4 prediction of interchange noise impact
The  results of noise testing in  the vicinity of- bridge approach of
Jimei Interchanse are as follows.
average equivalent sound level:
below the bridge: 72.3dB:
50 metres away from the bridge: 64dB;
200  metres away fron the bridget reducing to environment background
value.
The above Prediction value can be used in assessment. The protection
distance of interchange is 50 metres.
66



4.2.2.4 moise impact of roadsLdesensitive spot
There ae 26 noise-sensitive residential quarters along the route.
Noise prediction rensults with environment backgroundvalue added by the
20165are listed in Table 4-2-10. As the table shows, the range of sound
lewbl satisfying standard requirment is as follows.
From Xifa to Guokeng: 30 metres outslide the road in the daytime and
*               90 metres at night;
In Tuanqin: 30 metres outside the road in the daytime and 80 metres
at night;
In Chezhou: 20 metres outside the road in the daytime and 40 setres
at night;
In Xindiain uokeng: 25 etres outside the road in the daytime and
180 metres at night;
* In Cidian: 20 metre.e outside  the road  in the daytime and  some 90
metres at nisht.
-Thus it can be  seen that sound level overruasing  is rather severe,
especially at night.
-4.2.3 prediction and impact assessment of environmental vibration
The results of vehicle roadside vibration survey  alons the Fuzhou-
Xiam en  ighuby are: light.vehicle  77dB, large vehicle  8BdB, container
truck 87dB. This means that vibration has its influence to some extent.
The prediction aodel is proposed by Construction Kinistry of Japan.
*   LU0=alog(logQ)+b+adearmah+af
where LIODprediction value of vibration level (dB).
Q =equivalent traffic volume (veh/500s),
ad= correct value considering surface roughness (d0)
67



~~~~~~~~~~ .                                          ,  S
.1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
af =correct value conslderin goround vibration frequency,
ah =correct value eonsidering surface elevation,
af scorrect value considering distance attenuation (dS).
According  to compwtation  results,  in sensitive  area. within  two
belts 10 metres vide on  both sides of the road, the eavirqnaental
vibration level exceeds 72dO of nighttime standard of traffic artery and
75dM   of daytiae  standard, specified. in  State   Standard  10070-80
"Ruvironaeatal Vibration Standard in City  rear.
4.2.4 suggestions of noise and vibration control
4;2.4.1 noise
1. Emphasis will be given to nishttime- noise control. Where
conditions permit, households should be noved living in the area where
noise intensity is lOdB above standarL..
Noise abatement ieasures should be adopted in all  sound intenity
overransing areas..
Z. .Noise control is mainly focused on residential quarters. In the
area of sound intensity overranging below lOdE, sound-proof barriers of
different heisht should be built according to actual conditions.
3. Plant trees along the road. It is estimated that a green belt of
15 metres width will reduce sound intensity by 3-5dB.
4. Set up lono-term plan of land use. It should be strictly
forbidden to build new noise sensitive spot in the area of high acousticd
level based on prediction of 2015.
5. Residents livins in the belt within 30 setres from- the road
sbould be displaced or protected by sound-proof wall. Villages need
moving or protection of sound-proof wall are listed in Table 4-2-1Z.
68
..~~~~~~~~~~~~~-5



4.2.4.2 vibratIon
Noise always follow vibratlon. enerally speakino, if noLse meets
requiremt, vibratioi will also satisfy reogulation. loop road and
vehicle in  ood maintenance  to reduce  vibratioi. In soe  areas which
neeu special peace and quiet, mewaures like setting up vibration
isolation ditch may be taken.
4.3 forecast of en.vironmental iwpact of soil erosion
4.3.1 status quo of soil erosion aloog the route
Accordins to field investigation Lad data provided by related County
Offices of Water and Soil, there exit no large areas of soil erosion or
intensive erosion in the zone along the expressway route. Basically no
soil erosion occurs in the agricultural cultivatino area of smooth
terrain. In light rolling and terrace area. farmers attach importance on
water and soil conservation, build terraced fields on the mountain slope
by cutting  protruding parts and  filling dents, raise replant index to
increase surface  coverage, so the sDil  erosion in this area is  not
obvious or at a low degree if any. Only in some hills and mountain areas
such as Daping Nountain, liaoyingling Ridge, Damao Nountain, due to
large gradient, poor vegetation coverage and large area of surface
exposure ensuing from quarrying, soil erosion is relatively severe in
the form of surface erosion and gully erosion. -Such area constitutes -a
small per cent of the zone alone the- expressway. So generally speaking,
roadside soil erosion is  not serious, and in  0st s'ections  not obvious
or at a low degree.
4.3.2  analysis of  cause   of soil  erosion  following  hishway
constructionu
69



1. rainfall
Rainfall, the power source of water erosioL In sail, is an Lmportant
factor affecting oil and-water lose in the zone along the Ixprenuay.
given in Table 3-2-3, 3-2-4, precipitation in the oomties and cities
alono the expressnay route is between 1000mm and 1500.., but its
distribution is uneven  uonDg seasons with 80 per cent concentrating in
the period froa  April to September and  the dry season froa  October to
next Narch accounting for 20 per cent. So the construction in the period
from April to Septeober will cause large water and soil loss.
.2. vegetation
As-a positive factor resisting soil erosion, vesetation plays a role
in holding back rain water to lessen rainbeat force and improving soil
smwcture to increase soil permeability. The vegetation and its coverage
will determine the amount of soil loss to a great extent.
The  expresswy construction will clear vegetation by cutting trees.
eliminating bushes and sods in right-of-way and soil bank. This will
result in direct soil exposure of construction area, thus increasins the
possibility of soil and ater loss.
* 3. topography
Topography is an important factor affecting soil and wLter loss.
Within construction area, filling and cutting of subgrade will change
original uicrotopography, thus causing enay soil and water- loss. For
example, most of borrow areas along the route, whose topography is light
rolling and terrace, have been built into terraced fields, so the soil
and water loss is small. But when the construction starts, the
topography will be destroyed, resulting in loose soil surface and
10



efflorescence subject to runoff action and flowvLs away in consequence.
4. soil
Si1 is the turget of rainfall wash, whose intriasic attributes such
as  soil .texture aud  organic  content  are  high  correlative to  soil
erosivity. Normally soil of high orgUaic content hag good structure and
peraeability with  low surface  runoff, so the  sail and  water loss  is
small. In order to bov the soil regime along the route, we collected
eleven profiles of. soil samples in major road sections, whose location
are identified in Figure 15. The analyzing results of physical cbemical
properties are listed in Table 4-3-1.
As the table shows, in the  same profile, the soil surface, Horizon
A, has a low clay content and distinctly high organic content,
suggesting  good erosion  resistance of  the surface;  the bed  (Norizon
B+C). on the contrary, has a low organic content, hish clay content and
poor permeability, subject to surface runoff following rainfall. When
Athe topsoil is stripped durios construction period, the exposing bed
will be fall a prey to soil erosion.
4.3.3 analysis of sensitive section or area of soil erosion along
the route
Differences in geolooical, geoaorphological condition,. cutting depth
and embankment height will led to obvious variation of soil and water
loss alons the route.
1. cutting section
In cuttins section, soil erosion mainly occurs in the slop front.
Thc deeper the cuttins is, the oore gradient the slope is and the wmre
vulnerable   the  soil  is   to ..erosion.  According   the  comstruction
71



investigation  of the  like, it  is  easy  to  take ueasur. such  as
protection slope or soddino to control soil eroslon In the section whose
cuttimg depth  is below 8 umtres  and slope front  is small; but  as for
those  sections  whose  cuttin8 depth  is   above  10  etres;  special
protection measures should be taken to avoid large amount of soil
washing ensuing from slide. According to the desiga, there are seventeen
sections with cutting depth above 10 metres. The location and volume of
cut are listed in Table 4-3-2.
As pointed out in the table, there are seven cuttings with depth
above 10 metres. are located at entrance or exit portal of the tunnel.
These areas are of sranite hill  topography with a shadov veather  layer
(generally no mare than Zs). The cutting slope is maiuly composed of
stone slope. Soil slope accounts for a small per cent. Soil erosion is
small due to a .small area which could be eroded. The topographic
condition in  Ganshi, Houba, Front Mountain  of Zhengan Village  is the
saae as above described, so the construction will not cause too much
soil loss. ODly in such  sections as Gaocuo, Riushan, luishanyan, Shaxi,.
Kangdian, Eunei, soil layer is deeper, so larger area of soil slope will
be  exposed  after   cutting.  Hence  more  soil  and  water  loss. In
construction attentions must be paid to protect these six sections which
are sensitive areas of soil and water loss.
2. filling sectI,on
The height  of filled embankment  of  expressway will  be 1  to 25
ac'tros. Soil crosion mainly happens in side slope of the embankment. The
loeuth or side slope will exceed 14 metres if the height of embankment
is above 8 metres. If  no protection  measure is taken, water  and soil
72



lose, in form of gully erosion, will take place in slde slope when it
rains.  There are  22 places  whose filled  embanbkent  are bore  than 8
metres  high. (See  Table  4-3-3.) In  construction, special attentions
should be paid  to these places which  are sensitive areas of water and
soil loss.
3. deposit area
The acount of cuts is smaller than that of fills  in this expressway
construction, so.there is no surplus soil on. the whale. Only in the
construction of ShaLtou Tunnel and Xiashaxi Tunnel, a special deposit
place should be set up for surplus piles. These excess oaterials are
mainly composed of waste rocks with silt. accounting a siall part. bence
little soil and water loss during piling period.
4. borrow area
Larse amount of earth and rock, needed in embankment construction is
more than  the cuts  could  supply. Soil will be  borrowed from  nearby
hillocks, which vould leave behind  an exposing area  of weather crust.
When it rains,  most rain water will  change into surface flow,  causing
larue amount of soil and water loss.  According to expressway designing
data, there are eighteen mjor borrow areas along the route, among which
niush.a Borrow Area is the bigsest with an area of 239 mu, and Chitans
Bo:row Area comes next with an area of  180 mu. (See Table A-3-4.) These
are key soil and water loss areas following expressway construction.
4.3.4 forecast of potential soil erosion amount
It could be easily concluded from the above analysis of soil erosion
scasstive  area that many parts of high fill  section or  deep cutting
section of expressway are soil erosion sensitive areas. Construction ii
73



.          ~~~~~. 
these  parts will cause  soil and water loss. But it. only  occurs in
construction  period with a relatively  short tiae  and can  be roughly
controlled after .the Works complete  so long as  protection aeasures in
accordance with construction characteristics are taken. The borrow arew
are the most sensitive areas. whose  features are: large area of exposed
Bail mass after cutting and soil borrolilog; long period of loss; most of
exposure being soil bed wLth low organic content, poor permeability and
runoff frequently occurring after rainfall. So borrow area.is the
:            primary  source  of soil  and  water  loss.  It  is  employed  as major
-            analytical  obJect in  the  followino forecast of  potential soil loss
caused by expressway construction.
1. prediction model of soil and water loss
*                                     (US Asricultural Department)
A:R*K*LS*C*P
where k--erosion intensity, tamount of loss per unit area and time)
R--parameter of erosive force,
K--sail parameter,
LS--topography parameter,
C--biology parameter,
P--parameter of sail and ∂vater conservation.
2. determination of each paraneter in' the prediction model
(I) erosive force paraacter R
Parameter R- is the  index of rainfall erosive force  includins the
impac.t of ruanff. In the area subject to rainfall erosion  all the year
round, R depends on monthly aean and yearly mean precipitation.
The following formula is -proposed bsr Wischmeler:
74
. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~  



R      '73i . .                                  *               t
*~~A     ..:.*  where P, *ya   *r*** .tn (NO
*  6              wher~~~pe P  thlyy mea  preipia io tatmm,.              6                   6
(2) Bail par'*mter I
Bail paraueter. in  aleo  called soil  sensitivity to  erosion.  Th.e
bioser I is, the higher sensitivity is, and the more vulnerable the sail
is to orosi6a. It hinges an soil grains conLtent (clay gorain, silt grain,
sand. grain) and organic content. .The latest calculationL formula given by
*   illiam at lILternational water and. Soil Conservation  Cod~erence in 1990
Is: -                                                         0..
K=(0.2+D.3exp(-0.0256*SAN*(1-SIL/100)) )*(IIL(CLA,SL))
**.(1-D.25C/(C.ezp(.72-2.95)))
r                         =, R*(I-D.71/(BN.ep(-5.5I+22.93N)))
* where SA=smnd. mrain conitent             *'
*               SIL:sit srain contet 2t,                    .                        :
*           ~~~CLA=clay.orain content 
C  =organic content 
*            SN~~~3 =:-SAW/1O 0.
See Tablo 4-3-1 for the results.-
(3) toporlp!z  pauamter LS
LS is  the function of  surfacsitf i,  alength (eroded  slope and. its
gradient) and  rlradient.
LS- (V2.13?.25S(5.41Si?S+ .59       M. 065)
75.
t "  !.  *(i-9-.s S/(3 R + (  5-51+22 @ 9S")))    .     *              --  "   '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



..c5.     ..1 ..'.;i                             X@                    ..M''   ,..'..; ..',   ':
:,.j.    l     l hr6* 44..A sYfc,'t h! '.'      4' 4. . 4  '                       4
. l.-, ', *..ii;wC.4 -'%.:.;J1 l- .* t *uoP  i,4    . .                                 .
44   -   E<;+@jl;iG St    *4||X'   "4           I      
(..  . *,*. *.;  v . alop0  length index;
444. -    .  . .          4i*34X, &r.4,
.. ..444* .4h~M ..4                           . ..  .  .              .  .
. *.  ..  %ab~4>uIA4ti4. & 44Sins.  *  44-. .2. .
(4* ti) biolosy para eter C
4.                    ..
*       .         . C, also : called plant cover paraueter, is decided oy plant species
and coverage. See Table 4-3-5..
K-                   cov -  - (S) water and soil conservation parmeter P
(    .    .          .t   P, also' called  erosion control parameter, should adopi such value
* ;-  6tipulate-as' follows. If there is no plmnt cover in the construction
ara and ther  dozer and shovel are directly put into use, P should adopt
maximum 1.0; If rio water and soil conservation measure is taken or such
measure doesn't produce effect, P also adopts maximum 1.0; Kinimua range
(*        of P is 0.01.
3. forecast of soil erosion intensity           4
A:4*1*LS*C*P -
C;-                       Taking  Chitaig Borrow  Area as an exanmple  to describe a concrete
forecasting process of soil erosion asount.
(1) 2: This borrow area is located in Jinjiang Section. According to
JinJiano rainfall condition and calculation foriula of erosive force R,
it is 152.57. 1CR=152.57)
(2) K: In bortre area the surface to be eroded in the future is soil
bed. Accordins to analysis of soil bed  sample in this area,  the soil
7  .  .  .                     4
a                                                 .       7B-
4    -s4.



qjbr,gjw,';jS#j*"fl\,;l"wt gi l; * !;9',)s'-' '8,J¢",e,M. ,,,,,,^,,>,,:;s 1 >~~~**'~*    *~*  *
.*.        f{1  U               .  ,,.'j,A   ;   *.@ws.  '  ,   ..r@1      - * ;.,   -
..*      ;  .                   ..  I  D U-   ; K't          .4 ;  .?f*tlt*   ...b j   ;    ;  ', ,  ,% e. ,*  .  @,
.    ;l   l l*                          .
* i z z;@z @@ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.       *t           rl   fZ>lo..    : .  lrk3.JS pt rl  J .7X.0d
.5    .                V
-grades  of ROAMbs  I+  s:.,Cla3'. hrn.. 34.432, Wit.r132.372,..ragazc
I  .  .  *.    *4*.Br u      . "    hblo 4-3-1) Dy  caltulino   thOuraula proposedby
*      .         . WIlIAE.n, £.taka~ 0.19. (o.0.29) :,..
. . -. *(3)    FAccordi   t,o -                        .coistrdt1on'an, it4  grealest of ' erosioa  :
slope caused by butzino and sail borhuing isB 4-478  the averase of loeh
is St. Erosion slope length is 150a. After;calculazion, LSz1.49..
(4)  C. The  vesetation in  ths  area will  be destroyed. Bence an
exposure area of no plant cover.   t   ;                 -
f                             Czl.0 **.
.   (5) P: In this area  of no plant cover,.soil is directly  taken anay
by shovel, leaViis behind a large exposure area. In construction period,
it  is difficult is take effective measures-of instant result to control
-    ,       *soil erosion. So in prediction P takes aaximum value, ns ely, P-l.
Integrating above parameters, soil erosion intensity in Chitan wArea
will be:
A=R*K*LS*C*P*
* -                 .          -152.7*0.29*1.49*l*1
. f =  *  .   =65.92 ton/hectare.year
-4.39 toWmu'year
Concrete  forecastina process  of soil erosion  intensity in  other
.    borrow areas could not be-specified  one by one  as space  forbids. The
principle is the sae. For detailed results, see Table 4-3-6.
As Table -4-3-S shows, soil erosion intensity of borrov area along
the route  is 58.53-1C7.58  ton/hectare.yeax,  namely 3.90-11.17 ton/zu.
*             5~year. Puli  Borrow  Area takes the first place  with lm  intensity. of
*           11.17ton/khu.ear, followed by Zenilin Borrow Area with an intensity of
* .                               -.          --    .'17;'    *  
. -    .    - - 5 .   *  - - . -   -.   --                            S-         .-               - .



r        .
I.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A
10.53 too/amu year. the potential soil eroston amount in mjOor borrow
areas along the noute is:
where Siuerosion  area,  Aimerosion  intensity  and  anumber of
erosion area. Based on Table 4-3-6, Q=6717 ton/year.
This value only represents soil loss from borrow areas. In fact the
potential soil erosion in expressway construction should include.
besides this, erosion in subgrade construction and deposit area. From
above analysis of sensitive section of soil and water erosion it can be
concluded that soil loss in deposit area will not be too such because
there builds a dike against soil and most piles are waste rocks with
silt accounting for a small part. As for subgrade, there are 28 places
are causative of soil erosion, mong which 22 are high fill embankment
and 6 are deep cuttino. FromYTable 3 , Table 4. it is calculited that
the amount of cuts and' fills in sensitive section is up to 1.1811
million cubic metres. According to construction investigation data of
Guanszhou-shenzhen Expressway, erosion amount accounts for 1.65 of cuts
and-fills, so the potential erosion amount is 24.56 thousand tons taking
the unit weight as 1.6. Assumins that construction lasts four years, it
will yearly yield 6.140 thousand tons rf soil erosion in subsrade
construction. Thus it can be seen that soil and water loss caused by the
expressway construction Is rather serious. During the construction
period, soil borrowing  , tosether, with cutting  and filling in subgrade
will yield a  total loss of 12.857  thousand tons per year, a!eraging
78
-~~~ :.



f                     834.17 tons  per kilonetre in  four years. Tbls will  produce an adverse
inpuct on surrounding ecological environaent along the route. So, vater
and soil conversation is of great iupprtaace to this expressway
construction.
4.3.5 potential lmpact of soil erosion oan ecologleal environment
1. impact on farmland
Soil and water loss resulting from expressway construction vill
affect farmland in two ways. First, in the road section across cropland
and in borrow area near cropland, silt of rainfall erosion will directly
!       'flow  into  cropland. With  slope  flattening,  most of the silt  vill
deposit, hence a phenomenon that cropland is covered by silt. In
Quanzhou Lichens Road Section and in borrow areas of Houren, Shipu,
Xiongsban and Niushan, cropland will be difficult to cultivate under
this kind of action. The other influence appears in the road sections
and borrow areas relatively far from cropland where cropland will not be
covered by silt, but small grains of erosion silt will go into faraland
in the fork of "mud water" following water flow, thus doing hars to the
orowth of paddy rice.
2. impact on reservoir
There  are  amy  reservoirs  along  the  route   such  as. Chaobans
Reservoir,  Xin'an Reservoir,  Shibi Reservoir, Tianma  Reservoir. These
are far from  the  road and  located up  of constraction  area,  so the
construction will not affect them.
3. impact on irrigation channel 
Irrigation and drainage system has  been built in all farmland along
the route.  When  the silt  flows  into faraland,  some  of them  will
79



*~~ ~ ~ ~                                                         C
inevitabli deposit  in  the irrioation  channel  through  water  flow,
interfering with normal operation of irrisation and drainage system. It
.;
should be particularly pointed out that Low Channel and Kigh Chanel of
'           RNanqu Chnnl, located  in 3lniiano Road Section  at U11+500 and 816+600
respectively, happen to cross the Expressway. Vith Chitans Borrow Area
not far away, this part is subJect to sail and water loss. Durinog
construction period, it should take measures to prevent silt from
entering into channel course so as to ensure that drinkino water source
and agricultural  irrigation of Chendai town,  Qingyang Town and  Shishi
City will not-be affected.
4.3.6 measures and suggestions
1.  easures for water and sail conversation proJect
' .t(1) draimnae and diversion measures
In construction side sutter, top gutter and underground draiL can on
*           the one hand, drain water and one the other hand, reduce washing against
-side  slope by  water  flow.- So  drains. should  be  built  first  in
construction. At- the Junction of cutting and embankmente underground
drain of cutting should channel the water into natural rivers outside
construction area  to minimize  water accumulation  in embankment  whicb
will intensify' sail erosion. In addition, in  all irrigation  channels
across  the route, bridge and culvert or other over-water buildinss
should be set -up  to ensure free flow of irrisation water and to prevent
silt from going into channels.                           .
(2) measures for construction in rainy season
The rainy season of the area where expressway soes through is froa.
April to September. Soil and water loss sainly occurs in this period, so
so.
4                                                                           '   -~~~~~~~~~~



(                     thse  following  points   should  be  clearly  defined   in  construction
r                     sPecificatlone to  minimize soil and water  loss io the  rainy soason as
much as possible.
A. Construction unlt should contact with seteorology department when
necessary to know the time and characteristics of rainstorm in advance,
so as to compact loose earth already paved or filled before rainfail.
*                  B. In rainy season, try to use the method of "cut  and transport and
pave and compaction' to reduce loose earth in the construction of
subsrade.
C. leep site drainage system in good operation and maintain ditches
unblocked In the constrdetion during rainy season.
(3) rieasures for slope front construction
Some parts of the expressamy are of high embankment or deep cutting.
According  to  different  construction  conditions,  such  measures   as
bulkhead, protection wall, and grouted pitching. cooperated with slope
sodding. should be put into practice to fix side slope and avoid slope
failure. In addition, most of the suberade across farmland is to be
constructed into  high filled embankment. To avoid soil  and water loss
affecting farmland,  it is suggested to put sand  bags aAd stones on the
slope toe, which could fix slope toe and on the other hand, hold back
sands from slope front.
(4) protection *easures in borrow area
As above meationed, with a large exposure area and long erosion
e                    -        period, borrow area is  ma.or area of soil and water  loss iL expressway
construction. It is suggested to take following measures:
A. Set up drains on both sides of borrow areas already desisged to
81



minimize water-collecting area and soil erosion.
S 9elect flat surface for soil borrowing. The slope grade should be
strictly limited under 4-8X in accordance with construction design. If
the silt and sands have serious Lmpact on ecological environment of
*   I.
lower reaches, sediment settling  tank should  be built and  cleared at
regular intervals. If borrow soil is taken from high grade hillock such
as liusban, it is advisable to construct sand barrier in down reaches of
borrow area.
C. Adopt reclamation and afforestation measires after taking soil
away.
2. biology measures for soil and water conservation
(1) sodding on slope front
Besides  construction  measures like  slope wall.  sods  should  be
planted on slope front forming after high filling or deep cuttins.
The effect will be better if  these two measures are  combined..Soddins
method should vary with different soil strength. If soil in subgrade
slope is relatively soft favorable for.-grass to take foot, it is
aivisable to spread turfs or spray seeds. If it is tough, hole-planting
method will be appropriate.
(2) reclamation and afforestation  easures iL borrow area
As soon as the expressway construction completes, reclaation and
afforestation  measures in  borrow areas  should be put into  action to
miuimize rainfall erosion  hich could occur all  the year round. Before
I
ieclanation, soil surface in -borrow area should be flattened. side slope
trimmed and drains dug to avoid vaashin. There are two kindWs of
reclamation, forestry reclamation and asriculture reclamation  depending
82'
-.~~ ~               ~                    X  ;k -*.                 --



r
On  local natural  economical  conditions  generally  speaking. forestry
reclamation plays  a major role In the borrow usar   far fron village. In
the  borrow   area being   farnland  before, construction  aericulture
reclamation should be applied to.
(3) other measures for water and soil conservation
The above described construction and biology measures are rather
effective to avoid soil loss. But during construction period, if such
measure have not been put into action in time or have not been put into
action, the soil loss caused by a rainstorm will be rather huge. So it
is suggested that eahb -construction unit be equipped with certain
protection coverings such as straw mats, rice straw and plastic cloth.
Before rainstorm, cover the exposure area subjec to erosion so as to
avoid direct rainfall vashing and to mininize wsil loss.
4.4 impact of expressway on roadside ecological environment
4.4.1 impact on roadside ecological environment during construction
period
4.4.1.1 impact on land utilization
The area  through which the  expressway passes is the golden costal
zone of FuJian Province, ia. which land is very expensive. 10,587 mu land
will  be  under   requisition  for 'right-of-way  and   other  auxiliary
buildings. Host of them is fertile agricultural land including irrij3ated
farmland of 4.216 mu, non-irrigated farmland of 4.634 mu, orchard of 129
mu, piscima  of 168 au and hilly land of 871 mu. The  anumal output of
these land is 65.38 zillion yuan.
4.4.1.2  impact  on production4   life  and  inter-relationship  of
roadside residents
:                             .~~~~8
.   _   -    - I



r
C
f   .MBany  roadside  resideLts  vill be  displaced.  It  is preliminarily.
satiated  that  some  372  households.  2053  people   living  in  land
requisition area vill have to move at the time of site clearLis in
initial period of contraction. At present the houses of these displace,d
are capacious, 30.4  square metres per capita.  In respect of geological
location and area,  the new land given  to them for house  building will
:  A ;anot  likely to  fully satisfy  them all.  Moreover, the  construction of
* ..'.  {            expressway vill' break the  restdents' old  production system  and life-
,.  . '           style. As the expressway is access-controlled, residents in the vicinity
can't cross  it like  ordinary road at  their will. Near neighbors will
VI
become "estranged". Farmers vill have to make  a detour to go  to their
land which is very close to their residence. These all are social
problems caused by the construction.
4.4.1.3 impact on roadside drainage system
Complete drainase channels should be set up in low-lying land along
the expressway to avoid vaterlogging which will -do harm to crops like
paddy rice. According to present design, the' subgrade of expressway in
these low-lying lands is constructed in the form of filled embankment.
which will inevitably cut.off many drainage  channels and change the old
multi-channel    scattered draining  into concentrated  draining through
bridge and culvert. In rainy season waterlogging would likely to occur
if draining is blocked. Based on investigation, it is estimated that
waterlogging is unlikely to happen in most roadside low-lying section of
high embankment only:* by reasbn of embankment action. Attention must be
paid  to two places. one  is between  110+750 and K11+500 of  JinJian g
Chidian, the other is  butweenL K33+800  and 134+400 southwet  of Xiwei
*84
4          r
_s ~  ~    ~    1.'           .-                            : 



Bridge (in Nan' an County). Up these two places catcbment basin is large,
precipitation Is concentrated and miWnly falls in form of rainstorm, so
waterlosoins io quite likely to emerge as a result of sudden increase of
precipitation while bridge and culvert discharginz  capacity i8 limitel.
4.4.1.4. impact oan freshwater aquiculture
Along the route, piscinas have been built to develop fresh water
aquiculture in places of many waterbeads. According to investigation on
both sides within 100 metres from road centerline there are 403 piscinas
with an  area of 681  mu, of which 168 mu is in  expropriation zone and.
will  Se destroyed  in initial  period of  construction. Located  in the
vicinity of road, others although not expropriated will be affected by
the construction in following aspects. On the one hand, most of the road
sections bypassing these piscinas are high-fill embankment. Brosion soil
ensuing from construction in rainy season will shallow piscinas and make
water mare muddy unfavorable for the growth and generation of fry. On
the other hand. wastewater from service facilities coordinated with road
construction  like  vehicle  repair  station,  contains  such  pollution
materials as oil, SS, CODcr, amonia, nitrogen. If such polluted sewage
is  discharged into  nearby piscinas,  water  will be  polluted  and fry
poisoned.
4.4.1.5 impact on city planning
Long before the expressway project is  proposed, some roadside t.owns
and cities of developed industry such as  Quanzhou, Chidian, Cizhao and
Shuitou have drasn  up a program for town  and industry development. The
construction of expressway will break down old planning to same degrees,
causing  some problems.  In  such sections  as  ay  cause contradiction
85
-  -    4.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



:*  '      *             *. 
betoeen expreosway construction and city planning, under the condition
of not reducing curve radius, it is suggested tc shift -route direction
so that expressway construction will not only not affect or affect to
smaller extent butt also coordinate with the city planning already drawn
up or even begun to implement.
4.4.2 impact on roadside ecolosical environment' during operation
period
4.4.2.1  analysis of Pb  diitributLion  nd contuaination  in roadside
environment
The existing Fuzhou-Xiauen lighvay is used for analogous analysis in
order to  know Pb coutamination  and its  ranse along the route  during
operation period of the expressway.
1. researching and analytical method
Select four profiles at Puzhou-Xiamen Iighway (in National Uigshway
324).  The criteria  of selection  is: far  from faciories;  no roadside
tree; and open topogriphy. After field investigation, K185+600 east of
Quanzhou City and 1206+500 of Jinjiaag Cizhao are determined as soil
analytical profile of paddy Pb contamination: U226+840 of NaW'an Shuitou
and K253+300 of Tong'an Luntou are selected as analytical profile of
cane and vegetable Pb contamination. See Tible 15 for layotit. Soil and
plants were sampled in November, 1991, at spots which were in leeward
direction vertical to the route and of different distance from the road.
In each saapling spot, samples were collected from several sampling
points which vere about 10 metres away fror each other aid formed a line
parallel to route direction. Then raw samples were mixed,- from whicb
analytical samples were screened. -
86
-  4:   -   .   ,   -    -  :  -  -    . -  ., - :.-  . -.          ..  -  . .      .



Samples included  soil (surface  soil 0-25cm). leaf blade of paddy
rice, iature grains,..cane leaf and vegetable foliage. The preparation of
sample  and   Pb  aoalysis  was  carried  in  line  with  "lnvironmental
Nonitoring  and  Analytical Nethod",   edited  by  state  Eavironmental
Protection Bureau.
2. Analitical results and discussions
Pb  concentration  in  soil, paddy  rice, cane  leaf and  vesetable
foliage at different distance along Puzhou-Xiamen Highway is listed in
Table 4-4-1.  Showing  in  the  table,  Pb  concentration   is closely
correlative  to the  distance from the road either in soil  or in plant
samples,   on   the  whole   dropping s as   the  distance   rises.  This
characteristic  Pb distribution gradient inL roadside environment is also
testified in studyinii reports from inland and abroad. But decrement rate
varies  with  distance  range.  Vithin 30  metres1  Pb  concentration in
roadside environment changes little with distance. At some outer points,
it is even hisher. In the  area between 30'metres and 50 metres from the
road, environment Pb concentration drops quickly as the diftance rises.
It drops sently 50 metres away.
In ttLe lisht of soil poilutioa within  200 setres from the  road Pb
concentration in two profiles exeeeds proposed background value of
expressway soil lead content (26.1ma/kg) and within 50 metres it exceeds
soil  lead background content of Puiiaa Province (34.98g/kg), indicating
that soil has been contaminated within 200 metres from the road,
especially within 50 metres..
In the light of Pb concentration in  plant foliase. judged by plant
Pb background content of 3.5mg/kg proposed by soae specialists, roadside
-  _ 387
-  .                ,                      .        .    .  .   .        .  -    .  -   -, .~~~~~~~~~~~a



leaf of cane, paddy and vegetable .is contaminated to different degrees.
Within 40 metruu cans leaf and vegetable foliage are seriously polluted,
but as far  as paddy rice  is concerned,  it exceeds background  content
only in the scope no more than 5 metres from the road. This may be
attributed to larse area leaf blade of cane and vesetable favorable for
retaining Pb sediment. Ina the lisht of Pb concentration ln edlble part,
judged by food Pb concentration standard stipulated by World Realth
Orgaaizatiqn  (CWU) and. China  health department,  Pb conceatration  of
roadside brown rice exceeds national standard (lug/kg) within 30 metres
and V1O standard (0.3mg/kg) within 50 metres. Within 100 metres from the
road,  aximum  lead  content of  unwashed vegetables is  1.93ms/kg, far
above   standard.  After  vashing,  it  drops  greatly,  satisfying  the
- '                     requirement of national and 3IC standard in the area 50 metres away.
From   above analysis,  it  is  concluded that  during  expressway
operation period, at least within 200 metres roadside ecological
environment will be polluted by lead in tail gas, especially within 50
metres.  Pollution level  is  relative to  distance  mad  plant species,
declining as distance increases. Vegetable is more subJect to pollution
than  paddy rice.  Pb contamination should  be attached  due  stress in
expressway design. It is inadvisable to grow vegetable an both sides of
the--road within 100 metres and to grow cereal crops within 50 metres.
4.4.2.2 impact of Pb contauination on crop growth during operation
period
1. forecast of roadside Pb sediment
Based  on expressway  designing  data, traffic  volmue of  Quanzhou-
Xlien Expressway  in 2005  will be '18721-36374 vet/day.  Assuming that
88
*  '4.   -  -  ...  X.            -          -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 



*  .'  v  .J.                        * 
f                     gasoline consumption  is 15 liters  per hundred  kilometres and gasolLno
lead  cotent  is  0.13-0.36  /1,  averading  0.25  g/l, roadside lead
pollution source strength 1 702.0-1364 u/km d. See Table 4-42.
According to a research report given by Davis in 1973, when g uoline
burns, 70 per cent of its lead goes Into onvironsent, of which 40-60 per
cent deposits on roadside. That is to say only 35 per cent of lead in
gasoline will be changed into roadside sediment. Pb sedisent will mainly
deposit on both sides of the road within 200 metres, thus it can be
calculated that annual soil Pb intake is 147.4-303.8a .Fr aU, averaging
225.6g. See Table 4-4-2 for sediment in each road sectioa.
2. proposed background content of roadside sotl lead
Table  4-4-3  shows the proposed  Pb  content  of surface soil. in
different soil groups along the expressway route, ranging from 22.3g to
30.69 per kilogram with an average of 26.1g per kilogram. Paddy soil has
tLe hishest content followed by -crimson soil with the other two groups
lower. Compared  with  soil  Pb background  content of  Fujian Province
(34.3mg/ks), the proposed soil Pb content in Quanzhou-Xiamen Section of
Fujian-liamen expressway is not high, indicating no Pb contamination in
soil.
3. analysis of Pb contamination impact on crop growth
A. impact of soil Pb contamination on crop growth
Based on the research by Ecology Institute of China Academy of
Sciences  iD 1983-1984. if soil Pb concentration exceeds 100g/kg, crops
Vill get in.ured and -stunted. In view of above forecast, on both sides
of the  road within 200 metres mean Pb  sediment is 225.9gfyear.mu. One-
iu-land: weighs about  226 tons  assuming  that cultivated  layer  is 25
19



*    f       -.,  -  
centimetres  and unit  neight is  1.360 per  cubic centimetre.  After g0
yeau gof opmtation, not accountins lead transfer, accumulitive lead vwll
increase by 49.9mg/kg. With pregent basuecontent of 26.1mg/k; added, the
maximum soil Pb concentration will be 76.0 07g/kg, Btill less than
critical value of  100mg/ku harmful to crops.  Thu. it can be  seen that
sail Pb contamination will not affect the growth 6! crop.
B. impact of air Pb contauination on crop growth
As Table 4-4-1 shows, Pb concentration in washed and unwashed
vesetable differs  greatly, indicating  that a  large amount of  lead in
plant foliage comes from polluted air. Pb concentration assumes an
obvious gradient distribution with distance as a variable. But at
differeuit distances no variation of.vegetable growth was found out after
site observation. At the time of sampling soil and paddy rice- at
1185a600 of Puzhou-Xiamen Kishway,e we conducted a rice output forming
factor survey in paddy fields of sisilar cultivatioa practice. (See
Table 4-4-4) The conclusion is that although air Pb contamination
assumed a gradient distribution varying with distance, there is no shari
difference in respect of rice outpult forming factor. This means that air
Pb contamination has not affected rice growth and output. For the time
beins, critical value of Pb contamination harmful to crops has not  been
given yet, but we tend to think that air Pb" contamination ensuing from
tail  sas will  not reach  the  point at which  crop  growth  would be
affected.
To sum up, Iib contamination during operation period will not have
adverse  impact  on roadside  crop  growth  but  would  likely-to  cause
elevated Pb concentration iL .edible part of crops exceeding standard
90



.'.
provided for by  health department, thus doing  harS to people's health.
Taking tkis  into consideration, it  is suggested not  to grow vegetable
within 10 metres from the road and food crops within 60 metres.
4.4.3 suggestion of measures for relieving expressway  influence on
ecological environentt
4.4.3.1 enviromeental protection facilities
Being  acceso controlled,  Expiessway ean't be crossed  at will like
.        ordinary  highwaY. Sufficient passages should be designed for production
and inter-association  of people.  In present plan, there are  36 grade
separations and 161 pedestrian passases, averaging 2.54- per kilometre.
These  passages can meet the  need,  but in  construction  variation or
suppleeetation may also required according to concrete conditions.
4.4.3.2 envirounental protection measures in construction
1. *The area expressway  pSaSing  through  is  higb  populated  but
farmland in this area is -insufficient and expensive. ith -hish maturity
and  fertility  of soil  surface.  most part of  expropriated land  is
formerly farmland, oichard, or tea garden. The cultivation layer of 0-20
cm bad better be stripped, transferred and piled in the vicinity for the
use in planting, sodding and revesetation of borrow area.
.2.  Construction vill cause  rather serious  water  and soil  loss.
Synchronize  cutting, transporting, paving and compacting process in thic
road section  of deep cutting  and high  embankment. Hake  sure-that  no
loose earth exists in construction area before rainstorm.
3. Wastewater following construction process such-as mixing concrete
or washing oil-polluted machine should not be directly discharged into
nearby piscinasi, chinels or vater course. Construction slass should not
*91



-1.               '        .   '       ''4
r*   .'*.-                                    :   -        :.     - 
be abandoned at discretion into ponds or at river bank.
*   4. In  bridse and culvert  design, try to preserve orisinal natural
channels and water flow and don't cut.. dimension at vlll. Special
attentions should be paid in the construction of Xiwei Bridge so as not
to affect Anpino Bridge,  the National4Protection Unit of  Historical
Relics.
5. Surplus cuts of tunnel sbould be piled in deposit area specially
desigoned, around which relevant drains, bridges, or culverts should be
set up. In the construction of Xiaoyinglins Ridge, pLy attention to
protect. Toneming'an Nountain Puss" above the tunnel.
4.4.3.3 envirommental protection measures during operation period
1. Original plant cover in the land used for suborade, borrow pits
and temporary construction will be destroyed , so plantins and sodding
should be carried out after the Vorks complete. Special group should be
set up to strengthen the manageent of tree species for quick.. recovery
of vegetation, which is fundaaental measure to control water and soil
loss.
2. How to ake up for the loss caused by expressway occupying
asricultural land is a question worth considering. It is suggested to
set aside some land requisition funds to strengthen farmland capital
construction, turning low-yield laid to high-yield land and increasing
the land which could yield in drousht and waterloggins season. Meanwhile
intensive faraing should be introduced to increase agricultural output..
3. In view of the fact that roadside ecological environmental
Pollution mainly results from tail gas, it is required to remain in
advance  a space for green belt 20 metres wide on both sides of the road
J                   ~~~~~~92



r
(                     to relieve Pb contamination. In addition, on account of people's health,
it is suggested not to grow vegetable on both sides of the road within
100  etres and  not grow food. crops within .50 metres. Grow  economical
crops such as flax,- or straw of braiding use in place of them.
4.4.4 suggestiont of Greening ProJect
4.4.4.1 green;ing target
Sore ecological environenatalists point out that highway green area
should be no less than 30 per cent bf total area of land requisition.
Based on  this; ireen area of Quanzhou-Xiamen Section of  Fuzhou-Xiaaen
Expressway should be no less than 2833 mu but may vary in different
parts. In the section passing throush iarmland, a space'of 20 metres
wide should be reserved on both sides of the'road to build a green belt
for  Pb pollution  relief. In  the section  passinb throush  residential
quarters, the  space 20-30  metres wide  should be left for noise-proof
green belt. In respect of interchange and station of oil supply and
parking, the green area should make up 25 X and 5-10 t of the whole area
respectively. In service area it should not be less than 40 square
metres per capita.
4.4.4.2 requirements of tree species for Greening ProJect
1. high acoustic-proof function;
2. good pollution-tolerant and air-purifying ibility;
-      3. being  decorative plant and not  interfering with  environmental
sanitation;
4. adaptable  to  local soil,  climate;  convenience  culture  and
management.
4.4.4.3 GreeniDn  Project
;3



4-
(                         1. greening of embankment
In the belt within twenty etres from slope toe of embankment, plaat
four rows of -arbor trees and shrubs five metres avay from each other
with outside three rows being arbors and the inner one being shrubs.
On side slope of embankment, plant turfs or sow grass seeds to fix
subgrade and green road environment.
2. greening of cutting
Soil Blope front not paved by stone In the cutting should be uade
plant-covered. On accouat of hioh grade and hard soil texture, it is
suggested to use net-planting method. Plant arbor trees near water catch
ditches on the top of cutting slope and shrubs along roadside drains.
3.a greening of sedian strip
Kedian strip  is the most  important aspect worth  of considering in
GreeniLng  Prodect. Not only anti-glare  effect but landscape  should be
taken into account to  avoid dull  and fatigue feelings  resulting from
stereotyped pattern  of surrounding.  Bushes should be  planted with  an
interval of 1-X mettes betWeen.
4. Greening Project in filling station, bus stop and service area
In  these areas, besides achieving greening target, decorative plant
should play a lead. The pioportion amons arbor. shrub and herb is 1:3:4.
Flower bed had bettei be set up in service area to create for the peoplc
resting there a scenery pleasing to.both the eye and the mind.
S. design of noise-proof tree belt
It is necessary to build noise-proof tree belt in the livins quarter
where   expressway  passes  by. Wherever  conditions permit  (land is
sufficient), the width of anti-noise tree belt had better exceed 40
94         S



metres; If land use is limited,  the width iUy be reduced to 20  setres,
whi'rh would also yield good results under the condition that density and
arrwngeent  of species of trees  meet certaLn demands. Bveroreen arbors
should play the leAd paired by shrubs wLth an optium proportion of 4:1
between them. If the anLti-mise tree belt would be less than 0 metres
in width,  It should be replaced by  anti-noise wall covered by green
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
plants.
4.4.5 impact on and protection oi' wildlife
Expressway  construction  should   comply  with  state   regulations
concerning  wildlife conservation.  Don't arbitrarily  capture and kill
those wild animals*protected by central and lqcal governments.
In densely-populated roadside area of high land utilization ratio,
no wildlife or rare birds have;been found which need protectirb.
4.5 forecast of water environment impact
Emphasis is paid  on JinJiang River', lanqu Channel, Jiuxi River and
Xixi River in the forecast of water environment impact. Other channels
along the route win not be discussed in detail hereinafter because they
have  little impact  on environment  with  small water  flow  and drying
during most of the time except rainY season.
-  In the are where expressway passes through. reservoirs are located
at up reaches  of pollutant pick-up rivers  and wi-1l not be  affected by
expressway sewage discharse.
-  4.5.1 analysis of water pollution source
1. analysis of surface runoff pollutant
Surface   runoff pollution   is   relative to   such  factors   as
precipitation, raining time, surface width, length of  pollutant intake
..                                       ~~~~~                    ~~~~~~~~~~95* ". 
).  .                                     z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



-     'v                                     WY                           -    : r {
.4
'                    road, road surface, air pollutlon level, etc. These are randon variables
-hihly : unexpected. The  analysis  is  undertaken in accordance  with'
concrete  conditions of. expressway  by combining  actual measures -with
document data as there has beet no universally-applied method so far.
Affecting factors of expresuu.t surface runoff are relatively simple
and surface pollution resime (pollution type and level). is consistent
copared  with that of city  surface  runoff.. PreciPitation and air
pollution resime are affectibn factors varying obviously. Generally
speaking.  surface runoff-pollutaLt  grows as precipitation and air
v pollution load increase and pollutaat discharging rate drops if raining
time extends. On conservative,account, we calculate pollutant carried by
surface runoff flow in two situations: daily uaximum precipitation and
annual ean precipitation.
(1) surface runoff volue.
Daily  maximum precipitation and annual mean precipitation are siven
by  local meteorolosical stations.  Water-collecting area  is based  on
surface width and road  length. Pollutant-intake runoff volume is listed
in Table 4-5-1.                        .
(2) concentration ranse of surface runoff pollutant
Listed  in Table 4-5-2w  concentration  range of  water pollutant
surface runoff in Quanzh6u-Xiaaen Section of Fuzhou-Xiamen Expressway is
obtained by comprehensive analysis of document data-and actual measures.
(3) forecast of pollutant intake amount in the rivet assessed
Prediction formula is
Vi-:Q*Ci
where Vi=-aount of pollutant i in surface runoff,
.~~~~~~~~~8
--                                 X8                          -  - :~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



;  .murface water catebent
Cieconcentrati6in of pollutant i.
See Table 4-5-3 for the calculation results.
2. analYsis o pollution source in service area
Crossed by Quanzhou-Xiamen Section-of Fuzbou-tianena xpressway. Puii
Livins Quarter is about half kilometre away from. Jiuxi River of anl'an
County, into  which waste water froa living quarter  vill be discharged
through sewage disposal plant.
The design of expressway transportation auxiliary facirities has not
finished. Having no detailed data regarding the size of living quarter,
station  for  vehicle maintenance  and oil  supply as well as  other
-uxiliary  facilities,  it  is difficult  to  estimate accurately  the
pallution source intensity in  Puli Living  Quarter. Based  on relevant
data and experience, the sewage COD discharge is estijated to be 15 k/d.
lashing from the station of parking, maintenance and soil supply is main
pollution source. Polluted  water of  high oil content will do harm  to
environent in  particular. Assuming  that five  vehicles can be -ashed
simultaneously and- it takes 15 minutes for each one, two hundred-i
vehicles will be washed ia a day of ten hours working  period. If each
vehicle leaves 35 grams of COD  and 20 grams of  oils daily COD and  oil
discharge will amount to 7 kilograms and 4 kilograms respectiveoly'. In
addition, station of oil supply and  maintenance is also supposed to. be
washed once a day. generally oil discharse will be 3-6 kg/d and COD 2-4
kg/d.
To sue up, pollution source intensity in Puli Service Quarter is 9-
11 kg/d of COD and 1-9 kg/d of oil. (not including accident pollutant)
97
4.-



41   Te- 
-~~~~~~~~~~ *                    '   ,     '  
C-                    ,     .             $4- 
4.5.2 predictLon aodel
1. prediction  method of  water quality  in JinaJing River and Xili
River of Tonl'an County.
The main  rivers crossed by  Expresuway are Jin.ians  River and Xiii
Rliver  of  Tong' an  Coubty, 'whose  pollutant-intake  course  is  tidal
waterway. Affectetd by  sea tides, bydrogriphical.factots  of the  river
chanoe with time  periodically. Pollutants carried by  water reverberate
in the river lea¢din to short time *concentration superposition in soae
parts. Rains will eventually go to rivers throush roadside drainage
syste. Because  of scattered discharge, pollutant transverse diffusion
is roughly homogeneous. -In accordance with hydrographical -conditions,
one-dimensional water quality dynamic model is used to predict transfer
(                      pattern of pollutant.
(1) basic equation.
According  to Nass Conservation Law  and  Newton's  Second  Law of
Notion. with regard to sinsle and  straight waterway of no branch, basic
equation of notion could be expressed as follows:
A. Equati n of Notion (Saint-Venant Bquation )
*H +    * 09Q   0                                               I
*   t+B*                          +                           (1
*o                               U+  ___                              (2)
;Cd
where H=water level at section x, time t (a),
B=section width-                   (a).
Q=instantaaeous water flow         (TIB),
98
I. ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~           F-



r            .                X~~~~~~~giavity acceleration,
and dmsection  ydraulic radius           (m).
Water level. flow and current velocity could'be calculated from.this
Equation of Notion (ioludino ContinuitY Equation (t) and Buler Equation
(2) ),whose constralns are:
boundary condition: H(i,j)-PU)
and initial condition:      (i,6)zhi,juO; u(i,O):Uij:O.
B. calculation equation of concentration field
E) c        a C              23 c          n         
-4-          - D x              +-  Eb  Ri  C + - -S                    I3J
-3 X             a  X         i= *
:        .. *. 
-where) 
- ur-current speed (m/s),
xD--lorsitudinal coefficient df dispersion (t /s).
[i--degradation factor of pollutant,
S--source in the waterway.
(2) solution of mathematical model
Flow field assumes ireissaanu implicit difference scheme:
'flX )  @++fl+l)+l-2    +I)
oX 14.' +-.(1-S1)tIA
Pf  f4-<+3  1' + f  I
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.5
3 -.f+l           +IgI
. ~ ~ ~ ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   -  -     Iif 4,



_4  -  _ .      -v..-r  '   ;               .          -
where  f may represent  computational factors such  as A.E.
V,and  Ax, At  is  step  length of  distince  and  tine  in  nuserical
computation.
Combined   method  of  iteration  is  used  in  the. cosputation  of
concentration field:.
o   x.     A..._                                   _   _  _
txf~~~~~~~~2 v                             I  _-    v
.2&X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
First, equation set of motion under constrained coLditions is solved
to set such dharacteristic values of hydraulics in each waterway section
i                   - *-  .  of tidal estuary as water level (K), current speed and other parameters.
The equation of motion could be changed into following equation set
through difference scheme.
-Hj, + a  Un. +b ,H-=R,
*   i5rs +a^-1  t       OI I_lH=  t_
U, +a,H,+b,U,MR,
The-coefficient matrix of the equations is tridiasonal matrix, so it
could be solved through iterative method.
then, solve equations of cohceatration field.  Equation (3) could be
transferred into difference. scheme as follows:
.j   i.   i.   1 j       1*
Ci-I + ai Ci + bi Ci+1 -Ri
where a', b' ard Ri are coefficients.
100



:'4
r                         Concentration distribution ia each section  at any time could be got
after solving above  equations of concentration field  through iterative
method.
2. prediction method of water quality in JiushiJiuxi liver of
JinJi ano County and Jiuxi River of Nan' an County
Hold bick by Vuliqlao floodgate, the sea tides will not affect Jiuxi
liver of Nan'an County, the water of which unaixed with sea water is
mainly used for agricultural irrigation. The water resime here is
relatively  stable.  JiushiJiuxi liver, whose  water  comes  from )anqu
Channel up  stream of JinJiang River,  is situated above  water inlet of
Jinjiang  domestic water. Under heavy protection  the water regime there
is  constant. The water flow of JiushiJiuxi River of Jinjiang County and
JiuXi River of  lan'an County  is small. -(the  former being  6-8 cubic
metres per second, the latter  2-10 cubic metres per second.) Ordinarily
they don't empty into the sea except in rainy season when the floodgate
is lifted. In such shadow, narrow rivers of small water flow, pollutant
is easily to-set evenly minsled and hydraulic factors are stable. On
account of  these,  a  simple. conuitation  model could  be  used. for
prediction.
CwQw+CnQn
C= ----_ __
Qw+Qn
where C=concentration after complete mixing (em/l),
Cw=wastewater concentration (mg/D)
Qw=wastewater flow   (aWs).
Co=conceatration of waste-free water  (mgll),
101



.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W
fnuwater flow of river (n/l).
-Fillowing hypotheses are employed in the application of this model.
a) Pollutant is  conservative, nondecomposable. nonsediuentable  and
nonadsorptive:
b) umiform current speed and stable pollutant discharge;
c) Concentration is even at any point of the qection.
It  should  be  noticed  that  water  features  in  pollutant-intake
waterways vary reatly with season. Because the pollutant comes mainly
from surface washing in. rainy season, water features in prediction model
are based upon thi values of average year so that they can be  closer to,
actual conditions. In.fact prec5pitation is rather low in dry season.
Most water catch  of-highway  is used  for irrigation.  Nishvay vashins
discharged iato rivers  are little, causing no  obvious pollution.of the
river.
4.5.3 prediction results
1. prediction results of water quality in Jinjiang River
COD, BOD5 and oil are used as assesssent factors in  the prediction.
Naximus and average discharge of surface runoff are listed in. Table 4-5-
3. Take 85 P3AS as water flow.
For the computation results see Table 4-5-4.
2.  predietion results  of water  quality in  Xixi River  of Tonstan
County
COD, BOD5 and oil are maJor assessment indexes in the prediction.
Adopt 25 mIws as water flow. -S'y Table 4-5-3 for the source intensity of
surface runoff. Computation results are listed in-Table 4-5-5.
-  .        3. prediction resuIts~ of fater  quality in  Jiuxi River  of Nan.'an
102



County
Because waste water from Puli Service Quarter is due to be
discharged  into Jiui River, the  source intensity of pollution. listed
in Table 4-5-0 should be the sou of surface runoff discharge and sewage
dischargse of Service Quarter.
Take  3 Os/s as u  ater flow  in Jiuxi Rliver  of Nan'an  County. The
concentration  increment Df pollutant  are calculated  based on  source
intensity listed in Table 4-5-6. The results are as follows:
Naximu: COD: 1.50 WI/1; DODS: 0.29 mg/I; oil: 0.107 WI/i;
Average: COD: 0.86 og/I; DODS: 0.19 ms/I; oil: 0.09 mg/l;
.4. prediction results of water quality in Jiushiiuxi. River of
JinJiang County
Take 8 a,/s as water flow.
Maximum: COD: 0.58 sg/I; 90D5: 0.76 mg/I; oil: 0.009mg/i;
Average: COD: 0.21mog/l; DOD5: 0.38 mg/I; oil: 0.004 ag/.
4.5.4 conclusions and sugsestions
The construction and operation of expressway will produce certain
ispact on witer environment along the route. But because there exists no
large water pollution source during operation period and pollutant
discharge from surface  runoff, the main pollution  source, is very low,
surface runoff of expressway will contribute little to the concentration
increment of-pollutant  in the rivers- Il. respect of influential ranwe,
pollutant concentration  near bridges  of  expresswaY is  a bit  higher,
dropping as the distance rises.
The sequence of expressway-caused pollution level of water body in
several maJLr rivers are as follows:
103



Jiuli River  of  Nan'an County  >  Xixi liver  of Tons'an  County  >
Jinjiant River > JiushiJiuxi liver of JinJians County
More pollution in Jiuui River of Nan'an County can be attributed to
the sewase influx of Pull Service Quarter. Comparatively speaking, oil
pollution is more severe than DOD5 and COD, especially in the sections
near city proper.
In brief, oil iB tho key factor of iLfluence caused by expressway
on the water quality of nearby rivers.
On account of status quo and prediction of. the impact on water
environment. it is proposed to take following measures for pollution
control and relief.
1. measures for surface runoff control
(1) In the section of Jiasha Bridge. waste water should be disposed
before beins discharged into Nanqu Channel in order to protect water
quality of Jinfilano Water Plant.
(2) In case of accident, discharge conduit should be blocked up for
emergency disposal.
2. Set up sewage disposal station in service quarter.
3. Sewaoe in construction camp should be. disposed by two-stage
sewage purifier.
104



4.6 PublIc Participetlon
The report titled by  the  Pre-inveatnt work  for  the  Qanzhou-
Xlmen Expesw          in soth pram.. ws annuced at the front pa    of
Fujian Dauly on lb.22th.1991. On June.12th.1991 Fujian Daily  publihed
again the news of developing the  second  inter-province      ewa     to
construct the Fuo-XIaen Expresswa. nd attached the sketch  up  of
plan for the Fuzhou-Xiaun Epressway. Omnce again the  building  of  the
Expressway was mentioned in the article of ensuring the major Project to
proceed smoothly by the full force and the united cosnition all over the
provinoe at Fujian Daily an August.30th.1991.Tholnews that the Quanzhou-
Xiamen Section of Fuzhotu-Xiamen Expressway will be commenced buildins in
the end of this year was-published at the first page of Quanzhou Daily
on Harch.22th.1992, and cm  to every residential area  along the route -
very quickly.
Tbe construction or the Quanzhou-Xismen Expresmway Section has great
socio-economic benefits, but it brings about som disadvantageous social
problems siwultaneously.These disadvantages show mostly at inrluences of
highway alignment on densely populated urban  areas and  relocation of
residents along the route. This kind  of relocation  is  unwilling and
results in Profound  impacts- on  re-building  of social  economy and
environmental variation. In order to reduee the impacts and to arramnge
the residential relocation well. the task group organized specially the
personnel to have a social investigation to give residents along the Way
mre Participant chances.   -
4.6.1  Panels and Investigation Methods
The Quanzhou-Xiamen Section of Fuzhou-Xiamen Expressway starts from
Xifu or Quaruhou city. and extends southward to end up in Guanlingtou of
-105 -



Xiasn city. Vith a total lww0i of 81.4 Km and the inrluenc populstion
of 5.2433 million. the Quwnzhou-Xlarun Suction strides over 5 cities and
countles. 15 villan and towns of 98 natural hbalets. The hishway  uses
land of 10587 o In all, and needs to dmolish and relocate 97205 square
m*tres houses Inciuding over 300 households.
With the help of sawle surveys.this investigation inquired into 130
households of the villages and towns along the road including 79
households along the route, accountins for BOM or so and 51 relocated
families.accounting for about 4tX.AII investisated people are adults and
the msters of families with the age or 20-60.in which the women account
for 4I%.
The investigation took the forms of individual visit to families and
survey meeting, then filled in fors and finally put them in  order and
mede a statistics. In view or various reasons.soue of items of frm we
rilled in by the filler and some wre not. So the statistics about a
problem was prepared oh'the base of the number or people responded to
the Problem so as to reflect the findings aorrtly.
4.6.2 Findings
This investigation was divided into five Parts given as followiv one
by cne:
(1) Popularized rate about the news of Expressy  construction:
Ihe popularized rate about the news of Expressay construction  is
the first link of social public participation. From this investigation.
it's clear that most people have known the E%preuswy to be constructed
before the investigation.lhe Popularized rate of the news aounts to 9.
9X. Most people were to krow the news while propecting Xie Look the
reconnaissance in 1991. On the contrary, pesons are in the minority to
learn the news from newspapers and televisions. The investigastion shows
io -



that the propasardc and reporting Is not enonwh to intradce the news or
wrmuay costruction to the public. and this work shulId continue  to
be strmngthmnd.
(2) Th  imestiation about the function of Epreatm  on local eco-
noaic development:
In order to sur      the acting  of Expressw   on  local eronomic
development after Its cowpletion and traffic-ijproved situation. we
inquired 125 families. The results of investigation indi:ate that:
a) There is some certain difference between relocated and not-
relocated households.
b)Residents along the road.especially far away from the inteArchanses,
think that the Expressway doesn't play important role on. local economic
development.. but wetly benefits to the whole society.
sjIt is not obvious for Bxpressway to imove local t.raric condition.
The Expressway will be good to the area near the interchange. and  it's
not convenient for most of local inhabitants.
(3) Impacts on environment
Certainly the construction of Expressway will have impacts or Lhe
surrounding environoent. Since the geographical position. aeteorological
pheme. hdroloey and.geolosy are different to every household. what
the family is effected is not the same. Because or this fact. the people
along the route were inquired.
The impacts of Exprssway on environment are divided into Iwo
stages:  construction  period and operating  Period. and they  were
investigated respectively.
From the investigation or environmental impact durinr  construction
period.I the views or relocated and not-relocated razilies are
comparatively identical about wise firstly. then atosPheric: vibration
-107-



and watw quality.
In Point of the whole views an   psswa. the relocated  families
diffw  farther from  not-relocated  families beause the Expresswa
influenoes the Inteests or relocated faeilies directly.
(4) Attitude to the costruction of Expessy
The result of investigation gives supporting rate fron People or 59X.
random rate of 2r  and opposing rate of is:. This outcem  stales that
supporting people have priority over the oposing perons. Thoush  they
know clearly their hoones will be demolished. ma  relocated households
still take attitudes of suporting to assist the national construction.
This responcd the spirit of Chinese People of knowing and considering
the whole thirs.
(5) Investigation about wishes or relocated houholds
In the eyes of investisation on relocated families. their opiniors
are nore intensive. and their chief misgivirgs are: a) little rolocaLion
Compensation cost; b) reduction of house base.lhey can't build the house
on the field allocated by standard as larg as on the old base; c) not
ideal of relocation spot; d) employment.
The results or investigation indicale that rost people are willin
to be arrnged relocation in the neighborhood. and 18.2X Persons wish to
be arranged at two sides of the existins Fuzhou-Xiamen highway. which is
2 Km far away. This parts or people want mainly to enge in business. In
the investigation.a lot or residents,who are mostly near the alLqrniative
route. think the whereabouts or employment is unknown because it isn't
sure for them to be needed relocation.
4.6.3  Problem and Suggestions
(I) Located at the intersect Point with the Quanzhou-Xiutou highwy.
Chezhou interhange is the sole grade-seParated  junction in  Quanzhou
-108 -



city.and vill bring very rach conveniences for traffic inOtm         city.
Since Qbsnrhou city has very Im  farwland to be used and is surrounded
by mountains in three directions with only eastern land developed, the
People's sgvernment of Qbanzhou city has mappWed out this sectlon of the
area as a new industrial development zone.For the lare. land used by the
interhane amounting to 250 au, the contradiction of land contention is
certain to occur to the intercage and industrial development.
(2) It's intenoded to build the flyover in Xiaoyingling district
crossing over Xiahouba village,the inhabitants of Batou village react to
it very intensively. The Batou village is a new-migrated hamlet at the
time of building of Batou reservoir. The residents are afraid that the
flyover crossing-over not only results in noise. vibration and vehicle
waste gas, but also influences sunlight.It's proposed that the'aligmnt
' of the recoimended flyover should be exowunded and Proved again,  and
should pass along the mountain avoiding the village in order to reduce
iwacts on environment of Xiahouba village.
Since the interchange is set up at Hou'an. where the Tong'an-Xiamen
highway intersects the r-coimended route, vehicles fro Xiamen to
QuanOou my me up and dowm  at this interchange. and as  the Tong'an-
Xiamen road will be reconstructed into Class I highww. the intersecting
of vehicles is very smooth  and easy. Commnly  it's  convenient ror
vehicles to Zhansho  to run  up and down at Guanlingtou. and  it's
unreasonable to so to Fuzhou or Zhanszhou by Tiancuo becae the road is
bow-shaped and long. So the Tianwo interchage is proposed to me  lo
Guanlingtou nearby. this is more reasonable.
4'he  investigation  and social visit- abouL  the orisinal and
alternative  routes of Xiamen end  section  were carried out.  The
alternative route has great iw tcts on Tiani. Seed  Farm--Tlhis farm  is.
-109-



stateTude. leanessIstyle breding pig fam and provides thou_a*   of
stud ps for ove 20 prvines of h  country every year.At presnt the
tavellinu solf cowe is Intended  to contrwt by  the sino-forelmn
Jionted loan in this apot.The Epressway passing in the middle or by the
edge of TisnJa Seed Fa  will cause  the disadvantageous  influenees.
Therefore, in consideration of environmental iwacts. it's mo  reasonable
to take the present route alignment.
(3) In the investigation. thouh the relocated families along the
route have -various mentality about the relocations,what they think about
commonly is relocation cost and haose base. Because the land in the
countryside is contracted according to a Period of 3 to 5 yawrs.  the
adjustment or house base is relatively  difficult. Particularly  the
households.who have larger houses and house basic fields.worry about the
bas reducing too much and think  it difficult to accept the ract'if the
house base is allocated according to the standard.
(4) Ihe demolition and relocation is a biguer social Problem of
Eressway construction. The relocation for pert Or or the whole vil  L-    -e
wiII break up Lhe Productive- system and living manner of the original
residents. so Lhe relocation program isn't only a pure land use and
compensation Plan. It should be considered wholly and arranged proPerly.
From the beginning it should be ewphasised that we should do our best to
avoid or reducc the relocation if PracLiceable. The relocation principlek
is to take up a kind of policy to help the relocated households to
recover the Productive base.- euployment requirment and raise the income
level. Since the residential features due to   pressay construction  is
long line, scattered -spot, fragmenLary distribution.and difrfwcl Lc  act
under the same program, asures are suited- to local conditions in the
light of various sio-econmic-eatures or districts along the route.It
'is the local authority  departments who organize  the' relocation  and        --
izplemenLt he rurds to the hoseholds.
--~~~ -110-



.
5.   Environmental Ranamement Prograe
5.1  goal and basis of the Program
5.1.1 environmental management 3oal of Fuzhou-Xiamen Expressway
Quanzhou-Xiamen Section
general Goal: Through environmental management it is aimed to make
expressway construction meet the requirement of 'Three Synchronizationt
policy proposed by the State Council, namely synchronizing plan,
developaent and action of economical developnent, urban and, rural
construction, environmental construction. It Ls also aimed to strive for
the consistency of economic benefits, social benefits and environmental
benefits, to promote the economical development.of Pujian coastal areas,
to protect ecolosical environment along the expressway route, thus
creating a beautiful environment and promoting economic take-off in the
areas along the route..
5.1.2 basis for environmental manaaement
See section 1.4 for the details.
5.2 organization system of enviroonmental management-.
5.2.1 sovernment organizatioL for environmental protection
111  ''-



-a-~ ~ !--    '     ; 'f*                        _
The suprume Evironrental I%nager
IState Evirmnal I  of this  ProJect, who will be  in
I Protectlon     u  I  charge of the exaninmtion and approval
*        -,       - @  of  'Outline of Environmenl  Iwct
ASSUBL  - and "Inviroriental  Iwact
Ahssmnt".
r    -                      Being responsible  for the unified
I Fujian Provincial   I enviromental Imnagement of Ew.y
I   Environmental     I Project
I  Protection Bureau   I
*                     I        
I 
-  * .               .    Being responsible for the
I Quaniou liMnicipal I I Xiamen Mmnicipal I environmental *onit4&ing and
I Ehvironmental   I I  Environmental .I inanement within the area
I Protection Bureau I I Protection Bwreau I under their jurisdiction
-  4
I   Being responsible for the
I Environmental Protection Departments of I environmental monitoring and
I related counties. cities and districts I mnaement within  the area
under their jurisdiction
5.3   environmental manasenent durino construction period
5.3.1 executor of Eavironmental Protection Prosram during construcLioni
period
1.   desigains   phase:   the  designing   department   sh.ould  L.ake
ernviroamental protection   measures  into   account  proposed   in  Uvr
"Environmental Impact Assessmeat' such as building up acoustical wall to
limit influence circle of noise to an area within 30-50  metres from t.he
road or resettling local residents, etc.
t12                      -                    -



Construction unit should organize the exauinatlon of environmental
protection  plan and  give  couments in  time. Environmental  protection
department should take part in the exanination of intensive preliminary
i                                  design and give their comments on environmental protection measures.
2.  bidding phase: Construction  unit should  propose "Etvironmental
Management   Regulations   Durins   Construction    Period"   and   make
"Environmental Protection Action Plan" a part of bidding documents.
The   CoLtractor (construction    team)should   take    environmenItal
protection  into consideration in  his tender and  submit "Environmental
Protection Action Plan" after receiving the Letter of Acceptance.
3. environmental manageaent during construction period
A. When construction starts. construction unilt sbould assign certain
people  for   the  enviroonmetal. management   and  supervision   durirs
cDnstruction period.  The focal point of  their work is to  prevent soil
erosion and to monitor constructioa noise. dust as well as eavironmental
protection facilities. Duties should be made clear atd each road section
should be specially assigned a person for full' responsibility.
B. When construction starts. the Eavironmental Protection Bureau
should examiae and approve the location of borrow area and deposit area
and constrtction  scheduile. During  the construction  period, it  should
examine and supervise the implementation of Environmcatal Protection
Action Plan adopted by each construction team, collect waste-discharsin:
fees, investi'ate and dispose of accidents resultLno in severe soil
erosion or pollution and if necessary bring them to law.
C. Each construction  team(Contractor)should employ an environmental
prot.ection man who will propose the Eiiviroamental Protection Action Plan
113



of Construction according to the environmental problem of his section
and should act, supervise and manase in line with the approved plan. De
should organize  the disposal  of the  soil erosion incidenits  and other
pollution accidents and at the same time report to construction unit and
local environmental protection department.
4. Acceptance  phase: The  acceptance of  expressway should  i-hclude
such enviroamental protection facilities ais antinoise wall, sewage
disposal installation as well as planting, soddino, reveteJion ir. borrow
Rnd deposit area. water and soil conservation, etc.
The construction unit should organize the pre-acceptanee or entrust
it to  local environmental monitoring  station before  reporting to  Lhe
sovernmrent erivironmental department for formal acceptance.
5.  resettlement:  Construction  unit  should  be   responsilzie  for
examininy whetheir  all of  the resettlement expendittre is al!cated! to
the household displaced and disposing of those resettleenoL requirements
expressed by the household displaced in time. Loca! envircnxeatal
protection  department  should  examine  cEvironmerntal  PlaII  of  new
concentrated livino quarter for household displaced.
0. cmvironsental monitoring durinw  construdtiou pcriodi
The construction unit should monitor noise, sewa-jc drail?ini an'I tilst.
emission durirls construction reriod. itvestigate and study edoio'Jca!
impact and   provide  monitoring   data  to  envLrorLmeI)Lai   protec!. Wi:
departmer,t for examination artd supervision .
5.3.Z Environmental Protection Atlirn Plan of Corustrultion,
1. plar, of water and soil loss prevenition
As regards borrow area.  Ieposit. area, cuttina and cmbankaen. tere
314



should be temporary drainage ditches and measures for' water and soil
conservation in the construction. Revegetation, exploLtation of land,
plantiny  and   sodding  should  be  put  into  practice  shortly  after
*                                   construction,  the location  of which  should be  listed in a  table for
environmental protection department to examine and supervisc.
2. greening plan
Planting and sodding along the expressway route will brinu bentefiLs
in many ways such as antiglare of median strip, sun screen and shading.
In the curve, and cross, trees could also outdo sisht line. actina as
vertical factor. Hors sionificantly, planiting and sodding could beautify
environment. add to landscape, extenuate polluLion of noise, waste gas
and dust.
A. suosestions of grcenins project
See section 4.4.4.
B. implementation of greening plan
S!upervised by construction unit, F*lariting sihotilid be carried ouit wher
the  constructioa  of each  section ends  rather t:hanL the whole  way is
opened to trarfic. The environmental protect-ion department should
examine the outcome of greening plan in AccepLance phtase.
3. constructionr noise management
According to analogical invesI.iiation, within 5  mne;.res of the gite.
construction noise exceeds the standard  sound value oa trarric  artery.
and  within  100  metres  it   exceeds  that  of  residential  area.  su
construction   unit  shuuld   set  up   Construction   Noise  Kanaaement
RequlaLion, which forbids constructionL on the site' wiLhin 100 metres
from the village from 10 px to C am so as not to interfere %ith the res:
115



of local residents in the evenino. The implementation of this regulation
will be under the supervision-of construction unit. If violation occurs,
local environnental protection departnent will collect noise nuisance
fees or impose a fine on construction teans.
4. plan of construction dusts and alr pollution abatesent
A. Large amount of dusts resulting from transportation .in temporary
road during conLstruction period and construction operations will do harm
to constructors and local villasers, so sprinkling should be carried at
least. four times  a day from 9  am to 6 pm  in the construction section,
temporary   road,  horrow   area.   etc.   Each  Contractor(construetion
tean)should employ sprinikle: in this operation which will be examined
and supervised by construction uait.
B. Due to severe odor and air pollution, asphalt mixing plant slhould
*be placed  one kilometre  leeward from villaoes and  constructiort Cnips.
-The Contractor should  consult with environmental protection  depa1.menit.
for its location.
5. bridge construction and water quality protection plan
Advanced  techniques should  be  adopted in  bridge constructiDla  to
prevent large quantities of silt from enterinj into Lhe w va.ers.
Construction sarbage and greasy wastewater should be strictly prohibit.oed
from dischargiag iuto  the river. It should  be particularly poin-id .' on!
that the  Jiasha Bridge above  the Nanqu  Cbannel of Jinjiiang  r ou.?  i.
sLtuated up  the water  intake of  Jinjiany Water Plant and wit hilt thi:
water source protection -area of the water plant..  Tender is roqu.Ired tci
determine  the construction tea. of advanced equipment and UcL.:2-uly.
Construction wastewater atd sewase should be strictly forbiddei: from
116



sOins into the waters. This area will be under focal nonltoring and
supervision of constructio  uneit.
5. environmental sanigement of construction camp
hach Contractor, in charoe of. the management and disposal of sewage
and   oarbage  in   the   construction  camp, . should  build   sanitary
installations like  swaoae purLfier  and shower  bath, and  take  health
precautions for tbe constructors. Oarbases should be put to concentrated
disposal.
The  construction unit  and  local  environmental protection  blureau
should   examine  arid  supervise   the   environmental  management   of
construction camp  and will collect  sewase charge for  the discharsg, of
waste which has not been disposed.
7.   construction  materials   (asphalt,   cement,   oils,  chemical
materials, etc.)should be  wider well storage. It  should be strictly or,
guard against pollution  accident caused  by such  naterials goin:j  inILo
waters under the lashinu and washins of typhoor, and torrential.rain.
Construction unit aud local eavironeental  protection bureau shotfld
examine the Pilins location of these constructlon materials and propose
precaution *easures.
8. construction of anLinoise wall
Listed iCL the construictiorL schedule. Ute awLinoise wail sh,:duitl e
designedl in accordance  with the requirenetiL proposed  in "Environ2enlal
Impact Assessment".
-. construction or Ptll Service Quart.er
Service quarter or Quanzhou-Xiamen Expressway vill be built  iu .the
vicinity of Puli Iuterchanic, whose service covers overhaul, oil su'ppi.
117



business and life. The construction of this area should meet following
requirements:
A. The construction  program of thls  area should  be ln  line with
overall planning and the construction program or Shuitou Town, Anhal
Town drawn up by local sovernmenits, and should not interfere with
VuliqLao Sconic Spot". the major National Protection Unit of Historical
Relics.  The  constrtction scheme  (drawings)  shoald  be  reviewed  and
approved by Quanzhou Municipal EnvironmentAl rrotectlon Bureau.
B. [n order to guarantee water qujality of Wuliqiao area. production
wastewater and domestic sewage should be put. to concentrated disposal to
meet the requirement of Class I National Sewage Discharge Standard
before  beins   discharged  into  Jiuxi  liver  of  Nan an  Cotmty.  The
envirofmental protection department should supervise sewase disposal.
C. The solid wastes in this area (production and domestic garbage)
should have disposa! outlet. the piling plan of which shou'd be approved
by tthe environmental protection bureau. It should be strictly prohibited
to pile the iarbase on the bank or Lo discharge it int:o the bay.
0. The  greenins project should  be carried out  ilt liae with  state
requirement. The coverase of gIreen area sholid exceed tihirty per cenlt in
consistent wiLh Vuliqiao Scenic Spot.
All in all. *lhe construct.ion of LItis area should coorilsnato wil.h 1.be
development of Shuitou  and Arthai Town.
5.4 enviromental matngeseaet durinu operatiun pariod
5.4.1  executor of  Environmental Manasement. Plaul during operation
period
Vben  the Expressway  is opened  to  traffic, the loeadinsi  Group of
118



Fuzbou-Xiamen Expressway and its  offtce wlll be changed into Management
Bureau of Fuzhou-liamen Expressway who will be responsible for the
environmental protection  management during operation  period. Under the
dual leadership of FuJian Provincial Trasport Department and FuJian
Provincial Environmental Protection Bureau. Expressway Hanasement Bureau
will be in charge of routine environmental management. supervision,
monitoring as well as disposal of emergency aceident. The  EnvIronmental
Monitoring Station will also be set tip urnder its command. 
*          .      Local  environmental protection  burcauL will maialy  play a  role in
supervising manasement,  pollution accident disposal  and the collection
of waste discharge fees.
5.4.2 Ebvironmental Protection Plan in operation period
1. formulation,.reviewing, approval and implementation of Expressway
Enviromental Protection Ordinance
A. To protect .roadside environment dulring the operation lperiud. !.e
Expressway Manasement  Bureau should formulate  Envirortmenta! Protction
Ordinance, the content of which covers: noise. and gas emission
requirement for the vehicles to be runining on the Expressway; noa-tootins
sectiou;  velocity  limited  section:  mairitenance   aLd  manageentt cf
roadside green belt and antinoise wall: aceidertL disposal: resular roatd
cleaning;  other  environumental   protection   measures:  rc,a atior;s
concerning rewards and penal ties. etc.
B. Before the expressway is  opined Lt- traf ..-,e.  ie ordi. taf-.iC' sb-old
bc reported for  review to  Fujian Provincial  Transport Deartuent and
Provincial Environmental  Protection Buretu. .it will be  issued, by  lie
Provincial Transport Department.
119



C. The implementation of ordinance  will be under the supervisloa of
Expressway Kanasesent Bureau and each manaaseent station.
2. To  prevent Pb  contamination on  roadside agricultural  products
during operation period, local environmental protection bureau should
conduct propaganda amono the planters, suggesting t.hat within 50 metres
from the road such ready-to-eat agricultural products as vegetablo,
paddy rice and fruit shoui]d not be planted and should be substituted
with econosic crops like jute or trees. As for existing orchards. the
green belt barrier should be enlarged durits construction period.
3. road cleanino
Clean road at regular intervals and clear accident leakage in Lime.
4. operation and managtment of eavironmental protection facilities
All environmental protection facilities that have been built should
bd  put into  operation. Each  management  station should  assisn  a man
specially for the routine works of maintenance and management.
The Expressway Kanagement  Bureau and local environmenta] protoCtl3r
bureau  should examine  and  supervise  constantly. Local  efvironmeenal
protection bureau will collect sewage charse and impose a fine on those
who hlaven't put their environmental protecti.on facilities (sui:h as
sewage disposal instal lation)  into operation or discharge  wastes u,ich
have not beert disposed.
5. The -mnagemenL station should promptly organize' peoPIae te liSrS 
of. cleanu and wasb fuel leakage or leakage of poisonous. harsi'i.
materials following traffic accideut and  at the same time shou:ll repert
to - local  and  hiih6r environmental  protection  bureaus  those traff.c
accidents that will possibly causC poll utLon.
120



B. routine monitoring and reporting system
The Expressway Monitoring Station should at regular intervals
monitor air, water  and noise vibration (monitoring  plan and system are
explained in Environmental Monitoring Plan) and should report monitortiR
data to  FujiarL Provincial Transport Department,  local  environmental
protection  bureau  and  Provincial   Environmental  Monitoring  Central
Station.
5.5 EnvLronnental KoLitorins and Training Plan
5.5.1 environmental monitoring organization
In   Quanzhou-Xiamen  Section   of   Fuzhcu-Xiazen   Expresswa%'.  an
EnvironDmental Monitoring station should be set up for routine monitorins.
as well as i mvestigation and sonitoring of emergency accident.
Under the leadership of Expressway Management Bureau and guidarce o;
Provincial Environmental Monitorins Central Station in professional
work. the Monitoring Station witllbe assigned certain professionals
specializing in air, noise. vibration and water quality monitoriuzi.
5.5.2 equipment of monitoring statiorn
Laboratory: construction area: 300-400 square metres
At the front floor, there should be a set oir
meteorological instrument and enough space and roums for air monirerinu.
aiminy at settias up automatic interrnetwork coancetiorn or air moni:rim;
iii Fuzlwu-Xiamen Expressway  if condition permits in  the future.       is
proposed that four monitorinq staitins shnuld be bi:iIt alons t.ie r&ui;e.)
Equipment:
air sampler:  5 sets,
uoise automatic monitoring instrumentation: 2 sets.
121



vibration monitoring instrumentation: 1 set,
water quality sampler: 2 sets,.
laboratory analytical instrumeat including:
ultraviolet spectrophotometer,
atomic absorption spectrophotometer,
visible spectrophotometer,
CO measuring apparatus, BOO culture vessel, refrisorator.
PH meter, oven, balance, routine slass vessels, medicine, etc.
The 800  thousand  yuan  of  total  monitoring  investment  will  be
accounted into whole investment budget of construction.
5.5.3 Environmental Monitorins Plan
1. air monitoring
A. layout of sampling spots:
For routine air monitoring in Quanizhou-Xiamen Expressway. five
sampling spots should  be set tp.,  which are proposed  to be  located at.
Quanzhou city  proper (Cheuzhou  village), Xindian villaae of Jinjianj
City.  Puli Interchange  of Nani'an County, Hou'art vil]age of Tona'ar.
County, Hotuxi Donszhai village in Jimei District of Xiaaen City.
B. monitoring item and analytical method:
mouiLoring item: NOx, T.S.P.. Pb ia dust. CO
monitorins method: sampling  and antalyzing accordir.; to  rAir, Was.e
Lir HoutiWorigu aad Analytical Method', edited by the State Environmental
Protection Bureau
C. monitorizw  frequency: four periods per year in  each  Jan a1r. 
April, July and Octobor, five days each period, in rain-free days. four
or five tines a day
122



Z. Water Quality Nonitorino Plan
A.. section layout:
river course up and down Chenzhou Bridge of QuanzouL City (Jinji ang
River);
river course up and down Jiasba Bridge or Jln.jLang City (Nanqu
Channel);
river course up Xiwci Bridge of Nan'lan County (Jiuxi River);
river course up Uuliqiao Bridse (down outlet or livins quarter)
(Jiuxi River of Nan' an Countty):
river course up and down Putou Bridge of Tong' an Couinty (Xixi
River);
a sewage outlet in Puli Residential Quarter (pollution source);
eight sections and one sewage outlet all together
B. monitoring iteas'and analytical methiod
monitoring item: 7 items incluidint PR. oils. SS, CODer. BID05. Pb and
peruanganate index.
analytical method: explaineil ir  ' Water. Waste Water Monitoringo and
Analytical Xethod's.  third version,  edited by  the State. EnvironseL-tall
Protection Bureau
C.  monittoring  frequency:   two  periods  each  ycar   In  cever.flow
season (N.ay-Jurie)  and  dry  season (December-January):  two  t.imes  earl:
period; once a month in. key  secLor(reaches dlown Jiasha Brid2le -and    ii
Living Quarter);
4*                                   3. monitoring of sail and livins beingss
A. monitoring area and itews
Paddy Rice Zone. of Cidiaa: monitoring Paddy rice and Pb in sail -
123



Vegetable Zone of Tons'M n: monltoring vesetable and Pb in soil
Logan Zone of JinJiang:     nonitoring vegetable and Pb in soil
B. monitoring time: once a year, samplins rice and  fruits when they
are ripe, collecting surface soil sample simhultaneously
C. sampling location:  about 50 metres away  from the border of the
Expressway
4. monitoring of noise and vibration
A. sonitoring area and its location
Regional  noise monitoring   and  vibration  impact  monitorins  in
Chenzbou Village; Regional Noise Yonitorirzs in Xindian-Chadian villages;
Noise Monitorins in  Puli Interchaase (includ ng both  sides oF the road
trtnk and its surrodndinss); Noise Noni'toring in Hou'an rnterchanse of -
Toog'aa County; and roadside villases vilbin 100 metres.
B. monitorins frequejcy:  two  times  each year.  measuirin-re 11t W
periods each time: daytime period  (from 6  am-to 8  pa) and  ni i:..A 
.period (fro  8 pm to 6 an) or measurins conitinuously and au.t.ouaticaUy3.
5. accident monitoring-
If  serious  traffic  accident occurs  durir.g expressway  oper-a..cn
period,  its impact on  waters  should be  tracked  and  under coristui:t
monitoring.
measurins items: oils and major acciden. pollutant
6. environmental monitoring durins construjction period
A. noise monitoring during construct:ion peraod
The monitoring should be carried in line with State Starndard (PIA1.4
"Noise  Keasuring Nethod  for Constructiorn Site".  Sensitive areas  and
Quanzhou City Proper (nearby Chenzhou) should bc monitored once a mua:t..
124
..             .  A



B. air monitoring duriag construction period
Asphalt   sixins  plant  is  the  major  pollution   source  during
construction period,  whose impact  on vlIlIges  should ble monitored  at
regular intervals. At  sensitive spots and in  the section arousing much
mass complaints, the influence of construction road dusts on villases
should be monitored,  which will provide data  for the Management Bureau
to manae and  supervise the implementation of E'nviroraental Protection
Action Plan.
C. water quality monitoring during construcLiont .pricd
In  the area  of soil  erosion, particularly  the river  course down
Jiasha  Bridge (which is up  water intake, oF Jinjiang  Water Plant . the
monitoring of suspended solids (silt) should be carried out once a moilth
-m til the construction ends. Monitoring  items arc oils. COD. suspe:v1ed1
solids, etc.  The results of  mornitoring should be  reported Lo J'injian-
Municipal Environmental Protection Bureau in time.
5.5.4 Training Plan
Listed   in  Environmental   Kanagement   Plan,   tlhe  trinin   ot
Environmental Management personnel  should be a coibination  Df domestic
trainiing and training abroad.
1. training  content: environmental consciousness  tr-ainins for  the
leaders   of   cxpresswav   environment-al   pro..-ctiol: and   uon itr:rw
*  organization; technical trainins of environmental moniturius:
2.  trainins metLhod: combination  or domestic trainir; arr.d traiLninu
-           abroad
125



6.  Conlusios and Countem
6. 1 ConclusEons
6.1.1 Status Qu and Impact Forecast or Various Environmental Elemnnts
(1) Atospheric onvironment
a) Current situation of atmspheric environment
By the curmnt situation  monitored  in  two sides of proposed
Expresswy Section.the at.spheric environwent is good and within  Class
II quality standard except specific busy section or. exisLing Fuzhiou-
Xiamen hishway.
b) Forecast or alloxpheric environment
After Expressmw operating. in recent and medium peri*d atmospheric
environment quality will not so beyond Class Ilt standard within  100 m
and Class II out of IO00; in forward period at the momDnt or. little wiryd
NOx will exceed Class II within 200 a and might surpass Class III within
100 m.lhe pollution at the interchae is more serious Lwin thaL at road
section. and -NOx and CO bothi might go beyond tie starndard.
(2) Water environnent
a) lhe present siluation or water enviroent
The naibr rivers. which this Exvressay involves.are Jiriiang river.
Xiqi river.Jiuqi river and Nanchu river.AII the elements rmach Class I.
quality standard  rur waLer except petroleum  type. Becauso of Uhe
influence of upper reas. water in Manchu and Jiuqi rivers wrrives at
Class-TV sLandard. Water aL.aLher sections ar     with Class  T;hL
conclusions from the invesLigatiun about uarine livinv  -hirs are, the
sa  as Ihe above mentioned.
b) Foecast of waLer envirmelntL
At or,dinary tines the Expresw    ha  very  fewer imact, on water
enviroment.  At the time of raining. surface runoff will  influence the
-126,-



near river section. Dowever, In the neanwhi le the water volume of river
Is zbh larger. so the  oncentration of polluted uterials in  river  is
distributed very little.
In Puli service area.the sewage's iwact on Jiuqi river in Nian'an is
also within the specialilad ranw Provided the sewae has been disposed.
(3) Acstic environmnt
a) Status quo of acoustics envirment
Presently ambient noise along the route is at the ranse of 48-61 dB.
the average sound level is 56 d. On avers6e. the sound level in the
evening is 6-7 dB(A) lower than in theL daytice.and is 50 dt(A). Cospared
to the international criterria, the sound level is lower in the daytime
and hisher in the evening.
b) Forecast of acoustics environment
Wi'th the grovth of vehicle flow,the sound level along the route will
be raised and the inrluenced scope will be enlarged uninterruptedly. The
sound level of twenty-six sensitive points 8long the vay vill exeevd the
starndrd 10 d(A) in the evening. IL's estiaated that residLnLs within
Lheranse or 30-0   from the rod  will  be effected se%rely.  hlius they
should be relocated or somudproof wall should be built for them. See the
special report on noise for details.
(4) Vibration
The calculated  values L. for environumtal - vibtion  current
situation are basically below 70 dB(A). Afrer completion of hishway. its
effected swope is mainly within 30 a. Anti-vibraLien ditches wa.y te
diaed ror the area hich should be protecd Particularly. For ordinary
areas. it will reach Lhe slandard so long as som  treatents to .revont
the vibration have done to draina:e gutte- on each side of hishway.
(5) Los of water and ersion or suil 
. F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a



Now the water and soil are maintained better for the section of arm
alons the route. Commly the vegetation is better and ost or sloping
lands are treated as terrace. The district belonss to the slisht area or
soil erosion.The loaB of water and erosion or soil will be caused during
the Expressway construction. however.the extent of erosion has somethins
to do with the Protection measures at the time of dimging. After earth-
covering and arforesting are done to construction site while the
completion of Expressway. the loss or water afid ercsion or soil will
return to its former level.
6.1.2 Conclusions
(1) Tne Quanziou-Xiamn Section is the busiest sea:ticn or area in
Fujian  Province. The construction  or  1xpreswy  is of   mentous
signiricance ror eco nic development or Fuian province. especially ror
Xiamen. Quanzhou and Zhargzhou Delta  district. Twreore.  it's  very
esntial to construct the Quanhou-Xiamen SecLion or Fuziou-Xiarcn
*4PresswY.
(2) ConstrucLion of F hou-Xiamm Expreswa  has a cerLain iiuavt rn
* environment.  owver. since  Lhe Expressway absorbs a great rbir cr
vehicle riow or orisinal Fuzhou-Xiamen highway so as to  re'i iee the
environmental Pollution of existing Fuzhoi-Xianen highway area. and Ltk
emission voluw  frcor  a single vehicle on Expreswdy  is  less  tar  the
present one. on thK. whole,Athe Expressw construction is advantwveus Lto
en ironment.
(- Ilhe Quarnhou-Xiamen Section or FuzhWu-Xiai-n EzpresswaY sh;uld Lbe
fir away ro rsidentiial areas as possible to roduce the deooli1t .n a:;c
relocation dIuring the route selection. The guiding principle or avoidimn
the envirmmLenal sensitive points is correct, the route aligoanm   is
reasonable.
1-28 -
a~~~~~ .4                       .  



(4) By the lnvestlatlon an residents alao   the wi. the msses
suart the construction of Expressw. So long as the relocaLion of the
residents is done well, the Exprsway will min the suppwts from  the
broad ases of people.
(5) The route section of Xiahouxi In Ridke  Xlaoyinlinr  brinss  the
asses strong reaction, and can mnke harmful effects on noise.vibration,
atmsphere and sunlight. It's sugeted that the route should be given
thorough cowaration again to avoid the village.
(6) Froi the above asment,  it my  be concluded  that  the
construction of QCai-Xiaien Section of Fuzhou-Xiaeen Expressway  is
feasible on environmt arter the environmenLal Protection wmasures have
been realized accring to the section menlioned above.
6.2  Coutweresures and Sugstions for Lhe Envirunmental Protec:tion
Countermes ror the environmental Prolection have been set forth
in above different sections. This section chooses its highlights to
expound according te contruclion and operation periods.
6.2.1 Construction Perid or ExPriessw
(1) The traffic  or Lhe existing highway. whar.  the Exprvsuvay
intersects the cmrent rWiu-Xiamn highway and its chief branch roads.
must be influenwcd while building the Expressway.especially at the si tes
of interchange construction as ChengzhouPuIi.Lengtou and Hw'.n.for iL:s
present trarfic is very busy. So at these sections or the area . the
construction  makeshift  rads6  mast be builL  in  the mmnwhilt  4ir
Epress;w consructLion to keep the existing highway soot:hly: ;n L.Ow
oLher hand.  onsideration  should Pay atmention  to   con.xntZraHi
construction to raiic  the buildins period Possibly  and relieve  the
imPacts on enviroment.
(2) Construction-noise
-129 -



The constructIon fieldl mst be over 50 a away frrm rosidentlal
areas. For the arias not to guarantee to do so. the construction should
be stopped from 22 to 6 o'clock at nisht because niose cauSed by the
bulldozer. roller or mIxer 50   away from the road still oes beynd 65
dB and Influences rest of Inhabitants nearby severeXlY. Thererore the
construction mat come to a halt at night while Lhe road section of
working is less than 50 a from residenLial areas.
* (3) Atmospheric pollution
Parts of pavements of the Expressway Section ar2 paved with asphalt.
Since the asphalt smoke and dust 3re very poisonous and will originate
fro  the heating and boiling.  the asphalt prceossing must Lbe  taken
sealing plant mix method with dust-remcved equipments. This kind or
processing nst be done at the, site far away from the., residentia[ arme.s
whose distance is not less Lhan I Km. then the asphalL is-carried to the
designated spots with no heating soure-e lorry.
Due to the sixing of building materials at Uth .-oad setLion of
construction. the LransporLt fr earLhwork and stxne wi l cause clouis of
dusL flying up. especia I IY whi 11 weather s:orc.hing, aL the constructLior.
site. the dust..of earth wiill be easier Lo fly up.flowever.ir the sprayers
are used to spray at roa3d stLion of construcLior.  the dust4-erallini
amunt will decrese 702 or so. lhusLthe sprayer should be allocated to
work in a reglar time while constructing at Lhe pw.   near t  thie
residenLial areas.
(4t) Camp buildings
The construction or this  Exprossivy  SctLicn  ne'idis wry building
personnel, amounting to 16.09 zillion  man-dins. So aL th  camp buildirn
there should set up the Ihree-stage sepLic tank and  Lhe asm  hall tb
food and dink  ccncentrically.  In order  Lo  trawusort rubbishes  tU.
-120--



speciallud pots perlodiclly for covring up. the tePs ry  heapIng
fields for garba  should be foundad too.
The cap bulldin  should pay attention to opideic prevention. The
peasant workers mt rneive health  exina tion  and  Propth lactlc
Inoculation before employmnt. The mdical room nust be seL up at bluer.
concentrative cae.
(5) Resident relocation
Resident relocation is the rat event inrluencing powple's  lire
directly. and also is the most imortant utter concerned by our Party
and People's oerunt.  After the construction  or Expressway bUs
ratified. relative authority must work out the executive schime ror
resident relocation at once to give adequate Lcopenstion  accoding to
the relevant policy of our counry, and slove the employment problae; of
concerned personnel. The cowpcnsation costs should be del ivered Lo the
relocated ramilies in the entire sum.
6.2.2 Opation Period or Expressway
(1) The vehicle rlow of the Exp.,assway will rise year by year.
therefore. the noise and astwpheric  Polluticns becowe mare serious
yearly. Whn the Expressway is being built, it's neiLher economic nor
possible Lo comtruct all the pratection .easures.So the maor sensitive
points ust be monitored avery year. and steps as building acoutic wall
and relocatins residents Qmt L. tLaktn to the areas which 80 beyond the
standard. Te measu    are  ;sential to  rouc- th  contradiction
between lhe Expresswy and residents along the route to proWcLt the
environwent and invelp the ecnw.
(2) With the help of governwent sectors. the 'wo sides or the
Expressw  are inltnded to be isolation area. ad aren't pnitwd  to
build schools and residetial areas.Crops in two sides of the way should
-131-



be dhanged into planting tlh econoic kind to reduce the Pb polluLlon on
(3) At the miction of rea  which is leos than 50 m awy from  the
residential area. the truwet should be forbidden to blow while the
vehicle speed limited and the evenness of PavemenL kept.
(4) To strengthen the afforesttIon. See the concrete measures on
Section 4.4.4.
Appdix:
1. Fujian Provincial Comnications Planning and Design  InsLitutL
POD[) "Preliminary Feasibility Stuy Reort on Lhe Quanzhou-Xiamen
Expressyay Section of Fuzhou-Xisnen Highway Project" (ugust.1990).
2. 'Suwlementary Report to the Preliminary  Feasibility Studies on
the Ouanzhou-Xiamen Expeswa Section or Fuzhou-Xiauen Highwa Project"
editted by FPCPDI. Ofay.1991)
3. "Engineering Feasibility  Study Report on  Lhe Qmnzhou-Xiamen
Expressway Section or Fuzhou-Xiamen Hishway Project" and its attachments
prepared by FPCPDI. (Deember. 1991)
4. "Supplementary Report to the EFginecring Feasibi 1ity Studies on
the Quan0hou-Xiain  xpressway Section or Fuzhou-Xiasen Hishwa Project"
by FPCPDI. (ay.1992)
5. "Plan and Vertical Prorilo icp or the Quanzhou-Xiamn Expressway
Section of Fuzhou-Xiamen Hishway" by PPCPDI.
6. "The Cliiae Data or Jinjians in Fujian Province" oadiLlm by
Fujian Provincial Climate Bureau.
7. "The Climate Data of Quanzhou  in  Fujian  Province"  by Fujian
Provincial Climate Bureau.
8. "The Cliamte Data or Taon'an in Fujian Province" by Fujian
-132 -
A-1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--



Provincial Clinte Burmau.
9. "Ihe Cl bote  Dlto  or  Nhn'an  In  FuJlan  Province"  by  FuJian
Provincial Cllimte Bureau.
10. "The Cl inte Data  of  Xlamen  in  FuJian  Province"  by  FuJian
Pr'ovincial Clitae Bureau.
11. "Cowilation of the  Excellent  Environi.ntul  Iwaict  Reports'
editted by State Environment Protection Bureau. O(ovember.1990)
12. "Environmental [mact Assessnt Report on the Uu=ngwhou-ShxnzhWn
Expressway Project" by Environment Science Research Institute or South
China. (February.1990)
13. "Environental impact Asstxmment ReLport on  the  lhutirOfu-Ningbo
Expressway  bY  Zheijiang  Provincial  Environuntal  Protection  Science
Research Institute. Oby.1990)
14. "Environmental lxpc'. Report on the  YairenrLuuyar;g  Eiwressway
Section (new-built. hair-width)  or  National  llighwaw  310"  by   llnan
Prvincial Environmental Protection Science Research Institute.   (June.
1989)
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



