Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3681 CHA
(Fujian Provincial Highway Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
FUJIAN PROVINCE
Dated April 25, 1994
LOAN NUMBER 3681 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 25, 1994, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and FUJIAN PROVINCE (FP).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between People's Republic of 
China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to one hundred forty million dollars ($140,000,000), on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that FP 
agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS FP, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement with 
the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the General Conditions (as so defined) and the preamble to this 
Page  2
Agreement have the respective meanings therein and herein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) FP declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, and 
engineering practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, 
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and FP shall otherwise agree, FP shall carry out the Project in 
accordance with the Implementation
Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. FP shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) FP shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with the 
Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under 
this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
FP shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of Loan, or the performance by FP of its obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) FP shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of FP responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
FP shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months 
after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and 
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
Page  3
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of FP 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify FP thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be 
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to 
which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party's address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The addresses so 
specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA),
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC),
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For FP:
Fujian Provincial Financial Bureau
Foreign Economic & Financial Department
43 Ye Shan Road
Fuzhou 350003
Fujian Province
People's Republic of China
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of FP, or by FP 
on behalf of the Borrower under
the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by the Governor or Vice-Governor of FP or 
such other person or persons as the Governor or Vice-Governor of FP shall designate in 
writing, and FP shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the 
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
Page  4
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Nicholas Hope
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
FUJIAN PROVINCE
By /s/ Li Daoyu
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods, under Parts A.2 and C(i) of the 
Project, and works, under Parts A.1(a) excluding 3 kilometers section between 
Kilometer 13 and Kilometer 16 and A.1(c) of the Project, shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a)
For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 
2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the 
original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for 
each week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one 
to be applied to all foreign currency components and the other to the local currency 
component of the bid price.  Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the 
bid evaluation. 
(b)
In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with this Part A, the 
Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with 
such modifications thereto as the
Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the Project.  Where no 
relevant standard bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall 
use bidding documents based on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed 
with the Bank.
2.
Bidders for civil works under Parts A.1(a) and A.1(c) of the Project shall be 
prequalified as provided in paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in the People's Republic of China may be granted a 
margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 
2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Preference for Domestic Contractors
 
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference to domestic contractors in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
Page  5
1.
Equipment under Parts C(ii) and C(iii) of the Project shall be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at 
least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Bank.
2.
Civil works under Part B of the Project shall be carried out under contracts 
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with 
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
Part E:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of prequalification:
 
With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided in Part A.2 hereof, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods, estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $200,000 or more, and civil works, estimated to cost the equivalent of $3,000,000 
or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 
2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of 
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan Account are to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure.
3.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist FP in carrying out the construction supervision, study, and 
training programs under the Project, FP shall employ consultants whose qualifications, 
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. 
Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures 
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank 
in August 1981.  For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such 
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants' 
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the 
Bank.  Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the 
Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with the Bank.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.
FP shall, under the general supervision and guidance of the Ministry of 
Communications (or any successor thereto) of the Borrower, carry out the Project as 
follows:
(a)
Part A of the Project shall be the responsibility of the Fujian 
Provincial Expressway Construction Directorate Office (FPECDO), an agency of FP, or 
Page  6
any successor thereto;
(b)
Part B of the Project shall be the responsibility of the Fujian 
Provincial Highway Administration Bureau (FPHAB), a sub-division of the Fujian 
Provincial Transport Department (FPTD), or any successor thereto;
(c)
Part C of the Project shall be the responsibility of FPECDO and FPHAB; 
and
(d)
Part D of the Project shall be the responsibility of FPTD or any 
successor thereto.
2.
FP declares its commitment to the preservation of the environment and, to this 
end, shall, in respect of Parts A and B of the Project, carry out the environmental 
protection measures stipulated in the Environmental Action Plans, both dated March 
1993, as amended on July 16, 1993, prepared by FPECDO and FPHAB respectively, in a 
manner satisfactory to the Bank.
3.
FP declares its commitment to the Bank's policy on resettlement, and, to this 
end, shall carry out: (a) the land acquisition and resettlement activities, in respect 
of Parts A and B of the Project, pursuant to the Resettlement Action Plans, dated 
September 1993 and March 1993 (as amended on July 16, 1993), prepared by FPECDO and 
FPHAB respectively, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) the resettlement 
monitoring program (aimed at determining the effectiveness and socio-economic impact 
of each resettlement) set out in the said Resettlement Action Plans, in consultation 
with the Bank.
4.
FP shall carry out training under Part D of the Project in accordance with terms 
of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
5.
FP shall undertake and, by July 31, 1997, complete and submit to the Bank for 
review, a study on toll rate for Xiamen-Quanzhou highway, in accordance with terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Bank.
6.
FP shall: (a) establish and maintain, within its Highway Administration Bureau, 
a Road Network Improvement Program Unit (RNIPU) for the purposes of providing overall 
management and supervision of the implementation of Part B of the Project; (b) 
adequately staff the RNIPU with qualified and experienced personnel and provide other 
necessary resources to enable it to achieve its purposes; and (c) adequately staff the 
transport administrations at the municipal prefectural and county level with qualified 
and experienced personnel and provide other necessary resources for the preparation 
and execution of the Sub-projects. 
7.
FP shall: (a) undertake and, by June 30, 1995, complete a study of the 
provincial road construction industry in accordance with terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank, (b) establish a Steering Committee and a Technical 
Coordination Group to provide guidance to the study group and review the findings and 
recommendations thereof, and (c) take appropriate steps to implement the study's 
recommendations, including the formulation of an action plan therefor, taking into 
account the views thereon of the Bank.
