                   INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET
                           APPRAISAL STAGE

I. Basic Information
Date prepared/updated: 07/09/2012                                    Report No.: 71251
1. Basic Project Data
Original Project ID: P110446                  Original Project Name: Malawi Third
                                              Social Action Fund (MASAF 3) APL II
                                              (LDF Mechanism)
Country: Malawi                               Project ID: P131648
Project Name: Second Additional Financing for the Third Social Action Fund Project
Task Team Leader: Ida Manjolo
Estimated Appraisal Date: May 15, 2012        Estimated Board Date: July 19, 2012
Managing Unit: AFTSE                          Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program
                                              Loan
Sector: Public administration- Other social services (100%)
Theme: Social safety nets (100%)
IBRD Amount (US$m.):             0
IDA Amount (US$m.):             50
GEF Amount (US$m.):              0
PCF Amount (US$m.):              0
Other financing amounts by source:
         BORROWER/RECIPIENT                                             0.00
                                                                        0.00
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment
Simplified Processing                         Simple []           Repeater []
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery)
                                                                   Yes [X]      No [ ]
or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies)

2. Project Objectives
The Project Development Objective is to improve the livelihoods of poor and vulnerable
households and to strengthen the capacity of authorities to manage local development.

3. Project Description
1. The Second Additional Financing would focus on expanding Component 1 in its
coverage, number of days, daily wage amount and number of projects per community
including linkages to the COMSIP.

 (a)    Component 1: Community Livelihoods Support Fund
 (i)   Local Authority Window
 Public Works Sub-Projects Program (US$42.755million).

 2. The proposed AF would support a scale-up of the public works through financing the
public works subprojects (PWSP) component. It would increase coverage with to
385,000 Household (about 3 million people) over a period of one year. The Second
Additional Financing for MASAF includes provisions for Direct Support for up to 20
percent of the total beneficiaries from labor constrained households who will not be able
to engage in Public Work activities. These include children and elderly heads of
households and household heads with disabilities and or chronic illnesses. The current
design and implementation of the MASAF already allows for the inclusion of HHs
unable to work by requiring that the attendance of a Household member be present at the
work site for light activities. MASAF monitoring and evaluation estimates that this
group under its current implementation varies from community to community and can
range from 5 percent to 15 percent of the participants and transfers in a community. This
group of direct support beneficiaries will be identified through the existing community
based targeting mechanism at the local level. The direct support beneficiaries will also
receive same wages like that of the rest of the PW beneficiaries.

  3. The World Bank proposes to contribute US$ 50.0 million through additional
financing by scaling up public works programs of MASAF/Local Development Fund
(LDF) which will be able to cover cash transfer to 578,125 households and the associated
capital costs and the costs of administration and delivery. The IDA allocation includes
PW payment budget of US$ 33.75 million (68 percent of total budget; 15 percent of
transfer budget for capital costs of public works (PWs), equivalent to US$ 6.75 million, 5
percent of transfer budget to cover administration cost for implementing districts,
equivalent to US$ 2.2; 5 percent of the transfer budget equivalent to US$ 2.25 million to
support the complementary COMSIP activities. In addition 10 percent of the overall
budget equivalent to US$ 5 million would be allocated to cover the management and
administration cost of the Technical Support Team (TST) of the MASAF LDF.

 4. The public works would benefit whole communities and a multiple number of
community works would be conducted per community over this period of time based on
the operations and implementation manual of MASAF/LDF.

  5. The public work activities will be implemented during the slack season of major
livelihood/agriculture activities and when the beneficiaries have the most need for
additional income to cover their family needs including food and non-food expenditures
and in puts for agricultural activities. Following the existing implementation modality of
MASAF, the public works activities supported through this additional financing will be
implemented in two cycles i.e. July – December 2012 and April – June 2013.

 ii) Community Window (US$ 2.25 million)

 6. To ensure the continuity of the complementary community saving activities and the
culture of savings by communities encouraged in the MASAF program an additional
budget of UD$2.25 million would be allocated for the COMSIP component. This
additional support will strengthen the existing efforts and would ensure that the activities
continue during the scaled up PW implementation. This component would continue to be
implemented through existing arrangements by the COMSIP Promotion Cooperative
Union.
 b) National Institutional Strengthening (NIS) Fund (US$5 million)

 7. The component will finance national-level cross-cutting issues aimed at improving
accountability and transparency in the use of project resources. It will have two
subcomponents: (i) Technical Support Team (TST) to oversee project implementation,
and (ii) Knowledge Generation and Application to strengthen community participation in
project implementation and to document community experiences with service delivery.
This component will facilitate the dissemination of national guidelines for use by Local
Authorities and Community Organizations in project implementation, and strengthen
community-level fiduciary and accountability mechanisms.

4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard
analysis
8. The MASAF 3 APL II, the Original Project, and the First Additional Financing are
implemented in all the districts in the country. As a the second Additional Financing will
be scaling up the activities of the Public Works Subproject Program currently funded by
the Original Project, the proposed second Additional Financing will also be in all the
districts.

5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists
   Mr Cheikh A. T. Sagna (AFTCS)

6. Safeguard Policies Triggered                              Yes         No
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01)                         X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                            X
Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                          X
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                     X
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11)                                 X
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10)                                          X
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                         X
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                              X
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50)                         X
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60)                                  X

II. Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project.
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts:
1. The original project has an Environmental and Social Category B classification and
this remains the same for the both the first and the Second Additional Financing. The
original Project triggered only three safeguard policies, namely OP 4.01, OP4.09 and
OP4.12. The same policies are triggered by the Second Additional Financing investments
and will be addressed, in a similar manner and with the same tools as those prepared for
the original project i.e., the Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF).
The ESMF was prepared and disclosed in country and in the Bank's InfoShop for
MASAF 3 APL II in April 15, 2008. This ESMF had been re-disclosed in-country on
May 28, 2010 and in the Bank's InfoShop on May 27, 2010 and was used for the first
Additional Financing. As the proposed Additional Financing will only scale up the
activities under the public works subprojects program (PWSP) of the Original Project, the
same ESMF re-disclosed on May 25, 2012 in-country and on May 22, 2012 at the
Infoshop will be used to guide implementation of safeguards. The ESMPs produced to
date have been disclosed in-country and at the InfoShop. The Second Additional
Financing allocated for public works will target sub-projects that increase community
assets and also those that enhance communities' natural resource management awareness
and skills. Nonetheless, an estimated amount to mitigate any identified social and
environmental concerns will be included in sub-project budgets. In addition, the project
has set aside resources for further capacity enhancement at all levels.

 2. Social impacts are expected to be positive, with project activities gradually leading to
an improved quality of life for food-insecure and vulnerable groups by enhancing their
access to social and economic opportunities. In addition to the advantages accruing
directly to the target beneficiaries, there will be increased economic activity in the area
surrounding the sub-project site and in the rural economy. Public works beneficiaries will
be selected through community-based participatory methods as in the case of the original
project, which have been found to reach the intended beneficiaries successfully, as
confirmed in the MASAF 3 APL II public works program baseline analysis and the
Beneficiary Assessment (2012).

  3. Due to the fact that small works might be required under individual subprojects that
may lead to loss of access to assets, OP 4.12 was triggered by the Original Project. Given
that the Additional Financing would finance similar investments that might require small
works that that may lead to loss of access to assets, OP 4.12 is also triggered by the
Additional Financing. To attend to the requirements of OP 4.12 under the original
Project, the borrower prepared a comprehensive Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF),
to guide the preparation of individual resettlement action plans (RAPs) under individual
sub-projects where necessary. To date there have been no subprojects funded from the
credit proceeds requiring land acquisition and thus no RAPs/ARAPs have been prepared.
The RPF also facilitates the mainstreaming of community involvement at each
appropriate subproject implementation stage and provides detailed social safeguards
policies and procedural guidance. The same RPF will also be used to meet the
requirements of OP 4.12 with respect to small works that may impact community access
to assets under sub-projects supported under the Second Additional Financing. All social
issues will also be reported accordingly. This instrument is to be applied in tandem with
the ESMF for the Second Additional Financing investments. Ongoing support on the
social safeguards side will be provided during implementation of the Second Additional
Financing in close collaboration with the Bank's social safeguards expert assigned to this
Project. The RPF was re-disclosed in-country on May 25, 2012 and at the Infoshop on
May 22, 2012.

 4. The Second Additional Financing would focus on scaling up labor intensive civil
works under the first component: (1) Community Livelihoods Support Fund Component
of the Local Authority Window. While the exact type and location of sub-projects will
be chosen by communities, possible kinds of sub-projects include but are not limited to:
 (i) Forestry and Agro-forestry projects to increase area under forestry cover, agro-
forestry and fruit tree production,
 (ii) Construction, rehabilitation and maintenance of rural feeder roads and market access
roads,
 (iii) Drainage improvement including dykes,
 (iv) Soil and water conservation activities; and
 (v) Harnessing of water – construction and rehabilitation of reservoirs, and connections
to gravity fed water schemes and kiosks.

 5. OP 4.09: The project will finance agricultural input subsidies and farm inputs to
improve productivity which may include the purchase, distribution, application and
disposal of pesticides. The project ESMF accounts for such sub-projects and provides
specific guidance on screening, assessment, impact mitigation and adoption of integrated
pest management (IPM) methodologies following WHO guidelines and international best
practice. The revised ESMF will address the main considerations of this OP with respect
to those project investments and subprojects that involve pesticide use.

 6. OP 4.36: While MASAF 1 and MASAF 2 focused primarily on the delivery of social
and economic infrastructure in support of the government's poverty reduction targets, the
MASAF 3 program is distinguished by its emphasis on: (i) improving the capacity of
communities to effectively manage sub-project cycle activities and participate in local
development in a meaningful way; (ii) enhancing the capacity of local authorities to
deliver services; and (iii) acting as a catalyst for enhancing local government systems as
part of the country's decentralization agenda. Under Component 1: Community
Livelihood Support Fund, the menu of possible investments include reforestation and tree
felling activities.

  Under MASAF III, in the past 5 years, reforestation activities have yielded a total of
1.44 million ha in reforested areas across the country. The intention and practice, to date,
is for communities to harvest the indigenous species used in the reforestation activities
for household use to decrease deforestation and degradation of primary forests. Indeed, in
an effort to promote environmental sustainability, the project design mandates that a
minimum of 20% of the resources used by the communities from this Fund be applied to
environmental enhancement subprojects such as the aforementioned reforestation
activities. Under this Additional Financing, since the current cumulative impact of the
MASAF III reforestation activities are relatively large in scale with respect to tree
planting and harvesting, and since the focus of the Additional Financing is to
significantly scale up Component 1 activities, including reforestation and harvesting
activities, OP 4.36 is triggered.

  Note, this OP was not previously triggered as it was not envisioned to be involve such a
large area overall. Since OP 4.36 is now triggered, the Borrower will update the
previously approved project ESMF to reflect the core considerations of this OP and
include guidelines for preparation of forest management plans for each community that
uses this Fund for reforestation and harvesting activities.

2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area:
No significant indirect and/or long-term impacts associated with the project are expected.

3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize
adverse impacts.
N/A

4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described.
1. The ESMF provides a step-by-step description on how to identify sub-projects that
might have potential environmental and social risks (e.g. those under the Public Works
Subproject Program component and under the COMSIP), and plan, implement and
monitor the necessary mitigation and/or preventive measures.

  2. The Mid Term Review in January 2012 noted that the negative environmental
impacts that have resulted from the implementation of a few sub-projects are localized,
minimal, short term and can be mitigated. They include disturbance of soil from digging
of foundations and pits, vegetation clearing during site establishment, brick molding, and
excavation of sand from river beds and quarrying for quarry stone which leaves scars on
the land that need rectifying. Missions had noted that for safeguards, there was
inadequate facilitation, inadequate processing of documentation at some subprojects' sites
and inadequate monitoring of environmental and social issues resulting from inadequate
capacity of professional staff to spearhead environment and social issues at the district
level. At MTR, the rating for safeguards was MU. However, as noted by the preparation
mission, progress has been made and for safeguards it includes: (i) most of the previously
vacant Environmental District Officer positions have been filled; and (ii) the Technical
Support Team had carried out the orientation of the 27 Environmental District Officers
now in place and the district environmental subcommittee members to enhance their
understanding of environmental assessment and monitoring at all stages of the sub-
project cycle to ensure full compliance with the Original Project's covenants. All
members of the District Environmental Sub-committee were also orientated on
safeguards. Following the May 2012 preparation mission for the second additional
financing, the government has prepared a comprehensive status report showing progress
made on the Safeguard issues that were highlighted during the MTR mission and has put
into place clear action plans for addressing the remaining issues. As such the safeguards
work is considered to be Moderately Satisfactory at this time and presents a minor to
moderate risk to the proposed operation. The good efforts in enhancing safeguards
compliance will be further supported through continuous safeguards capacity building
training workshop to all key stakeholders.

 3. In order to enhance the capacity of staff at district level to effectively support
communities during supervision of environmental and social safeguards aspects of their
subprojects, training was instituted countrywide. The training aimed at increasing
awareness that documentation and reporting on safeguards was important throughout the
subproject cycle. The mission noted that by August 2011, eleven subject matter
specialists per district had been trained as trainers in environmental safeguards, to enable
them to cascade the training downwards to the extension workers who would then further
train the stakeholders on the ground. Specific points of training included:
  a)    the ESMF and the RPF;
  b)    public awareness, environmental inspections;
  c)    audits and monitoring of physical infrastructure;
  d)    checking that the community activities are in line with District Environmental
Action Plans and
  e)    implementable guidelines for appraisal and enforcement mechanisms.

  4. The District subject matter specialists who were trained are now aware and
conversant with their requirements. They are also aware of the project's ESMF and RPF.
The project screening process is done and the screening forms are in use. The project
management committees are appraised on cross-cutting issues including environmental
issues prior to sub-project implementation, deliberate application of the environmental
safeguards has taken off although not in a uniform manner mainly because of the price
increases of construction materials causing subproject budget overruns. The budget
overruns lead to identified mitigation measures not being undertaken fully. The Technical
Support Team of the LDF has included the cost of implementing the environmental
mitigation plans as a separate cost item in the subproject budget.

 5. Experience from MASAF 3 APL II points to the need for improvements to the
safeguards process to address a number of key issues that may undermine the effective
and efficient delivery of environmental and social management under the Project. These
will include:
 a)     Engage a consultant to assess and document compliance in environmental and
social safeguards in existing projects;
 b)     Launch a Social and Environmental Audit and if any need for land is identified
under MASAF's subprojects then the guidance in the RPF will suffice and RAPs will be
prepared where necessary; disseminate the Findings of Social and Environmental Audit
study; and, develop a Safeguards Action Plan for implementing findings of the Social and
Environmental audit report;
 c)     A subproject screening process will be refined by streamlining and clarifying
guidance. This will involve revising the screening checklist (which will be included in the
Operational Manual) to be much simpler and sector specific rather than the generic
checklist used during the original Project;
 d)     Ensuring the presence of a dedicated and well-trained safeguards team within
TST for coordinating safeguards; implementation, monitoring and reporting. This will be
done through enhancing the capacity of the existing team and engagement of a safeguards
consultant;
 e)     Developing and enhancing capacity in implementing Local Councils to facilitate
implementation of the safeguards process;
 f)    Providing resources for implementation of safeguards mitigation measures at
subproject level; and
 g)Developing monitoring indicators for safeguards implementation and compliance.

5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
The key stakeholders include: communities, civil society organizations, national and
district level administration. Extensive consultations were undertaken. The main issues
raised were to do with the need for more time for information sharing, regarding projects,
capacity building at national, district and community levels on the ESMF, the RPF,
development of ESMPs and RAPs, and monitoring of safeguards compliance. On
capacity building, the MASAF – LDF Technical Support Team started under the
implementation of the original and the first additional financing.



B. Disclosure Requirements Date
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other:
  Was the document disclosed prior to appraisal?                   Yes
  Date of receipt by the Bank                                  05/27/2010
  Date of "in-country" disclosure                              05/28/2010
  Date of submission to InfoShop                               05/22/2012
  For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive
  Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process:
  Was the document disclosed prior to appraisal?                   Yes
  Date of receipt by the Bank                                  05/27/2010
  Date of "in-country" disclosure                              05/28/2010
  Date of submission to InfoShop                               05/22/2012
Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework:
  Was the document disclosed prior to appraisal?
  Date of receipt by the Bank
  Date of "in-country" disclosure
  Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:
  Was the document disclosed prior to appraisal?                   Yes
  Date of receipt by the Bank                                  05/22/2012
  Date of "in-country" disclosure                              05/25/2012
  Date of submission to InfoShop                               05/22/2012
* If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources,
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental
Assessment/Audit/or EMP.
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please
explain why:
At Preparation of MASAF 3 APL II some documentation was done although limited
since the project was not directly financing the purchase of agricultural inputs or the
purchase of pesticides. However a Pesticides Management Control Programme was
included in the project's Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF) as
Annex 7.


C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting)

OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report?                 No
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM)             No
review and approve the EA report?
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the             Yes
credit/loan?
OP 4.09 - Pest Management
Does the EA adequately address the pest management issues?                        Yes
Is a separate PMP required?                                                       N/A
If yes, has the PMP been reviewed and approved by a safeguards specialist or      N/A
SM? Are PMP requirements included in project design? If yes, does the
project team include a Pest Management Specialist?
OP/BP 4.12 - Involuntary Resettlement
Has a resettlement plan/abbreviated plan/policy framework/process                 Yes
framework (as appropriate) been prepared?
If yes, then did the Regional unit responsible for safeguards or Sector           Yes
Manager review the plan?
OP/BP 4.36 - Forests
Has the sector-wide analysis of policy and institutional issues and constraints   Yes
been carried out?
Does the project design include satisfactory measures to overcome these           Yes
constraints?
Does the project finance commercial harvesting, and if so, does it include        No
provisions for certification system?
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's          Yes
Infoshop?
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a          Yes
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected
groups and local NGOs?
All Safeguard Policies
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities       Yes
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard
policies?
  Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project   Yes
  cost?
  Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the           Yes
  monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies?
  Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the             Yes
  borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal
  documents?


  D. Approvals

Signed and submitted by:                               Name                        Date
Task Team Leader:                   Ms Ida Manjolo                               06/18/2012
Environmental Specialist:
Social Development Specialist       Mr Cheikh A. T. Sagna                        06/18/2012
Additional Environmental and/or
Social Development Specialist(s):

Approved by:
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:    Ms Alexandra C. Bezeredi                     07/08/2012
  Comments:
Sector Manager:                     Mr John A. Elder                             06/25/2012
  Comments:
