 IEG
                                                                                              Report Number: ICRR14808

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 08/31/2015

               Country: Malawi
             Project ID: P110446                                                  Appraisal              Actual
         Project Name: Malawi Third Social           Project Costs (US$M):                    51.0                110.9
                         Action Fund (masaf 3)
                         Apl Ii (ldf Mechan
  L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                     50.0                115.7
      Sector Board:      Social Protection            Cofinancing (US$M):

           Cofinanciers:                               Board Approval Date :                                 06/20/2008
                                                              Closing Date:               09/30/2013         06/30/2014
          Sector(s):       Other social services (46%); General education sector (30%); Central government
                           administration (11%); General agriculture; fishing and forestry sector (10%); Sub-national
                           government administration (3%)
         Theme(s):         Participation and civic engagement (33%); Social safety nets (33%); Decentralization (17%);
                           Other public sector governance (17%)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:           ICR Review                 Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Hjalte S. A. Sederlof      Judyth L. Twigg        Lourdes N. Pagaran         IEGPS2

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    The project was the second phase of a three-phase Adjustable Program Loan (APL) intended to cover the period
    2003-2015. The objectives of the overall program, as set out on page 26 in the Project Appraisal Document
    (PAD) for the first phase of the APL, are to achieve capacity building for improved service delivery by
    communities, Local Governments and Sector Ministries within the Malawi Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
    (MPRSP), with decentralization as a key strategy, so that Malawi can achieve its Millennium Development Goals
    (MDG).

    The Project Development Objective (PDO) set out in the Financing Agreement (p. 5) and in the Project Appraisal
    Document (PAD, p. 9) was to improve the livelihoods of poor households within the framework of improved local
    governance at community, local authority, and national levels.

    The PDO was revised on June 15, 2010: to improve the livelihoods of poor and vulnerable households and to
    strengthen the capacity of local authorities to manage local development.

    The two formulations of the PDO are substantively the same, and therefore a split evaluation is not required.


b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
Yes
 Date of Board Approval: 06/15/2010
c. Components:

   Project funds were to be channeled through a national Local Development Fund (LDF) to local level LDFs. Each
   local LDF had three windows to receive funding from various budget lines under the national LDF. Those
   windows constituted the components of the project:

   Component 1: Community Livelihood Support Fund (estimated cost at appraisal US$ 40 million; Additional
   funding 1 (AF1) US$ 12.2 million; Additional financing 2 (AF2) US$ 45.0 million; actual cost US$ 96.7 million).
   The component had two sub-components:
   (a) Local Authority Fund : Based on local councils’ annual investment plans developed through a participatory
   planning process at the village level, the sub-component was to finance small labor-intensive infrastructure
   projects. Workers were to be selected from poor households, and were to receive a daily wage of MK 200 for 12
   days of work to address food security-related shocks that affect such households around the time they need to
   purchase agricultural inputs, grains, and other basic necessities.
   (b) Community Fund: The Fund was to support community-level participatory planning and community financing
   to improve existing education services, essentially by constructing teachers’ houses and additional classrooms.
   It also was to help promote community savings and investment initiatives, especially among participants in
   community works programs, including providing training in savings and revolving credit for community savings
   groups.
   Component 2: Local Authority Capacity Enhancement Fund (estimated cost at appraisal US$ 5 million; AF1 US$
   0.3 million, AF2 US$ 0.0 million; actual cost US$ 3.8 million). The component was to support the development of
   capacity of local authorities in managing grants, including functions under the Bank project, and preparing them
   for new responsibilities as fiscal devolution proceeds and more resources become available under the LDF or
   other longer-term Government grant arrangements. Part of this work had already been started with support of
   German assistance and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). The component was to
   systematically assess current capacities and establish capacity benchmarks within government systems for
   regular assessments, provide capacity building support to local authorities, and support the design and piloting of
   a grant mechanism. During the first year of project implementation, central agencies and local authorities were to
   develop and agree on appropriate criteria for measuring local authorities’ performance.
   Component 3: National Institutional Strengthening Fund (estimated cost at appraisal US$ 5 million; AF1 US$ 2.2
   million, AF2 US$ 5.0 million; actual cost US$ 12.1 million). The component was to finance national-level
   cross-cutting means of improving accountability and transparency in the use of project resources. It was to have
   two subcomponents:
   (a) A Technical Support Team to oversee project implementation; and
   (b) Knowledge Generation and Application to strengthen community participation in project implementation and
   to document community experiences with service delivery. This component was to facilitate the dissemination of
   national guidelines for use by local authorities and community organizations in project implementation, and
   strengthen community-level fiduciary and accountability mechanisms.


d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

   Project costs. Total project costs were estimated at US$ 51.0 million including contingencies of US$ 2.5 million
   at appraisal, and at US$ 115.7 million when including two Additional Financings (AFs) of US$ 14.0 million and
   US$ 50 million, respectively, and additional community co-financing of US$ 0.7 million. Actual costs at closing
   were US$ 110.9 million, reflecting an undisbursed amount of US$ 5.6 million from the IDA credits/grants and an
   increase of US$ 1.1 million in community counterpart financing. The shortfall in final IDA spending reflects
   exchange rate fluctuations.

   Project financing. The Bank provided US$ 114 million in IDA credit and grant funds, of which US$ 108.4 million
   was spent. Communities provided US$ 2.8 million in co-financing.
   The first AF (AF1) of US$ 14 million in IDA funds from the Crisis Response Window (CRW) was approved on
   June 15, 2010, in response to the impact of the international economic crisis and local earthquakes. The AF was
   to scale up Component 1, increasing the public works and savings/investment program, including
   reconstructing/rehabilitating schools damaged in the earthquakes.
   The second AF (AF2), consisting of a US$ 25 million grant and a US$ 25 million IDA credit, was approved on July
   12, 2012. It formed part of an overall US$ 150 million stabilization package (Rapid Response Program, RRP) to
   support Government economic reforms in early 2012. The AF adjusted some of the parameters of the public
   works program of the Community Livelihoods Support Fund to mitigate the immediate effects of the reforms on
   the poor, including by raising the wage rate, expanding the eligible work period, and increasing coverage. The
   Closing Date was also extended from September 30, 2013 to June 30, 2014, to allow sufficient time for
   implementation of AF2.
   Borrower contribution. There was no Borrower contribution.
   Dates. The project was approved on May 20, 2008, with an original closing date of September 30, 2013.
   Additional Financing was provided twice, on June 15, 2010, and on July 12, 2012. The project's objectives were
   revised at the first AF. With the latter AF, the closing date was extended to June 30, 2014, at which time the
   project closed.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:


   The relevance of the PDO is substantial.
   The PDO responded to both government aims and to Bank strategy. This is the case for the original PDO and its
   subsequent, more streamlined, version. (The latter is a rephrasing of the former, and the relevance of the two is
   not being assessed separately.) The PDO supported two major elements in the Government’s Growth and
   Development Strategy (GDS) – an emphasis on safety nets as a means of reducing the effects of economic and
   environmental shocks on the poor and vulnerable population groups; and on good governance, including
   improved service delivery and accountability at the local level through decentralization. These elements remain
   valid in the current version of the GDS. The PDO is also in line with the Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy
   (CAS) for the period 2013-2016, which is designed to support the GDS goals. The two AFs were directly relevant
   to the first objective, offering means to scale up the safety net in the face of shocks.


b. Relevance of Design:


   Relevance of design to the PDO is rated substantial.
   Project design supported the PDO. It drew on the Malawi Social Action Fund (MASAF) to channel grant moneys
   for project financing to support livelihoods, and for capacity building among local authorities to fulfill the functions
   under the project, and prepare them to perform anticipated responsibilities as decentralization proceeded. The
   Bank had a long relationship with MASAF as a community development fund, dating back to 1995, and
   culminating in a series of Adaptable Program Loans (APLs). The APLs were selected to allow the Bank to
   flexibly support the Government’s evolving priorities as expressed in the GDS, notably in building up the safety
   net and strengthening local capacity. The project under review was the second one in the series, and had the
   broadest agenda, encompassing both project financing and capacity building. The two AFs also were mainly
   relevant to the first objective, supporting a scaling up of support against the effects of shocks. While the PDO
   was initially awkwardly formulated, the results framework did provide a consistent results chain that was further
   strengthened under AF1 and AF2. The somewhat general formulation of objectives – improved livelihoods and
   governance – was given specific context through outcome and intermediate indicators.


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

   Original PDO: to improve the livelihoods of poor households within the framework of improved local governance
   at community, local authority, and national levels.
   Revised PDO (AF1): to improve the livelihoods of poor and vulnerable households and to strengthen the
   capacity of local authorities to manage local development.
   AF1 added four new results indicators, expanding the focus on improved livelihoods.
   AF2 added three new results indicators drawing on the project beneficiary assessment.
   The two PDOs are substantively the same. As the revised PDO is a more precise formulation, efficacy will be
   assessed against the revised PDO. Since the results indicators introduced under AF1 and AF2 were additional
   to the original indicators, they will be included as part of the overall assessment.
   Achievement of objectives under the PDO will be rated separately for (i) improved livelihoods of poor and
   vulnerable households; and (ii) improved capacity of local authorities to manage local development.
   1. Improved livelihoods of poor and vulnerable households : substantial
Outputs
    Local authorities and village development committees completed annual public works programs. All cycles
     were completed according to plan, compared to a target of 80 percent.
    40,000 public works projects were implemented, against a target of 10,000.
    80 percent of beneficiaries were ultra-poor, and 87 percent food insecure; a target of 90 percent had been
     set for both.
    70 percent of beneficiaries were paid within two weeks of work.
    105,000 kilometers of rural roads were rehabilitated; 18,500 hectares were reforested; 5,500 hectares of
     area were provided with irrigation and drainage services; 200 classrooms were rehabilitated against a target
     of 244; and 1,700 teacher houses were built, exceeding the target of 1,300; 1,700 people had access to
     improved sanitation.
    100,000 active micro savings accounts were opened (66 percent by women), against a target of 97,000 and
     65 percent women.
    88 percent of public works beneficiaries were satisfied with the public works programs, against a target of 95
     percent.
    A beneficiary assessment was undertaken.

Outcomes
    There were 10.9 million direct project beneficiaries, compared to a target of 7.6 million.
    46.9 million person days of work in public works were provided, compared to a target of 26.7 million.
    About 2,200,000 households annually had increased incomes, against a target of 1,500,000.
    Some 79,000 public works beneficiaries (61 percent women) had savings of at least 50 percent of their
     wages from public works one year after participation, compared to a target of 48,800 (40 percent women).
    Some 749,000 public works beneficiaries (51 percent women) were able to buy agricultural inputs following
     participation in the schemes, against a target of 700,000, with a target for women of 40 percent.
    88 percent of public works beneficiaries indicated that they were satisfied with the public works schemes,
     below the target of 95 percent.
    75 percent of intended beneficiaries were aware of project-supported investments compared to a target of 80
     percent.

2. Improved capacity of local authorities to manage local development : substantial.
Outputs
    Training and workshops were provided to over 40,000 local personnel in various core functional topics (listed
     in the ICR, pp. 70-71). In addition, a number of studies and evaluations were carried out (ICR, pp. 72-73), all
     aimed at building capacity of local authorities and supporting a strategy of learning-by-doing where local
     authorities and communities took on implementation responsibilities (ICR, p. 57).
    A framework for an intergovernmental fiscal transfer system to support service delivery of local authorities
     was approved by the Government in March 2013; it has not yet been approved by parliament.
    A local authority capital grants system was defined and is ready for implementation.
    Two community-level tracking studies were undertaken, one in 2012 and one in 2013.

Outcomes
    62 percent of local authorities meet specified criteria in financial management and 80 percent in
     procurement, against targets of 60 percent and 80 percent, respectively.
    No funds have been lost due to errors, fraud and corruption as determined through audits, compared to a
     target of 5 percent.
    63 percent of local authorities publicly disclosed revenues, such as grants and expenditures, by mid-term
     review (December 2012), compared to a 50 percent target.
    62 percent of community action plans were reflected in district annual investment plans, compared to a
     target of 100 percent.
    68 percent of local agencies were able to set objectives and achieve their targets by end 2010, as compared
     to a 70 percent target that had been set for the mid-term review (September 2011).
    53 percent of local authorities have reporting mechanisms for millennium development goal indicator targets,
     compared to a target of 80 percent.
    A community-level tracking system is in place that delivers information annually on baselines, targeting, and
     utilization of wage earnings from public works schemes.
    70 percent of village development committees were functional and addressing service gaps at the
     community level
    While the ICR contains no clear statements on progress towards the overall program objectives, drawing on
    outputs and outcomes above, the project did achieve progress on indicators that can reasonably be interpreted
    as supporting those objectives, as set out in the PAD for the first phase of the program. Management capacity
    was enhanced and was reflected in objectives being set and met in a clear majority of localities. Likewise,
    performance in other, related areas appears to have improved, as the composite performance of councils in such
    areas as participatory planning and budgeting, financial management, procurement, and so forth rose by some
    25 percent between 2010 and 2013 (ICR, p. 58).

5. Efficiency:

    Efficiency is rated modest.

    The PAD carried out quantitative analysis, while the ICR uses a qualitative approach to examine the cost
    effectiveness of the project. The PAD (pp. 114-121) estimated economic rates of return of between 25 and 36
    percent, drawing on the direct and indirect impacts of works. The ICR (pp. 32-33) focuses on livelihood support
    (86 percent of project costs) and notes the efficiency of design: high levels of targeting accuracy, high labor
    intensity of works, below-market wage rates, higher transfers through higher intensity of works, and low
    overhead. Here, a more rigorous assessment of efficiency could have been made beyond the generalities in the
    ICR. This is especially the case considering the circumstances of the project – a US$100 million credit to one of
    the poorest client countries. The ICR also finds that the community approach to construction under the project
    was more cost effective than similar projects executed by others. The example given is a comparison with
    classroom blocks constructed by the Ministry of Education, which cost 66 percent more. Again, a more rigorous
    determination of efficiency would have been appropriate. Under the circumstances, efficiency is rated modest.

a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
   re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                  Rate Available?                         Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                        Yes                                      36%                                     100%
    ICR estimate                     No
                                        * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

    The rating for relevance of objectives is substantial, recognizing that the objectives reflected Government and
    Bank strategic priorities, but was awkward in its initial formulation. The relevance of design is rated substantial,
    reflecting the logical relationship between the project's planned activities and its expected outcomes. Efficacy is
    rated substantial for both objectives, with robust outcomes achieved for both. Efficiency is rated modest.

a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

    The overall risk to the development outcome consists of potential fiscal-financial challenges arising from external
    shocks to the terms of trade; levels of donor support; the effects of these challenges on fiscal transfers to local
    levels; and progress on decentralization, in particular maintaining and further developing capacity at local and
    community levels to address service needs, including using such capacity as a safety net to mitigate systemic
    income shocks to poor communities and households. To mitigate local level risks, a follow-up operation,
    Strengthening Safety Net Systems, was approved in December 2013. It continues local investments through
    targeted public works schemes, including the savings mechanism introduced under the project reviewed here, as
    well as its local capacity development activities. Macro level risks are likely to remain, and their effects on the
    availability of donor funding to support project objectives may be significant (ICR, p. 43). Even if the process of
    decentralization continues, experience from middle income developing countries (for instance in Asia) indicates
    that this can be a difficult process with significant impact on the economic environment and poverty alleviation.
    The discontinuation of support for decentralization under the follow-up operation may be an indication of
    difficulties in implementing decentralization. The ICR does not discuss this.

  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant
8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

   The project was prepared by a joint Bank-Government team and drew on earlier collaboration in community
   development (ICR, p. 48). The project was strategically relevant, focusing on key concerns raised in both
   Government and Bank strategy. The approach, using a community development framework for channeling
   moneys and skills to local authorities and poor communities and individuals, was appropriate for addressing
   the objectives. The introduction of a governance component in anticipation of decentralization may have
   been premature, as indicated by the component no longer being present in the follow-up project. The results
   framework for the project was straightforward. The M&E design was sufficient to allow continued monitoring
   of project progress. The risk assessment provided only limited analysis of potential risks. A more rigorous
   analysis of risks and risk mitigation measures might have been warranted - a decentralization process was
   underway, which often includes both absorptive capacity and institutional risks, as well as political risks as
   sub-national authorities are given new responsibilities financed through fiscal transfers.

  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                      Moderately Satisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:

   The ICR (p. 62) points to a relatively pro-active supervision team that provided field-level advice when needed
   and arranged study tours and participation in Bank courses. The Bank team further strengthened the results
   framework with the introduction of AF1 and AF2. No major issues were encountered in fiduciary and
   safeguard (environmental) areas. As capacity constraints in decentralized safeguards implementation
   appeared, the supervision team provided timely support to ensure adequate capacity among environmental
   and extension officers.



  Quality of Supervision Rating :               Satisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :             Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

   Government ownership and commitment was reflected in its support not only for the original project, but also
   for two AFs and a follow-up fourth MASAF project. The Government set up a joint team with the Bank to
   prepare the project, and it mobilized significant donor resources to be channeled through the same
   mechanism through which project funds were channeled. At the same time, disruptions in staffing policies at
   local levels created disruptions that were reflected in processing difficulties during implementation (ICR, p.
   49).


  Government Performance Rating                                Moderately Satisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

   The technical support team (TST) financed under the National Institutional Strengthening Fund at the central
   level was the de facto implementing agency. The team had the capacity and skills to manage the project,
   including the two AFs, to closure while working with a set of local authorities of diverse capabilities. This was
   reflected in implementation delays, and in planning of expenditures for the final year, which could not be fully
   spent. At the same time, the team did manage to provide guidance to local authorities and successfully
   handle fiduciary responsibilities.
  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                     Satisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                        Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

   M&E was supported by an already-established management information system that extended to the local level.
   It was based on indicators that reflected objectives and were measurable (albeit initially this was not altogether
   obvious with regard to all the elements of the original PDO [see Section 3b]). Where appropriate, baselines had
   been established. Periodic assessments, including impact evaluations, were included in the design, as was a
   system of community score cards.

b. M&E Implementation:

   Monitoring was carried out through the reporting system and through quarterly missions. All PAD-enumerated
   indicators, and all but one AF-enumerated indicators, were measured. Weaknesses in design (relating to the
   PDO) were adjusted during implementation.

c. M&E Utilization:

   The monitoring system was used to measure processes, while various evaluations contributed to assessing
   outcomes. Findings from beneficiary assessments, tracking studies, technical audits, etc., were used by the
   Technical Support Team to adjust processes, while community score cards were used to measure service
   delivery. Some of the findings were used to adjust th design of the public works linked to livelihoods, while others
   contributed to identifying social support instruments under the new project.

M&E Quality Rating: Substantial




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

   The project triggered OP 4.01 Environmental Assessment; OP 4.09 Pest Management; and OP 4.12 Involuntary
   Resettlement. It was assigned the environmental category B, and the safeguards screening category S2 due to
   likely civil works-type sub-projects. To address potential adverse environmental and social impacts of
   sub-projects, the Borrower prepared an Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF) based on
   previous experience with demand-driven community projects implemented by the Local Authorities. A
   Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) was prepared, outlining guidance and standards for preparing
   resettlement action plans where necessary. During project implementation, all sub-project applications
   underwent a screening at community, district and national levels.

   During the project, responsibility for safeguards implementation was transferred fully to the district level.
   However, there arose capacity concerns. To address them, several actions were undertaken. Environmental
   district officers (EDOs) to coordinate the social and environmental activities at the local administration level, were
   trained by the project. Initially limited follow-up on mitigation measures was addressed during implementation,
   when support for safeguards implementation and monitoring was introduced. Quarterly monitoring missions
   were introduced, which improved screening and implementation of mitigating measures. In addition, the project
   initiated a pilot to mainstream the use of soil stabilized bricks for building construction, as an alternative to baked
   bricks which are currently most commonly used in Malawi for the construction of rural buildings.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

   Procurement. At the national level, the Technical Support Team was responsible for procurement, mainly through
   institutional support. At the local level, district staff were responsible for contracting public works, and
   community-based project management committees for the social infrastructure subprojects. According to the
    ICR, procurement functions were, overall, carried out in a satisfactory manner. The Bank carried out
    procurement reviews twice a year, finding the system solid, and increasing prior review thresholds.

    Financial management . Financial management was also carried out at the national, district, and community
    levels. Statement of Expenditures (SOE) reviews were done consistently, including financial management field
    visits jointly with the Bank and Technical Support Team staff. Financial supervision reports and audits were
    remitted in a timely fashion and found to be acceptable.


c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):

    None reported.

d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                 Reason for
                                                                                     Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Satisfactory                 Moderately         Insufficient rigor in the analysis of
                                                            Satisfactory       efficiency.
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Significant        IEG views macro and decentralization
                     Outcome:                                                  risks as significant.

            Bank Performance: Satisfactory                  Moderately         IEG finds the considerations on
                                                            Satisfactory       including decentralization insufficient.
       Borrower Performance : Satisfactory                  Moderately         Disruption in staffing at the local levels
                                                            Satisfactory       produced implementation challenges.
                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

    The following are general lessons drawn from the ICR:

    In order to assist communities in realizing their development needs, efforts such as training and technical
    backstopping of the Local Authorities are vital and need to be sustained if Local Authorities are to take over the
    role of development management. Where such efforts have been sustained and the right numbers of key staff
    supported, it has contributed to the successful implementation of sub-projects and early completions.

    Information, education, and communication (IEC) can play a catalytic role in mobilizing communities and other
    stakeholders for community development and ensures transparency and accountability. It can also assist in
    clarifying project processes and procedures that contribute to smooth project implementation.

    Successful achievement of policy objectives is dependent on consistent commitment from the respective
    stakeholders in terms of meeting their share of obligations. In this case, the institutionalization of fiscal
    devolution has not been fully implemented because government has not yet devolved the development budget
    and the cooperating partners still insisting on discrete funding and accountability reporting


14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No

Why?     To validate the results and impact on the ground
15. Comments on Quality of ICR:



    The document is internally consistent, relatively concise, and consistent with guidelines. It provides sufficient
    evidence and analysis to draw conclusions, although much of the evidence is scattered throughout the document,
    and individual sections lack sufficient rigor (for example, assessment of risk, M&E utilization, and efficiency, and
    the discussion of decentralization). While lessons learned draw on the findings in the text, they also bring up
    questions about project results that should have been discussed in the main text and could have further
    influenced ratings. The ICR is therefore rated satisfactory but marginally so.
a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
