F ILE C ORY.
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Not For Public Use
Report No. P-1660-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
FERTILIZER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
June 17, 1975
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



Currency Unit     =   Indonesian Rupiah (Rp.)
US$1.00           =  Rp 415
1 Rupiah          =  $0.0024
1 Million Rupiah = $2,410
Fiscal Years
Government of Indonesia
April 1 - March 31
PUSRI
January 1 - December 31



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA FOR A FERTILIZER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of US$68 million to
help finance a Fertilizer Distribution Project for P.T. Pupuk Sriwidjaja
(PUSRI). The loan would have a term of 15-1/2 years, including 3-1/2
years grace with interest at 8-1/2 percent per annum. The bulk of the
proceeds of the loan would be on-lent to PUSRI at the same repayment
term, with an interest rate of 12 percent per annum, with the Government
assuming the foreign exchange risk.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest economic report on Indonesia "Indonesia:    Development
Prospects and Needs" of April 15, 1975 (708-IND) described and analyzed
the structure of production and incomes, the recent changes in the avail-
ability of resources, and the medium and longer-term outlook for the
Indonesian economy. Country data are shown in Annex 1.
3.        In 1969, at the start of Indonesia's First Five-Year Plan, the
per capita income of the Indonesian population was probably no higher than
half a century ago. A majority of the population lived below a minimum
welfare standard, especially on Java. Most were dependent exclusively or
primarily on agriculture, where farms were generally very small. Under-
employment was widespread. While the inflation of the mid-1960s had been
overcome, infrastructure was still in very poor condition.
4.        The Government's efforts during the First Five-Year Plan period
(April 1, 1969 - March 31, 1974) were successful in putting the economy on
the road towards development. Most physical objectives were achieved or
nearly so, and there was very substantial rehabilitation of run-down infra-
structure and government enterprises in agriculture and manufacturing. In-
vestments increased at a very fast rate, rising from 9 to 19 percent of GNP.
While 57 percent of Government development expenditures were financed from
abroad, the reliance on foreign financing was much smaller than the level
rate of nearly 80 percent foreseen in the Plan. Real GDP increased at an
annual rate of over 7 percent. GNP per capita in current prices reached
about $120 in 1973. The Government instituted programs for the labor in-
tensive rehabilitation of infrastructure and other programs which created
substantial incomes and employment. In all, however, given the annual in-
crease in the labor force of about one million, one cannot be confident
that the employment situation improved during the First Plan period, and
from available information it is difficult to judge whether a significant
part of the poorest section of the population participated in the gains of
development.



- 2 -
5.        The Second Five-Year Plan (April 1, 1974 to March 31, 1979)
builds on the achievements of the First Plan. While the First Plan
dealt mainly with the urgent needs for stabilization under conditions
of great scarcity of resources, progress has been such that the Second
Plan can give much more weight u, such problems as employment, equitable
distribution, regional growth, and education. The Plan identifies a num-
ber of specific low-income target groups and, in general, adopts an
employment oriented development strategy.   It aims at a continued growth
in investments, needed both because capital intensity will tend to in-
crease as the rehabilitation phase draws to an end, and because more
socially-oriented investments will be made. Overall, the Plan expects
GDP to grow at 7.5 percent per annum.
6.        Over the decade 1961-71, Indonesia's population grew by 2.1 per-
cent a year. However, as a result of changes in the age distribution and
declining mortality, the current growth rate is estimated at 2.5 percent.
Even under the most optimistic assumptions with regard to fertility de-
cline, the growth rate would only come down gradually, and the population
would nearly double by the end of the century. While Indonesia still has
substantial unutilized land reserves in the outer islands, 1/ these are
limited in relation to the expected population increase, and a further
large increase in population pressures - already severe on the inner
islands 2/ - must be expected. Since 1969, the Government has been
operating and gradually extending a family planning program. The number
of acceptors has been increasing rapidly. The Second Five-Year Plan
foresees a much more comprehensive attack on the population problem.
7.        During the rest of the 'seventies, average annual additions to
the labor force are estimated at 1.2 million, increasing to more than 1.4
million in the years 1980-85. In addition, substantial underemployment
exists, and there is the risk that even relatively simple technological
improvements may eliminate existing employment. The Second Plan's projec-
tions show that employment growth would almost keep up with the growth in
the labor force, but the employment thrust of the Plan needs to be further
strengthened if an appreciable increase in real labor earnings - and a
wider spread of the benefits oE development - is to be attained.
8.        A further acceleration in Indonesia's development efforts should
be possible, given the recent favorable developments in its exports, and
especially the large increase in the price of oil. Between 1972/73 3/ and
1975/76, the net oil contribution to the balance of payments as well as to
the Government budget is expected to increase by roughly $2.5 billion, or
$20 per capita. In nominal terms, this is equivalent to about 22 percent
of the gross national income in 1972/73. In terms of real goods and serv-
ices available to Indonesia, the gain is however much smaller. The main
1/   All islands except Java, Madura and Bali.
2/   Java, Madura and Bali.
3/   Indonesian fiscal year April 1, 1972 - March 31, 1973.



3-
offsetting factor is the large increase in import prices over the three
years. Taking this into account, only 30 percent of the original gain
remains; in 1972/73 prices, the net gain is $6 per capita or $750 million
for the economy as a whole, equivalent to 6.5 percent of the 1972/73 GNP.
9.        In terms of the budget, part of the increase in oil revenues has
been used to protect the domestic consumer and the economy against the wide
price fluctuations on international markets through subsidies on major im-
ported commodities (rice, fertilizer, wheat, sugar). The prices of these
commodities have risen faster than those of imports in general. Net of
current subsidies, the gains in the 1975/76 budget (as compared to 1972/73)
amount to only about 4.5 percent of the current (non-oil) GNP. Of this
amount, more than half ($700 million in current prices), is being chan-
neled toward public investments. The remainder is being used for current
expenditures and for payments due for the subsidies of the preceding year.
10.       From September 1972 to March 1974, the Indonesian economy was
under severe inflationary pressure, initially because of a bad harvest in
the Fall of 1972, and subsequently as a result of the worldwide increase
in commodity prices and the boom conditions in Indonesia itself. By
early 1974, the annual rate of inflation had reached nearly 50 percent.
The Government took a number of measures to remedy the situation in April
1974. At approximately the same time, international prices of most com-
modities started to fall. Since then, the annual rate of inflation in
Indonesia has declined to about 15 percent and the Government has relaxed
some of the earlier measures.
11.       Recently, Indonesia's balance of payments and budgetary position
have been affected by the inability of PERTAMINA - Indonesia's petroleum
company - to meet all its financial obligations. During 1974/75 PERTAMINA,
which had undertaken a large and diversified investment program for mbst
of which it had not arranged medium- or long-term financing, faced serious
liquidity problems. It began to withhold the legally obligatary pass-
through to the Government of part of the revenues received from the for-
eign companies, as well as taxes due on its own net income. In addition,
PERTAMINA failed to meet payments due on certain of its short-term foreign
borrowings and some of its other obligations and it faced the prospect of
large similar obligations coming due in 1975/76 which it was not likely to
be able-to meet. Decisive corrective action was taken early in March 1975.
The Government resolved to assist PERTAMINA so as to enable it to meet the
outstanding debt service obligations. Furthermore, in order to assure
orderly and coordinated borrowing in the international market, PERTAMINA
and all other state enterprises were instructed to refrain from independent
borrowing abroad, and Bank Indonesia was made responsible for raising from
international commercial sources the needed funds on their behalf. A sys-
tematic review of PERTAMINA's investment plans is currently being undertaken
with a view to alteration, reduction and other steps where necessary. The
results are likely to have a favorable bearing on the pattern of investment
in the years immediately ahead and to result in closer coordination of major
investment activities undertaken by state enterprises. However, the with-
holding by PERTAMINA of part of the payments due on account of oil company



-4-
profits to pay foreign obligations resulted in levels of foreign exchange
reserves at the end of 1974/75 of less than $1 billion or about 2.5 months
of imports. For 1975/76, the Government expects tc receive the normal oil
payments which are made by and through PERTAMINA. It also expects a modest
increase in foreign exchange reserves during that year.
12.       Indonesia has a substantial potential for further productive
investment, employment and income growth. In agriculture, a vigorous pur-
suit of on-going programs in irrigation, development of new varieties and
technical services, provision of credit and current inputs, etc., promises
to yield high returns. In addition, development of new areas of food or
tree crops - partly in conjunction with a rapidly growing transmigration
program - has high priority. If production, employment and incomes grow
rapidly, demand for agricultural products - especially the high-value
ones - will also accelerate. and there will be a need to improve market-
ing and transport facilities. The industrial potential is good, both for
modern capital-intensive natural resource-based activities and for more
labor-intensive, partly export-oriented industries. Industrial activity
needs to be widely spread; this has implications for the choice and loca-
tion of future infrastructure projects. In addition, there is a serious
backlog of economic infrastructure requirements in many areas, and a need
to improve social infrastructure over wide areas of the country.
13.       With the increase in resources which have become available since
the Second Plan was prepared, the Government is now clearly set on a course
of accelerated growth in investment, employment and incomes to realize
Indonesia's potentials and provide additional welfare for the broad masses
of the people. With a determined effort to mobilize additional resources,
and a judicious use of them - and assuming an international economy which
is reasonably favorable to Indonesia - very significant progress can be
made in this direction. One important element in this strategy will be to
increase employment at such a rate that the labor market would tighten
significantly.   This in turn would create self-reinforcing tendencies, as
incomes and demand rise throughout the economy. Thus, the wide spread of
the gains of development is not only a prime objective, but also a vital
tool in the overall strategy. Improvement in the labor market situation
would, however, depend critically on the direct creation of substantial
work opportunities by the Government in such activities as transmigration,
and urban and rural public works.
14.       The resources needed to implement an accelerated investment,
employment and income growth strategy are substantial.     Assuming only a
modest overall increase in the capital intpnsity of: the investment program,
and an efficient use of resources, investments would have to double between
1975 and 1980 (for an annuaL growth rate of 15 percent). Investment would
increase from 23 percent of non-oil national income in 1975 to 29 percent
in 1980 which, in current prices, implies an increase from $3 billion in
1973 to $6.5 billion in 1975 and nearly $20 billion in 1980.



-5-
15.       With regard to the foreign exchange requirements for such an
investment program it appears that, assuming relatively favorable devel-
opments in the export sector (including oil), commitments of foreign funds
to the extent of about $14 billion over the six-year period 1975-1980 will
be necessary; for the first four years the necessary commitments are esti-
mated at $2 billion per annum. In the interest of keeping the debt serv-
ice reasonable, providing for the contingency of a lower oil income, and
leaving room for future borrowing to sustain imoprt growth in the 1980's
when export prospects look less favorable, it will be necessary to borrow
at least three-fourths of the foreign funds on concessional or semi-con-
cessional terms. Under such a borrowing program, and assuming increased
borrowing after 1980, the debt service ratio would reach 10 percent in
1980 and about 18 percent in the late 1980's. With more pessimistic
assumptions about future prices and exports of oil, and only a partial
adjustment of imports, the debt service ratio could rise to 15 percent
in 1980 and 25 percent in the late 1980's. Even with a foreign borrowing
of $14 billion over the next six years, the net transfer from abroad would
drop from 6.6 percent of the non-oil national income in 1973 to 2.5 percent
in 1975, 2 percent in 1980 and 1.5 percent in 1985. The Inter-Governmental
Group for Indonesia (IGGI) met in May 1975 to consider Indonesia's long-term
foreign assistance requirements.
16.       With the foreign inflows estimated in the paragraph above the
domestic savings rate would have to be raised from an estimated 21 percent
of the non-oil national income in 1975 to over 27 percent in 1980. While
this would be difficult, the Government appears fully committed to it. One
important source of additional savings would be the gradual reduction of
subsidies, which will become easier to achieve if prices of imported com-
modities continue to fall. It would also be desirable to increase some
taxes for reasons of equity.
17.       The Government will also have to take steps to strengthen its
capacity to implement its expanding and complex development program, which
involves large numbers of people over vast geographical areas. To achieve
the objectives, the administrative apparatus and procedures of the Govern-
ment may have to be adapted in important ways. In this context, it appears
that the tendencies toward decentralization of decision making and delega-
tion of responsibility need to be strengthened. Much attention needs to
be given to staff requirements of Government agencies, and a massive train-
ing effort mounted to ensure the availability of adequate staff to carry out
the various programs. To the extent that these training and staffing efforts
would take time, temporary use of additional expatriate expertise may have to
be considered if the development objectives are to be attained.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
18.       As indicated in Part I, Indonesia will continue to need substan-
tial external financial and technical assistance to expand and improve
infrastructure and to expand production capabilities and employment oppor-
tunities in agriculture, minerals, forestry and manufacturing. With the



-6 -
continued growth of the economy, the Government will also be able to
devote increasing attention to ensuring that the benefits of development
are distributed widely. Programs to increase the productivity of small-
holder farmers and to resettle farmers from Java on presently unutilized
areas in the outer islands, the expansion of labor-intensive industry in
Java, the development of new industrial activities in Java and the outer
islands, family planning, water .upply, education, health and other social
programs will therefore have an important place in the development strat-
egy during the period of the Second Plan. The work of both the Bank's
headquarters and Resident Staff has been oriented toward these objectives.
19.       As of May 31, 1975, Indonesia had received 37 IDA credits amount-
ing to $561.8 million and seven Bank loans amounting to $339.0 million.
IFC investments total $58.4 million. An eighth loan amounting to $41.0
million was approved by the Executive Directors in June. Future lending
to Indonesia is expected to be in the form of Bank loans and IFC investments.
The Bank Group accounts for about 4.5 percent of Indonesia's total outstand-
ing public debt at the end of 1974. By 1978 it is expected to account for
less than 11 percent of total outstanding debt and less than 5 percent of
Indonesia's annual debt service obligations. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of May 31,
1975, and notes on the executic,n of ongoing projects.
20.       In accordance with the priorities of Indonesia's Five-Year Plans,
about one-third of Bank Group lending to date has been for agriculture.      IDA
has extended four credits to help rehabilitate Governmient agricultural
estates, producing principally rubber, oil palm and tea, six to assist
rehabilitation and expansion of- irrigation systems servicing millions of
smallholders on Java, two for fisheries and one each for improved seeds
multiplication, beef cattle development, smallholder rubber development,
sugar industry rehabilitation and smallholder tea development. Industry
is of growing importance to the Indonesian economy and the Bank Group has
assisted in six projects in this sector: two to expand PUSRI's fertilizer
production capacity, two for BAPINDO and one for the Private Development
Finance Company of Indonesia (I'DFCI) to help these development finance
companies expand their industrial lending and one for Indonesia's first
industrial estate project. Other sectors to which loans and credits have
been extended are power, transportation, telecommunications, education,
population, urban housing improvement and water supply. In addition, four
credits have been made to assist the Government in preparing and formulating
appropriate development programs and projects.
21.       The first IDA credit to Indonesia was made in 1968, and almost half
of all loans and credits have been made since June 1972. Bank lending to
Indonesia began only in June 1974. The program has increased rapidly from a
relatively small base, and consequently the undisbursed portion of loans
and credits is substantial. Moreover, several credits have financed proj-
ects planned for execution over extended periods. Many, in addition, have
been associated with institutional reforms involving, inter alia, the
creation and reorganization of program and project authorities, drafting
of new charters and the enactment of new legislation, all of which has taken
time. Thus, a number of projects have experienced delays in the initial



stages of implementation, and some are inherently slow disbursing. How-
ever, the performance of most project agencies has improved continuously
as organizational improvements have begun to take effect and Indonesian
staff have become more experienced in project execution. Despite the
improved administrative capabilities, most development projects, includ-
ing those financed by the Bank Group, have been adversely affected by cum-
bersome budgetary, procurement and customs clearance procedures.     The
Indonesian authorities recognize the need to streamline procedures and are
considering steps necessary to accomplish this. As a first step, the Gov-
ernment has requested and we have arranged for assistance under the Fourth
Technical Assistance Credit (Credit 451-IND) to establish an effective
control system in the National Develoment Planning Board (BAPPENAS) to
monitor the progress of development projects. Additional measures to im-
prove project administration are now under consideration by the Government.
22.       The future Bank lending program will continue to support the
Government's efforts to speed up economic growth and to ensure that the
benefits of development are distributed widely. Specifically, it will
give high priority to agriculture, concentrating on broad programs of
support to increase production of rice and other crops on the inner
islands and to expand resettlement and agricultural production on the
less populated outer islands. Emphasis will also be given to socially-
oriented projects in the fields of population and nutrition, education
and urban development. The Bank program will also continue to provide
support for the Government in developing the additional industrial
capacity and infrastructure which are essential to economic growth.
Projects for natural resource surveying and mapping, transmigration and
rural development, education, marine transport and highways have been
appraised and are expected to be ready for presentation in the first
half of FY1976.
PART III - THE SECTOR
The Transportation Sector
23.       The transport system in Indonesia consists of highways, rail-
ways, inter-island marine services and limited but rapidly increasing air
transport. It suffered from lack of maintenance during the 1950s and 1960s
and the Government therefore concentrated during the First Five-Year Plan
Period (1968/69-1973/74) on rehabilitating important roads, the inter-
island fleet and some ports.
24.       The railway and highway network on Java is extensive though
still in need of rehabilitation or upgrading in many sections. In
Sumatra, several unconnected rail lines serve limited regions, and
the principal cities are linked by highways of generally low standard.
On the other islands, there are only a few roads in areas around ports
and towns. The Bank Group has assisted the Government in rehabilitating
its road network under three previous projects (Credits 154-IND, 260-IND



- 8 -
and 388-IND). A fourth highway project has been appraised which will
assist the Government in carrying out an extensive program of road bet-
term:ent designed to upgrade high priority roads throughout Indonesia
through relatively low-cost investments.   The Bank has also recently
made its first loan (1005-IND) to assist in the rehabilitation of rail-
ways, primarily in Java.
25.       Since Indonesia is an archipelago, marine transport services
are essential for the economic, social and political cohesion of the
country.  Shipping services between the islands are provided by the
regular liner service (RLS) fleet and by tramping services and sailing
vessels. The existing fleet is old and substantial rehabilitation is
necessary. The Bank Group has financed one project (Credit 318-IND)
which was designed to rehabilitate the RLS fleet, and the staff has
appraised a second project for fleet replacement and expansion. Some
assistance for ship rehabilitation has also been provided under the
development finance loan to BAPINDO (Credit 310-IND). Indonesia has
about 300 ports, but the large traffic volumes are concentrated in ten
ports in Java, Sumatra and Sulawesi. The major port for fertilizer,
after the third expansion of the PUSRI fertilizer plant is completed,
will be Palembang on the iMusi River in Sumatra. Turn around time
of ships in all ports is excessive, and their productivity is limited
by poor standards of cargo handling, warehousing and customs clearance.
The main ports are being improved with assistance from the Asian Develop-
ment Bank (ADB), UNDP, the Netherlands and Japan. A Master Plan Study
for Tanjung Priok, the port serving Jakarta, is being carried out by
consultants financed under the Technical Assistance Credits (Credits
215 and 275-IND). The ADB is serving as executing agency for a Master
Plan study of three ports in Java and Sumatra which is being financed
by the UNDP.
26.       The Government has taken steps to improve the quality of its
transportation planning to provide the basis for identifying more effec-
tively intra and inter-modal investment priorities. Between 1969 and
1973, it retained a group of: consultants to assist BAPPENAS (Badan
Perencana Pembangunan, the National Development Planning Board) and
the Minister of Communications in transportation planning. These con-
sultants contributed to the collection and analysis of transport data
and the establishment of procedures for investment review.    The Govern-
ment has also retained, with financing from the Fourth Technical Assis-
tance Credit (451-IND), five advisors to assist the Department of Com-
munications in trarlsport coordination, investment programming, transport
pricing and accounting. The Netherlands Government has also agreed to
continue to finance a shipping planning groaip for Lhe Directorate General
of Sea Communications.
27.       The Government's strategy as set forth in the Second Five-Year
Plan (1974/75 - 1979/80) is to continue the rehabilitation program for
transportation infrastructure and to upgrade gradually the country's trans-
portation facilities. This will be supplemented by the provision of new
infrastructure needed to exploit recently discovered natural resources,



- 9 -
support the Government's regional development policy and improve the
rural transportation network. Public investment in the transport sector
during the Second Five-Year Plan was projected at Rp 781 billion (about
$1.9 billion). The size of the plan and the allocation of funds to the
various transportation modes are presently being reviewed in the light
of increased resources available to the Government.
Fertilizer Transportation and Distribution
28.       Consumption of nitrogen fertilizer, spurred by Government pro-
grams to increase food production, is rising very rapidly; it increased
by more than 15 percent per annum from 180,200 nutrient tons in 1964 to
356,000 tons in 1972 and to 443,000 tons in 1974 and is expected to increase
to 826,000 nutrient tons (about 1.8 million product tons) by 1983. At the
same time, the Government is increasing domestic fertilizer production capac-
ity based on abundant natural gas reserves which serve as a low-cost feed-
stock for production of nitrogen fertilizers. Three additional urea plants
with a capacity of 570,000 TPY of urea each are presently under construction
or planned. PUSRI III, which Loan 1089-IND is helping to finance, is ex-
pected to reach commercial production in the second quarter of 1977. The
other two plants, in East Kalimantan and West Java, are not expected to
reach commercial production before 1980, depending on the outcome of a
review by the Government presently underway. The Government therefore
plans a further expansion of PUSRI by duplicating the 570,000 TPY PUSRI
III plant. The gap between demand and domestic supply of nitrogen would
then be closed for the first time in 1979 at a level of 650,000 nutrient
tons. The Government is presently engaged in securing financing for a
300,000 TPY TSP project at Gresik (East Java) and is considering a further
TSP project at Cilacap on the south coast of Java. Whether, with demand
growing, a further deficit occurs in 1980, or a surplus for export becomes
available, depends on the timing and initial performance of the East
Kalimantan and West Java plants. Assuming that these plants do come into
production during the early 1980s, it is estimated that Indonesia will
have a surplus of some 400,000 tons of urea, about half of the deficit
expected in neighboring countries, i.e., the Philippines, Malaysia and
Thailand.
29.       The rapid expansion in the consumption of fertilizer and the
changing pattern of supply in Indonesia are creating a severe strain on
the existing fertilizer transportation and distribution network. This
is particularly so because the main reserves of natural gas needed for
the domestic production of fertilizer are on the islands of Sumatra and
East Kalimantan, and the major markets are and will continue to be, on
Java and the adjoining islands of Bali and Madura, though their total
market share will gradually decline.
30.       Fertilizer distribution is presently being carried out by Govern-
ment-approved importer-distributors, including local fertilizer producers
such as PURSI and Petrokimia, which distribute both domestically produced
and imported fertilizers. In 1974, PUSRI's share of the market for nitrogen,
phosphate and potash fertilizers was some 48 percent (592,000 product tons) of
the total fertilizer consumption of 1.2 million product tons. PUSRI expects



- 10 -
to distribute about 1.4 million product tons of fertilizer annually between
1978 and 1982. On this basis, it is expected that PUSRI's share of the
market would be at least 70 percent by 1978 and decrease gradually there-
after to about 50 percent in 1982. PUSRI is therefore expected to continue
as a major fertilizer distributor in Indonesia.
31.       Fertilizer prices in Indonesia have for some years been set by
the Government and subsidized at a level that linked the farmgate price for
rice, set by the Government through its rice purchase program, with the
price of urea and TSP to the farmer so as to provide an incentive which
contributes substantially to the rapid increase in fertilizer use. Distri-
bution was not controlled; the farmer could buy as much fertilizer as he
wanted.  However, in 1973 the Government, in the face of a serious fertilizer
shortage, introduced a rationing and distribution system, under which it
purchases all urea currently produced by domestic producers at Rp 63,900
($154) per ton of urea c.i.f. Java port and also impcorts urea presently
at a cost of $250 per ton (a substantial reduction from the price of more
than $400 per ton prevailing last year). PUSRI, like other distributors,
purchases urea from the Governnment at Rp 41,850 ($100.90) per ton ex
port-godown and sells it under Government instructions to local sub-
distributors at Rp 55,000 ($132.50) per ton, thus retaining a margin of
Rp 13,150 ($31.60) to cover the cost of handling, transport, storage
and interest on funds borrowed to finance the current assets of its
marketing operation. The local distributor stores and distributes the
fertilizer to either private retailers or village cooperatives, which
in turn sell urea at Rp 60,000 per ton ($144.60) to farmers who have re-
ceived a fertilizer allocation. Thus, there is a substantial subsidy on
domestically produced fertilizer, and (at present international prices) a
much higher one on imported fertilizer. With regard to rice prices, the
Government has kept the domestic price substantially below the recent high
international prices to avoid large increases in food costs which could
jeopardize its stabilization el-forts and adversely affect large segments
of the Indonesian population. The Government is keeping its rice and
fertilizer price and subsidy policies under constant review in the light
of international and domestic price developments. Major implications of
the fertilizer price policies for PUSRI's operations are discussed in
paragraph 53.
32.       Over 60 percent of the fertilizer consumption in Indonesia is
concentrated in areas covered by two successful programs for promoting in-
tensive cultivation of foodcrops - the BIMAS (Mass Guidance Program) and
the INMAS (Mass Intensification) Programs. The rest cf the fertilizer is
used for other smallholder and estate crop production. Bank Rakyat Indo-
nesia (BRI) is now the sole credit agency for the BIMAS and INMAS Programs,
while the estate sector depends on other commercial banking facilities to
meet its credit needs, which include the import of fertilizers at prevail-
ing world prices. Credit for ifertilizer purchases in all these sectors
is currently provided by BRI and other banks at monthly interest rates of
1 to 2 percent; the existing arrangements are adequate to ensure that suf-
ficient credit will be available in the future.



- 11 -
33.       When PUSRI produced only 100,000 tons of urea, the output of its
first plant, the Regular Liner Service (RLS) fleet could transport PUSRI's
total output, though at considerable cost. However, with an increase of
PUSRI's output to nearly half a million tons under the first expansion
project financed under Credit 193-IND, more efficient means of transport
had to be found. PUSRI's marketing consultants proposed a bulk transport
system, which would use available 3,000 ton coal carriers with bucket
chain self-unloading gear, and small bulk reception and bagging terminals
at Surabaya and Cilacap. Unfortunately, while PUSRI was negotiating for
the charter of these ships, their ownership was transferred to a different
company and the self-unloading gear with about 300 ton capacity per hour
was replaced by much less efficient grab cranes; their use results in
substantial losses of urea during unloading. PUSRI eventually managed
to charter four of the coal carriers plus a bulk carrier from Singapore,
but the system is relatively expensive and inefficient and cannot be ex-
panded to handle substantially larger tonnages than the 350,000 tons
presently transported in bulk. Imported fertilizer distributed by PUSRI
and other distributors is mostly handled through Tanjung Priok and is
transported in bags by truck at relatively high cost throughout Java.
34.       Very little use has so far been made of the railways for fer-
tilizer distribution. The availability of trucks has not been a problem,
given the fast increase in the truck fleet, and it is not expected to pose
a problem for the increasing volume to be distributed in the future, when
the railways will also be used to transport fertilizer. However, storage
capacity at the ports and inland is inadequate and costly in terms of hand-
ling, spoilage and losses. Moreover, other commodities, such as cement and
grain, whose distribution has also increased, will compete for the limited
available storage and rail transport capacity.
35.       When the PUSRI III Plant, which Loan No. 1089-IND is helping to
finance, comes into commercial operation in mid-1977, close to one million
tons of urea will have to be shipped out of Palembang. PUSRI's total fer-
tilizer distribution volume, including phosphate and complex fertilizers,
and a small amount of imported urea, will be about 1.4 million tons in
1978. PUSRI therefore decided to develop a more efficient distribution
system that would deliver fertilizer at least cost to the farmer, remain
flexible enough to be fully usable even if marketing patterns change as
other fertilizer plants come into operation, and include use of more effi-
cient ships which could deliver fertilizer at reduced transport costs
within Indonesia and, should the need arise, to export markets in the
region. A proposed National Fertilizer Distribution Study (para 43) will
review additional country-wide distribution needs, taking into account
the facilities being provided under the project.



- 12 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
36.       During the appraisal of the Second Fertilizer Expansion Project
in July 1974, the Government asked the Bank to help finance a fertilizer
shipping and distribution system capable of moving PUSRI's future fer-
tilizer output at least cost to its markets and of transporting all
types of fertilizer and other agricultural chemicals which PUSRI pro-
vides its dealers in order that they may supply the full range of agro-
chemicals needed by the farmer.
37.       The project was developed by PUSRI's marketing department with
the assistance of consultants. The project was appraised in November/
December 1974. Negotiations were held in Washington in April/May 1975.
The Government's negotiating team was led by Dr. Sale'h Afiff, Deputy
Chairman of BAPPENAS. The appraisal report No. 694-IND is being circu-
lated separately to the Executive Directors. A loan and project summary
is contained in Annex III.
Project Description
38.       The proposed distribution system has the capability of moving
about one million tons of urea fertilizer by sea from the PUSRI plants
at Palembang in South Sumatra to Java, North and West Sumatra and other
islands. Some 830,000 tons would be shipped in bulk by self-unloading
ships to Tanjung Priok, Surabaya, and Cilacap in Java and to Belawan and
Padang in Sumatra. The balance of PUSRI's production of 130,000 tons
would be bagged at Palembang and transported by RLS ships to the other
islands in Indonesia. The bulk fertilizer, which could be unloaded from
the self-unloading ships in all types of weather with practically no
loss, would be bagged at the port bulk terminals for shipment in railway
cars by block trains, or by highway trucks, to inland storage depots
(ISDs). Onward distribution from these depots wouLd be undertaken by
PUSRI distributors who will move the urea to storage kiosks owned by
cooperatives and retailers in the villages. Total fertilizer moving
through the system, including phosphates and complex fertilizer, would
be 1.4 million product tons in 1980.
39.       The new distribution system to be established under the project
will consist of: (a) three slhallow draft self-unloading ships of about
7,000 dwt each; (b) expanded, improved or new port bulk fertilizer terminals
and bagging plants at five major ports in Java and Sumatra, all with road
and rail access; (c) 59 new ISDs of between 3,000 and 10,000 tons capacity,
also served by rail and/or road; (d) lease of an additional 22 ISDs on
islands other than Java; (e) 175 new specialized railway wagons and four
main line and three shunting locomotives and new rai'Lway spurs for 27
ISDs in Java; (f) new office space and vehicles; (g) consultant services
and technical assistance related to construction and operation of the
system; and (h) a study designed to develop a national fertilizer distri-
bution system.



- 13 -
40.       The ships' design, chosen from among various alternatives, results
in the shortest possible turnaround time at lowest operating cost. They
would be capable of operating under all weather conditions, negotiating
the Musi River at all tides and unloading at a rate of 500 tons per hour.
The ships would be built in accordance with international standards and
would be dually classed with the Biro Klassifikasi Indonesia (BKI) and
Germanischer Lloyd to assure a high standard of maintenance (Section 3.04
Project Agreement). The ships would be crewed under contract with an
Indonesian ocean-going shipping company, but with senior operation per-
sonnel (masters and chief engineers) employed directly by PUSRI. The
ships would operate for a minimum of 320 days per year with scheduled
sailings between Palembang and the various terminals.
41.       The new bulk terminals in Belawan and Padang would be located so
that the unloading of the ships and the movement of bagged fertilizer out
of the bagging plant would not be affected by existing port congestion.
The two existing bulk terminals at Surabaya and Cilacap would be expanded.
At Tanjung Priok, an existing bulk terminal operated by PERTAMINA Gulf In-
dustrial Processing (PGIP) would be modified for use by PUSRI; unloading
facilities and rail movement of fertilizer out of the port would be ex-
panded and modified to meet the requirements of PUSRI's much faster move-
ments of fertilizer. Arrangements have been made with the Port adminis-
tration to grant PUSRI's ships berthing priority at all times. In addition,
a contract satisfactory to the Bank will be entered into between PUSRI and
PGIP for Qie unloading and handling of PUSRI's fertilizer at cost-related
rates. The Government, under Section 4.05 of the Loan Agreement, would
undertake to secure for PUSRI at Tanjung Priok all necessary services.
42.        On Java, bagged fertilizer would be transported from the three bulk
terminals and bagging plants to the ISDs, primarily by rail to take advantage
of its superior efficiency in long distance land transport. The railway
wagons would be owned by PUSRI and would be used exclusively for the trans-
port of fertilizer in block trains to ISDs located over 100 km from a bulk
terminal. The locomotives would be owned by the Indonesian State Railways
(PJKA). PUSRI would conclude arrangements with PJKA, satisfactory to the
Bank, to ensure proper operation and maintenance of PUSRI's rolling stock
(Section 3.05 Loan and Project Agreements). Road transport would continue
to be handled by private operators.
43.       PUSRI would own the ISDs, at least initially, because it is at
present responsible for distribution down to the retail level. However,
should this arrangement change, or parts of PUSRI's market be taken over
by other producers, the project's inland storage and distribution facili-
ties would still be needed to serve the growing markets in Java and Sumatra.
The study for the development of a National Fertilizer Distribution system,
based upon the proposed project and to be carried out on behalf of the Gov-
ernment by the consultants who developed the PUSRI system, would correlate
production facilities and markets and secure compatibility of transport
systems so as to achieve a least cost distribution system for all fertilizer
consumed in Indonesia. The study would provide a safeguard against needless



- 14 -
duplication of storage and distribution facilities. In addition, the Govern-
ment would undertake to make every reasonable effort to ensure that any major
major new distribution facilities contracted before the study is completed
will not contribute to significant underutilization of the facilities in-
cluded in the project. To the extent that PUSRI would lose part of its
West Java urea market to the West Java fertilizer plant, to be constructed
about 150 kilometers to the east and expected to be in commercial operation
by 1980, the bulk terminal would be used to receive and bag the phosphatic
and complex fertilizer imported in bulk to meet the needs of the West Java
market.
44.       The last link in the distribution chain would be storage facil-
ities at the village level which, while available, are still inadequate.
Movement of fertilizer during the wet season is difficult because the
rural road network is very poor. Thus, local retailers and cooperatives
must store significant amounts of fertilizer to ensure adequate availabil-
ity during the wet season. T)e Government recognizes the need for more
and improved storage capacity in the villages and is sponsoring a pilot
project to determine the most suitable locally produced building materials
for storage units under various local climatic and other conditions. In
order to ensure that the fertilizer needs of farmers can be met efficiently,
the Government would agree to continue its program to extend and improve
fertilizer storage facilities at the village level (Section 3.04 Loan Agree-
ment). This subject will also be reviewed under the proposed Nati'6nal Fer-
tilizer Distribution system study.
Organization and Management
45.        PUSRI is a well managed enterprise by any standard and one of
the best in Indonesia. It is a wholly Government owned limited liability
company; the Government's interests are represented through a Supervisory
Board consisting of representatives of the Ministries of Finance, Industry
and Agriculture. Managerial responsibilities for PUSRI's day to day oper-
ations rest with a four-man Management Board.
46.       PUSRI's Marketing Department is headed by a Marketing Manager,
who reports to the Commercial Director. The Marketing Manager oversees
divisions for supply and distribution, sales, planning and extension.
PUSRI's marketing and distribution personnel are competent and the com-
pany is one of the most efficient distributors of fertilizer in the
country. At present, about 290 people work in the marketing department;
this number is expected to increase to about 450 when the project is com-
pleted.
47.        PUSRI will carry out the proposed project with the assistance of
consultants. Marine Consultants and Designers (USA) have assisted in the
design, and letting of the contract for the ships ancl will supervise
construction of the ships; Swan Wooster and Company (Canada) are per-
forming a similar function for the on-shore facilities (bulk terminals



- 15 -
and ISDs). PUSRI has extended the contract of Agrar und Hydrotechnik (Fed-
eral Republic of Germany) as marketing consultants. Mollers Ltd (Hong Kong)
have been retained to advise PUSRI on marine operations. PUSRI would, under
the project, employ an additional 48 months of consultant services to assist
in the overall scheduling and movement control required to operate the pro-
posed distribution system effectively and to train PUSRI staff to undertake
these responsibilities. With the assistance of these consultants, PUSRI
would be able to carry out the project and to operate the proposed distri-
bution system effectively.
Project Costs and Financing
48.       The total estimated cost of the proposed project is $130.0 mil-
lion, of which $84.0 million would be in foreign exchange. Interest
during construction is estimated at $10 million, including $6.4 million
payable in foreign exchange so that total financing requirements would
come to $140 million. The cost estimates have been prepared by PUSRI's
consultants on the basis of an actual fixed price contract for the ships
as well as procurement experience in the fall of 1974 and early 1975
for other items. In the cost estimates, provision has been made for
physical contingencies of 15 percent for the bulk depots and 10 percent
for ISDs equal to about 6 percent of the project base cost estimate.
Price contingencies for imported locomotives and rolling stock and other
equipment are based on the projected rate of international inflation for
such items. Price contingencies on locally procured equipment and civil
works are based on the projected rate of inflation in Indonesia of about
20 percent per annum. Price contingencies amount to about 18 percent
of total base cost estimates plus physical contingencies (or 25 percent
of the base cost estimate if the fixed cost of the ships were omitted).
49.       The Government would make available 50 percent of PUSRI's total
financing requirements in the form of equity and the other 50 percent in
the form of a loan. The proposed Bank loan of $68 million would finance
about 75 percent of the foreign exchange component and almost half of the
total financing requirements. The loan would be made to the Government
which would make $2.5 million available in the form of equity to PJKA
for the locomotives and would relend the balance of the proceeds to
PUSRI. The loan to PUSRI would have an interest rate of 12 percent
per annum and a repayment term of 15-1/2 years, including 3-1/2 years
of grace-. The Government would bear the foreign exchange risk. These
arrangements would be incorporated in a subsidiary financing agreement
between the Government and PUSRI to be concluded before the proposed loan
becomes effective (Sections 3.01(b) and 6.01(b) Loan Agreement). The
financing plan would allow both PUSRI and PJKA to meet the debt limita-
tion requirements provided for under previous projects (Loan No. 1089-IND
and 1005-IND).



- 16 -
Procurement and Disbursement
50.       All contracts to be financed under the Banlk loan and estimated to
cost more than $50,000 would be awarded after international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines.    Those estimated to cost
less than $50,000 would be procured in accordance with sound business prac-
tices which are satisfactory.   For equipment, local manufacturers would
receive a preference of 15 percent or the level of customs duties, whichever
is less.
51.       In order to complete the distribution system by mid-1977 when the
PUSRI III plant goes into production, PUSRI has, under procedures satisfac-
tory to the Bank, let a fixed price contract for the ships and is calling
for tenders for other long lead-time items from prequalified suppliers
in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines. Fourteen shipyards in eight
countries were prequalified to construct the ships, and four submitted
bids. The bids were evaluated by PUSRI and its consultants and, after
the approval of the Bank, the contract was awarded to Mitsubishi (Japan).
As has been noted previously, PUSRI has already, with the approval of the
Bank, signed contracts with the consultants who have helped design and will
help implement the project. The total commitment under the above contracts
for ships, other long lead-time items and technical services is about US$35
million and the expenditures already incurred are about US$5.0 million. Ex-
penditures incurred before loan signing would be met by the Government, and
no retroactive financing by the Bank is contemplated.
52.       The proposed loan would be disbursed for 100 percent of the for-
eign exchange cost of the ships, locomotives and rolling stock and consult-
ant services. It would also be disbursed for 100 percent of the foreign
exchange cost of other imported equipment, materials and supplies and
95 percent of the cost of such items for which contracts have been won
by local suppliers after international competitive bidding.
Financial Projections
53.       PUSRI's finances are substantially affected by the policies
which the Government introduced after a serious fertilizer shortage in
October 1973 led to black marketing of fertilizer and endangered the
rice production program on which the price of rice and thereby the cost
of living and the stability of the economy depends. The Government, to
meet this situation, introduced a rationing and distribution control
system and commenced a stockpiling program as a strategic reserve against
the vagaries of the world fertilizer market on which Indonesia had to
depend given the low level of domestic production at that time.     Since
PUSRI had acquired considerable expertise in importing and storing fertil-
izer, it was charged with conducting the major share of the importing and
stockpiling program and with supervising the distribution of fertilizer
down to the retail level. Operation of this program by PUSRI had resulted
in a large build-up of current assets balanced by current liabilities in
the form of short-term borrowing from BRI and in large interest costs to
PUSRI.



- 17-
54.       This situation was reviewed during negotiations for Loan No.
1089-IND (PUSRI III) and the Government agreed to meet the accounting
losses incurred in PUSRI's marketing and distribution operation (at that
time estimated to be Rp 1.4 billion over in 1975) by quarterly advance
payments. Financial information as of March 31, 1975, supplied during
negotiations for the proposed project, revealed that the accounting loss
had been seriously underestimated, and it would be agreed that PUSRI would
be compensated by August 15 for the actual accounting losses incurred
during the first two quarters of 1975, and that subsequently advance
payments would be made on the basis of estimates for the last two quarters
of 1975. Further, in the same supplemental letter, the Government, in
view of the fact that PUSRI was in effect acting as its agent in the
stockpile operation, undertook to compensate PUSRI fully for the cost
of importing, handling, storing and financing the stockpile once the
fertilizer distribution assets were put into service by May 1, 1977.
To identify the "stockpile", PUSRI.would treat all imports financed under
letters of credit and all inventory needed to achieve its sales targets
as normal current assets, and all imports and inventory carried over and
above such normal inventory as "stockpile". PUSRI will propose to the Gov-
ernment, and the Government will inform the Bank not later than October 1,
1976, of the exact procedures to be used to identify the "stockpile" and to
account for the expenses associated with it. On the strength of this Gov-
ernment undertaking, current assets and liabilities eelating to the stock-
pile have been excluded from the financial projections in the appraisal
report. On this basis, the project would have an internal financial rate
of return of 14 percent.
55.       Consolidated projections for PUSRI's entire operations indicate
that PUSRI's net profits after tax will rise from Rp 11.7 billion in 1977
to Rp 20.4 billion in 1980 and with the end of the existing tax holiday
decline to Rp 12.7 billion in 1982. The overall return on assets is fore-
cast to rise to 18 percent in 1980 and to be about 14 percent in 1982. The
current ratio is expected to be about 3.5:1 after 1977 and the debt/equity
ratio is expected to be 46/54 in 1978 and to improve to about 33/67 by
1980. In order to help ensure the financial soundness of the company,
the financial covenants under Loan 1089-IND would be retained for the
purposes of the proposed project. These include a provision that the
Government as long as it controls distribution and prices would permit
PUSRI to earn a reasonable return on assets in service (Section 4.04 of
the Loan Agreement). In addition, PUSRI: (a) would maintain a current
ratio of at least 1.2 during the continuation of the present controlled
distribution system and 1.4 thereafter, and a debt-service coverage ratio
of at least 1.5; and (b) would not incur further debt if this would raise
the debt/equity ratio to more than 50/50 (Sections 4.07 and 4.08 of the
Project Agreement). The Government and PUSRI would also be required
to take all steps necessary to ensure that PUSRI maintains an effective,
financially viable and economic transportation marketing and distribution
organization (Section 4.03 Loan Agreement and Section 3.03 Project Agree-
ment). As long as the Government stipulates a transfer price between the
manufacturing and the marketing operation, the financial viability of the
marketing department and the rate of return on marketing and distribution



- 18 -
assets would be reviewed on the basis of separate pro forma income and
expense statements and balance sheets, which would allow judgments to
be made about the profitability of the marketing operation (Section 4.03
Project Agreement).
Economic Benefits
56.       The proposed distribution system is the least cost solution of
all alternatives considered; it would generate benefits from a reduction
in transport costs and fertilizer losses, due to inadequate existing trans-
port and storage facilities. It is estimated that about 75 percent of the
total quantifiable benefits would be generated by reductions in transport
and distribution cost and 25 percent through reduced fertilizer losses
compared to transport in bags. Further substantial benefits compared to
the present system would accrue through the avoidance of congestion in
ports and land transport; but since these benefits are not quantifiable
they are not included in the calculation of the economic rate of return.
The economic rate of return for the project is about 20 percent. The
economic return reflects the inefficiencies of the present distribution
system and the urgent need to improve it in view of the much higher tonnage
to be moved. Even under various conceivable pessimistic assumptions such
as project capital cost increases of up to 20 percent and benefit decreases
or under-utilization of capacity of up to 20 percent, the project would still
yield an economic rate of 13 percent.
57.       At present, the Government subsidizes consumer prices for fertil-
izer; the benefits of reduced transport and distribution costs and reduced
fertilizer losses could therefore be used to reduce these subsidies, or
the Government could choose to lower the current price of fertilizer, in
which case the farmer would be the beneficiary. Farmers would also ben-
efit from the increased reliability and quality of fertilizer supplies
which would result from the project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
58.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and
the Bank,-the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and-P.T. Pupuk
Sriwidjaja, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4 (iii), of the Articles of Agreement and the text of a draft
resolution approving the proposed Loan are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
59.       Features of the Loan Agreement and the Project Agreement of
special interest are referred to in paragraphs 53 to 55 of this Report.
Section 6.01 of the draft Loan Agreement specifies additional conditions
precedent to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement that: (a) the execu-
tion and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of PUSRI have been



- 19 -
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental
action; and (b) the execution and delivery of the Financing Agreement
(under which the funds required for the carrying out of the Project shall
be made available to PUSRI under terms and conditions approved by the Bank)
on behalf of the Government and PUSRI respectively, have been duly author-
ized or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action. These
actions would be discussed in the legal opinions to be furnished to the
Bank in connection with the proposed Loan.
60.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
61.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President






IODUiTY DATA - IINMFSIA                               ..-    of 3pos
AREA                                                  POPotLATION                                   DENSITY
17907639 as2                                           T12.c3  million (mid-1922)
Per kos2cf arable land
S0O1IAL INDICATORS
Refernc    Countries
Indccenia           Bangla~~Idesh  1nd'a  Ph~i-in Ines
OAF PER CAPITA US)(AT ASIRAS) /I.                                            90 .00                          110 Ia.        7
Cosbrhrate (per thousand)                                                  L88,             L;             30 In Ad       5   U
Grads death rate (per thousand)                                    2115: 7T                                       17tW          1,z.
ifant sortality rate (per thousand live births)                  125 Ld        *.iDT iW 2o-lid o                               81,
Life anpenianny at birth (ysars)                                   LB           'Le               11 T'            0            58,
Dross reprodontion rate 12                                        2.8 ZL 3i                       3.1            2.9           3.3
Populatioa growth rats LI                                         2.0           2,0%             2.65 0h.3/0                   3.0 /h
Papulation growth rate - orban                                    -.              97             L.isk/
Agm trcunbar (psrenan)
0-11                                                            42            b5        5          Io.          2            17
15-61.                                      55                             1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  2/co 55
65ard ove                                                         3 53I.
Ago dependency ratio Lb..                     0 0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  0.9&  0.9           0. 0P9
Cnoedepend-ny rmiin li                                          1.5 /d                       i.6 L          1.2
Urban population as pernant of total                               iS /1.1       17 /i           -.               20 LWi        37 /
Fouily planning    AN. of anoeptors   -1oultive (thaws.)          .             175               *..                           09
No. of users (   of earrned aomns)             . 
DIWThENCT
Total late   forus (thonsands)                                 3L,6cC', /I.  /Ql(    d        22,300        221,0C0 Id,o    13,200 /i
Psrcentage employed in aginultore                                   /1     10,10    d           71              71 /.d         6'
Proen.tage uneaployed                                            5   1         2              *.*
IACOI4 DISTRIBUTION
Percent   fntIoa     jocose...  renaived by highest 5%            ....12 Lg.,p                                    25/n.o        25 In .c
Perneort of .at.no.  jocose received by highest 20%               ...1-2 /n                                      537T .         1 L,oin.
Percentof national ioos received by lowest 20%                    .*                                9 55n,                         LLiL
Parcea.t of national moose rcoi-od bly lowest 40%                 *..21 0~                                        13 In,o       12 /0,2
DISTRIBUTION IF LAND DWdRRSHIP
% owned by top 10% of 3ass'
9 ownd by se1l.lst I0% of owne-rs                                                                        a
HEALTH AND NUTfRITION
Population per phys~ician                                     35,000 5r      27,6510           2,600Lo   .     ,c            9,100 /'
Populatioan per nursing person.                                               8,010           22,031  g,      5I11          5,390 /n
Population pen hospital bad                                     1,5         1720             8,122 S        1,620 I~.o       iSO LaL
Per caPita calorie supply as                                       8 frcira,t2 /00 82 Li.         El L            90            02
Per capito protein supply, total (grams per day     L              3/.              /,           .                31
Df ehich, animal and puise                                       15 Ic,o       lb   c          .               i6             22 /t
Death rate 1-4. years /7                                         .*..7/t
djoad /8 primary sohoo1 enrolleent ratIo                          60 /0,        71               50 /4nb        79 /o        12/ca
Adjusted 7   useoondary sohool enrofleesit ratio .a                               2          ~a                   8In          1 
Tears of flhoolieg provided, first and second lee                  12..2  16 12                                  102
VOnational enool.umnt as 9 of sec, school esrolleent               20 10,        281                             1L2            '0    L
Adult llt-eooy rats                                                 9~.          5620Ai836Z.~                                   2 oi
A,erage AN..of persons per room (urban)                           1.7 51        ..                             2.. Ld
Per..e.t of occupied onus withou    piped w.atr                                                                                 66....  .  8
Aoss  to eetotecity (as 9 of total pepootiton)                 .                                                              3.
Percent of trurl populationc connected to eleotricity                                                                               __ .
GONSUNPTIOR
RaiT   rcivr     per 1100 ppolation                                 7           711                6             23    h416
Passen   .geror  e P., 0 I psplatto                                 1             2                                              8151 4I/
ZMactrgio pes   ooneuapWtton (kwh po)1                                            351                            0              5
Newoprint consumption p.c. kg per year                            0.2           0.23             025             .     1       27  a.
Noise:   Figures- refer eIther to the lotest periode or to              account of eneirounmental temperature, body seights, and
the latest yeas -     atest periodo refer in principle in               distribatian by age eand sax nf eatiaal PoPuIatione.
the years 19'56-60 or 1966-_70~ tho latest years in pri-in6             Protein standards (reqoiremamte) for all... octries as esab-
niple to 1960 and 1970.                                                 linha  by USDA Enononio Ree...rob Servloe proide for a aininum
A   The Per Capita GNP estimate is at e-rknt prioca for                 alaneof 60 grame of total protein per day, aao 20 grans of
yvors   thic  than 1960, calculated by the amne converoion          animal and palas protein, of hlich 10 grams hinuld be animal.
technique as the 1972 World Rank Atlas.                            protein.   Theme etand-da are so     hat louwe than, those of 75
1i Average naber of daughters per won.o of reprduotive                  grass offtotal.protein and 23 guano of animal protein as,an
ago,                                                               avrg      or tha world, propoe..d by PRO in the Third World Food
52   Pbpulotioe growh roten ar    for the de..odee endiag In            Suny.
1960 and 1970.                                                 /7 lSne studies have eugganted that cruds death rates of childre.
41  Ratio of population under 05 and 65 and over to popla-              apes 1 through I nay be usd ae a first approximation inden of
tina of mgoo15-61 for age dependency ratio and to lebr              malnutrition.
forne of egos 15-61 for eceonomic dependeney ratio.             /8  Fe-r--ntage enro1lld of corresponding populatioe of school age
15  FAO referene     tiandarde represe.nt phystologioal re-             aodfioed for asoh country.
quireosnte for normoal aotivity and health, takolag
/a   1972;    lb  1965-70;    Ic   Eatteate;    /d  1971;    Ie  1962;    /f  Projections, 1973;     Lg- 1951-56;    /b   1960-72;
5i    Municipalities, regency-caplial     and ether places with urban characteriatice;       5.  For the definition of urban, see
Dean rahi      Tearbook 1972, Page 151;     5k  For the definition of arben, see UN IDr,ogranhln YTeauboo     1972, Page i55;
5 1                1972-73;    5. AID estimate of later Lonce in age group 15-59; IBRD       repert gives a figure of 180.1 ailli-r
based on tie 1971 population naneus. The difference is due to changes in the definition of a worker. In the 1971 ceneus
Pereono were olm...tfied valy-n the tealis of their main activitien; this led to the. eocloeion of several categories, anch
neh.ueuvs        /o  1966-67;    5p  Households;     /q, 1967-68;    /r  1961;    /g   Nunber no the register, not all.. koring
in thecuty           ,16;        5   Gnero,emet only;    /v   1968;    77  Including rurarl hospitala;    I'   1961-63;
ly    1969-71;    5~ 1969-70;     Iaa  Not including West Irian;     lab   Approximate enrolbooni an percentage of population-
ic el   ote     g-rcp                   a   Estiate which i.nclodee overage etudenta;       /ad   1967;   /.e   Approln-te
lnolneot a. peroe..tage of popo~Iltieo in 11-15 age group;      Iaf  Up to end of second lve-1;      L.S&  1965;   /.h   NUbli
education,;   Iai   15 yearn and ove r;  Z/~. Definition not availabLe;       /04   Population of tan years and 00cr basedce
none percoot a-vple data of 1971; /0j Inport- only; LEO Ratio of popuintiu- under 15 and 65 and over to total bo
force.;   Ln   Graphical interpolatima ;     /Ian   sloide or outside;   /-P  Percent of dh,elliog.
Thei Philippio-o han been nolected as an      bijectine country for its geographical nielilarity and bsoaunv of it. aecoreot
n're advaned atage of     -oovic Aerelopoot.



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 3 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1973                                        ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ Min.        %                       1960 -65           1965 -70          1973
GNP at Market Prices          I 53>)9      10.0                         1.9                4.9              8.0
Gross Domestic Investment      2911          18,.                        3.3               11.5            17.0
Gross National Saving          2083          13,6                        5.8                5.1             20.8
Current Account Balance         828 20
Exports of Goods, NFS          2757          19.2                        1.9                7.8             24.8
Imports of Goods, NFS          317'!         20,                        0.2               10.9            21.14
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1971     V
Value Added                   Labor Force'/                  V. A. Per Worker
U$Y 1an.       %                 Mln.       %                    us $         %
Agriculture                    4243         43.,o              30.5      9. 0                  139         263
Industry                       l8'77        1 9.3               3.0      6.8                   626         285
Services                       3609         37.1                8.3     18.8                   h39         1 98
Unallocated                                                     2.4L 5L
Total/Average
100.0                 44.2     100.0                  220        100.0
GOVSNMENT FDIANCE
General Government                              Central Government
(____Mln_          % of GDP                       Rp Bln.          % of GDP
197            97    1   196 -7                 =19737      1973
Currert Receipts                                                                      977       l1.8          12. u
Current Expenditure                                -                                  704        10.7         9n
Current Surplus                                                                       273         8LI         3.1
Capital Expenditures                                                                  471         7.2         '.8
External Assistance (net)                                                             208         3.1
MONEY, CRFEDIT and PRICES                 1969      9   79          1971        1972         19          17L
9illion   Rp outstanding end period7i
Money and Quasi Money                      230           315         432         690          987        18 5
Bank credit to Public Sector                60            57         129          57           37           2
Banlk Credit to Private Sector             172           306         451         599          897        1125
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP          8.5           9.4         11*.        15.2         14.9
General Price Index   (Seput. l903   e=00)  5L5        612          638         680          891         1253
Annual percentage changes ins
General Price Index                       17.7         12.3           8.2         6.6        31.0          40.6
Bank credit to Public Sector              33.3        - 5.0         126.3      - 55.8       - 35.1       - 9h.6
Bank credit to Private Sector             91.1         77.9          47.8        32.8        49.8          259.
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
/ Corverersion at an exchange rate of Rp. 390 :. US 81.
2/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.     "Unallocated1' consists
mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
not available
not applicable



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 3 pages
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                 MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1972-74)
1972     1973     1974                                               US $ Mln    %
(Millions US $) P2e-
Est.
Exports of Goods, NFS        1757       2957     6842             Oil                                 2304    59.7
Imports of Goods, NFS        1875       3170     5832             Rubber                               362     9.4
Resource Gap (deficit =      -)  -TTU -213       TOTO             Timber                               520    13.5
Tin                                   98     2.5
Interest Payments (net)       - )46     - 72)                     Coffee                                84     2.2
Workers' Remittances           -          - )   -1236
Other Factor Payments (net)   -318      -5643)
Net Transfers                 -364      -615    -1236               All other commodities              493    12.7
Balance on Current Account    -682      -828    - 226                    Total                       7TB5    100.0
Direct Foreign Investment      258       290      454             EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31. 1974
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements              647        624      *-                                                        US $ Mln
Amortization               - 70      -138
Subtotal                   3TF       T8c       635               Public Debt, incl. guaranteed            509c
Capital Grants                 ..         ..      ..                Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)           181        208)    -176               Total outstanding & Disbursed
Other items n.e.i              98      J16)                                                  1/
Increase in Reserves (+)       32        325      687             DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1973-
Gross Reserves (end year)     574        806     1470
Net Reserves    (end year)    458        783     1470               Public Debt. incl.' guaranteed          7.8
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                          Total outstanding & Disbursed
Imports                       4          5
of which: Petroleum         2          2
Exmorts                      877      1348     4688
of which:  Petroleum      877       1348     4688       IBRD/IDA LENDING,  (Iiay 31, 1975) (US$ Million)
IBRD        IDA
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                      -RID
Outstanding & Disbursed               4.1       237.7
Throuqh July 1971              Since August 195               Undisbursed                         313.4       324.1
US f 1. O1  = US 375           US $ 1.00 = hp 0415            Outstanding incl. Undisbursed       317.5       561.c
-  1. 00 = US '$, C. C(27        1.00 = US $ 0.0024
/ Rptio of debt s3ervice to exports of goods and non-factor services, with oil exports
net of factor p.%nnents and imports of the oil sector.
Preliminary estimate
not available
not applicable



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 11
THE STATUS OF  ATNK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A.             STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND  DA CREDITS (as of MaY 31, 19
Loan/                                                              US$ Million
Credit    Fiscal                                           Amou
Number     Year     Purpose                                  Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
Two credits fully disbursed                                        6.0
127       1969     Irrigation Rehabilitation                       5.0         0.1
15h       1969     Highway                                        28.0         0.7
155       1969     Agricultural Estates                          16.0          0.3
165       1970     Electricity Distribution                      15iO          0.2
193       1970     FUSRI Fertilizer                               35.0         1.6
194       1970     Second Agricultural Estates                    17.0         4.6
195       1970     Second Irrigation. Rehabilitation              18.5         4.2
210       1971     Telecommunications Expansion                  12.8          2.0
211       1971     Fisheries                                      3,5          1.9
219       1971     Education                                       4.6         2.0
220       1971     Third Irrigation Rehabilitation                14.5         3 .4
246       1971     Seeds                                           7.5         3.8
259       1971     Tea                                            15.0         5.5
260       1971     Second Highway                                3h.0         12s9
275       1972     Third Technical Assistance                      4.0         1.5
288       1972     Second Education                                6.3         5.7
289       1972     Fourth Irrigation Rehabilitation              12,5          4.4
300       1972     Population                                     13e2         9.6
310       1972     Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO I)            10.0         2.5
318       1972     Inter-Island Fleet Rehabilitation               8.5         5.7
319       1972     Fourth Agricultural Estates                    11.0         7.5
334       1972     Second Electricity Distribution                40.0        29.0
355       1973     Beef Cattle Development                         3.6         3.1
358       1973     North Sumatra Smallholder Development           5.0         4.o
387       1973     Third Education                                13.5        13.5
388       1973     Third Highway                                  14.0        10.5
399       1973     West Java Thermal Power                       46.o         45.2
400       1973     Smallholder and Private Estate Tea              7.8         705
405       1973     Sugar Industry Rehabilitation                 50.0         48.6
428       1974     Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate                 16.5         15,5
436       1974     Private Development Finance Co. (PDFCI)       100         10,0
451       1974     Fourth Technical Assistance                    5.0          4.7
479       1974     Bali Tourism                                  16.0        15.8
480       1974     Fisheries Credit                               6,5          6.4
514       1974     Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension                30.0        29.8
1005      1974     Railway                                48.o               48.0
1040      1975     Jakarta Urban Development               25.0               22.1
10h9      1975     Five Cities Water Supply               14.5               14.5
1054      1975     DevelopmenQ Finance Co. (BAI-INDO II)  50.0               49.5
1089      1975     Second Fertilizer Expansion           115.0              li4h3
1100 a/   1975     Sixth Irrigation                       65.0               65.0
317.5  5618        637.3
j   Not yet effective



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 11
A.              STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of May 31, 1975)
US$ Million
Amount (less cancellations)
Bank     IDA     Undisbursed
Total                                 317.5    561.8       637.5
Total now outstanding                 317_                 ___67
3756i        .       637,5
Amount sold                   0.05
of which has been repaid      0.0    0.05
Total now held by Bank and             317h45  561.8
IDA (Prior to exchange
adjustment)
Total undisbursed                      313.4   3241        637.5
STATEMENTS OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of May 31. 1972)
Fiscal                                       Type of                  US$ Million
Year    Obligor                             Business           Loan    Equity     Total
1971    PeT. Semen Cibinong                 Cement             10.6       2.5     13.1
1971    P.T. Unitex                         Textiles            2.5      0.8       303
1971    P.T. Primatexco Indonesia           Textiles            2.0       0.5      2.5
1971    PoT, Kabel Indonesia                Cables               2.8      0.4      3.2
1972    P.T. Daralon Textile Manuf. Corp.   Textiles            4e5       1.5      6.0
1973    P.T, Jakarta Int. Hotel             Tourism            Ul,0        -      1190
1973    P.T. Semen Cibinong                 Cement              5.4       0.7      6.1
1974    P.T. Primatexco Indonesia           Textiles            2.0       0.3      2.3
1974    P,To Monsanto Pan Electronics       Electronic pdts.    0.9        -       0.9
1974    P.T. PDFCI                          Devlp. Fin. Co.      -        0.5      0.5
1974    Kamaltex                            Textiles            244      0.6       3.0
1974    Semen Cibinong                      Cement              5ii                 .5
Total              499.1      9,3     58.4
Less Sold or re-   19.9       1.4     20.9
paid and cancelled
Total now held     29.2       7.9     37.5
Undisbursed
(including parti-   6.4      1.6       8.0
cipant's portion)



ANNEX IX
Page 3 of 11
PROJTEX:>i I!l EXNYIEJTIOUi
Cr. No. 127     Irrgation Rehabilitation: U' Mi-11Lon -Credit of
Sptem ber _:68      C losiaDate: December 31 , 1975
All the equipment suppLied under the credit is being well
utilized and disbursemerits are 98 percent of appraisal timetable. Comple-
"ion of the proje:-t is expected to be delayed in order to complete much
needed additional drainage w   '- the financing of which was not provided
for under the credit.   These additional costs will be met by the Govern-
ment. Tne re-ised economic rate of return on the project, which was calcu-
lated at 50 percent at appraisal, is now expected to be about 25 percent.
The closirng date ha3 been postponed to December 31, 1975.
Cr. No. _L53    jg!Lhy _ US$28 Million Credit of Jzne 20    196-
ClosingD.to: December 3
Rehabilitation work was subst, ntially completed prior to the
original closing date.   However, it was necessary to postpone the closing
date by one year to December 31, 1975 to complete procurement of a small
amount of equipment and materials.
Cr. No. 155     Agric_utural Estates:  US$16 Million Credit of
June 20,   9    CosingDte:Dcber 31 1975
With recent improvements in management and mulch higher inter-
national prices the financial situation of the estate groups is improving.
The field and factory standards have now been raised to a good technical
level and the irianagement has been advised to concentrate on cost control
in order to prepare for the time when produce prices are less attractive
than they are today. Thel combined efforts of the management, consultants
and IDA supervision missions are yielding good results.
Cr. No. 165    Electricit, Distribution:   US$15 Million Credit of
October 221        )sin& D ate:   June 30, 1975
See coJanrent for Credit No. 331.  Tne closing date has been
postponed by 18 months to June 30, 1975.
1/  These notes are designed to info-rm the Execut,ive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them.   They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesse3 in project execution0



ANNEX II
Page h of 11
Cr. No. 193    FJUSRI Fertilizer:  US$35 Million Credit of June L5  1970
as amended MM 1273) Closing Date: December 31. 1975
The urea plant has ^uccessfully passed its performance test
and is operating at close to ratod capacity. The gas gathering and trans-
mission system is also completed and sufficient gas is being delivered to
the plant. Disbursements are expected to be completed by the closing date
of December 31, 1975.
Cr. No. 194    Second Agricultural Estates:  US$17 Million Credit of
June 15, 1970; Closing Date: June 30 197
After initial delays, there have been considerable improve-
ments in management and these, combined with high prices for palm oil and
rubber, have resulted in a much stronger financial position, particularly
for the oil palm group (PNP VI), On the rubber group (PNP IV) more effort
is necessary to improve fertilizer application and tapping methods. With
the rapid expansion of investment on both estate groups, there is a need
to employ expertise in financial planning and management, whiclh are now
the main constraints on efficient development.
Cr. No. 195    Second Irrigation Rehabilitation:  US$18.5 Million Credit
of June 15. 1970; Closing Date: November 30. 197
Problems of quality and progress of construction still exist,
but the consultants are tackling these vigorously, and the situation is
improving, although not sufficiently to make up for earlier delays. Costs
are likely to double the overall appraisal estimate, due to inflation, but
the Government will provide any additional funds required. Completion of
disbursements will be about two years behind the original schedule. the
economi. rate of return is hiowever still more than 20 percent.
Cr. No. 210    Telecommunications Ecpansion: US$12.8 Million Credit of
July 13, 1970; Closing Date: December 31. 1975
Contracts for all equipment have been awarded. The closing
date has been postponed by 18 months due to delays in delivery of goods.
The Government has increased the tariffs to achieve the required rate of
return and a new charter for PERUMTEL has also been published.
Cr. No. 211    Fisheries: US$3.5 Million Credit of July 13. 1970;
Closing Date: June 30, 1976
The project supplies funds for the construction of 30 fully
equipped skipjack boats and technical assistance. It is about 24 months
behind the original schedule due to delays in engaging the consultants and
in executing the contracts for the shore facilities. No further delay is
anticipated. There have been very substantial project cost increases (from
$4.3 million to $8.5 million).  Because of the greatly increased skipjack



ANNEX I 
Page 5 of 1
prices, howeever, the project is still expected to be financially viable.
Cr. No. 219    Education:  US$4.6 Million Credit of' November 6. 1970
Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Project implementation is satisfactory. Civil works for the
five Technical Training Centers (TTCs) have been completed. All furrniture
deliveries and installation have also been completed. About 90 percent of
the equipment has been purchased and about 60 percent delivered and
installed. Three TTCs coimmenced operation in April 1975 and the remaining
two, will commence in June 1975. All will operate at full capacity by
January 1976 when the new academic year begins. Over 500 technical
teachers have completed or are about to complete their training. Technical
assistance financed by the U.K. for the project is also satisfactory0
TDisbursement has improved considerably. Revised total project cost is now
about 40 percent above appraisal estimate. The Government will finance the
cost overrun.  The project is expected to be completed ahead of schedule.
Cr. No. 220    Third Irrigation Rehabilitation:  US$14.5 Million Credit of
November  , 1970; Closing Date: December 31, 1975
Construction remains about two to three years behind schedule
partly because of problems with preparation of contract documents and sub-
sequently due to inflation.  These have now been mostly overcome. While
no further delays are expected, it is unlikely that the time lost could be
regained. There has been a considerable increase in overall project costs,
which is being met by the Government. The economic rate of return for the
project is still over 21 percent.
Cr. No. 246    Seeds: US$7.5 Million Credit of May 14, 1971;
C     gate:    September 30, 1977
Project implementation is behind schedule due to initial
delays in organization, management, procurement and provision of budgetary
funds. The latest supervision mission has reported that development of the
seed farm is hampered by the slow execution of a contract to develop irriga-
tion infrastructure and the seed processing plant0 The contract for irriga-
tion infrastructure has been renegotiated. The establishment of rice-seed
research facilities at the project site is behind schedule due to diffi-
culties in recruiting the necessary technical assistance and delays in
providing the required facilities and the equipment. The contract for
research technical assistance has now been signed and with the reorganiza-
tion of the GDvernment's research program, this component of the project
is expected to proceed rapidly.  The seeds certification service is
performing well and development of the Klaten Seed District is progressing
satisfactorily. This project is being kept under frequent supervision.



ANNEX II
Page 6of 11
Cr. No. 259    Tea: US$15 Million Credit of June 14, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
Agricultural achievements to date have far exceeded appraisal
expectations necessitating construction and rehabilitation of 3 additional
factories.  Project completion estimated for December 1977 can probably be
advanced by up to one year. Rising costs are creating pressure on fund
availabilities and the main challenge for the two PTP's will be to
decrease working capital requirements, reduce overhead and indirect costs
and improve labor productivity.
Cr. No. 260    Second Highway: US$35 Million Credit of June 24, 1971;
Closing Date: September 30, 197W
All construction work is now satisfactorily under way.
However, the delay caused initially by slow progress in mobilizing con-
tractors, difficulties in equipment delivery,  heavy rains and land-
slides will result in the project being completed about one year behind
schedule. Design standards for the road sections have been slightly
lowered and some savings will therefore be achieved. These and other
savings are expected to offset construction cost increases.
Cr. No. 275    Third Technical Assistance: US$4.0 Million Credit of
December 29, 1971; Closing Date: December 31, 1975
Progress on this project is satisfactory. The closing date
has been postponed to complete disbursements for ongoing studies.
Cr. No. 288    Second Education:  US$6.3 Million Credit of March 9, 1972:
Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Working drawings and furniture and equipment lists for all
project institutions have been completed. Physical facilities will be
completed and all project institutions will begin operations by the end
of 1976. The Government has agreed to provide additional funds to meet
the cost overruns due to inflation. Postponement of the closing date by
about one year is likely to be necessary.
Cr. No, 289    Fourth Irrigation Rehabilitation: US$a2.5 Million
Credit of March 9. 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Civil works and equipment purchase for the main project,
Pekalen-Sampean, are proceeding but completion of civil works will be
about two years behind schedule.  Due to inflation, project costs are
likely to be substantially higher than appraisal estimates. Consultants
for the various studies are at work with their counterparts. Groundwater
investigations have been delayed due to procurement difficulties. The
rehabilitation and storage feasibility studies are on schedule. Disburse-
ments are also on schedule.



ANNJi. II
Page 7 of 1]
Cr. No. 300    Poulation:    S$13.2 Million Credit of April 20, 1972;
Closinc, Date:  June 30,1975
Although progress is being made under this project, implemern-
tation continues to be hampered by management wealoiesses.  Lack of clear
administrative direction has resulted in overall delays in securing budge-
tary funds and problems of program coordination. Procurement contracts for
vehicles and other equipment have been awarded and UNICEF is assisting in
the procurement of materi1s arnd supplies necessary for various population
cointrol programs.  The civil works component is behind schedule, but is now
proceeding more rapidly as the capacity of the implementing agency gradually
improves. The field worker program has expanded more rapidly than expected
when the project was appraised.  This project is being supervised closely.
Cr. No. 310    Developnent Finance Co. (BAPINDO I): US$10 Million
Credit of June 7, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1976
This credit is fully committed. Disbursements are expected to
rise rapidly.
Cr. No. 318    Inter-Island Fleet Rehabilitation:  US$8.5 Million Credit
ofJn       2L1972; Closing Date:  September 302,1976
Progress on this project is satisfactory and disbursements are
expected to rise.
Cr. No. 319    Fourth AZricultural Estates: US$11 Million Credit of
June 25, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 19b1
The physical progress of the project is ahead of the appraisal
schedule and the financial position of the estate group is satisfactory.
Cr. No. 334    Second Electricity Distribution:  US$40 Million Credit of
September 29, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1976
The Jakarta distribution program financed from Credits 165-IND
and 334-IND (together $55 million) has encountered substantial foreign cost
increases ($7.0 million) and implementation delays due to procurement
problems and cumbersome management procedures. Many of these difficulties
have been resolved, but it is unlikely that the project can be completed
before mid-1978, two years behind the original schedule.
Cr. No. 355    Beef Cattle Development: US$3.6 Million Credit of
January 31, 1973; Closing Date: March 31, 1980
Progress on this project for development of beef cattle pro-
duction in the outer islands has suffered from serious delays caused largely
by problems in securing Government funds and in clearance of documents by



ANNEX II
pag -     1:
Indonesian Government departments and consequent lack of essential equip-
ment. Land acquisition and procurement of cattle are proving more diffi-
cult than expected, and there has been a substantial increase in total
project costs. The means of improving project performance are currently
being discussed with the Government.
Cr. No. 358    North Sumatra Smaliholder Development: US$5 Million Credit
of Feba     1   1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This project has suffered from severe financial and organiza-
tional difficulties due primarily to the lack of experience of project
management, the remote location of the project and inadequate Central
Government support. The Resident Staff has been following the project
closely. The rubber replanting program is behind schedule, but with progress
now being made it may be possible to accelerate the program in accordance
with appraisal estimates. The Government has taken a number of steps to
overcome the problems and accelerate project implementation. Project
progress will continue to be closely monitored.
Cr. No. 387    Third Education:  US$13.5 Million Credit of June 1, 1973;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1981
Project implementation is proceeding on schedule, except for a
10 month delay in equipment procurement which has now been overcome. Manu-
script testing of the first set of texts has been completed. About 34
million textbooks are scheduled to be printed in August, 1975. Distribu-
tion of textbooks to all primary schools is now being planned and will
necessitate the use of a number of government agencies. Staff in the
provinces have been trained in the use of the textbooks and training
courses have commenced for teachers. Lack of travel funds in the provinces
has impeded teacher training, but it is expected that this difficulty will
be overcome as the project management, which is effective, becomes more
familiar with government procedures. Project costs are now estimated at
$56 million, 44 percent above the original estimate because of increased
costs of paper and teacher training. The Government is expected to meet
all cost increases.
Cr. No. 388    Third Highways:  US$14 Million Credit of June 1, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30. 1977
Construction bidding and consultant selection have been pro-
ceeding on schedule. Some cost increases, due to inflation, are expected.
Cr. No. 399    West Java Thermal Power:  US$46 Million Credit of
June 22, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1978
Bids received in November 1974 for the first two 100 mw units
at Muara Karang were about 65 percent higher than estimated at the time of
appraisal. This, together with construction cost increases, has resulted



AiNJNEK II
Page 9 of -,j
in an increase in the total project cost of more than 100 percent.    The
Government will finance the additional cost.   PLI has satisfactorily met
the first year targets in its financial recovery plan provided for under
the terms of the Credit Agreement.
Cr. No. 400    Smallholder and Private Estate Tea: US$7.8 Million
Credit of June 22, 1973; Closing Date: March 31 192
The project nurseries are well managed and where rehabilita-
tion has taken place results are encouraging. Technical questions related
to loan applications by farmers have been resolved and BRI is expected to
proceed with extending credits to tea growers. The contract of the finan-
cial advisor to BRI has been extended for another year. Progress on tlLIS
project is satisfactory.
Cr. No. 405     Sugar Industry Rehabilitation: US$50 Million Credit of
June  6  1.97"   Closing Date:  June 30, 1979
Bids for equipment required for first phase major rehabilita-
tion have been received; a substantial cost overrum is expected, which the
Goverrment has agreed to finance.   Some organizational problems are now
being resolved and disbursements are expected to rise.
Cr. No. 428    Palo Gadung Industrial Estate: US$16.5 Million Credit
of September 3b, 1973   Closing Date:  December 31, 1978
Despite recent increase in construction costs, the project
remains financially viable because revenues from the sale of plots has
risen proportionately. Construction has fallen behind schedule due to land
acquisition problems, but developed land is being occupied as fast as it is
made available. While there is still a backlog of applicatiorns for indus-
trial plots, the rate of new applications has fallen off during recent
months and the estate is intensifying its promotional efforts.
C               Private Development Finance Company of Indonesia (PDF1CI):
US$10 illion Credit of November 2, 1973;
Closing Dae     cembe        97
After a long start-up period and difficulties in finding and
recruiting qualified local staff, PDKI has now reached the operating stage.
Its commitments are rising at a satisfactory rate.
Cr. No. 451    Fourth Technical Assistance:   US$5 Million Credit of
January 2,       Closing Dte:      e          1976
Progress under the project is satisfactory.



ANN EX II
Page 10 of I
Bali Tourism: US$16.0 Million Credit of June 4, 1974j.
Closing Date: August 31, 1979
Progress under this project is slightly behind schedule due to
the lack of experience of the implementing agency and difficulties in
coordination with other Govemnment organizations. This situation has
steadily improved as local staff have gained experience and project advisors
have taken up their positions.   Final design of the infrastructure and hotel
training school is underway. Preliminary lease negotiations with potential
hotel investors are expected to begin around early July.
Cr. No. e480   Fisheries Credit: US$6.5 Million Credit of
June M  1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
This credit became effective on January 8, 1975 and is
progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No._5114   Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension: US$30.0 Million Credit
o=fOctober 3, 1974; Closing Date:_ December 31, 1960
This credit became effective on January 10, 1975 and the work
will commence soon.
Loan No. 1005 Railway: US$48.0 Million Loan of June 4, 1974;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1975
Procurement of material and equipment was delayed due to poor
procurement organization and inadequate budget allocations for 1971/75;
however, this situation has improved since PJKA retained the services of an
international procurement agency. Due largely to a lack of spare parts an
increasing number of locomotives have dropped out of service, causing a
decline in freight traffic. To attain financial viability as agreed in the
Loan Documents, PJKA needs to increase revenues by at least 10 percent.
Therefore, in May 1975 freight tariffs were substantially increased. A
draft of the detailed recovery program for FY75, due to the Bank in
September 1974, has not been received.
Loan No. 10140  Jakarta Urban Development:_US25.0     llion Loan of
September 27, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
The first year of the two-year Kampung Improvement Program
has been satisfactorily completed. The second year's activities are well
underway with first year savings being applied to increase the water supply
beyond originally planned levels. The newly formed National Urban Develop-
ment Corporation is currently seeking consultants both to assist in the
development of their operations and to prepare urban projects in other
cities. Full responsibility for supervision of consultants designing the
Klender Site and Service scheme has been transferred to NUDC so as to
ensure preparation of a design with standards appropriate to the low income
target population.



ANN17X II
Page 11 of 1].
Loan No. 14S Five Cities Wiater Sup           1 45 Million Loar. of
October 31, 1974; Closing Date:    Jiine     8O
This loan became effective May 21, 1975.
Loan  2_105~    Developmentu RFinance Co. (BAPiNDO II):  US$50 Million Loan
o]f November '%  ~.27h  Closing Date:  December 31, 1976
This loan became effective January 14, 1975 and is proceeding
satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1089   Second Fertilizer Expansion:   US$115 Million Loan of
Februa1y           9 Cs     D   : August 31, 1978
This loan became effective April 29, 1975
Loan No. 1100 Sixth Irrigation Project: US,$65 Million Loan of
April 1, 1975; Closimng Date:  June 30, 1952
This loan is expected to become effective by the end of June
1975.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3 pages
INDONESIA - PUSRI FERTILIZER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                 Republic of Indonesia
Beneficiary:              P.T. Pupuk Sriwidjaja (PUSRI)
Indonesia State Railways (PJKA)
Amount:                   US$68 million equivalent in various currencies
Terms:                    15-1/2 years including 3-1/2 years of grace at
8-1/2 percent per annum.
Relending Terms:          Same as repayment terms at 12 percent per annum
Project Description:      The project consists of investments to provide
a new distribution system for the urea pro-
duced by PUSRI at plants in Palembang, Sumatra,
together with other types of fertilizer which
will be distributed by PUSRI totalling some 1.4
million tons per annum. Specific investments
to be undertaken during the project include:
acquisition of three self-unloading ships of
about 7,000 dwt for bulk shipments; expansion
or improvement of three and provision of two
new bulk unloading port terminals; construction
of 59 inland fertilizer storage and distribution
depots; provision of 175 railway wagons, four
main line and three shunting locomotives, the
latter being owned and operated by PJKA, and
27 railway spurs to inland storage depots;
construction and procurement of office space
and vehicles, technical assistance to assist
and train PUSRI personnel in overall scheduling
and movement control, and a study for the estab-
lishment of a National Fertilizer Distribution
System.



ANNEX TII
Page 2 of 3 pages
Estimated Cost
(US$ Million):
Local    Foreign     Total
1.   Ships                                _       33.0       33.0
2.   Port and inland depots and
bagging plants, including
land provision and related
offices, equipment and spares      34.1      27.0       61.1
3.   Railway wagons                       -        3.5        3.5
4.   Locomotives                          -        2.5        2.5
5.   Engineering and Technical
Assistance                          1.0       3.0        4.0
6.   Contingencies                      11.3      14.6       25.9
7.   Total Project Cost                 46.4      83.6      130.0
8.   Interest during construction        3.6       6.4       10.0
Total Financing Requirements       50.1      89.9      140.0
Financing Plan:
US$ Million
Equivalent               %
Government                         72.0                 51.5
Proposed Bank Loan                 68.0                48.5
Estimated Disbursements:
FY76   FY77    FY78   FY79
Annual                             25.0   30.0    9.0     4.0
Cumulative                         25.0   55.0   64.0    68.0



ANNEX 1-I
Page 3 of 3 pages
Procurement
Arrangements:           All equipment financed by the Bank loan will be
procured in accordance with the Bank's Guide-
lines. A contract for ship acquisitions with
Mitsubishi Heavy Industries has been signed,
this being the lowest of four bids received from
14 prequalified yards; prequalification proce-
dures for other long lead items of equipment
for the port and inland storage depots is in
hand. Civil works will be contracted locally
and would not be financed from the proceeds of
the Bank loan.
Technical Assistance:     The proposed loan would finance provision of two
specialists for two years to set up an appropri-
ate scheduling and movement control system and
train PUSRI personnel in its operation. PUSRI
has also retained marketing consultants and con-
sultants for design and supervision of construction
of the ships and inland distribution facilities.
Rate of Return:           Economic return on project investments is estimated
to be 20 percent. Under adverse conditions the re-
turn is not expected to be less than about 13 percent.
Appraisal Report:         No. 694-IND dated May 19, 1975.






THAILAND E05             1i5                                                              120
8ando Aceh            s       ,
Kr"Bru
* r<3  .,tt       3             A          South        Chiena      Sea          BRUNEI
: - < A             &iawa  MALAYSSA9<<k 
|  u L u m p    w    0                                      M/+~~~~~~~~LAYSIA           <
.-SINGAPORE
PROVINCES                                            PongkSlp\nAng
1 EAST JAVA                        E                       TCnJungpand n
2 CENTRAL JAVA
3 WEST JAVA
4 SPECIAL CAPITALUNG                                                                   arryArVA
TERRITORY JAKARTA      Bnkl
5 SPECIAL TERRITORY JOGJAKARTA
6 NORTH SUMATRA
? 7 JAMBI
S RIAU                                                                   a   vSeaUugPna
9 WEST SUMATRA                       Te uk t                                           A
10 SOUTH SUMAATRA
11 LAMPUNG                                                   k
12 SPECIAL TERRITORY ACEH                                      Ckme
13 BENKULU                                                     Ci(nSmrnDR
14 WEST KALIMANTAN
15 EAST KALIMANTAN                                   Band
16 SOUTH KALIMANTAN                                                                   ura
17 CENTRAL KALIMANTAN                                    .-&                                                  A J  W
18 SOUTH SULAWESI
19 CENTRAL SULAWESI
20 SOUTH-EAST SULAWESI
21 NORTH SULAWESI                        /n d     o n     Oce an                            DenpaSor  LOMBOK
10, 23 BALI
24 WEST NUSA TENGGARA
25 EAST NUSA TENGGARA                                                                                                 SUMBA
26 IRIAN JAYA
100                        105                       liO                      IIS                        120



