CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1139 IND
Project Agreement
(Fertilizer Distribution Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
P.T. PUPUK SRIWIDJAJA
DATED JULY 10, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1139 IND
Project Agreement
(Fertilizer Distribution Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
P.T. PUPUK SRIWIDJAJA
DATED JULY 10, 1975


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 10, 1975, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and P.T. PUPUK SRIWIDJAJA (hereinafter called PUSRI).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between Republic
of Indonesia (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed
to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
sixty-eight million dollars ($68,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth
in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that PUSRI agree to undertake
such obligations toward the Bank as hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS PUSRI, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Loan Agreement and in the
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the term Rupiah means Rupiah in the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. PUSRI shall carry out Parts A, B, C(1), D and E of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, industrial, agricultural
and engineering practices.
Section 2.02. In order to assist PUSRI in (i) the design, procurement and
construction supervision for the ships, the bulk port terminals and the inland storage
depots included in the Project, and (ii) the establishment of management,


﻿4
administration and operation procedures and training of staff included in the
Project, PUSRI shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.03 In carrying out the civil works included in Parts B and D of
the Project, PUSRI shall employ qualified and experienced contractors.
Section 2.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the goods, works
and services (other than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan made available to PUSRI shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.05. (a) PUSRI undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision
for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan made available to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable
by PUSRI to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, PUSRI shall cause all goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan made available to it by
the Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.06. (a) PUSRI shall furnish to the Bank, promptly upon their
preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and construction
and procUrement schedules for Parts A, B, C(1 ), D and E of the Project, and
any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request.
(b) PUSR[: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the progress of
the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan made available to it by the Borrower,
and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon
the provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section, enable the Bank's representatives
to visit the facilities and construction sites included in Parts A, B, C( I), D and
E of the Project and to examine the goods financed out of such proceeds and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank all such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan so made available to it and the goods
and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c)   PUSRI shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine all plants,
installations, sites, works, buildings, property and equipment of PUSRI and any
relevant records and documents.


﻿5
Section 2.07. PUSRI shall duly perform all its obligations under the Financing
Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, PUSRI shall not take or
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning
or waiving the Financing Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.08. (a) PUSRI shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views
with the Bank with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Financing Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)   PUSRI shall promptly inform    the Bank of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with. the progress of the Project, tihe
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan. or the performance by PUSRI of
its obligations under this Agreement and under the Financing Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of PUSRI
Section 3.0 1. (a) PUSRI shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs
in accordance with sound business, industrial, shipping, financial, distribution and
marketing  practices under the supervision   of experienced   and  competent
management assisted by qualified staff in adequate numbers. To that end, PUSRI
shall gradually increase the number of its trained staff as required for the prompt
and effective discharge of its obligations under this Agreement.
(b)   PUSRI shall at all times operate and maintain its ships, plants,
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as
needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with
sound engineering and financial practices.
(c)   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, PUSRI shall not sell, lease,
transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its property or assets, except in the normal
course of its business.
(d)   PUSRI may create, acquire or have any subsidiary only with the prior
approval of the Bank. For the purposes of this paragraph, the term "subsidiary"
means any entity of which a majority of the outstanding voting stock shall be
owned, or which shall otherwise be effectively controlled, by PUSRI or by one
or more subsidiaries of PUSRI or by PUSRI and one or more of its subsidiaries.


﻿6
(e)   PUSRI shall, promptly as required, take all action within its powers
to maintain its corporate existence and right to carry on its operations and to
retain such land, interests in land and properties, and to acquire, maintain and
renew such licenses, powers, franchises and other rights, as may be necessary or
useful in the carrying out of the Project or in the conduct of its business.
Section 3.02. PUSRI shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropriate practice.
Section 3.03. PUSRI shall at all times make all reasonable efforts to continue
to  build  up  and   maintain  an  effective, financially  viable  and  economic
transportation, marketing and distribution organization and facility for its products.
Section 3.04. PUSRI shall ensure that the ships included in the Project shall
at all times meet the classification standards established from time to time for
the class assigned to them upon completion of their construction by Biro Klassifikasi
Indonesia and Germanischer Lloyd.
Section 3.05. PUSRI shall establish and thereafter maintain arrangements with
PJKA satisfactory to the Bank for the proper operation and maintenance of PUSRI's
railway stock by PJKA.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. PUSRI shall maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently rnaintained appropriate accounting practices its operations and
financial condition.
Section 4.02. PUSRI shall: (i) have its before-mentioned accounts and its
consolidated financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of said financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
have reasonably requested; (iii) furnish to the Bank within two months after the
end of each calendar quarter copies of said financial statements for such quarter;
and (iv) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts and


﻿7
financial statements of PUSRI and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time
to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. PUSRI shall prepare on a pro forma basis for each of its fiscal
years, and furnish to the Bank not later than four months after the end of each
such year, statements of income and expenses and balance sheets adequate to reflect
in accordance with appropriate accounting practices its fertilizer shipping,
distribution and marketing operations accountable to such fiscal year.
Section 4.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, PUSRI shall not
make expenditures, or commitments for expenditures, for fixed or capital assets
(including investments in or loans to other business entities) until PUSRI's plant
included in the project described in Schedule 2 to the Pusri III Loan Agreement
shall have produced an aggregate of at least 456,000 metric tons of urea during
a period of twelve consecutive months, except:
(a)   expenditures, or commitments for expenditures, required for repair,
maintenance or replacement of assets;
(b)   investments in short-term marketable securities solely for the purpose
of temporarily employing its idle funds;
(c)   expenditures, or commitments for expenditures, required for: (i) the
carrying out of the Project or the project described in Schedule 2 to the Pusri
III Loan Agreement or the project described in the development credit agreement
(Pusri Fertilizer Project) dated June 15, 1970 between the Borrower and the
Association, as amended from time to time; (ii) the establishment of facilities for
the production, storage and distribution of liquid carbon dioxide and dry ice; and
(iii) the establishment of facilities for the production, storage and distribution of
hydrocarbon feedstocks from condensate recovered from the natural gas supply;
and
(d)   other expenditures, or commitments for expenditures, not exceeding
in the aggregate the equivalent of $2,000,000 in any fiscal year.
Section 4.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, PUSRI undertakes:
(i) that its depreciable fixed assets relating to manufacturing operations shall be
fully depreciated on a straight-line basis within a period of twelve years starting
at the close of the fiscal year during which such assets will have been placed into
service; and (ii) that all its other depreciable fixed assets shall be fully depreciated
on a straight-line basis and in conformity with appropriate financial principles and
accounting practices.


﻿8
Section 4.06. For the purposes of this Section and Sections 4.07, 4.08 and
4.09 of this Agreement:
(a)   the term "debt" means all indebtedness incurred by PUSRI, including
indebtedness assumed or guaranteed by PUSRI;
(b)   the term "long-term debt" means any debt maturing by its terms more
than twelve months after the date on which it is originally incurred, and the term
"short-term debt" means any debt other than long-term debt;
(c)   debt shall be deemed to be incurred (A) under a loan contract or
agreement, on the date and to the extent that it is drawn down pursuant to such
loan contract or agreement, and (B) under a guarantee agreement, on the date
the agreement providing for such guarantee is entered into but only to the extent
that the guaranteed debt is outstanding;
(d)   the term  "net revenues" means gross revenues from all sources less
operating and administrative expenses, including taxes, surcharges and other levies;
and interest and other charges on short-term debt, if any, but before provision
for depreciation and interest and other charges on long-term debt;
(e)   the term  "net earnings" means net revenues less adequate provision
for depreciation and interest and other charges on long-term debt;
(f)   the term  "long-term  debt service requirements" means the aggregate
amount of amortization, interest and other charges payable in respect of long-term
debt during any fiscal year;
(g)   whenever it shall be necessary to value in terms of Rupiah debt payable
in another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the prevailing
lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency is obtainable by PUSRI,
at the time of such valuation, for the purposes of servicing such debt or, if such
other currency is not so obtainable, at such reasonable rate of exchange as shall
be acceptable to the Bank;
(h)   the term  "current assets" means cash, assets readily convertible into
cash, and all other assets which could in the ordinary course of business be
converted within twelve months into cash or assets readily convertible into cash;
(i)   Jhe term  "current liabilities" means liabilities due and payable and
all other liabilities which would be due and payable, or could be called for payment,
within twelve months, including the portion, if any, of long-term debt maturing
by its terms within twelve months; and


﻿9
(j)   the term "equity" shall mean PUSRI's unimpaired paid in share capital,
retained earnings, surplus and reserves (including any revaluation reserve but
excluding any reserve allocated to cover specific liabilities).
Section 4.07. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, PUSRI shall not
incur any long-term debt, other than under the Financing Agreement, if, at any
time after the incurrence of such new debt, the aggregate principal amount of
long-term debt of PUSRI then incurred and outstanding would exceed the amount
of PUSRI's equity at such time.
Section 4.08. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, PUSRI shall:
(i)         at all times maintain a ratio of current assets to current liabilities
of at least fourteen to ten;
(ii)        at all times maintain a ratio of net revenues earned during any
fiscal year to long-term debt service requirements of the next
following fiscal year of at least fifteen to ten;
(iii)       meet out of its revenues accountable to each fiscal year its full
operating, administrative and distribution expenses (including
adequate provisions for maintenance, straight-line depreciation,
taxes, surcharges and other levies, and interest and other charges
on debt) accountable to the same fiscal year; and
(iv)        earn in respect of each fiscal year a reasonable return, after taxes,
on its assets (except fixed assets not yet in service).
(b)   For the purposes of making the calculation under subsection (a)(iv)
of this Section, the assets of PUSRI shall be deemed to be revalued from time
to time in accordance with appropriate valuation principles and procedures
acceptable to the Bank.
Section 4.09. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree:
(a)   PUSRI shall not declare any dividend or make any other distribution
with respect to its capital shares except out of its accumulated net earnings;
(b)   Without limiting the generality of Section 4.08(a)(i) of this Agreement,
PUSRI shall not pay any dividend or make any other distribution with respect
to its capital shares (other than dividends or distributions payable solely in such
capital shares) or purchase, redeem   or otherwise acquire, directly or indirectly


﻿10
for any consideration, any of such capital shares if, after giving effect to such
action, the current assets of PUSRI would be less than 1.4 times the current
liabilities of PUSRI; and
(c)   PUSRI shall not pay any dividend or make any other distribution with
respect to its capital shares until PUSRI's plant included in the Project described
in Schedule 2 to the Pusri III Loan Agreement will have produced an aggregate
of at least 456,000 metric tons of urea during a period of twelve consecutive
months.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of
PUSRI thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms, but not later than September 15, 1990.
(b)   If the Loan Agreement terminates before the last scheduled maturity
of the Loan, the Bank shall promptly notify PUSRI of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Loan
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or -t such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:


﻿11
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                         Telex Number:   248423 A
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For PUSRI:
P.T. Pupuk Sriwidjaja
Jin. Let. Jen. S. Parman No. 104
Post Office Box 2371
Jakarta, Indonesia
Cable address:                         Telex Number:   44249
44460
PUSRI
Jakarta
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of PUSRI may be taken or executed by the president of PUSRI or such other
person or persons as he shall designate in writing.
Section 6.03. PUSRI shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons who
will, on behalf of PUSRI, take any action or execute any documents required
or permitted to be taken or executed by PUSRI pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿12
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Bernard R. Bell
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
P.T. PUPUK SRIWIDJAJA
By /s/ Roesmin Nurjadin
Authorized Representative


﻿13
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    Contracts shall be let under procedures consistent with those set forth in
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised in October 1972 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.    (a)   Shipbuilders  and  equipment suppliers shall be prequalified    in
accordance with the provisions of part 2.2 of the Guidelines.
(b)   Identical or similar items to be procured for the Project shall be
grouped   together, wherever practicable, for the    purpose of bidding    and
procurement, and such grouping of items shall be subject to the concurrence of
the Bank.
3.    Items of limited availability whose timely supply is critical to the efficient
execution of the Project, including spare parts related to such items, shall be
procured on the basis of prices negotiated after solicitation of quotations from
a list of prequalified suppliers acceptable to the Bank.
4.    Items estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each shall be purchased
from qualified suppliers on the basis of suitability, availability and price of such
items in accordance with appropriate business practices.
5.    Before purchasing any items under the procedures set forth in A.3 and A.4
hereof, PUSRI shall obtain the concurrence of the Bank with the items so to be
procured and the suppliers to be approached for such items.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for Domestic
Manufacturers
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the
cost to PUSRI of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery
of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿14
2.    Goods manufactured in Indonesia may be granted a margin of preference
in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Indonesia if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of PUSRI and
the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Indonesia equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory
bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in
Indonesia.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a bid
from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group
A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award;
if not, the bid from group C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph
(c) is the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.    Review of Procurement Decisions by Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before qualification is invited,
inform the Bank in detail of the procedure to be followed and shall introduce


﻿15
such modifications in said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The
list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications and
of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification shall be
furnished by the Borrower to the Bank for its comments before the applicants
are notified, and the Borrower shall make such additions to, deletions from, or
modifications in, the said list as the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.    Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts.
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000
or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, PUSRI shall furnish to the Bank, for its
comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other bidding
documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents or
procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further modification to the
bidding documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, PUSRI shall, before a
final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank of the name of the bidder
to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the intended award
and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report,
by the consultants referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with the recommendation for award
of the said consultants and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly infori PUSRI and
state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the Bank's
concurrence, materially  differ from   those on   which  bids were asked    or
prequalification invited.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the Bank
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from  the Loan Account in respect of such
contract.
3.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph, PUSRI shall furnish to the
Bank, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of


﻿16
the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect
of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together, in the case
of any such contract costing the equivalent of $50,000 or more, with the analysis
of bids, recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the contract
was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform PUSRI
and state the reasons for such determination.


