c& e 4- 2S3'-JA1/
Document of
The Wor:d Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
P21 t1(Jhi'' I * ' r   ( .   )1 : VE'
Report No. 10046-IN
A 1;,:
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
SHRIMP AND FISH CULTURE PROJECT
DECEMBER 16, 1991
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department II
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EOUIVALENT UNITS
(as of June 1991)
Currency Unit - Rupee (Rs3
US$ = Rs 26.0 (at appraisal)
FTSCAL Y2Aa
Government of India, State Governments - April 1 to March 31
Commercial Banks - January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout the Report.
LIST OF ABBREZIATIONS
BFDA        -     Brackishwater Farmers Development Agency
CICEF       -     Central Institute of Coastal Engineering for Fisheries
CMCC        -     Central Monitoring and Coordinating Committee
CPU         -     Central Project Unit
DEA         -     Department of Economic Affairs
DOF         -     Department of Fisheries
FFDA        -     Fish Farmer Development Agency
GOI         -     Government of India
ha          -     hectare
ICAR        -     Indian Council of Agriculture and Research
IFP I       -     First Inland Fisheries Project
IQF         -      Individual Quick Freezing Units
MOAC        -     Ministry of Agricultural Cooperatives
MPEDA       -     Marine Products Exports Development Authority
SMCC        -      State Monitoring and Coordinating Committee
SPU         -      State Project Unit



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDTA
SHRIMP ANT) E'TSH CTI.T11RR PROJECT
Table of Contentg
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY .
I.   THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR .1............................... . .
Agriculture in the National Economy ....     ............... 1
Development Priorities ......      ....................... 1
The Fisheries Subsector ...................... I ...... 1
Shrimp .. ..................................... 2
Inland Fisheries.                                          3
Institutions in the Subsector.                               4
Central Goverment.                                         4
State Level Institutions.                                  4
Lessonis from Past Bank Lending.                             5
II. THE PROJECT.                                                         5
Rationale for IDA Involvement and Origin.                    5
PrjIect ojectives.                                           6
Project Description.                                         6
Detailed Features.                                           6
Brackishwater Shrimp Component & Management.               6
Inland Fisheries Component.                                9
Project Management .10
Project Costs and Financing .10
Procurement .....                                           12
Disbursements and Financial Arrangements ........ ............ 13
Project Accounts, Audits and Reports ...      ............... 14
III.  PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION ..................... 15
Implementation at the Government Level ................. 15
Shrimp Component .................................. 16
Operational Concept .... I       ......................... 16
Production Group ................................. 16
Selection of Beneficiaries ......................... 17
Lease Arrangements ................ 17
Credit Arranagements and Participating Banks .18
Inland Fisheries Component .19
Operational Concept .19
Selection of Beneficiaries/Cooperatives .20
Loase, Credit Arrangements and Participating Banks .      20
Marketing .21
Benefits of Beneficiary Groups .21
Financial and Economic Impact .22
Project Risks and Solutions .23
Sensitivity .23
Environment .23
Role of Women .24
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED .24
The report is based on the findings of a Bank appraisal Mission which visited
India in June/July 1991. The mission consisted of Messrs./Mmes. G. Russell
(Task Manager), J. Perumalpillai-Essex, P. Kohli, M. Mitra, V. Kumar, N. Raman
(Bank), H. Gunawardena, D. Rhan (FAO/CP) and R. Zweig (Consultant). Peer
reviewers were E. Chobanian (Senior Agroindustries Specialist) and
T. Blinkhorn (Principal Project Officer).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ii
Annex 1     -      Summary of Project Costs
Annex 2     -      Economic and Financial Analyses
Annex 3     -      Physical Features
Annex 4     -      Technology
Annex 5     -      Technical Assistance
Annex 6            The Shrimp and Fish Market
Annex 7     -      Supervision Outline
Annex 8     -      Schedule of Disbursements
ANNEX 9     -      Documents Available in Project Files
MAA-q:      IBRD Nos. 23344, 23345



INDIA
SHRINE AND FISH. CULTURE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Credit arid Projec't SiMMnaX
Borrower:             India, Acting by its President
Executing Agencies:  The Departments of Fisheries in the Government of India
and in the states of West Bengal, Orissa, Andhra Pradesh,
Bihar and Uttar Pradesh.
,e;neficiariea:       About 14,000 households mainly from the poorest sections
of the coastal and rural population in the states of West
Bengal, Orissa, Andhra Pradesh, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh.
Amount:               IDA Credit of SDR 62.9 Million (US$85 Million equivalent)
Terms:                Standard, with 35 years maturity.
bn-Lending Terms:    From Government of India (GOI) to Government of West
Bengal, Government of Orissa, Government of Andhra
Pradesh, Government of Bihar and Government of Uttar
Pradesh as part of central assistance to the states for
development projects on terms and conditions applicable
at the time. GOI will bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project Description: The Project comprises:  (a) a brackish water shrimp
component (about 80% of project cost); (b) an inland
fisheries component (about 8% of project cost); and (c)
project management including environmental management and
training (about 12% of project cost). For shrimp
aquaculture, the project would bring together
entrepreneurs to work with beneficiaries from the weakest
socio-economic sections of the community (30:70 ratio).
The participating state governments would construct the
basic infrastructure and common facilities on owned
lands, and recover its cost through lease charges.
Credit for related activities such as hatcheries and feed
plants would be provided to private sector investors.
For the inland fisheries component, the states would
provide infrastructure development, with credit provided
to private entrepreneurs for the construction of
hatcheries and ice plants, and to cooperatives for the
construction of rearing ponds, cages, pens and stocking
of water bodies. The development of fish cooperatives
including technical assistance and training would also be
important aspects of the Project.



ii
Benefits and Risks: The main benefits of the Project would be increased
shrimp and freshwater carp production. Total annual
production of shrintp from the project is estimated to be
about 7,600 tons. Fish production is estimated to
increase to about 7,800 tons, of which 38% would be from
ox--.w lakes and 62% from reservoirs.  Employment and
higher income would be provided for over 5,200 families
in the brackish water areas and for nearly 9,000
households in over 200 fishermen cooperatives. The
economic rate of return for the shrimps component is
estimated at 31% and for the inland fisheries component
25%, and the overall economic rate of return for the
Project is estimated at 30%.
The main risks of the project are associated with the
shrimp component and would be related to: (a)
institutional difficulties associated with project
implementation; (b) the introduction of suitable
technology; (c) the States' resolve to implement and
enforce the features of the lease and credit programs;
(d) a decline in the price of shrimp; and (e) an increase
in the price of feed. The above risks would be mitigated
by: (a) the incentives created by the high financial
returns expected under the project, and the substantial
attraction to investors for the opportunity to earn much
sought after foreign exchange; (b) the provision for
technical consultants, and the inclusion of an
independent management organization to assist in projert
monitoring; and (c) linkagee to be developed by the
collection agencies with the sale of produce and the sale
of inputs from hatcheries and feed mills. In addition,
production would be used as security for sub-loans.
Sensitivity tests show the risk associated with the price
of shrimp and feed to be acceptable. The major risk for
the inland fisheries component relates to the ability of
the participating cooperatives to absorb the
institutional development provided. However, revised
by-laws to allow increased member participation, the
greater involvement of women and the support of NGOs
should mitigate the above risk. The significant success
of the First Inland Fisheries Project must also be
considered a positive.



iii
EstiMated Pro-iect Costs:
.<>QAl  Foraign        Tot1al
----US m             ------
INVESTMENT COST
A.  Brackish Watr Shrimp
Pond site development                40             3           43
Credit for hatcheries,
mills, and other services          9             3           12
Initial working capital               I             I            A
Subtotal                        52            7           59
B. Tnland Fisheriea
Reservoirs and ox-bow
lakes development                  2            0             2
Credit for hatcheries,
rearing ponds,
ice plants                         1            0             1
Initial working capital               a                          a
Subtotal                         6            0             6
C.  Project Manaaement
±&ludinmg Consultancies
and Taining
Subtotal                          8            1             9
Total Base Cost                      66             8           74
Physical Contingencies                5             1            6
Price Contingencies                  1A             1           1a
Total Project Cost'                  8_5a
Financing Plan:
LC2caQ Z=-m            Total
U- US $ million ------
GOI                             2            -            2
States                          2            -            2
Beneficiaries                   6            -            6
IDA                           _5            18
Total
Estimated DisbUrsement:
FY9   FEYuX F9    FY s    EY6          F97 E2           Y92
Annual                   62      8      12     16        19      11      11       2
Cumulative               6      14      26     42        61      72      83      85
Economic Rate of Return:  30%
1     Excluding taxes and duties equivalent to about US$ 4 million.
2     Representing US$ 4 million of special account and USS 2 million of retroactive
financing.
k1an:  IBRD Nos. 23344, 23345



I. THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
AgrioUlture in the National EcQfloMy
1.01     India's GDP grew at about 3% per annum in the 1950s and 1960s,
accelerating to over 5% in the 1980s due to rapid growth in manufacturing and
services. Agricultural growth has averaged 2.6% per annum over the last two
decades, slightly ahead of the population growth rate cE 2.1%. Despite
comparatively modest growth, agriculture remains important for the Indian
economy. Agriculture's share of GDP (33%) masks the extent to which India's
population of about 850 million rely on the sector. About 75% of India's
people live in rural areas, and 64% are directly employed in agriculture.
These workers tend to be poor (78% of India's poor are in rural areas) and
female (one-third of the agricultural labor force are women, and agriculture
remains the main source of employment for rural women). Per capita income
grew to US$350 by 1990, but there has been only limited improvement in the
living standards of the poor, 280 million of whom live below the poverty line.
Agricultural exports account for less than 18% of total exports, and have been
declining.
Development Priorities
1.02     India has a land area of 3.27 million km2, of which about half (150
million ha) is cultivable and about 19% (60 million ha) is under some form of
irrigation. Agricultural development plans of the Government of India (GOI)
and State governments have promotad food production with the aim of achieving
food security, augmenting agricultural exports, alleviating poverty, and
creating employment, especially in rural areas. Key elements of government
strategy have been the expansion of irrigation, improved technical packages
(high-yielding varieties, fertilizers and plant protection chemicals), and
strengthened institutions and services (extension, research, seed production,
credit, and marketing). As a result of these efforts, the annual growth rate
in food grain production over the last 15-20 years has averaged 2.5% (the so-
called "Green Revolution"), and India has become self-sufficient in grains.
High population densities and limited land supplies mean that future growth
must depend largely on intensifying production on both irrigated and rainfed
land, from crop diversification, and from increased efficiency. Thus, GOI's
long-term focus has shifted to stimulating agricultural growth and ensuring
sustainable development, through improved water use efficiency, development of
rainfed agriculture, natural resource conservation, environmental protection,
and further strengthening of public agricultural support services. Investment
programs to address these elements will be receiving high priority in the
Eighth Five-Year Plan now being prepared.
The Fisheries Subsector
1.03     The fisheries subsector only contributes about 2.4% to agricultural
GDP and less than 1% of total GDP. However, fisheries in India is important
as it provides employment to an estimated 9 million people mainly from the
poor coastal communities, contribute to raising nutritional standards, and is
a foreign exchange earner. Moreover, the subsector has been growing rapidly,
an annual average of over 6% over the past decade with large potential for
further growth, particularly in the domestic market where the demand for fish
is expected to almost double by year 2000. Between 1980 and 1990, fisheries
production increased from a total of 2.5 m tons to about 3.7 m tons, with over
60% coming from marine capture fisheries. By 1990, exports of marine products
of about $ 360 m for the year was double that of 1980, with shrimp exports
accounting for about 90%. However, for India to meet its growing domestic
needs and to enable it to maintain its position in the export market new



initiatives will be necessary, requiring a move out of the conventional
fishing areas to more offshore and deep sea areas in marine fisheries, and the
development of fresh and brackish water aquaculture.
1.04     Shr4Mj.  India has been the world's largest producer and exporter of
shrimp for most of the past two decades with total annual production
plateauing at about 175,000 to 200,000 tons. However, its position has been
eroded in recent years as marine capture shrimp landings have remained fairly
_.tagnant, while its competitors have rapidly been increasing their production
of cultured shrimp. Until recent years, marine capture was the only
significant source of shrimp production but between 1984 to 1988, cultured
shrimp production .as more than tripled in the developing countries in Asia
with an annual average growth rate of 36%. Significant to this growth, is
that cultured shrimp is typical of the size and species (e.g. Penaeus monodon)
that command high prices. India's long coastline, its generally tropical
climate and large river deltas, gives it enormous potential for brackish water
shrimp culture. There is already some 200,000 ha that have been specifically
identified for development, of which about 60,000 ha are currently under some
form of production. Of this area, about 33,000 ha are in West Bengal, 8,000
in Kerala and 6,500 ha in Goa.
1.05     To date, almost all shrimp culture is based on a traditional,
extensive shrimp culture system, with ponds frequently used for paddy
cultivation in the rainy season and converted to shrimp and fish culture in
the remaining period. As a result, shrimp yields are low (average below 300
kg/ha) reflecting poor infrastructure, low density of stocking, inadequate or
no water exchange, lack of feed, and low level of technology. Currently, the
subsector is planning to expand into the more high yielding semi-intensive
shrimp culture which is considered suitable for India. Shrimp rearing would
continue to be targeted primarily for the production of the profitable black
tiger shrimp (2enae;u monodon), however, rearing would also include the white
shrimp (L. ndicua), and giant Malaysian prawn (Macrobrachium Rosenbenrii), to
allow some sequencing associated with the availability of seeds, environmental
conditions, and movements in the market.
1.06     As a part of the planning for semi-intensive shrimp culture, shrimp
and hatchery production cycles must take environmental factors into
consideration on a site by site basis, to ensure the suitability of the water
temperature and that an ample supply of seed can be matched to the production
cycle. The influxes of fresh-water from the monsoon rains reduces the
salinity along the coast to varying degrees, and sometimes to levels which
make the use of this water unsuitable for brackish water shrimp culture.
Water temperature varies throughout the year and this also affects optimum
production.
1.07     Hatcheries for the production of shrimp seeds is very important for
semi-intensive culture as it would not be possible to obtain all the seeds
required from the wild, nor would this be environmentally desirable.
Moreover, it is believed that the availability of seeds from the wild is at
the saturation point, and more intensified collection would result in a
negative effect on the natural fisheries of the coastline. Another negative
factor is that the process of collecting seeds from the wild results in the
collection of other organisms, which are important to the life of the marine
fisheries, which are dumped after sorting onto the surrounding embankments to
die.



- 3 -
1.08     Shrimp feed is another area of much importance and whlich requires
development, Under the present practice of extensive culture, there has been
no real need for a proper and specialized shrimp feed industry. Under semi-
intensive culture, there would be the ;,'red for a shrimp feed industry able to
produce a quality formulation, involving the fine grinding of the raw
materials and good pellitization, with the ability to remain etable in water
for about 3 to 4 hours. There are at present only a few local producers of
small quantity and relatively inferior quality feed on the market. However,
one producer shows a good potential for reasonable development and an overseas
investor has already begun the development of a shrimp feed facility. As the
demand for shrimp feed grows (a recent study estimated that about 200,000 tons
of feed would be needed annually within 10 years), there is no dcoubt that the
market would respond qcuickly. India has the raw materials necessary to
support the manufacture of shrimp feid, except for a shortage in fish meal,
which it would be necessary to import (para. 2.07).
1.09    ITland iLahegies.  India has abundant water resources capable of fish
production with government estimates showing over 25,000 km of rivers and
tributaries and over 2.5 m ha of reservoirs, lakes, swamps and ponds. These
water bodies are public owned, however, there are no specific policy
directives for their control and lease, and leasing fees are generally nominal
and based on fish production and revenues of the preceding year. In large
water bodies, the DOF provides fishing license to either individual fishermen
or through cooperatives. No stocking is done, and neither does the DOF keep
records nor imposes any conservation and regulatory measure. For small and
medium reservoirs, the DOF usually undertakes stocking with the right to fish
leased for 3 to 5 years at a fee based on the past average three years.
Stocking levels are usually inadequate and the fishing cooperatives improperly
organized. Open auction is used for small water bodies, generally leased for
5 years, and both stocking and harvesting are the responsibility of the
lessees. Fishing is carried out by fulltime specialists and part time
agricultural workers, in cenaral from the lower socio-economic segment of the
population.
1.10     With ma-ine capture remaining fairly constant in recent years, the
growth in fish production has to be relied on from inland fisheries, and
mainly from aquaculture. Of the inland production of 1.4 m tons in 1989/90,
about 480,000 tons (34%) is from capture fisheries with the remaining from
aquaculture. Capture fisheries is practiced in rivers, lakes, lagoons and
reservoirs and consists mainly of carp and catfish in fresh waters and hilsa
and mullets in brackish water. Fresh-water aquaculture (mainly major Indian
carp) is carried out in ponds, ox-bow lakes and reservoirs. Most ox-bow lakes
and reservoirs are water bodies ranging from 10 ha to over 50,000 ha and are
usually exploited by substantial number of local fishermen. Ox-bow lakes
which are mainly in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and West Bengal, suffer from
siltation, weed infestation, lack of flood control and suitable tenancy
arrangements, and thus result in low annual yield of about 160 kg/ha. Yields
from reservoirs are also very low, averaging 12 kg/ha/yr compared to an easily
achievable range of 50 to 250 kg/ha/yr with proper stocking and harvesting.
1.11     The major factors constraining the productivity of ox-bow lakes and
reservoirs are related to management, lack of finance for st3cking and for
fishing operations, including items such as boats, nets and ice. Proper
management is usually non-existent and many of the cooperatives are without
regular elections and have no accountability. Leases are usually short,
stocking is usually inadequate, with fingerlings too small and therefore
resulting in high mortality rates. The expansion under the First Inland



-.4q 
Fisheries Project (IFPI) of induced breeding and hatching of Indian major carp
and exotic carp under controlled conditions contributed toward increased seed
production.
InBtitutions in the $Ubsector
1.12     Cegatral GoernMent.  The Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperation
(MOA) is responsible for the inland fisheries industry. The MOA provides
technical and financial assistance to the states with its focal point for
fisheries activities being the Fisheries Division. To coordinate and monitor
the overall implementation of IFPI, the Government of India (GOI) established
the Central Monitoring and Coordination Committee (CMCC) within the MOA. The
CMCC provides interagency coordination and policy guidance for project
implementation with meetings held half yearly. To act as the secretariat for
the CMCC, the Central P-Jvkct Unit (CPU) was created in the Fisheries Division
of the MOA, headed by a Joint Commissioner of Fisheries. The CPU is
responsible for project planning, coordinating and monitoring of project
activities among central agencies such as the Cenh-ral Institute of Coastal
Engineering for Fisheries (CICEF) and the participating states, for
identifying and initiating action t-a resolve bottlenecks, and for obtaining
information for the preparation of project accounts and reports. In its role,
it also initiates the engagement of foreign consultants, guides and assists
the states in arrangements for financing (local and foreign), promotes
investments in hatcheries and feed mills, and assists investors to obtain
government approval for the import of machinery, fish meal and other project
related inputs. The important institution for the development of shrimp
culture infrastructure is the CICEF which is involved in carrying out site
selection, surveys and engineering designs for coastal aquaculture farms and
shrimp hatcheries.
1.13     StatS level institutions.  The regulation and development of
fisheries is primarily a state responsibility under the State Department of
Fisheries tDOF). DOFs have responsibility for implementing state government
policies and programs for the fisheries subsector, including extension and
training, development of fisheries cooperatives, operation of fish seed farms
and the promotion of special projects. Complimentary to the CMCC, there is
the State Monitoring and Coordinating Committee (SMCC) which is chaired by the
state Secretary of Fisheries. Acting as the secretariat of the SMCC is the
State Project Unit (SPU) which is responsible for project implementation
within the state, coordination with the state Irrigation Department, the
cooperative sector and participating banks. The DOF's extension and training
is carried out mainly through Brackish Water Fish Farmer Development Agencies
(BFDAs) and Fish Farmer Development Agencies (FFDAs). BFDAs and FFDAs are
under a joint central and state government financed program (50:50),
registered under the Societies Registration Act and operates under the
direction of a management committee chaired by the District Collector.
Following on the successful performance of the FFDAs, BFDAs are now being
introduced, organized on a pattern similar to FFDAs to spearhead the
development of the governments' brackish water shrimp culture program. Also
important at the state level, are inland fishery primary cooperatives which
presently number about 9,030. The objectives of the cooperatives are stated
in their by-laws which usually include the ability to borrow funds for
production and marketing and for onlending to members, to lease and sub-lease
fishing rights of water bodies, market fish, train and educate members and to
encourage savings. The operating results of cooperatives are mixed, the more
successful being those involved in the full cycle of stocking fingerlings,
harvesting and marketing. However, the majority rely on the Department of
Fisheries for stocking and are only involved in harvesting and marketing.



-5.
1.14     The Bank has been supporting agricultural development in India since
the early 1950s. Included in this support has been three projects to the
fisheries subsector, two separate state projects (Gujarat and Andhra Pradesh)
and one multi-state project which was implemented in West Bengal, Bihar,
Orissa, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. The state projects which provided
$ 26 m of Bank financing supported the modernization and expansion of fishing
harbors, financed fishing vessels and feeder roads and provided training.
Both projects resulted in good impact to the fishing subsector with fair
institutional impact. The multi-state project was the First Inland Fisheries
Project (IFPI) with      objective to increase carp production in ponds and to
lay a foundation for      future development.  This was achieved through the
provision of credit and extension to farmers to exploit the available fish
ponds, and to establish hatcheries as the basis for a fish seed industry. It
had positive results with the project exceeding its production targets and
with fish farmers achieving an FRR of 100% (55% estimated) and an ERR of 65%
(42% estimated). However, project implementation took three years longer than
planned. The project suffered delays at the initial stage of implementation
due to problems associated with: (a) the procurement of sites for the
hatcheries which 'ere government-owned and delays encountered in agreeing
their design; and (b) the lack of collateral for credit to the poorer
beneficiaries. During the period of delay, the private sector developed
hatcheries to -itisfy the demand, which has resulted in the poor financial
performance of the since completed government hatcheries. The credit problem
was satisfactorily resolved when the participating banks agreed to accept long-
term leases as collateral. Other problems were associated with the slow
appointment of project staff and the burden on the government caused by the
lack of any cost recovery mechanisms. The lessons learnt from the
implementation and other problems were taken into consideration in project
design: (a) procurement of project sites has already been finalized (para.
2.05); (b) the private sector is being promoted to provide all the sv-wv)rting
facilities such as hatcheries, feed mills, ice plants, etc; (c) proje   staff
positions would all be sanctioned quickly; (d) collateral for credit hds
already been agreed; and (e) there would be substantial cobt recovery.
I I. THE PRQECI
Ratignale for IDA Involvement and origin
2.01     The Bank's strategy to India is to support policies and investments
that encourage economic growth and poverty alleviation in a context of macro-
economic restructuring. The emphasis is on efficient resource allocation,
increased efficiency of the public sector and appropriate targeting and
delivery of support systems to the poor. The proposed project fits well
within this framework. An important element of the strategy is to support
sustainable programs, especially in agriculture, that will promote and enhance
the natural resource base. The Bank with its resources, wide experience and
availability of expertise in the shrimp and fish sector, would support
institutional development including improved management practices, and impact
policy development including the encouragement of the private sector.



-6-
2.02     The project would help India to maintain its position as a major
world exporter of shrimps, for which it has a comparative advantage becausa of
its low labor costs and conducive climate. The project would increase shrimp
and fish production in the participating states, which would improve the
economic and social welfare of some of the poorest sections of the community,
also ensuring that project benefits accrue to women. The project would also
increase foreign exchange earnings, improve the use of low productivity land,
combined with the protection of ecologically vulnerable areas, create
employment and foster rural development. The project would improve the
livelihood of some 14,000 very poor households with few alternatives, 90% of
whom currently earn belcw Rs 3,000 (US$110) per annum with some earning below
Rs 1,000 (US$ 37), with all practicing some form of subsistence fishing in
which men, women and children are involved.
Proieot Description
2.03     The project, which would be implemented over a seven year period,
comprises: (a) a brackish water shrimp component located in the states of
West Bengal, Orissa, and Andhra Pradesh, which would represent about 80% of
the project cost; (b) an inland fisheries component located in West Bengal,
Orissa, Andhra Pradesh, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, which would represent about
8% of the project cost; and (c) project management including environmental
management and training representing about 12% of project cost. The shrimp
component would be the more complex as it would support the first real thrust
to introduce the technologically advanced semi-intensive shrimp culture
(compared to the traditional extensive culture) to India in a large way. It
would involve a development cost of almost Rs 300,000 (US$ 11,000) per ha, and
would require the close coordination between shrimp production, hatcheries and
feed. However, its benefits would be signficant both in terms of foreign
exchange earnings and income to the beneficiaries (paras. 3.15-3.18). The
inland fisheries companent would require very little infrastructural cost,
with the majority of investments associated with the stocking of water bodies
and ths provision of support equipment and services. The technology is simple
and is already well known. Through increased stocking and the institutional
reform provided, this component is expected to benefit a large number of the
structurally poor, though at a much lower level of benefit than those in the
shrirap component. The project management component would put a greater
emphasis on the more complex shrimp component.
DETAILERD  PEThJ
&rackishwatex-Shrimp Comoonent & Managemgnt (UISS ng M; 80% of base cost)
2.04     The brackish water shrimp component would Je located in the coastal
regions of the states of West Bengal, Orissa, and Andhra Pradesh, situated on
about 13 sites covering a land area of about 6,000 ha with a net water area of
about 3,800 ha (5 sites with a net water area of 1390 ha in West Bengal, 3
sites with 870 ha in Orissa, and 5 sites with 1,550 ha in Andhra Pradesh).
The shrimp component is expected to provide a model for further development,
which would be replicable and sustainable, and would comprise:
(a)   pond site development (US$ 43 million; 73% of the shrimp
component) which would include: (i) the construction and
development of shrimp ponds supported by common infrastructure
such as cyclone protection and perimeter dykes, main and secondary



supply and drainage canals, con_..rol gates, reservoirs, pumps and
pump houses, handling sheds, warehouses and guard houses; and (ii)
the construction of gravel topped all weather approach roads and
internal roads, fresh water supply including deep wells, pumps and
supply lines, generating sets and electrical system;
(b)   credit (US$ 12 million; 20% of the shrimp component), mainly to
private entrepreneurs for the establishment of shrimp hatcheries
and backyard nurseries, feed mills, ice plants, individual quickc
freezing (IQF) machinery and other approved project related
invastments; and
(c)   initial working capital (US$ 4 million; 7% of the shrimp
component) for the stocking of seed and feed for the weaker
beneficiaries1 only. In addition, foreign exchange would be
included for initial fish meal imports via the CPU.
2.05     Site selection (Annex 3) has already been completed and took into
consideration soil suitability, water quality, salinity, water temperature,
tidal range and existing infrastructure. In addition, the sites were
confirmed as being unused and unsuitable for agricultural production, free of
mangrove forests2 and were located in areas with strong fishing tradition. In
addition, no one would be displaced as the sites are now unused. Construction
and development of shrimp ponds would be on a site basis, divided into
clusters with each cluster covering a net water area of about 50 ha. The
cluster approach would ease the provision of operating and support services.
Each cluster would be developed to provide a mix of two standard size
rectangular ponds (0.5 ha and 1 ha), with separate supply and drainage sluice
gates to facilitate water management. Protection dykes would be constructed
or outer walls strengthened (where considered sufficient), and designed to
withstand tidal surges and floods associated with cyclones. Each cluster of
ponds would be provided with a warehouse for inputs, a shrimp handling shed
for washing, sorting and packing shrimp in ice, a workshop for repair and
maintenance of vehicles and equipment, a pumphouse for protecting the pumps, a
powerhouse for the standby generating set and a guardhouse. Where considered
feasible, the above support facilities may be constructed so as to service
more than one cluster. Each site would be provided with an all weather gravel
accese road to connect with nearest existing road network, with an internal
road network within the site using peripheral dykes and canal embankments.
Fresh water, where there is no existing supply, would be provided by tubewell.
Where necessary, electrical sub-stations and transmission lines would be
constructed to extend power supply to the pump stations and other
installations. It would be possible to exchange and/or introduce new sites to
those already identified, subject to the prior approval of the Bank. An
aaaurA=  that the development of shrimp ponds would be on sites acceptable to
the Association was obtained at negotiations.
2.06     SPUs would introduce a program to inform private entrepreneurs of the
brackishwater shrimp development and of the opportunities to invest in
hatcheries, feed mills and other support facilities under the project.
Hatcheries to be constructed under the project would be based on the
experience of existing and successful hatcheries already in operation in
1 Weaker beneficiaries refer to beneficiaries below the poverty line.
2 Exception is the regenerating mangroves in West Bengal where mitigatory replanting
would be carried out under the project.



-8-
India, and also taking into consideration the experience and expertise
available from other Asian countries more advanced in semi-intensive shrimp
culture. Preliminary sites for lease to investors have already been
identified in the participating states, taking into consideration
environmental constraints. Based on review to date, each participating state
would need to develop hatchery facilities that would make them substantially
self-reliant for seed production, as the timing for hatchery production and
the demand for seed in the project states precludes the possibility for any
significant transfer between them. West Bengal would have the largest problem
as its large demand for seeds, early in January, would require that its
hatcheries have supplemental heating and salt to produce seeds for that
timetable. A detailed review of present and projected seed availability for
the production of shrimp seeds for the three project states have been
formulated. This plan sequences and phases annual production cycles of the
ponds, with the capacity and provision of seed to be obtained from the
expected hatcheries, taking into account the environmental factors in each of
the participating project states. In addition, the plan has taken into
consideration the possible production of fresh water scampi (M. rognbergai),
which could be produced by the hatcheries during periods of low salinity
(particularly applicable to West Bengal), and for which the ponds would be
equally suitable. It is important that this plan be monitored on an ongoing
basis.
2.07     Formulated shrimp feed would be required from the third year of the
project, following the construction of shrimp farms by end of the second year.
Expected development and expansion of existing shrimp feed facilities in India
would take care of the early needs of the ponds developed, however, by the
fourth year, the expected demand would justify increased feed operations.
There are sufficient raw materials to produce the required feed, except for
the important fish meal requirement. Preliminary calculations show a need for
about 900 tons of fish meal in the fourth year, increasing to 2,860 tons by
full production, the majority of which would have to be imported. The project
would also include assistance to finance research and development for shrimp
feed development, including study tours to Southeast Asia feed producing
countries.
2.08     wlJile the emphasis would be to provide credit to private
entrepreneurs to finance the hatchery, feed and other support investments,
where there may be a lag in these investments, the project would also finance
investments to entities wholly or partially owned by the states. However,
this finarcing would require the prior approval of IDA, and would be on the
provision that (a) management of these entities would be carried out under the
control of independent private contractors linked to a performance criteria
satisfactory to IDA; and (b) the states' investment would be promoted and
offered for sale within a period not exceeding two years after completion of
the investment to suitable private entrepreneurs showing acceptable interest.
An azzuxan= of the above was obtained at negotiations.
2.09     Credit would also be provided to finance initial working capital
(equ31 to about 5% of the investment cost of the shrimp component) to
beneficiaries from the weaker socio-economic section only, to finance the
purchase of feed (80%), seed (post larvae) (17%), and other (3%).
Entrepreneurs would obtain their own working capital. In addition, foreign
exchange equal to US$ 1 million would be included to finance the import of
fish meal for feed processing during the first two years of project
operations.



-9-
Inland Fisheries Coponent (USS 6 M: 8% of base cost)
2.10     The inland fisheries component is situated in the States of West
Bengal, Orissa, Andhra Pradesh, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. The project would
include over 130 reservoirs covering about 46,000 ha and about 60 ox-bow lakes
covering about 5,400 ha. The reservoirs would be in Andhra Pradesh, Orissa
and Uttar Pradesh while the ox-bow lakes would be in West Bengal, Uttar
Pradesh and Bihar. Selection would be based on size (50 ha to 1,000 ha),
their location would be in reasonable clusters to facilitate monitoring,
favorable storage-discharge ratio, reasonable accessibility, availability of
land for rearing ponds, and presence of fishing community. The inland
fisheries component would comprise:
(a)   infrastructure cost (US$ 2 million; 33% of inland fisheries
component) of protection dykes, deweeding of ox-bow lakes, inlet &
outlet gates, gravel roads, fish handling sheds, and dividing of
ox-bow lakes;
(b)   credit (US$ 1 million; 14% of inland fisheries) to: (a) private
entrepreneurs for the establishment of fish hatcheries and ice
plants (entrepreneurs would obtain their own working capital); and
(b) participating cooperatives for rearing ponds, fish pens and
cages; and
(c)   initial working capital to the cooperatives (US$ 3 million; 53% of
inland fisheries) for boats, nets, and for initial stocking of
reservoirs and ox-bow lakes.
2.11     Infrastructure cost associated with the reservoirs would be limited
to landing sheds and approach roads. For the selected ox-bow lakes, there
would be the deweeding of about 1,000 ha of floating aquatic plants, which are
currently in various stages of growth. There would also be the construction
of about 65 km of protection dykes primarily in low lying lake peripheries to
prevent fish from escaping during flooding. Other infrastructure costs would
include: the renovation including gravel surfacing of about 120 km of access
roads; simple fish handling sheds to be constructed at 49 large reservoirs and
29 ox-bow lakes (where these water bodies exceed 50 ha each) and 4 on
Bhandahara Lake (West Bengal) a 440 ha lake managed by 4 cooperative
societies.
2.12     As in the shrimp component, investment credit would be provided under
the project to private entrepreneurs, for investment in fish hatcheries to
produce quality standard size fingerlings for stocking of rearing ponds. Each
hatchery complex would provide adequate controlled environment facilities for
artificial spawning of carp, egg hatching and lava nursing in indoor
hatcheries. The technology for fish hatcheries are already well know. Where
there are no private investors forthcoming, the project would, with prior
approval of IDA, finance entities wholly or partially-owned by the states for
implementing the hatcheries, provided they would be managed under the control
of private entrepreneurs and offered for divestment within a period of 2 years
after construction. An assurance of the above was obtained at negotiations.
Credit would also be provided to the participating cooperatives for an
estimated 170 ha of ponds for advanced fingerling rearing, where suitable land
is available, to be constructed near the reservoirs. Where land is not
available: (a) they would construct pen enclosures (about 400) along the
shore of the ox-bow lakes or reservoirs, where there would be adequate water
levels throughout the rearing period; and (b) cages (about 550) would be
constructed for some reservoirs which drain quickly to allow them to be moved



- 10 -
with receding water. In addition, credit would be provided to finance initial
working capital to enable the cooperatives to purchase seed and to operate the
rearing ponds, pens and cages during their first year.
Project Management  TISS 9 Million: 12% of base Cost)
2.13     Project management would comprise:  (a) incremental management cost
of CPU, SPUs, BFDAs and FFDAs, including consultancles; (b) environmental
management, including mitigatory measures: (c) training of project management
and extension staff and project beneficiaries; and artemia research (Annex 5).
Of the total project management, about 57% would relate to investment costs to
provide housing, vehicles, equipment and furnishings, for the CPU, CICEF,
SPUsi BFDAs and FFDAs. The remaining 43% would relate to recurring operation
costs of which about Rs 81 million (US$ 3 million) would relate to incremental
staff costs, mainly for newly engaged staff. Consultancies (34 staff months)
have been included for technical assistance to CICEF and CPU. Financing has
also been included to introduce mitigatory measures and to monitor the
environmental management plan (para 3.22). The project would include training
of Government extension staff, project beneficiaries, participating NGOs and
staff of the implementing agencies including the CICEF.  Training would begin
in the early stages of the project, during the construction phase, to prepare
extension staff and beneficiaries to be prepared both for the aspects of
physical implementation and for commercial operatLons. This training would be
followed up during implementation. It is planned that NGOs would be involved
in the training program. Local training would involve the many existing
government training centers for fisheries, and would include demonstration at
existing facilities such as hatcheries. The project would ensure that women
are included as trainers and well represented in the beneficiaries being
trained. Some overseas training would also be included to enable technical
officers to observe shrimp culture practices in the very experienced and close
by Southeast Asia countries. Included under training, the CPU would
commission the preparation of an appropriate manual for semi-intei.sive shrimp
culture to be made available to project beneficiaries and extension workers.
This manual would include aspects relating to quality control such as the need
for icing immediately after catch. The funds provided for Artemia research is
to allow a pilot program for the production and processing of Artemia cyst and
includes a technical consultant, equipment and training. Artemia is an
important component for feeding post larvae shrimp up to PL 12 stage, used
mainly in the hatcheries.
Project Costs and Financing
2.14     Total project costs including physical and price contingencies for a
seven year implementation period are estimated at Rs. 2,836 million (US$ 95
million), excluding taxes and duties equivalent to about US$ 4 million. Cost
by components are summarized in the table below and detailed costs are
summarized in Annex 1. Cost estimates are based on June 1991 prices and
include average total physical contingencies of 7% of the base costs. Price
contingencies are based on projected annual inflation rates for local costs of
11% in 1992, 7% in 1993, 6.5% in 1994, 6% in 1995, and 5.5% thereafter; and
foreign price contingencies 3.9% in 1992 onwards.



- 11 -
rj~jiated project costs
Local  Foregng  Tctal   IgaAl    Foreign          Total
-----Rs m ---------         ---------US$ m-----
INVESTMENT COST
A. Brackish Water Shrimp
Pond site development   1,040        77    1,117       40         3           43
Credit for hatcheries,
mills, and other
services.                 241       71       312       9         3          12
Initial working capital    87 _.1A            101       3        .1          -
Subtotal            1,368      162    1,530       52        7           59
B. Inland Eisheriea
Reservoirs and oxbow
lakes development        48        2        50       2        0            2
Credit for hatcheries,
rearing ponds,
ice plants.              17        2        19       1        0            1
Initial working capital    1Q        11        II       I        Q A
Subtotal              135       15       150       6        0            6
C. Prolect Management
including Consul-
tancias an
Training             213       37      250        8        1            9
Total Base Cost          1,716      214    1,930       66         8          74
Physical Contingencies    133          9      142       5         1            6
Price Contingencies         "A       80       1A       1A        I           la
Total Project Costa/3 .253 .aQ.a                                IQ 2Q
a/  Excluding taxes and duties equivalent to about US$4 million.
2.15     Financing: EPla.  The proposed IDA Credit to India of SDR 62.9 million
(US$ 85 million equivalent) would finance about 90% of total project costs
(net of taxes and duties) on standard terms and conditions, and on-lent by GOI
to GOWB, GOO, GOAP, GOB, and GOUP in accordance with standard arrangements for
development assistance to the states. The states' contribution would be
included in their annual plans and in addition, the incremental costs for
sustaining activities established under the project following its completion
would be met by the respective state budgets, with these costs progressively
reducing as the project activities are assumed by the beneficiaries. The
states would, through participating scheduled banks (subject to the approval
of the Association), provide credit to properly approved sub-projects for
support services such as hatcheries, feed mills and ice plants, and initial
working capital for the weaker beneficiaries for the initial stocking of ponds
and water bodies, feed and other inputs. Assurancea were obtained at
negotiations that GOI and the participating states would provide the funds
necessary to support project implementation. Proposed Financing Plan would be
as follows:



- 12 -
L=41       Foreign    :Cotal
----- US $ million ------
GOI                                2           -           2
States                             2           -           2
Beneficiaries                      6           -           6
IDA                                5          IQ 
Total                             85          IQ          2
Procurement
2.16     Procurement arrangements are summarized on page 13, and figures in
parentheses indicate amounts to be financed by the credit.
Summary of Propoaed Procurement Arrangements
Prje: ct Element                         PrQcurement Method
LOB          Other    Total Cost
- US$ million ----------
1. Works
1.1  Civil Works                      51          4            55
Buildings/Infrastructure    (48)         (4)a/         (52)
2. Goods
2.1    Equipment & Machinery           7          3            10
(6)       (2)b/          (8)
2.2    Commodity (Fishmeal)                       1              1
(1)C/         (1)
3. Credit
3.1    Hatcheries/Feedmills                      16            16
(13)          (13)
3.2     Initial Working Capital                  7d/            7
(6)           (6)
4. Consultancies
4.1  Supervision                                  1              1
(1)            (1)
4.2  Technical Assistance                         1 a/           I
(1)            (1)
4.3  Training                                     2              2
(2)            (2)
5. Miscellaneous
5.1  Incremental Salaries                        2               2
(1)            (1)
TOTAL                                    58         37             95
(54)       (31)           (85)
a/ By force account; h/ Local shopping;  -/ International shopping;
d/ Includes first crop seed and feed for the weaker beneficiaries for
shrimp component and for boats, nets and initial stocking of reservoirs and
ox-bow lakes; a/ Services should be procured in accordance with IDA's
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants.



- 13 -
(a) Civil works consisting of cyclone protection dykes, on-farm and pond
development, buildings, roads, deep wells, etc., are scattered around several
sites, with those in the inland fisheries component individually quite small,
and are such that would require a significant amount of manual labor, and as a
result unlikely to attract foreign bids. Of this, small works costing less
than US$ 10,000 to a total of US$ 4 M can be carried out by force aczount, or
by local shopping by inviting bids from not less than three from a pre-
selected list of qualified contractors. The remainder would be procured under
local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures acceptable to IDA so foreign
bidders are not likely to be interested. Post qualification would be adopted
for all LCB contracts and minimum qualifying criteria fixed for each package
(experience and past performance on similar contracts, capabilities of
personnel, availability of equipment and plant required, and adequate
financial resources). (b) Contracts for equipment, materials, and vehicles
would also be procured under LCB procedures acceptable to IDA. Local shopping
would be allowed after asking for quotations from at least three suppliers,
for purchases of equipment, materials and vehicles costing less than
US$ 20,000 each up to an aggregate of US$ 2.6 M. The nature of the items
required is such that the largest package will not exceed US$ 20,000. Prior
review would apply to contracts for works costing US$ 200,000 or more and for
equipment, materials, and vehicles costing US$ 100,000 or more. It is
estimated that only 20% of the credit amount will be subject to prior review.
The import of fish meal would be procured under international shopping
procedures. (c) Credit for support services such as hatcheries, feed mills,
rearing ponds and cage, would be based on investment plans as appraised by the
scheduled banking system on behalf of the states. Goods and works under this
component would be purchased by private sector investors using established
commercial practices at reasonable prices, ensuring efficiency and quality.
Credit (initial working capital) will be provided to the weaker beneficiaries
for the shrimps component for the first crop feed and seed requirements: and
for initial stocking of ox-bow lakes and reservoirs. These inputs will be
procured by direct contracting. IDA procurement guidelines were discussed
with all the states participating agencies and the majority of officers have
prior experience with IDA procurement procedures. To facilitate speedy
processing of procurement contracts, the SPUs should be empowered to oversee
the evaluation of all tenders, and award contracts without having to refer to
other agencies, which invariably cause delays. (d) Consultants required for
technical assistance for surveys, designs, aquaculture practices including
artemia development and other project related activities would be hired
according to IDA Guidelines for the Use of Consultants, and the total value of
such contracts is estimated at US$ 4 M. AssuranCeg were obtained at
negotiations that the above procurement procedures would be adhered to.
Disbursements and Financial Arrangements
2.17     The project is expected to be fully implemented within a seven year
period, with the closing date being June 30, 1999 (Annex 8?. This does not
widely deviate from the agricultural profile which runs into year 8.
Retroactive financing up to SDR 1.5 million (US$ 2 million equivalent) has
been provided to enable the timely design of hotcneries to facilitate early
project implementation. This would cover eligible project expenditures
including consultant fees incurred before signing but after the date of the
appraisal mission (July 31, 1991). In addition, a Special Account would be
established in US dollars in the Reserve Bank of India with an authorized
allocation of US$ 4 million, equal to about four months expenditures, from
which project expenditures would be reimbursed. The proceeds of the credit
would be disbursed against eligible project expenditures: 90% of expenditures
on civil works related to the site development including roads and buildings



- 14 -
for the shrimp component, infrastructure expenses relating to the inland
fisheries component, and buildings relating to project management: 100% of
foreign expenditures, 100% local ex-factory costs, and 80% of other local
expenditures for items procured by local shopping, for equipment, boats,
vehicles, fish meal and furniture; 100% of expenditures on consultants,
studies, NGOs services and training; 80% of goods and works under subloans
channelled through the participating banks to finance investments for support
services such as hatcheries, feed mills etc.; and incremental salaries
calculated on a declining basis (from 80% in FY93 and FY94; 70% in FY95 and
FY96; 60% thereafter). Disbursements against expenditures on contracts for
equipment, boats, vehicles, fish meal, furniture and training exceeding
US$ 100,000 and for civil works exceeding USS 200,000 would be fully
documented as would all expenditures on consultants services. For all other
expenditures, IDA would disburse against Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) in
accordance with IDA's normal procedures for SOEs. SOEs would be certified by
GOY as representing eligible project expenditures, and on which basis (in
addition to the normal documentation such as Withdrawal Application and
Special Account Bank Statement) the expenditures would be reimbursed from the
Special Account and the Special Account replenished by IDA for reimbursement.
The procedures for preparing the SOEs would be: (a) Project expenses would be
summarized monthly by each participating state and the CPU under expense
headings agreed with IDA, certified by the authorized officer and forwarded to
the Controller of Aid Accounts and Audit at the DEA within 30 days of each
month-end, with a copy also sent to the CPU in the ministry of Agriculture,
for processing and reimbursement from the Special Account. All supporting
documents to the SOE would be retained by the state SPUs and the CPU for GOI
expenditures, and appropriately filed to enable easy access for subsequent
review and audit. GOI would fully pass on to the participating states the
proceeds of the credit in the normal formula in which assistance from the
center is passed on to the states, with GOI assuming the foreign exchange
risk. In addition, GOI would within one month from project signing release
about three months anticipated project expenditures from GOI resources in
advance to each participating state, which amounts would be retained in a
separate state revolving fund to be used only to finance the IDA financed
portion of project expenses (the state would finance their portion from their
own resources). As SOEs are submitted to the DEA and reimbursed to the
states, the reimbursed amounts will be deposited in the revolving fund to
continue the cycle for financing project expenditures. For the CPU, the DEA
would ensure that appropriate financial arrangements are in place to fund the
CPU managed activities, including CICEF. Assurancen were obtained at
negotiations that the procedures and disbursement arrangements outlined above
would be adhered to.
Proje_t ACounts. Audit  and Report
2.18     Project expenditures incurred by each participating department/agency
would be subject to the normal GOI and state accounting procedures and
control, with the added requirement that each department/agency would create
separate sub headings to account for the project. Project accounts and
Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) would be required for each participating
state and for the CPU. Project accounts would summarize project expenditures
under project categories to be agreed with IDA showing: (a) actual versus
planned expenditure for each month; (b) actual versus planned expenditure
accumulated to date; and (c) how financed for the quarter and accumulated, by
the Association and by the government. The summaries which would provide the
information for the SOEs would form part of the project accounts, to which



- 15 -
would be added those expendituros for which reimbursement would be claimed
with full documentation. The project accounts would be supported by a listing
of the withdrawal applications submitted for the period. The Controller and
Auditor General and his Accountant Generals at the state level would be
considered the acceptable auditors, and the audited project acoounts and SOEi
along with the auditors' reports would be submitted annually, to be received
by the Bank no later than 9 months after the end of each fiscal year. The
Audit Report on SOEs would specifically comment on their usage and the
controls established to ensure their accuracy. The Special Account which
would be maintained by the Department of Economic Affairs (DEA) would show all
withdrawal requests disbursed, amounts advanced and reimbursed by IDA, and
balance at the end of each accounting period. The Controller and Auditor
General would be the acceptable auditor and his report would reflect the
certification of the balance held by the Reserve Bank of India. The audited
Special Account and the auditors report thereon would be submitted annually to
reach IDA no later than 6 months after the end of each fiscal year. The SPUs
would prepare a project report to the CPU for consolidation on an half yearly
basis in a format to be agreed with IDA, summarizing project progress irn
physical terms linked to financial terms. The financial terms would be based
on the quarterly unaudited project accounts required above. The project
report would also project the physical plan for the following half year and
would include comments highlighting project progress and bottlenecks which
were of importance, including actions required and planned. The detailed
reporting requirements would be finalized during the project start up mission
and would include a table of key physical and financial indicators. In
addition, a joint mid term review (MTR), would be carried out by the CPU and
IDA, including expertise in social development and the environment, within
three months from the end of the first three years from project effectiveness.
The review would not only address the physical and financial progress of the
project but also issues relating to the socio economic impact on beneficiaries
and the environmental impact. Aasgrances were obtained at negotiations that
the above arrangements would be adhered to. The proposed IDA supervision plan
is summarized in Annex 7.
III. P,OJECT ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTaTION
Imlmentation at the GovernMent_Level
3.01     The project would be coordinated and managed through the CPU who
would be responsible for project planning, coordinating and monitoring of
project activities among central agencies such as CICEF and between the
participating states, for identifying and initiating action to resolve all
bottlenecks, and to obtain information for the preparation of project accounts
and reports. The CPU would be strengthened and additional staffing engaged
with expertise in both brackish water shrimp culture and inland fisheries,
which staff would be required to make regular visits to project states
including sites, to monitor consistency in the progress and quality of the
development. In addition, for each of the three participating states in the
shrimp component, the CPU would engage under the project, a management
organization such as the India Institute of Management in Calcutta and
Bangalore, to monitor project implementation. At the State level, the SPUs
would develop and monitor implementation, assist BFDAs and FFDAs in the
selection of project beneficiaries, develop and coordinate training and
extension programs, including the participation of NGO's, invite and evaluate
bids and award contracts, certify and effect all payments, and generally
promote the project among the beneficiaries. The SPU would coordinate with



- 16 -
the participating banks the appraisal of investments to be financed through
credit, the monitoring of work done against IDA disbursements, the accounting
for sub-loans and the recovery cf such sub-loans.
3.02     CICEF would require the assistance of local contractors for carrying
out micro surveys, design and specifications for construction.  The CICEF
specifications would form the basis for the tenders raised by the SPUs, and
the contractors work would also be subject to selected review by the CICEF to
ensure quality and independence. The BFDAs (under the supervision of the
SPUs) would operate the common facilities for each cluster under the shrimp
component, be involved in the selection of project beneficiaries, and the
provision of extension services. In addition, the BFDAs would engage staff
trained in social development to encourage the participation of NGOs to advise
and support the developmeht of beneficiaries from the weaker sections. It
would be important for the BFDAs to always monitor the relationship between
the entrepreneurs and the weaker beneficiaries, and to foster incentives for
cooperation between both. For the inland fisheries component, engineering
designs would be monitored by the state DOF engineers. The most important
aspects under this component would be the development and monitoring of good
cooperatives, and in this respect the FFDAs would be required to include in
their staffing, personnel with experience in social and cooperative
development.  Assaxncs  were obtained at negotiations that the BFDA and FFDA
in each project states would be adequately staffed including personnel having
expertise in social and cooperative development.
Shrimp Component
3.03     Operational Concept. Ps mentioned in para 2.05 above, the
development of the shrimp culture area would be in clusters convenient for the
development of the individulal sites, using a model of a 50 ha water area for
each cluster. This water area would be divided into ponds, of which no less
than 70% of the total water area would be ponds of about 0.5 ha each, and the
remaining 30% divided into ponds of 1 ha each. While the underlying lands
would be owned by the related state governments (coastal lands are not
currently allowed to be sold), the pond development would be leased to
individual beneficiaries for a period of 15 years with an option to renew for
a further 5 years. At the end of this latter period, the lessees would have a
first option for a subsequent lease for shrimp aquaculture on revised terms to
be negotiated. Each 0.5 ha pond would be leased to one beneficiary family
selected from the weaker socio-economic sections of the community, and the
remaining ponds which would be of 1 ha each, together not comprising more than
30% of the cluster would be leased in block to one (possibly two)
entrepreneur. While each pond would be managed by the respective lessee
(stocking of pond, inputs of feed, security, cleaning and maintenance), the
common areas and activities including water exchange and maintenance would be
managed by the respective BFDA on the basis of an annual service charge to the
lessees. The financial arrangemants are discussed in para 3.06 below.
3.04     Production Group.  As a condition to be included in the lease
arrangements, the project beneficiaries of each cluster would be caused to
form a Production Group to liaise with their respective BFDA and to generally
promote the good of the cluster.  This group would meet at least monthly with
representatives of the BFDA.  The composition of this Group would be the
participating beneficiaries, with available NGOs encouraged by the BFDA to
provide administrative support to the weaker merm..ers. These Groups would
require that its members assist each other in the adoption of technical know
how obtained through BFDA and other extension services available. The
opportunity would also be available (not mandatory) for cooperative action in



- 17 -
the purchase of inputs, support services, marketing and security from
poaching. The BFDA and the Group would work closely together and it would be
planned that the Group would assume the responsibilities of the common
services within a period of 5 years from the beginning of the production in
each cluster. It would be possible that several clusters could work together
in the formation of Production Groups. An assurance was obtained at
negotiations that the lessees of each cluster would organize themselves into a
Production Group.
3.05     Selectign of BenThe project beneficiaries from the
weaker socio-economic sections would be selected by a sub-committee consisting
of the Block development officer, members of the local government (Panchayat),
the Fisheries Extension Officer, the local bank manager and the district
government officer. This process is subject to notification to the public and
can be challenged for eligibility. The usual selection criteria which would
be followed by the states are: the beneficiary must be certified by the local
MLA or government officer to be a fishery person; the concept of starting from
the lowest is applied, i.e. the lowest income group has first priority; they
would not have received previous assistance under a fisheries program. In
addition, the states would: (a) in the selection process apply the results of
a recent socio-economic review of the villages adjacent to the sites selected
and include the representative of an active NGO in the final selection
process; (b) promote leases on a joint family basis (husband and wife
ownership) wherever applicable; (c) include at least 10% women beneficiaries
who are heads of family and are physically able to participate; (d) ensure
that selection is phased to coincide with the development of the individual
sites, sufficiently early to enable the arrangement of the Production Groups
-nd to provide both commercial and technical training before the sites are
handed over; and (e) include in the training program literacy classes, where
necessary, the development of savings clubs to encourage an early sense of
responsibility, and develop a sense of group dynamics and community
relationship. For the selection of the entrepreneurs, they would be required
to be credit worthy, able to make the required initial deposit, be committed
to work in the Production Group with weaker members, and would be committed to
assist in providing technical support and entrepreneurial advice as necessary.
An Aaa-uXAnC was obtained at negotiations that beneficiaries would be selected
in accordance with the procedures summarized above.
3.06     Lease Arrangements.  The ponds along with the use of the common
services would be leased by the state governments concerned to the individual
beneficiaries selected, with a participating scheduled bank as a third party
to the lease agreements. The leases would be calculated so as to apportion
cost to the pond area concerned (0.5 ha or 1 ha) and would be calculated to
amortize the full cost for the site, including interest, over the estimated
life of the project (20 years). Full cost would be the cost of the clusters
within the site including common services and ponds, but only including 25% of
the cost of the protection dykes (or of the extra strengthening of the
external walls) applied on a 1 ha basis of net water area; the 75% of the
protection dykes, cost of approach roads and electricity connection outside
the cluster would be considered a state development cost with a greater good.
For the purpose of setting the lease payments the overall cost of each site
development would be subject to review by the CPU, and where this is above 5%
of the projected cost including contingencies, estimated at appraisal, the CPU
would be required to discuss and agree the amount of the lease with IDA. This
would ensure that any increase in cost due to inefficiencies would not be
passed on to the lessees. The following are the important features of the
lease:



- 18 -
(a)   The lease would be for 15 years with an automatic option for a 5
year renewal on the initial basis, provided the lessees fulfill
their financial and Production Group obligations. In addition,
lesseea would have a first option for a subsequent lease (para.
3.03), provided they continue to fulfill their financial and group
obligations.
(b)   Entrepreneurs would be required to advance 20% ot the development
cost associated with the area allotted to them, with the lease
payments calculated to amortize the remaining 80% over 20 years
with interest at 16% per annum. Beneficiaries from the weaker
sections would not afford to make a down payment (oost of
investment is high), and as a result, their lease payments would
be caloulated to amortize the total cost of their allotted area
(0.5 ha) over 20 years with interest at 14% per annum. There
would be a grace period of one crop for which no lease would be
charged, and thereafter payments would coincide with the harvest,
which would be twice per year. However, lessees from the weaker
sections would be required to deposit at least 50% of their inoome
from the first crop in the participating scheduled bank, to be
used exclusively for inputs for the second crop. This process
would be monitored by the BFDA.
(a)   Lessees would provide firm commitment for participation in the
Production Group of their cluster, and would agree to pay to the
BFDA an annual service charge sufficient to cover the direct
operatii.g and maintenance cost for the common services of the
oluster, including the cost of operative salaries and housing,
maintenance and inputs. Such a charge would be based on an annual
budget to be presented and agreed annually between the BFDA and
the Group. It is planned that within 5 years from commencement of
operations, that the Production Group would take over the common
services.
(d)   Where the lessee is in arrears for more than two crops (one year),
the lessor would have the right to terminate the lease and to
exercise a lien on any available production to satisfy the
arrears. A new lease with another beneficiary would then be
entered into based on the normal selection process for this
project. Rescheduling would only be allowed in the extraordinary
situation where arrears are associated with production disasters
such as cyclones or the temporary collapse of the market, and the
approval of the CPU would be required. Lease payments would be
made through the participating scheduled Bank (para 3.09).
AnRurtnoe were obtained at negotiations that the above lease arrangements
would be adhered to.
3.07     Cradit ArrangamAnto and Partinipating Bank.  The investments
necessary for the infrastructure support activities of hatcheries, feed mills,
ice plants etc would be by way of credit. This would be channelled by the
statea through approved scheduled participating banks who would be acting as
their agenssa and would have no credit risk. These infrastructure support
activities would be undertaken mainly by private entrepreneurs and where it is
considered necessary for government intervention (para. 2.08), this would be
through a corporation created for this purpose. All sub-project investments
would be subject to the normal appraisal of the banking system for technical



- 19 -
capability, financial and economic soundness. The credit would be equal to
80% of the investment cost, repayable over a 10 year period with interest at
the prevailing market rate but not less than 16%. The security arrangements
normally required by the bank for such credit would be a pre-requisite for the
loan. The states would provide the banks with advances sufficient to finance
the sub-loans as they arise, with disbursements monitored against the physical
implementation of the sub-projects funded. A special account would be opened
by each state in the agreed scheduled bank from which the sub-loan advances
would be made and in which the sub-loan repayments would be depoaited. An
accounting of the special account would be required of the banks on a monthly
basis, with submission to the state required within 10 daya subsequent to each
month end. For these services, the bank would charge a fee to be based on sub
loans appraised and a commission of no more than 3% on the amounts recovered.
The banks would alao maintain accounts of each sub-loan showing the amounts
advanced, interest charged, amounts recovered and the outstanding amounts and
arrears at any given time.
3.08     Credit would also be provided to the beneficiaries from the weaker
aections for inputs for the first crop. Through the BFDAs, these inputs,
mainly seed and feed, would be delivered to the ponds and on the basis of
proper receipts for quantity and quality from the beneficiaries, payment would
be made through the participating ban}:s to the suppliers (hatcheries and feed
mills). The related cost would be charged to the beneficiaries with annual
interest at the prevailing market rate but not less than 14%, with repayment
scheduled over three years. These transactions would also be through the
Special Account discussed in para. 3.07 above.
3.09     While the participating banks would undertake the recovery of sub-
loans, they would receive much cooperation from BFDAs and FFDAs, who would
have strong linkages with the sub-loan beneficiaries at the point of sale.
For shrimp farmers, their harvest and sales would be twice per year, conducted
through auctions at which the local BFDA representative would be present. As
the majority of sales from project hatcheries, feed mills and other facilities
would be mainly to project farmers, it would also be easy to monitor their
sales and to develop a linkage between sales and repayments to the banks. The
participating banks would also be asked to act as agents for the states in the
recovery of lease payments. The SPU would provide the banks the details of
the lease payments to be collected from each project lessee, and amounts
collected would be placed in the special account for the state. The SPU with
the assistance of the BFDA would be the appropriate authority to exercise the
lien relating to any arrears, and it would be expected that the agreed policy
for such action (para. 3.06) would be strictly followed and that there would
be no exceptions. The arrangements between the scheduled banks and the states
should form part of a Eartieipating agreemc-n- which Would ba subjact to the
condurrgncee of ID,A ad woId be suhmitedto-IDA before the 2rQieot bggomes
effective A commission of about 3% on the amounts collected by the banks
have been proposed.  Ma^&rnan=  were obtained at negotiations that the above
credit arrangements would be adhered to.
Inland Fisheries Componont
3.10    O0erational Concapt.  There would be very little change from the
basic operational concept now practiced in the states, as the majority of
water bodies to be brought under the project are already managed by
cooperatives of local fishing communities. The techniques for inland
fisheries are well developed in India and have long been in existence, with
the main problems being the need for fish hatcheries and rearing facilities to
enable adequate stocking, improved management, and generally for better member-



- 20 -
responsive cooperatives. The project would provide the necessary financing
for stocking and feGd, introduce features that would improve discipline in
cooperative behavior, provide training and technical assistance, and require a
lease period with sufficient duration to provide incentive to the lessees to
introduce appropriate development. Moreover, to facilitate the implementation
process, the water bodies to be selected would be concentrated in relatively
close areas in order to optimize technical and management support from the
FFDAs. In addition, the FFDAs would identify and promote NGOs which would be
willing to work with the selected cooperatives.
3.11     Selection of Beneficiaries/Cooperatives.  As mentioned above, the
beneficiaries under this component would all be existing cooperatives.
However, for participation in the project, the cooperatives would be required
to adopt revised by-laws to include the following: (a) membership would only
include traditional fishing families or beneficiaries willing to undertake
fishing as their main livelihood; (b) membership would include at least 10% of
female head of families, and women should form at least 30% of membership,
either jointly or individually; (c) no subletting of the water area would be
allowed by the cooperatives; (d) all officers would be elected on a three-year
basis with no more than three nominated members, and one NGO representative
would be required. The Chairman must be from one of the elected members and
at least two members of the management committee should be women; (e) proper
accounts subject to annual audits would be required; (f) the cooperatives
would enter into a new lease with the states, and credit arrangements required
for investments would be as discussed in para 3.12 below. Participating
cooperatives would all be credit worthy, without any arrears for lease or
credit; (g) cooperatives would give a commitment to properly maintain the
leased or purchased asset at their own cost, and where because of neglect,
maintenance is carried out by the state, then the cost would be recovered from
the cooperatives; and (h) the cooperatives would adhere to all conservation
and regulatory requirements of the state. It has been observed that some of
the better cooperatives have a full time extension officer assigned to them
with the related cost borne entirely by the government. Under the project,
the participating cooperatives would be encouraged to provide two or more
nominated persons (preferably children of cooperatives) for extensive
training, so that they would within time, take over the support functions at
the cost of their cooperative, thereby allowing extension officers to serve
several cooperatives. The involvement of NGOs would help to provide training
in group relationship, in arranging savings clubs to promote a sense of
responsibility, to organize group instead of individual marketing, and in
general, pcovide market support.  AasUgances were obtained at negotiations
that the above arrangements for the selection of beneficiaries and the
adoption of revised by-laws by the selected cooperatives would be adhered to.
3.12     Lease. Credit Arrangements and Participating Banks.  The
infrastructure development of the reservoirs and ox-bow lakes would be for the
cost of the states. Each project cooperative would be required to cancel
their existing lease with the state in return for a revised lease, and the new
lease would include payments sufficient to recover at least 50% of the
incremental cost of the infrastructure over the life of the new lease, which
would be for 5 years with an option for a further 5 years. The new lease
agreement would provide a lien on the fish production in the lake or reservoir
and where payments are more than one year in arrears, the DOF would have the
power to harvest the fish and use the returns to satisfy the arrears. Lease
payments would be collected by the states directly, using their normal
procedures and they would keep records such as would show the status of
amounts collected and outstanding on an ongoing basis. This information would
be included in the half yearly project reports. Credit arrangements would be



- 21 -
similar to that for the shrimp component. The project would provide credit to
private entrepreneurs to invest in the fish hatcheries and ice plants, while
the participating cooperatives would invest in rearing ponds (land would be
leased or acquired from own resources) pens and cages. The cooperatives would
also receive credit for nets, boats and the initial stocking of fingerlings
and feed, repayable over 3 years including a one year grace period. IDA
disbursements for this credit would be made through the supervision of the
FFDAs directly to the suppliers of the boats, nets, and feed, on the basis of
properly documented and approved receipts. Asurances were obtained at
negotiations that the above lease, credit and banking arrangements would be
adhered to.
K"k=i=
3.13     The present market for shrimps in India is almost entirely dependent
on the world market as over 90% of the total marine shrimp catch is for the
export market (Annex 6). The present marketing arrangements are relatively
free of any control and are satisfactory. Processors and exporters buy
directly at the farmgate, mainly through their commission agents. Prices for
whole P. monodgn at the farmgate currently averages about Rs 120 per kg, with
variations depending on size and quality. With the recent depreciation of the
rupee, it is expected that the average price would increase. Export price for
headless, frozen shrimp (26/30 counts per kilo) averages US$ 9 per kg. To
expand the present world market, processors are diversifying from block frozen
shrimp to IQF shrimp and as a result, the project would finance IQF plants.
Due to the lucrative world market for shrimps, the domestic market has not
been adequately promoted so far.
3.14     The fish (carp) produced under the inland fisheries component would
prim :ily be for the domestic market. There are three levels in the marketing
chain, commission agents (or cooperatives), wholesalers and retailers. The
cotm iazinn agents auction the fish at the wholesale market where it is then
sold to the retailers in smaller lots. The market arrangements have been in
existence for some time and seem to function on a free market basis, however,
it is believed that the cooperatives could do better once they become better
organized and assume the role of the commission agent themselves. NGOs could
help in this respect. Farmgate price for major carps currently range from
Rs 5 to 20 per kg.
Benefits gf Beneficiary Groups
3.15     The proposed project brings together private entrepreneurs and
beneficiaries from the weakest socio-economic sections to work together in
common circumstances. The advantages to the entrepreneurs, many of whom are
expected to he processors, would include the access to the much sought after
shrimp lands which would be made available in one developed package ready to
begin production, with supporting technical assistance, and within a
background of the Project which would provide all the linkages from seed
through to feed. Shrimp processing and marketing, in addition to its
profitability, provide the opportunity to earn much sought after foreign
exchange, some percentage of which is usually made available by the Government
to be used at the discretion of the exporter. In addition, because of the
cluster type operation, it obliges the entrepreneurs, with their up front
investments (20 percent of development cost) to ensure that the entire cluster
operates reasonably well. From the weaker beneficiaries' point of view, they
would be exposed to a previously unknown level of earnings and expertise,
obtain the assistance of the more business oriented entrepreneur in the whole
spectrum of management including assistance with marketing. While there would



- 22 -
be common services for the cluster, each beneficiary would be free to purchase
their own inputs of seed and feed and to arrange their own marketing to
whomever they wish. Any linkage to the entrepreneurs for marketing
arrangements would be completely on a voluntary basis. The BFDAs would be
responsible for the operation of each cluster and as an additional safeguard
for the weaker beneficiaries, the SPU would sponsor an NGO group to work with
them in the provision of training and general guidance in management and other
development aspects. For the inland fisheries sub-sector, the cooperative
development (e.g., change of by-laws) and the involvement of NGOs would
introduce the much needed management that has been lacking in the
cooperatives. Also, FFDAs, with their already good record of performance
under IFP which supported pond development, is expected to perform well in
their responsibility for overseeing the development of the inland fisheries
component.
3.16     In summary, the project would provide jobs at substantially higher
income for over 5,200 families in brackish water areas (of which over 90% are
from the weaker section) and for nearly 9,000 families fishing in ox-bow lakes
and reservoirs. Those who would benefit are among the very poor, having no
access to land and with fishing so far providing them only a subsistence
incc.me, requiring them to rely on low-paid off-farm seasonal labor.
3.17     The Project area would be located in brackish water land which is
currently under-utilized. The introduction of semi-intensive shrimp culture
would be a model for the development of many areas now under extensive shrimp
culture on an ad hoc basis and without any proper technology and support.
There is variation in the development cost of shrimp farming areas, with these
variations largely reflecting different tide conditions and the alignment of
the area which thus require different kinds of protection structures. The
lease payments are expected to recover the cost of the development over a 20
year period, on a site by site basis, except that 75% of the cost of the
protection structures would be borne by the states concerned. The rationale
for the states to bear this cost takes into consideration the wider benefits
of protection dyke structures to the surrounding areas. The major assumptions
underlying the financial and economic analyses are considered to be
conservative and are as follows: (a) the life of the Projcct will be 20
years; (b) the project will be implemented over a seven year period; (c) the
build up period for full development will be three years with the completion
of civil works. In the case of the shrimp, the expected annual yields (2
crops) will increase from 1,600 kgs/ha to 2,000 kgs/ha at full development
(see Annex 2).
3.18     The proposed project is expected to earn an ERR for the shrimp
component of about 31% and for the inland fisheries component 25%, and an
overall rate of 30%. The economic costs are expressed in 1991 constant prices
and include all capital and recurrent costs of the project, taking into
account the physical contingencies but excluding price escalation, taxes and
duties. The total economic investment cost is US$80 million equivalent.
Annual recurrent costs at full development amount to nearly US$1.8 million per
annum for the life of the project, and include such activities as operation
and maintenance of common facilities and other infrastructure, common office
facilities and equipment. There would be no capital subsidies under the
project.



- 23 -
Project Risks and Solutions
3.19     The main risks of the project are associated with the shrimp
component and would be related to: (a) the difficulties associated with the
implementation of a workable project with both entrepreneurs and the poor
working together, involving the coordination of research and extension,
organizational, management and funding features; (b) the introduction of
suitable technology for site design and the development and phasing of
appropriate hatcheries and feed facilities; (c) the States' resolve to
implement and enforce the features of the lease and credit programs; (d) a
decline in the price of shrimp; and (e) an increase in the price of feed. The
above risks would be mitigated by: (a) the incentives created by the high
financial returns expected under the project, and the substantial attraction
to investors for the opportunity to earn much sought after foreign exchange;
(b) the provision under the project for experienced technical consultants, and
the inclusion under the project for an independent management organization to
assist the CPU and the SPUs in project monitoring; and (c) the linkages
between the sale of produce at auctions where the BFDAs are present and the
sale of inputs from hatcheries and feed mills to project beneficiaries, in
addition to provisions to be included in the Participating Agreements (para.
3.09) to utilize production as security for sub-loans. The sensitivity tests
(para. 3.21) show the risks associated with the price of shrimps and feed to
be acceptable.
3.20     The major risk for the inland fisheries component relates to the
necessary reorganization of the participating cooperatives and their
institutional development. However, the revised by-laws (para. 3.11) required
including provision for increased member participation, the greater
involvement of women, and the support of NGOs snould mitigate the risk. The
significant success of the First Inland Fisheries Project and the positive
role the FFDAs played in that project must also be considered a positive.
3.21     Sensitivity tests were carried out for the two most likely cases, (i)
where world market prices for shrimp decline and (ii), the cost of shrimp feed
increase because of the need to import. A decline in the price of shrimp by
20% would result in an ERR of 20% for the shrimp component and 21% for the
project, which reflects a very high sensitivity to output price. An increase
in the price of inputs by 50% on its own would result in an ERR or 24% for the
shrimp component and 24% for the overall project. In a worst case scenario
where the output price for shrimp fell by 20% and the import price increased
by 50%, ERR for shrimp would be 12% and 15% for the project. In addition, in
the unlikely event that the project is delayed by two years, the ERR is
estimated to be 2't  compared to 30% (para. 3.18).
3.22     To prevent, reduce or eliminate potential negative effects of the
project on the environment, a comprehensive Environmental Management and
Monitoring Plan was prepared. This plan included intervention such as
revegetation with mangrove trees of selected size, monitoring of wild shrimp
seed stock collection, training and extension in shrimp and fisheries
conservation and management, construction of sluice gates for effective water
management, and assay of shrimp flesh for potential contamination from heavy
metals. For the shrimp component, the most marginal coastal saline soils
would be made productive for some of the most economically distressed people,
and with the environmental safeguards included, would serve as a model for the



- 24 -
wider development of the coastal areas. While the project would provide
hatcheries and would not rely on wild seeds, it would support an education
program to create awareness among the fishing communities to enlighten them
about seed separation techniques, including the importance of returning the
unused organisms to the water. With the exception of Meendwip Island in West
Bengal, none of the sites have mangrove vegetation in the vicinity of the
project, and the project would include a program of mangrove afforestation to
compensate for the forest cover that would be lost to pond and infrastructure
development under the project (Annex 5, Table 1). The DOF would undertake
this program using officers deputed from the Forestry Department. The
following summarizes the required mitigatory actions that would be financed
under the project and which are discussed further in Annex 5, pages 4 and 5:
(a) the afforestation and regeneration of mangrove in the Meendwip site area;
(b) the construction of sluice gates at the Bideipur site; and (c) the study
by CICEF of the lagoon hydrology at Interu; and (d) the assay for heavy metals
in shrimp tissue from the Meendwip site.  In addition, the project would
include funds for (a) administering the environmental monitoring programs of
the three states participating in the shrimp component; and (b) an extension
and awareness program to train prawn seed collectors in conservation
techniques to drastically reduce mortality of the catch. The EMP would be
implemented under the umbrella of the SMCC by the Environmental Department
within each state. Assjrances were obtained at negotiations that the above
EMP would be implemented under the project.
Role of Woman
3.23     The fisheries sector is one that provides extensive opportunities for
the involvement of women and more so, the project would also provide for their
participation in ownership. In extensive shrimp farming the women play a
large role in the collection of wild seed, the preparation of feed such as the
collection of snails and clams and assist in the harvesting and marketing.
However, ownership of the ponds is usually with the men only, who are the
collectors of the monies earned. Under the shrimp component, joint ownership
of husband and wife would be required, as also would be ownership by female
heads of household. The training programs would require women to be included
from the earliest stage and that women officers be engaged in the BFDAs and
FFDAs. For inland fisheries, women have become very involved in pond
aquaculture, with men playing the dominant role in capture fishing in ox bow
lakes and reservoirs. It is expected that while the physical division of
labor would continue under the project, with women forming at least 30% of
cooperative membership, they would be economically better off. Women have
also been traditionally traiaed in, and worked on net repairs, and would now
be trained to also repair cages and pens. Women would also be eligible to
participate as small entrepreneurs to receive credit to set up rearing ponds
and to manage pens and cages owned by the cooperatives.
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED
4.01     At negotiations the following assurances and understandings were
obtained from GOI and the participating states:
(a)   The development of shrimp ponds would be on sites acceptable to
IDA (para. 2.05);
(b)   Hatcheries, feed mills and other support facilities constructed by
entities wholly or partially-owned by the states would be managed



- 25 -
under the control of private entrepreneurs, and the states'
interest would be divested within 2 years after the completion of
the investment (paras. 2.08 and 2.12);
(c)   GOI and the participating states would provide the funds necessary
to support project implementation (para. 2.15);
(d)   The procurement procedures outlined in the SAR and agreed with IDA
would be adhered to (para. 2.16);
(e)   GOI would pass on the proceeds of the credit to the participating
states and to the CPU (Ministry of Agriculture) in support of
project expenditures, and the disbursement arrangements outlined
in the SAR and agreed with IDA would be adhered to (para. 2.17);
(f)   The arrangements agreed for Project Accounts, Statements of
Expenditure, the Special Account and their audits would be adhered
to (para. 2.18);
(g)   BFDAs and FFDAs would be adequately staffed including personnel
having experience in social and cooperative development (para.
3.02);
(h)   The Lessees of each cluster would be required to organize
themselves into Production Groups (para. 3.04);
(i)   The procedures for the selection of individual and cooperative
project beneficiaries would be in accordnace with procedures
agreed, and the cooperatives selected would be required to adopt
the features agreed as a part of their revised by-laws (paras.
3.05 and 3.11);
(J)   Lease agreements would be entered into in accordance with
procedures as outlined in the SAR and agreed (paras. 3.03 and
3.06);
(k)   The credit arrangements for the delivery and recovery of credit
would be as outlined in the SAR and agreed (paras. 3.07 through
3.09 and 3.12);
(1)   The Environmental Management Plan agreed would be implemented
under the project (para. 3.22);
4.02     Qondition of Effectiveness would be the submission by the
participating states of a draft of the Participating Agreement between the
states and the participating banks (para. 3.09).
4.03     With the above agreements and assurances, the project would be
suitable for a credit of SDR 62.9 million (US$ 85 million equivalent) on
standard IDA terms with 35 years maturity.



INDIA
SHRIMP AND FISH CULTURE PROJECT
Sumary Accounts Cost Summary
RS00O                            US$000                          % Total
___________________----__--_-----    ---------------------------    Z Foreign        Base
Local    Foreign      Total        Local Foreign    Total       Exchange      Costs
I.  INVESTMIENT COSTS
A. Civil Works                    1035138.5    38651.8  1073790.3      39813.0   1486.6  41299.6           3.6       55.7
B. Equipment                       173290.3    74104.7   247395.0       6665.0   2850.2   9515.2          30.0       12.8
C. Buildings and Roads             156376.3     8230.3   164606.6      6014.5    316.6   6331.0            5.0        8.5
D. Fishing Boats                    22625.2     2030.8    24656.0        870.2     78.1    948.3           8.2        1.3
E. Vehicles                         20444.0     5111.0    25555.0       786.3    196.6    982.9           20.0        1.3
F. Survey & Engineer. DeaigB         8490.0        0.0     8490.0        326.5      0.0    326.5           0.0        0.4
G. Working Capital                 160828.1    51969.6   212797.7      6185.7   1998.8   8184.5           24.4       11.0
H. Training & Tech. Assist.         48491.3    16329.9    64821.2      1865.0    628.1   2493.1           25.2        3.4
Total INVESTNMENT cOss           1625683.6   196428.2  1822111.8      62526.3   7554.9  70081.2           10.8       94.4
II. SUPPORT SFRVICES
A. Staff Salaries                   77827.0        0.0    77827.0      2993.3       0.0   2993.3           0.0        4.0
B. Office Operations                 7304.0     1651.0     8955.0       280.9      63.5    344.4          18.4        0.5
C. Maint. Build.&CivLl Works         932.6        49.1      981.7        35.9       1.9     37.8           5.0        0.1
D. Vehicle Operations                7850.0    11775.0    19625.0       301.9    452.9    754.8           60.0        1.0
Total SLPpOIR SERVICES             93913.6    13475.1   107388.7       3612.1    518.3   4130.3           12.5        5.6
---------------------------------    ---------------------------   ---------------------- t
Total BASELINE cOSTS             1719597.2   209903.3  1929500.5      66138.4   8073.2  74211.6           10.9      100.0
Physical ContingencLes         133041.7      9001.0   142042.7      5117.0    346.2   5463.2            6.3        7.4
Price ContIngencies            684820.5    80018.7   764839.1      13683.4   1550.1  15233.5           10.2       20.5
Total PROJECTS COSTS             2537459.4   298922.9  2836382.4      84938.7   9969.5  94908.2           10.5      127.9
-----------------------2---------------------1991------------------------__--__----19--------------------13-------------
1012411991 19:13
i-3
m m



IHDIA
SBRiMP AND FISH CULTURE PROJECT
Project Cost Summary
RS000                              US$000                           X Total
------------------------    ---------------------------    Z Forelgn            Base
Local    Foreign         ..1        Local  Foreign    Total        Exchange       Costs
A. State of Andhra Pradesh
1. Brackish Water AP              490328.4    59990.1   550318.5       18858.8   2307.3  21166.1             10.9       28.5
2. Inland Fisherles AP             33391.5      5134.8    38526.3       1284.3    197.5   1481.8             13.3        2.0
3. Project Managecmet AP           11039.5      1428.5    12468.0        424.6      54.9    479.5            11.5        0.6
Sub-Total                            534759.4    66553.4   601312.8       20567.7   2559.7  23127.4             11.1        31.2
B. State of Bihar
1. Inland Fisheries BI             30849.5      3925.8    34825.3       1188.4    151.0   1339.4             11.3        1.8
2. Project Management BI            2889.0       265.0      3154.0       111.1      10.2    121.3             8.4        0.2
Sub-Total                             33788.5      4190.8    37979.3        1299.6    161.2   1460.7            11.0         2.0
C. State of Orissa
1. Bracklsh Water OR              379514.3    40441.9   419956.2       14596.7   1555.5  16152.2              9.6       21.8
2. Inland Fisheries OR             38287.3      6239.5    44526.8       1472.6    240.0   1712.6             14.0        2.3
3. Project Management OR            8239.5       961.5     92t1.0        316.9      37.0    353.9            10.4        0.5
Sub-Total                            426041.2    47642.9   473684.0       16386.2   1832.4  18218.6             10.1       24.5
D. State of Uttar Pradesh
1. Inland Fisheries UP             39015.9      4779.2    43795.1       1500.6    183.8   1684.4             10.9        2.3
2. Project Management UP            3384.0       625.6     4009.6        130.2      24.1    154.2           15.6         0.2
_________________________________    ---------------------------   -----___------_----__---
Sub-Total                             42399.9      5404.8    47804.7       1630.8    207.9   1838.6             11.3        2.5
E. State of West Bengal
1. Brackish Water WB              588508.9    66834.8   655343.7       22635.0   2570.6  25205.5            10.2        34.0
2. inland Fisheries WB             27741.3      3286.5    31027.8       1067.0    126.4   1193.4             ;0.6        1.6
3. Project Management WB           11039.5      1428.5    12468.0        424.6      54.9    479.5           11.5         0.6
Sub-Total                            627289.6    71549.8   698839.4       24126.5   2751.9  26878.4             10.2       36.2
F. Central Govermment
1. Brackish Water CG               29044.4      3600.7    32645.1       1117.1    138.5   1255.6            11.0         1.7
2. Project Management CC           26274.3    10960.9    37235.2        1010.6    421.6   1432.1            29.4         1.9
Sub-Total                             55318.7    14561.6    69880.3        2127.6    560.1   2687.7             20.8        3.6
Total BASEELNE COCXT                1719597.2   209903.3  1929500.5       66138.4   8073.2  74211.6             10.9      100.0
Physical Contlngencies            133041.7      9001.0   142042.7       5117.0    346.2   5463.2              6.3        7.4
Price Contingencies               684820.5    80018.7   764839.1       13683.4   1550.1  15233.5             10.2       20.5
---_______________ --_---____-------------------    -------------------------   -------------
Total PROJECTSCO5S                  2537459.4   298922.9  2836382.4       84938.7   9969.5  94908.2             10.5      127.9
1012411991  19:09



INDIA
SERMP AND FISH CULTURE PROJECT
Sumary Account by Project Component
RSOD0
Inland    Project     Inland    Project                 Inland    Project     Inland   Project                  Inland
Brackish  Fisheries  Mana8emen  Fisheries  Managemen   Brackish  Fisheries  Managemen  Fisheries  Managemen   Brackish  Fisheries
Water AP      AP        t AP         BI        t BI     Water OR      OR        t OR         UP        t UP     Water WB      WB
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Civil Works                       339657.0     5829.2        0.0    14521.1         0.0   260094.5      110.0        0.0    14596.1         0.0   410855.7    11123.1
B. Equipment                         83702.0      2178.0      575.0      377.0       200.0    60111.0      910.0      465.0      1881.0      200.0    95231.0       50.0
C. Buildings and Roads               50187.5      3981.8        0.0     3364.2         0.0    43623.8     3825.0        0.0      3437.6        0.0    52556.6     2550.0
D. Fishing Boats                          0.0     4669.0        0.0     2273.0         0.0        0.0     8705.0        0.0     5338.0         0.0        0.0     3671.0
E. Vehicles                            1440.0     1800.0     1050.0     1210.0       175.0     1110.0     2345.0      700.0     2050.0       175.0     1615.0     1035.0
F. Survey & Engineer. Design          2985.0         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0     2010.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0     3495.0        0.0
G. Working Capital                   56436.0    11564.7         0.0     8322.8         0.0    35166.0    19019.1        0.0      9732.4        0.0    63407.0     9149.7
H. Training & Tech. Assist.          10917.4    1431.6          0.0      854.2         0.0    14309.0     1285.7        0.0         0.0      855.6   22935.0         0.0
-----------------------------------------------------------------__----------__------------------------------------------------------
Total INVESTMENTC>CSTS              545324.9    31454.3      1625.0    30922.3       375.0   416424.4    36199.8     1165.0    37035.1      1230.6   650095.3    27578.8
II- SUPPORT SERVICES
A. Staff Salaries                      2760.0     4410.0     8673.0     2156.0     2289.0      1876.0     4680.0     6566.0     3553.0      2289.0     2816.0     1862.0
B. Office Operations                    345.0      612.0      490.0      432.0      210.0       225.0      972.0      350.0      882.0       210.0      405.0      432.0    1
C. Maint. Build.&Civil Works            358.6        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0      240.8        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0      382.3        0.0   ro
D. Vehicle Operations                 1530.0      2050.0     1680.0     1315.0      280.0      1190.0    2675.0      1120.0     2325.0       280.0     1645.0     1155.0   OD
-------------------------------------------------------------------___--------__------------------------------------------------------
Total SUPPORT SERVICES                4993.6      7072.0    10843.0     3903.0     2779.0      3531.8    8327.0      8036.0     6760.0      2779.0     5248.3     3449.0
Total BASELINE COSTS                550318.5   38526.3    12468.0    34825.3       3154.0   419956.2   44526.8       9201.0    43795.1      4009.6   655343.7    31027.8
Physical Contingencies             43538.4      1618.1       77.7     2658.9        31.0    33625.0     1406.7       58.2     2902.1        31.0    51531.0     2503.4
Price Contingencies               213992.9   15954.1       4784.8   13789.8    1224.3   170536.2   18479.9         3539.9   17980.8       1420.9  259971.5    11932.5
Total PROJECTSCOSTS                 807849.8   56098.5    17330.5   51274.0        4409.3   624117.5    64413.4    12799.1    64678.0      5461.5   966846.2    45463.6
Taxes                              31859.5    2055.4        331.4     1601.8       73.8   24750.3       2343.5      231.9     2464.6      105.4    37697.9      1472.8
Foreign Exchange                   85696.8      7289.2     1957.7     5653.6      368.0    56233.8    8905.2       1317.8     7022.1       795.2    96796.4     4802.0
--------------------------------------------------------------__-------------__-------------------------------------------------------------__-------------__--------
1012411991 19:11
IF (D
{D X



INDIA
SERIMP AND FISH CULTURE PROJECT
Summary Account by Project Component
RSOOO
Physical             Price
Project                Project                       Contingencies        Contiugencies
Mauagemen   Brackish  Manageen                    -------------------------------------
t WB     Water CG      t CG         Total          %      Amount        Z    Amount
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Civil Works                             0.0    13353.6       3650.0  1073790.3        10.0   107379.0      40.3   432283.1
B. Equipment                             575.0       450.0       490.0   247395.0         5.0    12371.7      41.4   102429.8
C. Buildings and Roads                     0.0      1080.0         0.0   164606.6        10.0    16460.7      37.9    62436.0
D. Fishing Boats                           0.0         0.0         0.0    24656.0        10.0     2465.6      41.7    10287.3
E. Vehicles                             1050.0         0.0     9800.0    25555.0          0.0        0.0      30.4     7760.1
F. Survey & Engineer. Design               0.0         0.0         0.0     8490.0        10.0      849.0      16.5     1400.4
G. Working Capital                         0.0         0.0         0.0   212797.7         0.8     1687.0      38.1    80978.0
H. Training & Tech. Assist.                0.0      2821.5     9411.2    64821.2          0.0        0.0      26.8    17392.7
----------------------------------------------------------------__-----------__-----------
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                  1625.0    17705.1    23351.2  1822111.8           7.7   141213.0      39.2   714967.5
Ii. SUPPORT SERVICES
A. Staff Salaries                       8673.0    13740.0    11484.0    77827.0           0.0        0.0      45.0    35013.7
B. Office Operations                     490.0      1200.0     1700.0      8955.0         8.2      731.5      51.0     4568.6                                                  1
C. Maint. Build.&Civil Works               0.0         0.0         0.0      981.7        10.0       98.2      55.7      547.3
D. Vehicle Operations                   1680.0         0.0      700.0    19625.0          0.0        0.0      49.6     9741.9
Total SUPPORTSERVICES                  10843.0    14940.0    13884.0   107388.7           0.8      829.7      46.4    49871.6
Total BASELINE COSTS                   12468.0    32645.1    37235.2  1929500.5           7.4   142042.7      39.6   764839.1
Physical Contingencles                  77.7      1585.9      397.5   142042.7
Price Contingencies                   4784.8    12623.3    13823.4   764839.1           6.8    51898.9
Total PROJECTS COSTS                   17330.5    46854.3    51456.1  2836382.4           6.8   193941.6      27.0   764839.1
Taxes                                  331.4      873.5      2089.0   108282.0         7.0      7609.1
Foreign Exchange                      1957.7     4990.3    15136.9   298922.9          4.2    12417.9
1012411991 19:11
fII-D
0
I 



INDIA
SERIMP AND FISH CULTURE PROJECT
Summary Accounts by Year
Totals Including Contingencies
RoOOO
01         02          03          04         05          06         07       Total
I. INVESITENT C()ST
____________________
A. Civil Works                        39533.3   351660.3   502494.9   370361.7   241200.0   102419.8         5782.5  1613452.4
B. EquiLpent                           3178.3    61332.7   108874.0    70156.8    77056.1    27563.2    14035.4   362196.6
C. Bulldings and Roads                12093.5    69543.5    71857.3    44880.0    30930.6    12997.7         1200.6   243503.3
0. Fishing Boats                        189.4     8179.6      9169.6      9403.3     9528.0       456.4       482.6    37408.9
E. Vehicles                            7998.3     8274.3      8654.1      1915.7     2033.8      2154.8      2284.2    33315.1
F. Survey & Engineer. Design          10739.4         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0    10739.4
G. Working Capital                    19429.1    55187.5    60525.5    52732.4    66854.7    40733.6            0.0   295462.7
H. Training & Tech. Assist.           24194.1    28817.7    12919.6       7093.5     4331.7      316-1.6     1695.8    82213.9-
-------------------------------------------------------------__--------------__----------
Total I4VFSIMENlT CO5TS              117355.5   582995.7   774494.9   556543.3   431934.8   189487.1    25481.1  2678292.4
ii. SUPPORT SERVICES
A. Staff Salaries                      6451.2    11672.2    14863.7    18983.9    19437.4    20506.5    20925.7   112840.7
B. Office Operations                    543.7     1175.1      1798.3      2454.3     2604.3      2757.8      2921.7    14255.1
C. Maint. Build.ECivil Works              0.0         0.0      167.8       383.3      405.7       428.5       241.9     1627.2
D. Vehicle Operations                   925.9     1619.5      3363.7      5292.5     5660.0      6043.8      6461.7    29366.9                                                1
Total SUPPORT SERVICES                 7920.8    14466.8    20193.4    27114.0    28107.4    29736.5    30551.0   158090.0                                                   o
Total PROJEC1SCOSTS                  125276.3   597462.5   794688.4   583657.3   460042.2   219223.6    56032.1  2836382.4                                                    1
1012411991 19:11
~.S (s
(D X
*- J



DDIA
SHRIMP AND FISH CULTURE PROJECT
Projects Components by Year
Totals Including Contingencies
RS0OO
----------------------------------------------------------__-----------------__----------
01         02         03         04          05         06         07      Total
A. State of Andhlra Pradesh
1. Brackish Water AP               24058.4   183632.5   259358.5   161903.4   140139.4    36954.5      1803.2   807849.8
2. Inland Fisheries AP              1819.6     9769.9    11272.0    13896.0    11467.8      5131.5     2741.7    56098.5
3. Project Management AP            3673.5     1941.8     2075.9      2208.9     2340.2     2474.1     2616.2    17330.5
Sub-Total                             29551.5   195344.1   272706.4   178008.3   153947.3    44560.0      7161.2   881278.9
B. State of Bihar
1. Inland Fisheries BI              2457.3    10536.7    15034.4    11308.4      6299.7     3767.8     1869.7    51274.0
2. Project Management BI             899.6      499.6      533.9       567.9      601.4      635.4      671.5      4409.3
_________________________________________________________________________________________
Sub-Total                              3356.9    11036.3    15568.3    11876.3      6901.1     4403.2     2541.3    55683.3
C. State of Orissa
1. Brackish Water OR               21998.8   136902.3   158710.3   134295.1    86081.5    71270.4    14859.0   624117.5
2. Inland Fisheries OR              3073.5     9542.6    11754.6    15086.1    15858.1      6191.2     2907.2    64413.4
3. Project Management OR            2680.4     1439.3     1538.5      1636.8     1733.9     1832.7     1937.5    12799.1
--------------------------------------------------------------__-------------__----------
Sub-Total                             27752.8   147884.2   172003.4   151018.0   103673.5    79294.2    19703.8   701330.0
D. State of tlttar Pradesh
1. Inland Fisheries UP              2556.6    10220.6    14840.6    20557.8    10947.3      3186.8     2368.2    64678.0
2. Project Management UP            1215.4      975.4      676.6      685.8       601.4      635.4      671.5     5461.5
_________________________________________________________________________________________
Sub-Total                              3772.0    11196.1    15517.2    21243.6    11548.6      3822.3     3039.8    70139.5
E. State of West Bengal
1. Brackish Water WB               40250.4   200790.4   287522.8   192349.4   164673.9    72107.1      9152.2   966846.2
2. Inland Fisheries WB              2308.0    11891.0    11565.0     9925.6    6667.5       1888.9     1217.7    45463.6
3. Project Management WB            3673.5     1941.8     2075.9     2208.9     2340.2      2474.1     2616.2    17330.5
--------------------------------------------------------------__-------------__----------
Sub-Total                             46231.8   214623.2   301163.7   204483.9   173681.6    76470.0    12986.1  1029640.4
F. Central Government
1. Brackish Water CG                4843.5    10580.1     8747.2     9230.8      4382.2     4409.1     4661.4    46854.3
2. Project Management CG            9767.8     6798.5     8982.2     7796.4      5907.7     6264.8     5938.6    51456.1
--------------------------------------------------------------__-------------__----------
Sub-Total                             14611.3    17378.6    17729.5    17027.2    10290.0    10673.9    10599.9    98310.4
Total PROJEc    COCXS                125276.3   597462.5   794688.4   583657.3   460042.2   219223.6    56032.1  2836382.4
1012411991  19:13
0iD



- 32 -                          Annax 2
Page 1 of 4
Shrimp and Fish Culture Rrogjct
Ecgngmic and Einancial Analyses
A. Financial Analyses
1.    The impact of the Project on the beneficiaries have been analyzed for
the two sub-projects separately. In the case of the shrimp farmers, two
models have been considered, 0.5 ha and 1 ha, to distinguish between the
smaller farmers and the entrepreneur farmers. Tables 1 and 2. The financial
net returns takes into account the leasing arrangements that are envisaged
which consists of the development and maintenance costs of the ponds and
common facilities. The investment costs are amortized over the life of the
Project with 14% and 16% annual interest rates for the smaller and larger
farmers respectively. It is also assumed that the entrepreneur will invest
20% contribution to be amortized over 20 years, and is taken into account in
the lease arrangements. The analyses indicates that the small farmers returns
are Rs 24,400 annually and the larger farmers Rs 43,700. The financial rate
of return (FRR) is estimated at 42%. The profitability of shrimp farming is
reflected in the high returns to the farmers. Supporting investments of
hatcheries and feed mills are expected to earn an FRR ranging from 22% to
124%. There would be no capital subsidies under the Project.
2.    In the case of the inland fish component, different scenarios have been
taken. In the case of oxbow lakes, returns to oxbow lakes in Uttar Pradesh
and Bihar have been analyzed separately from that in West Bengal. In the case
of reservoirs two differenL models, depending on size, have been analyzed
i.e., 185 ha and 680 ha. The models reflect the profitability of the lakes
and reservoirs rather than to individual fishermen. There are two reasons for
this, firstly Fishermen Cooperatives have leases and fishing rights in lakes
and reservoirs rather than individuals and the Project envisages restocking
the lakes and reservoirs. The returns are based on an integrated model
whereby the rearing of fingerlings and restocking of ponds are analyzed as one
unit, as they both are interdependent.
3.    The key assumptions used for the inland fisheries component are that the
present average annual yields for ox-bow lakes of 160 kg/ha would increase
from 200 kg/ha .4n year 1 to 400 kg/ha in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, and from 400
kg/ha to 850 kg/ha in West Bengal. For reservoirs, the increase yield would
depend on the size of the reservoir and is expected to increase by 500%
average. Investment costs in reservoirs are limited to landing sheds and some
access roads, while in the case of ox-bow lakes varying degree of civil works
are involved. These costs are considerad to be for the States concerned, with
lease fees providing an element of cost recovery. The entire aspect of lease
fees is complicated by the traditional inconsistent approach to setting these
fees, which are not determined on any proper basis. Under the project, lease
fees would be fixed for ox-bow lakes at least sufficient to recover 50 percent
of the cost of the improvements over a twenty year period (expected life).
The states would review these lease fees against the income of the supported
water bodies and would increase the lease accordingly when they come up for
renewal. The models show that the FRR investments in ox-bow lakes after
recovering improvement costs would be 22% on capital employed, and return per
day to each cooperator betweeen Rs 135 and Rs 160. For reservoirs, income per
day for rearing and fishing would be about Rs 250 per cooperator. The FRR for
the rearing ponds, pens and cages are nearly 30%.



- 33 -
Annex
Page 2 of 4
4.    The financial returns for oxbow lakes in West Bengal are much greater
than in Uttar Pradesh or Bihar, primarily due to the higher yields. The
yields are greater in West Bengal as the stocking rate is higher, with two
crops of fingerlings due to the climate being more suited to fisi. growth
throughout the year. The returns on a 100 ha oxbow lake in West Bengal is
nearly Rs 1.077 million while in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh it is estimated at Rs
484,000.
5.    The productivity of reservoirs is not as gre-.t as oxbow lakes.  Most of
the investment in the reservoirs is for ponds and pens for rearing advanced
fingerlings. This investment will be made by individuals/cooperatives through
credit. The financial return for a 185 ha reservoirs is Rs 369,300 and for a
680 ha reservoirs return is estimated at Rs 693,700.
B.    1conQmie Analysis
6.    The economic analysis of the Project takes into account the development
of the shrimp ponds, and the improvements to the oxbow lakes and reservoirs,
and the rearing of advanced fingerlings for the inland fisheries component.
Only the direct quantifiable incremental economic costs and benefits have been
accounted for. Separate analysis has been taken for the two sub-projects as
they differ in type as well as in the area covered.
7.    enafits.  In the case of the shrimps sub-project, the component will be
constructed in brackishwater areas which has no alternate economic use. In
the case of the inland fish production sub-project there will be incremental
production as a result of the Project.
8.    In the case of the shrimps sub-project, the expected yields are
conservatively estimated to rise from 1600 kgs/ha in year 1 to 2000 kgs/ha in
year 3 in a total of two crops. In the case of inland fisheries, the present
yields for oxbow lakes is estimated at 160 kgs/ha/year and for reservoirs 15
kgs/ha/year. Under the Project the expected incremental yields in oxbow lakes
in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh are expected to increase from 200 kgs/hs in year 1
to 400 kgs/ha and in West Bengal incremental yields are expected to increase
from 400 kgs/ha to 850 kgs/ha. In the case of reservoirs the incremental
yields will depend to a large extent on the size of the reservoirs. In the
case of reservoirs up to 100 ha the incremental yields are expected to
increase from 120 kgs/ha in year 1 to 240 kgs/ha in year 3 onwards; in the
case of reservoirs of size  jetween 100 ha and 300 ha, the incremental yields
are expected to be from 80 kgs in year 1 to 160 kgs from year 3 onwards; in
reservoirs of size 300 ha and above the incremental yields are expected to be
40 kgs in year 1 to 80 kgs in year 3 onwards.
9.    Economic Costs and Benefits.  The economic costs are expressed in 1991
constant prices and include all capital and recurrent costs of the Project,
taking into account the physical contingencies but excluding price escalation,
taxes and duties. The total economic inveatment costs is $88.6 million.
(Taking the appraisal exchange rate of US$ 1 = Rs 26). The annual recurrent
costs at full development amount to nearly $1.8 million per annum in economic
terms for the life of the Project, and includes such activities as operation
and maintenance of common facilities, and operation and maintenance of
infrastructure. Replacement costs have been included at appropriate
intervals.



Annex 2
Page 3 of 4
10.   Economic Prioing of Inputs and Outputs.  In the case of shrimps which is
the major traded commodity there are no projections available due to the
uncertainty regarding world market supply and demand, hence the present prices
were taken for the long term analyses. The present prices have stabilized at
a low level. Farm gate price (for black tiger shrimps (the major product) was
derived by adjusting world market prices to border prices and taken into
account processing, transport and distribution between border and farm gate
(Table 3). Import parity prices were derived for the inputs, urea and TSP,
which are utilized to a very limited extent (accounting for only 1% of the
cost of production).
11.   Economic prices for fish was valued at the market price and adjusted for
distortions such as taxes and duties and subsidy transfers. Similarly for non-
traded inputs, adjustments have been made for transfer payments. A standard
conversion factor of 0.8 has been used to adjust for the distortions in the
market. Table 4 summarizes the farm gate financial and economic prices for
the inputs and outputs, used in the analyses.
12.   Etonomic Internal Rate of Return.  Based on the assumptions detailed
above, the economic rate of return (ERR) for the shrimps sub-project is
estimated to be around 31.1% and for the fish sub-project around 25.5% and for
the project as a whole the ERR is estimated to be 30.2% (Table 5). The high
ERR for the Project reflects the profitability of shrimps sub-project even
with the conservative assumptions that have been made in the expected yield
levels. Sensitivity analyses is reflected in para 3.19 of the main report.
C.  Beneft.s of  eneficiary 0-sia
13.   The proposed project brings together private entrepreneurs and
beneficiaries from the weakest socio-economic sections to work together in
common circumstances. This is particularly evident in the shrimp culture
component where each cluster would have both groups of beneficiaries working
together with the BFDAs for common services. The advantages to the
entrepreneurs, many of whom are expected to be processors, would include the
access to the much sought after shrimp lands which would be made available in
one developed package ready to begin production. In addition, they would be
given supporting technical assistance from project consultants, etc., and
being a part of an integrated Project would be provided all the linkages from
seed through to feed. M4any entrepreneurs are expected to have a prior
relationship with shrimp processing, which industry is currently operating at
low capacity utilization for its plants. Participation in the project would
provide them shrimp for processing and in addition, provide the opportunity to
obtain even more shrimp from fellow beneficiaries from the weaker sections.
Shrimp processing and marketing, in addition to its profitability, provide the
opportunity to earn much sought after foreign exchange, some percentage of
which is usually made available by the Government to be used at the discretion
of the exporter. In addition, because of the cluster type operation, it
obliges the entrepreneurs, with their up front investments (20 percent of
development cost) to ensure that the entire cluster operates reasonably well.
From the weaker beneficiaries point of view, they would be exposed to a
previously unknown level of earnings, obtain the assistance of the more
business oriented entrepreneur in the whole spectrum of management including
assistance with marketing. While there would be common services for the
cluster, each beneficiary would be free to purchase their own inputs of seed
and feed and to arrange their own marketing to whoever they wish. Any linkage
to the entrepreneurs for marketing arrangements would be completely on a
voluntary basis. The weaker section beneficiaries shouldl be able to hold



- 35 -
Anngx 2
Page 4 of 4
their own as they would out-number the entrepreneurs in pond area and in the
number of beneficiaries in each cluster (Production Group). Furthermore, the
BFDAs would be responsible for the operation of each cluster and as an
additional safeguard for the weaker beneficiaries, the SPU would sponsor an
NGO group to work with the beneficiaries of the weaker sections in the
provision of training and general guidance in management and other development
aspects. The mid-term review would evaluate the impact of the above
initiatives. The project woud also benefit private investors by providing
finance and techical assistance for hatchery and feed production, areas which
are relatively new and activitiea which would provide adequate financial
returns to obtain their interest.
14.   For the inland fisheriea sub-aector, the proposed project would select
the more potentially productive waterbodies from the aspect of location,
existing performance of the cooperative, and provide the needed financing for
stocking of fingerlings, feed, and inafrastructure development where
necessary. More important, the cooperative development (e.g., change of by-
laws) and the involvement of NGos would introduce the much needed management
that has been lacking in the cooperatives. Also, FFDAs, with their already
good record of performance under IFP which supported pond development, is
expected to perform well in their responsibility for overseeing the
development of the inland fisheries component.



INDIA
SHRIMP. AND FISH CULURE PROJECT
Flnancial Analysis of 0.5 ha. Shrimp Pond
Year
1      2      3       4      5      6       7      8      9      10     11     12      13     14     15      16     17     18      19     20
Yteld (kgs)        800.0  900.0 1000.0 1000.0 1000.0 1000.0 1000.0 1000.0 1000.0 1000.0 1000.0 1000.0 1000.0 1000.0 1000.0 1000.0 1000.0 1000.0 1000.0 1000.0
Prlcelkg           100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  i1O.0  100.0  100.0
(Rs. '000)
Revenues            80.0   90.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
Production Costs
Seed                 6.4    6.0    6.2    6.2    6.2    6.2    6.2    6.2    6.2    6.2    6.2    6.2    6.2    6.2    6.2    6.2    6.2    6.2    6.2    6.2
Feed                30.0   33.8   37.5   37.5   37.5   37.5   37.5   37.5   37.5   37.5   37.5   37.5   37.5   37.5   37.5   37.5   37.5   37.5   37.5   37.5
Other Inputs at      1.3    1.3    1.4    1.4    1.4    1.4    1.4    1.4    1.4    1.4    1.4    1.4    1.4    1.4    1.4    1.4    1.4    1.4    1.4    1.4
Labour bi            3.1    3.4    3.8    3.8    3.8    3.8    3.8    3.8    3.8    3.8    3.8    3.8    3.8    3.8    3.8    3.8    3.8    3.8    3.8    3.8
Sub-total          40.8   44.5   48.8   48.8   48.8   48.8   48.8   48.8   48.8   48.8   48.8   48.8   48.8   48.8   48.8   48.8   48.8   48.8   48.8   48.8
OPERATING PROFIT   39.2   45.5   51.2   51.2   51.2   51.2   51.2   51.2   51.2   51.2   51.2   51.2   51.2   51.2   51.2   51.2   51.2   51.2   51.2   51.2
Land lease ct       11.0   22.0   22.0   22.0   22.0   22.0   22.0   22.0   22.0   22.0   22.0   22.0   22.0   22.0   22.0   22.0   22.0   22.0   22.0   22.0                      a'
Pand maLnt. dl       0.5    0.9    1.4    1.8    2.3    2.3    2.3    2.3    2.3    2.3    2.3    2.3    2.3    2.3    2.3    2.3    2.3    2.3    2.3    2.3
GkA Facilittes a1   1.0    1.5    2.0    2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5
Sub-total          12.4   24.4   25.3   26.3   26.7   26.7   26.7   26.7   26.7   26.7   26.7   26.7   26.7   26.7   26.7   26.7   26.7   26.7   26.7   26.7
NET RETURNS         26.8   21.2   25.8   24.9   24.4   24.4   24.4   24.4   24.4   24.4   24.4   24.4   24.4   24.4   24.4   24.4   24.4   24.4   24.4   24.4
a/ Includes both organic and inorganic Inputs.
bi Estimated labour requirements are at full development 300 person days.
el Land lease computed at an Investment cost of Rs 146,500/ha; amortized over 20 years at 14Z.; vith tvLce yearly payments.
dllSt#mated cost of maintaining ponds ls about 2Z of total Investment.
ellncludes the operatlon and maintenence of the common puMps and channels and roads.
H '



INDIA
SSRIP  AND FISH CULTURE PROJECT
Financial Returns on One ha. Shrimp Pond
Year
1      2      3       4      5       6      7      8      9      10     11     12      13     14     15      16     1*     18      19     20
Yleld (kgs)       1600.0 1800.0 2000.0 2000.0 2000.0 2000.0 2000.0 2000.0 2000.0 2000.0 2000.0 2000.0 2000.0 2000.0 2000.0 2000.0 2000.0 2000.0 2000.0 2000.0
PriceIkt (Rs)      100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
(Rs 000)
Revenues           160.0  180.0  200.0  200.0  200.0  200.0  200.0  200.0  200.0  200.0  200.0  200.0  200.0  200.0  200.0  200.0  200.0  200.0  200.0  200.0
Production Costs
Seed                12.8   12.0   12.3   12.3   12.3   12.3   12.3   12.3   12.3   12.3   12.3   12.3   12.3   12.3   12.3   12.3   12.3   12.3   12.3   12.3
Foed                60.0   67.5   75.0   75.0   75.0   75.0   75.0   75.0   75.0   75.0   75.0   75.0   75.0   75.0   75.0   75.0   75.0   75.0   75.0   75.0
Other Inputs a*      2.5    2.7    2.8    2.8    2.8    2.8    2.8    2.8    2.8    2.8    2.8    2.8    2.8    2.8    2.8    2.8    2.8    2.8    2.8    2.8
Labour bi            6.3    6.8    7.5    7.5    7.5    7.5    7.5    7.5    7.5    7.5    7.5    7.5    7.5    7.5    7.5    7.5    7.5    7.5    7.5    7.5
Sub-total          81.6   88.9   97.6   97.6   97.6   97.6   97.6   97.6   97.6   97.o   97.6   97.6   97.6   97.6   97.6   97.6   97.6   97.6   97.6   97.6
OPERATING PROFIT   78.4   91.1  102.4  102.4  102.4  102.4  102.4  102.4  102.4  102.4  102.4  102.4  102.4  102.4  102.4  102.4  102.4  102.4  102.4  102.4                        1
Land lease of       24.6   49.1   49.1   49.1   49.1   49.1   49.1   49.1   49.1   49.1   49.1   49.1   49.1   49.1   49.1   49.1   49.1   49.1   49.1   49.1
Pond mlnt. di        0.9    1.8    2.7    3.6    4.5    4.5    4.5    4.5    4.5    4.5    4.5    4.5    4.5    4.5    4.5    4.5    4.5    4.5    4.5    4.5
GUI FacllIties */   2.0    3.0    4.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0
Sub-total           27.5   53.9   55.8   57.7   58.6   58.6   58.6   58.6   58.6   58.6   58.6   58.6   58.6   58.6   58.6   58.6   58.6   58.6   58.6   58.6
NET RETURNS         51.0   37.1   46.5   44.6   43.7   43.7   43.7   43.7   43.7   43.7   43.7   43.7   43.7   43.7   43.7   43.7   43.7   43.7   43.7   43.7
of Includes both organic end inorganic liputs.
bI Estimated labour requir.emwts are at full developmnt 300 person days.
el Lend lease comuted t an Investment coat of RS 293,000Oha; amortized over 20 years at 161. a vlth tvice yearly payments.
dIEstimated cost of M&1ntaining ponds is about 21 of total investment.
alIncludes the operation and maintenence of the commen pumps and channels and roads.
k-1
1- (D



-  38 -                                     Annex 2
Table J
INDIA
SHRIMP AND FISH CULTURE PROJECT
Export Parity Price for Black Tiger Shrimps (P. Monodon)
(26-30 counts/kg)
Block Froten Black Tiger Shrimp (C&F Japan)                    USS          8.64
Rupees/kilosram b/                                                        224.71
RS
Freight cost (E. Coast India to Japan) ci                                   6.50
FOB East Coast India                                                      218.21
Port Charges & MPEDA and Govt. charges dl                                    3.18
Storage                                                                     0.04
Transport to Port                                                           1.30
Price of shrimp ex-factory                                                213.69
Processing costs                                                           35.00
Price of deheaded shrimp at factory                                       178.69
Equivalent price of head-on shrimp at factory */                          119.72
Transport costs farmgate/factory                                            2.50
Marketing costs (agent fees,ice etc.)                                        1.17
Farmsate price of black tiger shrimps head on  (Rs/kg)                    116.05
$/kg                                             4.46
a/ Average price, Jan. -July 1991, Infofish Trade News.
b/ Exchange rate of US$1 - Rs.26
c/ US$250/mt paid in rupees.
di Port charges R3l0OO/mtg 1X of the FOB price as a fee to MPEDA and the Governemnt
e/Conversion factor of 0.67.



- 39                                     Annex 2
Table b4
INDIA
SHRIMP AND FISH CULTURE PROJECT
Financial and Sconomli Farmgate Prices
Financial                   Economic
Unit        Rs              Unit         Rs
Shrimps a/                    kg          107.20           kg         116.05
Fish b/                       kg           20.00           kg           16.00
Inputs
PL 20                          '000       120.00           '000        96.00
Fingerlings (5 cms)            '000       125.00           '000       100.00
Shrimp Feed                   kg           15.00           kg          12.00
Fish feed (pellet)c/          kg            7.00           kg            5.60
Urea                          kg            3.00           kg            6.79
Single Superphoshate          kg            1.00           kg           0.80
Triple Superphosphate         kg            2.00           kg            7.20
Orgenia Fertilisers           kg            0.12           kg            0.10
ime                           kg            2.00           kg            1.60
Mustard Oil Cake              kg            4.00           kg            3.20
Mahua Oil Cake       '        kg            2.50           kg            2.00
Rice bran                     kg            1.00           kg            0.80
Labour                        md           25.00           md           20.00
Note: Economic price for shrimps is the export parity price and import parity prices used
for the inputs urea and TSP. Other economic prices used by applying the SCF of 0.8.
a/ Shrimp prices based on 26/30/kg count
b/ Average price of major carps such as rahu,catlya and hilsa
c/ Pellet fish feed for cage culture of advanced fingerlings.



INDIA
SHRIMP AND FISH CULTURE PROJECT
Economic Costs, Benefits and the raternal Rate of Return
Total Project
(RS '000)
Invest_ent         Recurrent          Production         Total              Benefits            Incrmental
Year        Costs               Costs              Costs              Costs                                  Cashflov
1             89319                                                     89319                                 -89319
2             393457               1831              11177             406465               30969            -375496
3            487664                5281              75017             567962             207574             -360387
4            337913               10148             162933             510994             420357              -90637
5            252890               15523             233551             501965             530978               29014
6            114041               21221             292931             428192             846585              418393
7             27330               30552             321687             379569             953159              573590
8                                 43768             338575             382343             993566              611223
9                                 48283             341974             390258            1008013              617755
10                                73007             342203             415209            1008013             592803
11                                87888             342203             430091            1008013             577922
12                                88192             342203             430395            1008013             577618
13                                91296             342203             433499            1008013             574514
14                                64586             342203             406789            1008013             601224                                                         O
15                                70693             342203             412896            1008013             595117
16                                71824             342203             414027            1008013             593986
17                               114175             342203             456378            1008013             551635
18                               113588             342203             455791            1008013             552222
19                                87918             342203             430121            1008013             577892
20                                70693             342203             412896            1008013              595117
Eirr -      30.222
oIW



- 41 -
Annex 3
Page 1 of 10
Shrimp and Fish Culture Project
Project Details
Physical Features
I. Brackishwater ShriMps
Location and Gengral Features of Project Areas
1.    Brackish water development would take place at 13 sites in eight
districts of West Bengal, Orissa, and Andhra Pradesh. The areas have been
selected because of their favorable environmental conditions for coastal
aquaculture in the form of good soil conditions and tidal ranges. The state-
wise breakdown of areas is shown below:
SITZ                           Gross  Area  (ha)         Net  Water Area  (ha)
A.   Andhra  Pradesh
Bhairavapalam                     150                      105
Interu                            300                      210
P.T. Palam                        690                      483
Ipuru                             200                      140
C.G. Palam                        650                      455
Sub-Total                    1,990                    1,393
3.   Oriasa
Biderpur                          490                      314
Narendrapur                       400                      264
Jagatjore & Banpada               450                      293
Sub-Total                    1,340                      871
C.   Went Bengal
Dadanpatra                        300                      210
Digha                              135                      90
Meendwip                        1,420                      916
Canning                           300                      210
Dighirpai                          175                     120
Sub-Total                    2,330                    1,546
TOTAL                          5.660
Brackish water area in India currently under shrimp culture, mostly in the
traditional and extensive system, is estimated at around 40,000 ha.



- 42 -
Annex 3
Page 2 of 10
SitA  eAlection
2.    The project sites are located along the coasts of West Bengal, Orissa
and Andhra Pradesh on the eastern coastline of the Indian sub-continent,
between 800 and 880 east longitude and 140 and 220 north latitude. West
Bengal has a coastline of 974 km lying in a narrow longitude and latitude of
870 and 89° east and 210 and 220 north, respectively. Orissa and Andhra
Pradesh have longer coastlines of 480 km and 942 km lying between wider ranges
of latitudes and longitudes. Because of the long coastline under
consideration, these 3 states, although contiguous have different climatic
conditions, rainfall patterns and tidal regimes.
3.    The land to be developed for shrimp farming is unused and is unsuitable
for crop cultivations. The areas are free of mangrove forests1 and have
strong fishing tradition. Soils in the selected sites are good in terms of
clay content, pH and salinity. Detailed surveys and investigations, including
topographic and hydrographic surveys, soil investigations, tide levels,
infrastructure, have been carried out for three sites. The following criteria
were used in the evaluation and site selection for shrimp pond development:
(a)   Relatively flat with minimum of undulating surface
(b)   The elevation of the ground water not higher than 2.0 m above the
highest tide level nor lower than the mean low water level.
'c)   The site is not heavily vegetated.
*d)   The site is not located in a long and very narrow strip of land
what would be very expensive to protect from adverse weather
conditions.
Ce)   The 8oils contains sufficient amount of clay to hold water.  It
falls within any of the following soil classifications: clay,
clay-loam, silty-clay-loam, silt-loam, and sandy-clay loam.
(f)   The soil does not contain excessive amount of organic matter and
is not potentially acidic.
(g)   The site selected has adequate supply of unpolluted brackish water
the whole year round.
(h)   The site is accessible by land transport and approach roads are
not more than 3.0 km per 100 hectares of area available.
Ci) Three-phase electrical transmission lines are nearby to the site.
1 Except for Meendwip Island where there are some regenerating mangroves.



- 43 -
Annex 3
Page 3 of 10
Clmate
4.    The climate in the three states is tropical with 4 distinct seasons:
-     Southwest Monsoon (June-September)
-     Northeast Monsoon (October-December)
-     Winter (January-February)
-     Summer  March-May)
5.    The mean annual rainfall along the coastal areas are 1,966 mm for West
Bengal, 1,429 mm for Orissa and 1,084 mm for Andhra Pradesh. In West Bengal
and Orissa, maximum rainfall is usually associated with southwest monsoon.
West Bengal gets maximum rainfall during the months of June to October, while
Orissa gets maximum rainfall from June to September. Some rainfall also
occurs during the northeast monsoon and minimum rainfall is usually in
December. In Andhra Pradesh, the northern and the middle parts of the coast
also get maximum rainfall during the southwest monsoon, but in the southern
part maximum rainfall is usually during the monsoon, in the months of October
to November.
Temparatures
6.    The maximum temperatures in the coastal areas occur during the months of
April, May and June while minimum temperatures occur in the months of
November, December and January. In West Bengal, the average maximum
temperatures varies from 330C - 150C.  In Orissa, the average maximum
temperature varies from 350C - 390C and the average minimum temperature varies
from 13°C - 14°C, while in Andhra Pradesh it varies from 33°C - 39°C and from
20'C - 23°C, respectively.
Winds and Wind Direnti1ns
7.    Along the coasts of the Bay of Bengal there are mainly two dominant wind
set-ups: the southwesterly and northeasterly winds. From the months of May
to November, the direction of the wind is dominantly southwesterly and in
October, the wind direction is irregular. From the months of November to
February, northeasterly winds predominate and during the months of April, the
wind direction is highly variable and quite irregular. The average wind speed
along the coastal areas are as follows: West Bengal 6.21 km/hr; Orissa, 8.55
km/hr and Andhra Pradesh, 7.11 km/hr. Maximum wind speed usually occurs
during the months of April and May and minimum wind speed in December and
January.
8.    The rate of evaporation is dependent on temperature and wind speed.
Maximum evaporation is usually associated with maximum temperature and maximum
wind speed. In Sagar, in West Bengal coast, the average evaporation rate is
5.97 mm/day, with maximum rate of 7.55 mm/day occurring during the month of



- 44 -
annea 3
Page 4 of 10
April when the wind speed and temperature are maximum, and minimum rate of 3.5
mm/day during the month of December when wind speed and temperature are
minimum . In Balasore coast in Orissa, the average evaporation rate of 6.37
mm/day, with maximum of 8.0 mm/day during the month of April and May and
minimum of 4.6 mm/day during the month of January. Along the project coast in
Andhra Pradesh, the average evaporation rate if 5.00 mm/day.
StQrms and Cyclones
9.    The east coast of India is prone to depressions and storms originating
from the Bay of Bengal. During depressions, wind speed of 40-50 km/hr may be
experienced and during storms wind speed of 70-120 km/hr is common.
Occasionally, these storms may develop into severe cyclonic storms and wind
speed may reach 150 km/hr or more. These depressions and storms are
accompanied by heavy precipitations and cause floods and tidal surges in areas
along the coasts. Storms and cyclones normally occur during the months of May
to November. In West Bengal and Orissa, cyclones are more frequent during the
southwest monsoon than during the northeast monsoon. An analysis made by IIT
on the average passages of cyclones along the Balasore coast in Orissa, for a
70-year period, shows that frequency of severe cyclonic storms is in the ordel
of once in 12 years. In Andhra Pradesh, cyclones are more frequent during the
northeast monsoon than during the southwest monsoon. During the season, two
or three depressions occur from which on may attain severe storm intensity.
It is estimated that severe storm may occur once in 10 years. In Andhra
Pradesh, sometimes storms occur during the summer season, particularly during
the months of May and June.
Water Ouality
10.   Salinities of the coastal water vary considerably with the amount of
rainfall and river discharges. During the monsoon months coastal water is
diluted by the discharges of the river systems along the east coast. During
the dry months, the coastal waters, except those areas adjacent to the river
system with perennial fresh water discharge, such the Hugli River system, will
have maximum salinities of 33-35 ppt. During the monsoon, the salinity drops
depending on the amount of freshwater being discharged by the rivers. Since
the rivers often bring flash discharges, the salinity of the coastal water
drops temporarily and rises sharply in between the intervening period of peak
river discharges. Along the estuaries of the Hugli River system, where large
volumes of fresh water are being discharged continuously, the sea water is
always brackish. In Kakdwip, which is about 30 km from the sea, the salinity
varies from 1.05 ppt to 23.4 ppt while in areas further upstream salinity
ranges are much lower. Further south however, along Contai-Digha coast, the
salinity ranges are much higher, an average maximum of 32 ppt and average
minimum of about 3 ppt. In Andhra Pradesh project coast, the average maximum
salinity range is 31 ppt and average minimum of 15.5 ppt. The salinity of the
water in these areas would start dropping at the onset of the monsoon and
would reach its minimum level by September or October and continue to increase
as the river discharge decreases.



- 45 -
Annex 3
Page 5 of 10
Ponxd pesig
11.   The pond areas would be developed for semi-intensive culture of shrimp,
to produce some 2.0 tons to 2.5 tons per hectare per year. The general
concept of the design is to develop the farms with ponds in clusters of about
50 hectares (net water area), each cluster provided with the necessary support
facilities to operate independently. In large areas, however, where there
would be 2 or more clusters, some of the facilities particularly reservoirs
and main supply and drainage canals would be made common to some clusters to
minimize the development cost. The gross area that would comprise the 50 ha
cluster could vary from 71 ha - 77 ha of land of which 30% -35% would be
occupied by dykes, canals and reservoir.
12.   Each pond compartment would have an area of about 0.5 or 1.0 hectare and
would have a rectangular shape with a ratio between the longer side and the
shorter side of 3:2. The longer axis would be parallel to the prevailing wind
direction (NE/SW) to maximize aeration of water from the movement that would
be generated by the wave action. Each pond compartment would be provided with
separate supply and drainage gates to facilitate water management. The depth
of the water inside the ponds would be maintained at an average of 1.5 m but
dykes would be constructed to hold water up to a maximum depth of 2.0 m. The
pond areas would not be excavated except to obtain the materials for the
construction of dykes and canal embankments. All undesirable materials such
as tree stumps would have to be removed from the pond area. The bottom of the
pond would be generally level but gradually sloping at the rate of 0.2% - 0.3%
towards the drainage gate.
13.   Because of the different characteristics of the source of water for the
ponds and the varying elevations of the ground with respect to the water
levels, two (2) basic models would be adopted by the project. The models
would have basically the same physical components, and would differ only in
terms of how the water would be brought in and out of the ponds, as described
below.
(a)   Tidal-Cum Pump Fed Ponds.  This particular model would be adopted
for the 3 areas in West Bengal, namely Canning, Dighirpar and
Meendwip. These sites have extremely high tidal ranges during
spring tides that would allow the water to flow by gravity to the
ponds. During neap tides, however, the water would have to be
pumped to the pond compartments. Draining the ponds would be by
gravity flow.
(b)   Pump Fed Ponds.  This model would be adopted for the majority of
the sites: Digha, Dadanpatra, Bideipur, Narendrapur, Jagatjore,
and Banpada, C.G. Palem, P. T. Palem, Ipuru, Bhairavapalem and the
Interu. In these sites, the tidal ranges are low to very low and
the ground elevations are such that water would not be able to
flow by gravity without excessive excavation (2-3m) of the pond
bottom. Excavation of the pond bottom would be very expensive and
would consume a large portion of area for the disposal of the



- 46 -
AnneN 3
Page 6 of 10
excess excavated soil. It would then be more economical for the
water to be pumped in the ponds. Consequently, excavation would
be reduced to the minimum necessary to obtain materials for dyke
construction. The resulting pond bottom elevation would normally
permit draining of water by gravity.
14.   For pump fed and tidal-cum-pump fed pond models, water would be made to
flow to a reservoir by gravity, before distribution to the different
compartments. In the case of the tidal-cum pump fed model, the reservoir
would also serve as the main supply canal for conveying water by gravity to
the ponds. The reservoir would have a size sufficient to hold at least 25% of
the maximum daily requirement of the area during the mean high water neap
tide. For a 50 hectare cluster, the size of the reservoir would be about 4.0
hectares and the minimum water depth would be 0.50 m during neap tides. in
most cases, the area for reservoir would have to be excavated by 1- 2 m in
order to impound the require volume of water.
Canalsj
15.   Supply and drainage canal embankments would be constructed from earthen
materials excavated to bring the bottom of the canal to the desired elevation
and gradient. There would be two types of supply canals, the main supply
canal which would convey the water by gravity to the reservoir and the
secondary supply canal which would distribute the water to the different pond
compartments. Similarly, there would also be two types of drainage canals,
the secondary drainage canal which would collect and convey the used water
from the ponds to a bigger canal called the main drainage canal, which would
eventually empty the used water to the river or sea.
Control Gates
16.   Main SuoollD/rainage Gate.  The main supply gate would control the flow
of water to the reservoir or main supply canal while the main drainage gate
would control the flow of water out of the pond area. These gates would be
constructed along the protection dykes or the peripheral dykes hence they
should be sluice gate with 4 - 5 vents of 1.2 m width. It would be provided
with wooden stop logs to control the flow of water and screening devices to
prevent entry of undesirable fish or debris. The bottom would be set at an
elevation that would permit water to flow by gravity even during the lowest
tides.  The main drainage gate, would be a monk type sluice gates, consisting
of 2 - 4 hume pipes with diameter of 1.0 m - 1.5 m. The invert elevation of
the hume pipes should be set from 0.3 m - 0.5 m below the drainage canal
bottom elevation. Similarly, it would also be provided with wooden stop logs
to control flow of water. For a 50 hectare cluster, one main supply gate and
one main drainage gate would be provided.
17.   Pond Supply/Dlrainage GaL=.  The pond supply gate would be constructed
along the shorter side of the pond to control the entry of water from the
secondary supply canal during operation. The pond supply gate would be a



- 47 -
Annex 3
Page 7 of 10
concrete open type sluice capable of discharging about 52 lit/sec of water to
allow a maximum water exchange of 10% of volume within a 4-hour period.
Although the water exchange could be undertaken within a 24 hour period during
the operation of the ponds there are instances when the water needs to be
changed very rapidly, such as during mass algal bloom or during period when
molting would have to induced through manipulation of the water parameters.
The flooring of the supply gate would be at the same level with the bottom of
the canal or slightly lower to minimize entry of silt-laden water which is
usually at the bottom of the canal. The outlet at the pond side would have to
be riprapped to prevent erosion of the dyke. The gate would be provided with
wooden stop logs and finer nets for screening predators. The pond drainage
gate would be constructed at the opposite side of the pond supply gate to have
an efficient water exchange during the operation. The supply gate would be a
concrete monk type sluice gate with a minimum diameter of 0.6 m. Transition
walls would be provided at the inlet and outlet of the gate with wooden stop
logs to control the flow of water and screen nets to prevent escape of the
culture. The elevation of the flooring of the gate should be set level or a
little lower than the pond bottom elevation at the outlet in order to ensure
total drainage of the water.
18.   Secondary Control Gate.  These gates would be constructed along the main
supply canal or the drainage canal where diversion or control of flows would
be necessary or in some cases when access across the canals would be required.
Puming Station
19.   The pumping station would be constructed to accommodate the number of
pumps required to supply the water requirement of a certain area. In the case
of tidal-cum-pump fed ponds, sluice gates would also be incorporated in the
pumping station to allow flow of water by gravity during spring tides. The
bottom elevation of the pumping station should be set at an elevation which
would allow pumping even with minimum depth of water in the reservoir. The
maximum rate of water exchange envisaged for the type of culture is 10% of the
total volume of the water in the pond.  During the early stage of culture,
less wiater exchange would be required and the rate would gradually increase to
a maximum of 10% during the last month of culture.  Each cluster of ponds
would be provided with one pumping station equipped with 3 vertical axial flow
pumps, each with a capacity of 10,000 gallons per minute (2,273 cu.m/hr). The
pumps woula be able to attain the maximum water exchange rate of 10% within 10-
12 hour of continuous pumping. The water exchange may be done on a longer
period, but during neap tides, when the pump would have to take advantage of
the water level, pumping should be done within a shorter period of time so
that the water in the reservoir could be immediately replenished by the next
higher tide. Since continuous operation of the 3 pump3 would happen only for
a short period of time (during the last month of culture period) and during
neap tide periods, it would not be necessary to provide additional units to
serve as standby in case of breakdown.



- 48 -
Page 8 of 10
Supply Facilities
20.   Each cluster of ponds would be provided with infrastructure facilities
such as office building, warehouse for the pond inputs, workshop for the
repair and maintenance of the vehicle of pond equipment, shrimp handling shed
for the washing, sorting and packing of the produce, a powerhouse for the
standby generating set, a pump house for protecting the pumps and guard house.
Each cluster of ponds would also be provided with freshwater supply and
electricity supply. A tubewell would be constructed with an overhead water
reservoir. Main electrical lines with the required transformers would be
connected to the existing lines and extended to the pump houses to provide
power to the pumps. A generating set would be installed to serve as a standby
unit in case of power failure. The project would be prov.:ded with all-weather
access roads to connect with the nearest existing road networks. Internal
road network within the project area would also be provided utilizing either
the peripheral dykes or the main canal embankment. These roadways would be
topped with gravel to make them accessible even during the monsoon season.
Cylneln Protection Dvkes
21.   Practically, the entire length of the eastern coastline of India is
affected by cyclones. Since these are unavoidable natural phenomena,
protection against them is the only alternative to minimize the effects on
project facilities. Construction of protection dykes along the periphery of
the site would be the most logical solution to protect the ponds from floods
and tidal surges which are usually associated with the cyclones. The design
of the cyclone protection dykes for each site would depend on the expected
height of the flood water or the tidal surges generated by storms or cyclones
and the wave impact on the side slopes of the dykes. Basically, there would
be two types of cyclone protection dykes depending on the type of armoring or
protection for the sea-ward side slope of the dyke: the grouted boulder
riprap type and the stone or brick pitching type. In sites where data of
tidal surges are not available, the height of the protection dykes are adopted
from the height of the existing saline embankments within the area.
It. Inland Fisherigs
22.   Carp fish culture would be improved in 133 reservoirs and 55 ox-bow
lakes, located in 38 districts in the states of Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Orissa,
Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal as follows.
State       No.  of  Districts        Reservoirs               Oz-bow  Lakes
No.       Areas         No.           Areas
Andhra Pradesh       7               51       15,300          -               -
Bihar                5                -             -        27           2,240
Orissa              11               60       19,570          -               -
Uttar Pradesh       10               22       10,960         11           1,250
West Bengal          5                -             -        17           1,860
Total         38             133        45, 830        55          5, 350



- 49 -
Annex 3
Page 9 of 10
23.   Andhra Pradesh, Orissa and West Bengal are coastal states on the east
coast of India bordering the Bay of Bengal. Together they have a coastline of
over 2,000 kms, a population of 140 million of which around nearly 2 million
are engaged in fishing and fish farming. Bihar and Uttar Pradesh are land
locked states with a population of around 190 million which includes around
1.8 million inland fishermen and fish farmers. Total fish production in 1989
in tha five states is estimated at just over 1.1 million tons with West Bengal
alone accounting to just over half a million tons. Of this total inland
fisheries amounts to around 56%. Government estimate of the reservoirs and
lakes available for development in the five states are estimated to exceed a
million hectares. The project area in respect of the inland fresh water sub-
project covers the Ganges, Krishna and Godavari river basins in the states.
The total area of reservoir and lakes distributed in the five states amount to
an esi:imated 700,000 ha and 360,000 ha respectively, of which 45,830 ha of
reservyoir and 5,350 ha of ox-bow lakes would be included in the proposed
project. Selection of project reservoir and ox-bow lakes would be based on
(i) their size (about 50 ha to 1,000 ha); (ii) their location; (iii) favorable
storagq-discharge ratio; (iv) reasonable accessibility; (v) availability of
land for rearing pond constructions; and (vi) presence of fishing community.
Selected lakes and reservoirs would be in clusters, and the DOF in all
participating states would have the power to control the lease of fishing
rights of all the selected water bodies.
Seltici f gfLakes and Resaervr-
24.   In selecting lakes and reservoirs for inclusion in the project three
major criteria were used. Firstly, there should be permanent water bodies and
with suitable water depths. Water which are too deep would reduce recovery
rates whereas water which is shallow would affect growth. Secondly, these
water bodies should be presently under exploitation and have good potential
for increased productivitv. Lastly, as far as possible lakes and reservoirs
selected shouild be in clusters as this would make provision of support
services and extension advice more manageable.
Oxbow Lake
25.   Oxbow lakes are formed from the pre-existing deeper channels in old
river beds after the river has changed course. The lakes are generally narrow
in width, shallow (less than 10 meters), and, thereby, highly productive and
easily managed. The majority of oxbow lakes in India can be found as Assam,
Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, and West Bengal. They cover an area of about 180,000
ha. Most oxbow lakes are linked by natural channels, during at least the
monsoon, to rivers and other water bodies. Fish caught from these lakes are
replenished during these periods by "auto-stocking", however, of mixed species
including predators and others that frequently have slow growth potential.
The average yield £fom these lakes reported by the GOI is about 160/kg/ha/yr.
With the construction of embankmcnts to prevent overflow during the monsoon,
installation of screens at the inlets and outlets, clearing and control of
floating aquatic vegetation, and proper stocking of suitably-sized and numbers
of advanced (12.5-15 cm) fingerlings, yields exceeding 1,000 kg/ha/yr of fish
without feeding and with a high market value have been achieved in West



- 50 -
Annex 3
Page 10 of 10
Bengal. These yields are achieved without supplementary feeding and where a
majority of the predatory fishes have been controlled through selective
fishing. These lakes are generally managed by fishermen's cooperatives,
formed by fishermen residing in villages adjacent to the lakes. The lakes are
leased by the cooperatives from State Governments. Commonly used fishing gear
includes gill nets and bag nets operated from simple plant boats.
Regervgir* 
26.   The surface area of reservoirs in India was estimated by the National
Commission on Agriculture in 1976 at 1.5 million ha, and they predicted a
doubling in area as a result on continued developed by the year 2000. About 2
million people are currently invoived in reservoir fishery management. Fish
production in reservoirs averages about 15 kg/ha/yr, mostly from natural
stocks. In some reservoirs, fingerling stocking programs have been initiated
with some success. However, the present practice of stocking and harvesting
leaves considerable scope for improvement. The highest yield reported to the
;nission from a reservoir in Andhra Pradesh with an effective water area2 of
140-150 ha after stocking it with 15,000 5 cm fingerlings was about 45 kg/ha.
Fish are mostly caught in reservoirs using gill nets and small plank boats,
coracles, bamboo and log rafts, dugout canoes, and pneumatic tubes. A
majority of the fish caught tend to congregate in shallow water not exceeding
10-m depth along the shore of the reservoirs. As the water level goes down
through use for irrigation, the fish move accordingly. One of the problems
with many perennial reservoirs, since they were primarily constructed for
irrigation purposes, is that the trees were not removed prior to inundation
which impairs fishing activities considerably. Fishermen also frequently use
fine mesh box or seine nets to catch small fish in shallow water along the
shore for local consumption. This activity, when indiscriminantly practiced,
has a negative effect on stocked fingerlings. Moreover, many species of
predatory fish are found among the wild population that become established in
reservoirs.
2 Average annual water area.



- 51 -
Annex 4
Page I of 5
Shipand Fish Culturfe Pro-ject
Brackish Water Shrimps
1.    The technical package for shrimp farming which has been selected for the
project is semi-intensive farming, aiming at a production levels of 2.0 tons
(heads on)/ha/year from two crops. The main specie that would be farmed is
the tiger shrimp, P. monodon, the largest penaeid shrimp, and the species with
the fastest growth. This species is cultured in most of the tropical
countries of South East Asia, at various levels of culture intensity, and
techniques for artificial reproduction have been progressively developed in
the last ten years. Semi-intensive rearing techniques as opposed to extensive
and intensive system have been chosen as the best compromise between
production levels and cost of production and land use. The technical package
proposed is based on similar experiences with semi-intensive shrimp farming in
other countries of the world.
2.    Two crops per year are envisaged in the initial stages of the project.
The duration of each crop would be from 100 to 120 days, depending on the
final size desired and on market prices. A production phasing has been
envisaged taking into account the need for the farmer to acquire experience
with semi-intensive farming practices. The production phasing retained is
1,600 kg/ha/year in the first year of production, 1,800 kg/ha/year in the
second year and 2,000 kg/ha/year from the third year onwards.
3.    The stocking material for the ponds would be 20 days-old L,monodon
postlarvae (PL20), which would be produced in hatcheries. A stocking density
of 50,000 PL20 per ha is envisaged for each of the two crops in the first year
of production. This assumes that survival from PL20 to harvest size would be
50%, a rather conservative estimate, which takes into account the relative
lack of experience of the farmers, if compared with survival rates obtained in
similar conditions elsewhere. The expected final size at harvest would be 30
g/piece. For each of the two production cycles of the second year, a stock
density of 55,000 PL20/ha and a survival rate of 60% are envisaged. Harvest
size would remain at 30 g/piece. The planned stocking density for two cycles
of the third production year would be 65,000 PL20/ha and the expected survival
rate would be 65%. Before stocking in the production ponds, the postlarvae
would be acclimated to the temperature and salinity of the production pond to
avoid severe mortalities due to thermal or osmotic shock.
4.    Organic fertilizers would be utilized at the beginning of the rearing
cycle to enhance the growth of bottom dwelling organisms which would be eaten
by the young shrimp. As an alternative to the use of cow dung, mahua oil cake
could also be applied, if available locally, which would also act as a
piscicide for ponds which could not be dried properly. Additional application
of fertilizers, at monthly intervals, would be given depending on the color
and transparency of the water in the ponds. Inorganic fertilizers provide
nutrients mainly for plankton growth directly enhancing the growth of
phytoplankton and subsequently of zooplankton which preys upon it and, thus,
they contribute to an accelerated formation of planktonic detrital matter
which falling on the pond bottom nourishes all the small benthic organisms



- 52 -
Annex.
living there including shrimp. Usually compound agricultural inorganic
fertilizers are utilized for this purpose.
5.    Together with pond fertilization, water management is an important
activity to ensure the maximum pond productivity. In the case of this
project, the ponds, with a planned average depth of between 1.5 m anl 2 m,
would be deeper than the usual 80 cm of extensive and traditional ponds. The
advantages are: a better thermal inertia of the pond; a higher oxygen reserve
due to the larger volume of water impounded; and, as a consequence of this, a
larger production of detritus. Deeper ponds would in general be
environmentally more stable and their depth could also be adjusted to
different requirements.
6.    To ensure the stability of water quality conditions during the rearing
cycle, water would be exchanged regularly. Semi-intensive shrimp farming
using pumps to regularly exchange water in the ponds have shown encouraging
results. As a general rule, the need for a higher water exchange, increases
towards the end of the rearing cycle as the shrimp grow in the pond and
consume more feed, which adds to the oxygen demand of the ponds.
Concurrently, a higher production of metabolites occurs which would be flushed
out by exchanging water, The daily water exchange regime proposed for this
project would be 0% in the first two weeks of the rearing cycle, when shrimp
are very small and supplementary feeding is nil, to increase to 2% by the end
of the first month of the rearing cycle, 4% by the end of the second month, 5%
by the end of the third month and 6% until harvest in the course of the fourth
month.
7.    To sustain shrimp growth beyond the natural carrying capacity of the
pond, feeds would be used. The expected apparent conversion rate from feed to
output would increase to 2.5:1 and, at full development with 2,000 kg/ha/year.
8.    Two alternatives would be considered for pond harvesting.  The first one
would be partial or sequential harvesting using traps which has the advantage
of selecting the appropriate size and of keeping the shrimp live and clean in
the fixed traps until they are sold thus ensuring the best possible quality.
The second possibility would be batch harvesting, using either cast nets or
seines while draining the ponds.
Inland Fisherieg
9.    The inland fisheries and aquaculture technologies proposed for the
project combine the best experience from India and the region in the
formulation of an integrated production strategy. The fish spawning
techniques would involve the use of spawning facility design originally
developed in China and modified and currently used at many fish hatcheries
throughout India. Fry and fingerling rearing techniques in ponds and pens
would be derived for the most part from the experience in India. Rearing of
fingerlings in cages would bring together techniques employed both in China
and India. Management and improvement of oxbow lakes and reservoirs for
capture fisheries would largely follow the current methods used in India, and
in the case of oxbow lakes from Bangladesh and WB particularly, with some
modification to improve survival rates, stock enhancement, and appropriate
capture rates of suitably-sized fishes.



- 53 -
P.age 3 of 
10.   Spawning techniques for Indo-Major Crop (IMC) and grass carp are well
established in India. A 10% allowance is made for deletion of inferior brood
stock during the spawning season.
The envisaged hatching rate of 60% provides roughly 4 million hatchlings per
cycle. The hatchlings are transferred in monoculture to 0.1 ha nursery ponds
at a stocking density of 400,000 per pond where they are reared for about 2
weeks to 2.3-3 cm size (about 0.2 g each). with a survival rate of
approximately 50%, 200,000 fry would be produced from each pond per batch.
With six cycles in the ten 0.1 ha nursing ponds, 12 million fry would be
produced per hatchery per year. The nursery ponds would be cleaned, manured,
and sterilized over a ten-day period every other cycle due to the relatively
low feed input of about 500 kg/pond/cycle. Liming would be done prior to
every cycles. For added disease prevention, the fry would be dipped in
Potassium Permanganate solution prior to being transferred to the fingerling
rearing ponds.
11.   Standard Fingerling Rearing.  To produce standard (5-cm) fingerling,
half of the hatchery's rearing ponds would be used for each cycle. About 1
month prior to stocking fry, the pond would be fertilized with cattle dung,
mahua oil cake (for the first sycle with bleach powder used for subsequent
cycles), and lime. Fry would then be stocked at the density of 200,000 fry
(about 60 kg) per pond. They would be fed, through the 8-10 week production
cycle, about 600 kg of a 50:50 mixture of mustard oil cake and rice bran mixed
(apparent feed conversion ratio (FCR) = 2.5) as a dough which is sometimes
dried into floating balls of feed that are broadcast over the pond. The pond
is also fertilized with single superphosphate and urea for phytoplankton
enhancement. With a 50% survival rate, approximately 100,000 standard
fingerlings (300 kg) would be produced from each rearing pond at about 3 g
each.
Advanced Fingerlina Rearing
12.   To assure high survival and prevent loss due to predation, it is best to
stock advanced fingerlings in the range of 12.5 to 15 cm (35-40 g) in the open
water bodies (oxbow lakes and reservoirs) proposed for the project. The
advanced fingerling rearing facilities would be used as standard fingerlings
become available from hatcheries. For the project hatcheries which would be
producing standard fingerlings in six cycles over a four-month period, the
start of advanced fingerling rearing would be initiated in a portion of the
proposed facilities at the end of each cycle. To achieve the requirement,
three rearing methods would be employed by the project.
13.   Rearing Ponda  and Pens.  The inputs required for the advanced fingerling
rearing ponds and pens would be nearly the same except for the case of water
pumping which would only be required for ponds. Since the fingerling rearing
period coincides with the monsoon in most states, all or part of the initial
pond filling would be from rainfall. Additional water as required would be
pumped from the adjacent oxbow lake or irrigation channel. Pens to be used in
the reservoirs would be setup prior to the monsoon period with the enclosed
area cleaned and prepared prior to inundation. Ponds would have to be
drained, cleaned, and prepared for the stocking of standard (5-cm)
fingerlings. With proper maintenance, the useful life of the pens is
estimated to be 4/5 years and the ponds at least 20 years.



- 54 -
Annex 4
Paga 4 of 5
14.   Preparation of both ponds and pens would involve the application of
mahua oil cake as a fish toxicant and fertilizer, cattle dung, and lime.
After filling or flooding, fingerlings would be stocked 3-4 weeks later to
allow the toxicity of the mahua oil cake to degrade and the cattle dung as
well as the mahua oil cake to compost and be consumed by micro-organisms which
would subsequently provide feed for the stocked standard fingerlings. The 5-
cm fingerlings would be stocked at the density of 100,000 per ha. The ponds
and pens would also be fertilized through the growing period with single super
phosphate and urea to enhance phytoplankton blooms which are consumed
primarily by the catla. During the rearing period, they would be fed a
combination of mustard oil cake and rice bran. With a survival rate estimated
at about 50%, including losses during transport, roughly 50,000, advanced
fingerlings would be produced per ha per crop each at full development
weighing between 35-40 g. It is estimated that in the first year of operation
50% of the target would be achieved, 75% the next year, and full production
the following year onwards.
15.   Rearing Cage.  Rearing Cages would only be used in reservoirs.
Standard (5-cm) fingerlings would be stocked at a density of about 1,000/m3
(about 3 kg/m3) or a total of 48,000/cage. For cage culture, fish are
frequently fed 6-8 times per day to minimize feed loss. A pellet feed formula
for fingerling rearing was provided by the Central Institute of Freshwater
Aquaculture (CIFA) in Dhauli, Orissa. With a survival rate of 50% and a total
yield per cage of about 24,000 advanced fingerlings weighing 960 kg (20
kg/m3), approximately 2.4 tons of pellet feed would be required per cage.
Advancgd Fingerling Stocking of Oxbow Lakes and Reservoirs
16.   Oxbow  lakes.  The oxbow lakes in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar would be best
stocked at the rate of 2,000 advanced fingerlings per ha per year from one
crop of fingerlings. Since pens and ponds would be used for advanced
fingerling rearing, one ha of pond or pen area would be required per 25 ha of
lake area. Following the fingerling rearing season, the ponds can be used for
a second crop of table fish to increase the benefit from the investment
required to construct the nursery ponds. In West Bengal, where the climate is
more suited to fish growth throughout the year, 4,000 advanced (3.2.5-15 cm)
fingerlings would be stocked per ha of lake from two crops produced from the
same advanced fingerling rearing ponds in rotation. For WB, the same
provision of rearing pen or pond to lake area can thus be employed.
17.   The oxbow lakes should be completely free from floating aquatic plants
prior to their use in the proposed project. Weeds would be cleared as they
appear, to prevent extensive coverage. Floating aquatic plants, such as the
water hyacinth (Eihornia cassipes) have the capacity to rapidly spread over
a lake and must be constantly removed.
18.     srlvir.  For reservoirs, three development models would be employed.
Model A would include reservoirs with an effective water area of less than 100
ha, Model B for those with an area of 100 to 300 ha, and Model C for areas
ranging from 300 ha to about 1300 ha. Model A would involve the annual
stocking of 1,500 advanced (12.5-15 cm) fingerlings per ha, Model B stocked at
1,000/ha, and those in Model C stocked at 500/ha. To achieve this stocking
rate, 1 ha of rearing pond or pen producing one crop of advanced fingerlings



- 55 -
annezxA
Paae 5 Q 
would be required to stock 33 ha of Model A, 50 ha of Model B, and 100 ha of
Model C reservoirs. For reservoirs using cages, the yield from one 48 m3 cage
would fulfill the requirements of 16 ha of Model A, 24 ha of Model B, and 48
ha of Model C reservoirs.
Fish Harvesting in Oxbow Lakeg and Reservoirs
19.   The Fishing technology to be employed in oxbow lakes and reservoirs
would involve the use of small artisanal fishing boats and gill nets. The
average annual catch per boat proposed for the project would be 2.4 t for
reservoirs and 1.2 t for oxbow lakes for the estimated 200 fishing days at an
estimated 4 hours per day.



- 56 -
anngx 
Page 1 of 6
India
ShriMp and Fish Culture Projec
Technical Assistance
1.    Technical assistance at base costs would comprise:
Incremental management cost of CPU,            Es M        AN
SPUs, BFDA, and FFDAs, including
consultancies                                   157.6      6.0
Environmental management, including
mitigatory measures                              24.2      0.9
Training of project management,
extension staff and project beneficiaries        59.0      2.3
Artemia research                                  8.7      0.3
INCREMENTAL MANAGEMENT COSTS
2.    Incremental management costs would be required for the CPU including
CICEF, SPU, BFDAs, and FFDAs. The CPU, in charge of overall project
implementation, would be headed by a Deputy Commimssioner of Fisheries,
assisted by two Assistant Commissioners (for shrimp and inland fisheries), a
Research and Investigation Officer, three senior technical assistants, and a
senior accounting officer. The CPU would be a new entity created for the
project and it would also be responsible for implementing the Artemia pilot
project, supervise the improvements to the Neelakari hatchery (included under
Training) and arrange for imports of fish meal and equipment, for overseas
consultants, and for overseas training and study tours. The CICEF, as the
"Nodal" agency for brackish water engineering works would be responsible for
most engineering aspects of site development of the shrimp component. As
such, they would require additional staff, mainly technical, to cover the 13
sites envisaged in the three participating states. In addition, CICEF would
require technical and other equipment and vehicles. SPUs, since the
completion of the First Inland Fisheries Project have not been very active.
They would be revitalized and expanded to take care of their very expanded
role, particularly, as required under the shrimp component. BFDAs would be
relatively new entities, only recently created for the development of brackish
water shrimp culture. In addition to the provision of technical assistance,
BFDA would be responsible for the operation of the common facilities in each
cluster. Investment cost associated with BFDAs would include the provision of
housing, offices, equipment and vehicles. FFDAs have been in existence since
the first Inland Fisheries Project and cost would be related to their
expansion to serve the reservoirs and ox-bow lakes included under the project.
Investment cost would include equipment and vehicles.
3.    Support Services are incremental to the setting up and running of the
CPUs and BFDAs which are relatively new, and the strengthening of the CICEF,
SPUs and FFDAs whose roles are to be significantly expanded. The majority of
the additional staff would be newly engaged, even though some would have been
previously employed by the government and would therefore be redeployed. In
these instances, their transfers would be a form of promotion and their old



- 57 -
Annex 5
Page 2 of 6
positions would have to be replaced. Semi-intensive shrimp culture is a new
activity to India.
4.    Consultants would be required to provide technical assistance for
hatchery operations, shrimp and aquaculture and the engineering and design of
the site development. Additional consultancy support have been provided to
assist in the transfer and adoption of the semi-intensive shrimp culture
technology, particularly among the weaker beneficiaries.
Brackiahwat2r Shrimps Sub-project
5.    Training is an important component of the project as the Project
involves the introduction of semi-intensive brackishwater shrimp culture in
India. The project envisages the training of Government extension staff,
beneficiaries, NGOs, the private sector and staff of CICEF. The training
programs will be implemented under the auspices of the State Projects Units
(SPUs) and the Central Projects Unit (CPU). The training would be organized
and implemented in a timely manner. Training would be undertaken primarily
during the construction stage of the Project so that once the construction is
completed production may commence. Refresher courses would be held during the
course of pond operation. Details of the staff envisaged for the training, the
time planned, together with the budget have been agreed.
6.    Statg Government.  Government staff included in the training program
would be primarily the extension staff of the Brackishwater Farmers
Development Agency (BFDA). Local training would be provided to fisheries
extension officers at the State Fisheries Colleges, Central Institute for
Brackishwater Aquaculture (CIBA) in Madras, and the Central Institutes of
Fisheries Education, Kakinada. Part of the training would include study tours
to MPEDA hatcheries in the different States (Gopalpur/Orissa;
Vishakapatnam/Andhra Pradesh); and the Neelankari hatchery/ Tamil Nadu
Fisheries Corportation) . Visits would also be organized to various private
commercial farms in each of the project states. The trainees would concentrate
on the production aspects of cultured shrimp production with relation to water
management, feed technology and hatchery aspects. Training would commence in
the first year of the construction period for a period of four weeks. During
the remaining period of the project, refresher courses would be held, for two
week periods. The number of fisheries extension staff being trained would be
30 in West Bengal; 17 in Orissa and 31 in Andhra Pradesh.
7.    BFDA officers, mainly mechanics and mechanical engineers, would be
responsible for the operation and maintenence of the common facilities for the
first five years of the implementation of the project. Training would be
provided in semi-intensive aquaculture management and in the operation and
maintenance of common facilities such as the pumps, roads, canals and drains.
This training would be provided by CICEF in Bangalore and CIBA. Courses
would be held for a 2-3 week period, prior to the production phase of the
project, and then intermittently during the life of the project. The number
of staff provided with the training would include 18 in West Bengal; 12 in
Orissa and 14 in Andhra Pradesh.



- 58 -
Annex 5
Page 3 of 6
8.    Non Governmental Organizations (NGO) would be given a training function.
Suitable NGOs would be identified by the State Governments. NGOs would train
both the fisheries extension officers as well as the beneficiaries in
participatory methodologies and in gender issues. In general, such training
would consist of: (a) methodologies to be followed in the organization of
marginal and assest-less groups into viable production units, and
understanding the concept of group formation and dynamics using case studies;
(b) business aspects of group action and planning from below; (c) aspects
relating to good quality control; and (d) gender sensitization - which
involves the exchange of information on rural women's participation in group
activities, women's roles in ensuring survival in poor households, programs
for making such productive activities viaole through improving access to
crganization, technology, assets, credit and markets. Field vlsits would also
be organized to surrounding villages to discuss project aims with village
people and to discuss the benefits that would be derived. Training would
commence during the construction phase of the project for periods of 3-4 days.
Once the production phase begins, refresher courses would be set up both with
the beneficiaries and the extension staff to emphasize all aspects of group
dynamics, to ensure that all those involved in the cluster benefit from the
Project. The NGOs would draw up suitable training programs and obtain the
concurrence of the SPUs.
9.    NGOs would also be provided with training in brackishwater shrimp
culture to assist them in understanding the technology requirements and in
imparting the required training to the beneficiaries and the fisheries
extension staff. A total of 20 months is designated for NGO training. This
training may be obtained either at the State Fisheries Colleges or at CIBA.
Overseas study tours, primarily to South East Asian countries are envisaged
for the Chief Executive Officer, and Deputy Supritendent of Fisheries of the
BFDAs in all three States and Coastal Engineers in Orissa.
10.   Beneficiarias.  Training would also be provided to the beneficiary
farmers in semi -intensive shrimp culture. Both the small farmers , with
holdings of 0.5 ha and the large entrepreneurs would be provided training in
pond management, stocking, feed requirements and harvesting. The training
would be provided by the BFDAs to the farmers. To ensure the participation of
female beneficiaries it is proposed that about 50% of the trainees would be
women. This training would be provided at different centers within the
states, including training/demonstration farms such as the Alampur farm and
the training center in Jaunput in West Bengal, the Polekuru farm in Andhra
Pradesh , the Central Institute of Fisheries Education /Bay of Bengal project
facilities at Kakinada in Andhra Pradesh. The beneficiaries from Orissa would
utilize the facilities in Andhra Pradesh or West Bengal for training as the
State currently lacks adequate facilities.
11.   Special training activities would be directed towards female
beneficiaries. The BFDAs would continue to train women in net and basket
making. Additionally, NGOs that are involved in women's activities would
provide training to women in self reliance and community action. Curricula
would include management and commercial aspects of shrimp farming, rudimentary
book keeping, making use of market information, leadership development and
savings/thrift oreinted group activities. NGOs would also provide training
to commurity leaders in group dynamics and assisting the disadvantaged to be
more market oriented.
12.   Privat  Sect-or.  As the private sector is expected to be involved in the
operations of hatcheries and feedmills, training programs have also been



- 59-                               Annex-5
Page 4 of 6
designed under the project for the entrepreneurs. Training for the hatchery
operators would incorporate the management aspects and the technological
aspects of hatcheries. The MPEDA hatcheries at Gopalpur, Vishakapatnam and
the Neelankari hatchery run by the Tamil Nadu Fisheries Development
Corporation maybe used for such training activities. As there is limited
number of shrimp feed mills in the country and the technology has not been
perfected, overseas study tours would be organized to send persons (on a cost-
share basis) from the private sector to South East Asian countries.
13. CICEF. CICEF engineers would also be provided for study tours and
training to South East Asian countries, namely Philippines, Thailand, Taiwan
and Indonesia. Training would be in the areas of shrimp pond design and
management of the common facilities. A total of eight months of overseas
training is envisaged. CICEF together with the CPU would determine the
details of the study tours.
B. Inland Fisheries
14.   India has considerable experience in fish culture.  This component is an
extension of the first Bank financed Inland Fisheries Project. Incremental
fisheries extension staff of the Fish Farmers Development Agency (FFDA),
required to implement the Project would be provided training at the state
level Fisheries Colleges. The curricula would mostly consist of the technical
aspects of rearing advanced fingerling, stocking rates, pen and cage
management techniques. The number of staff trained from each of the States
would be about: Andhra Pradesh - 20; Bihar - 10; Orissa -23; Uttar Pradesh
16; and West Bengal - 8.
15.   The project would support the training of 2 beneficiaries from each of
the small and medium size lakes and reservoirs, and four from the larger
bodies. In all, about 480 beneficiaries would be trained. Training would
include the operation and maintenance of the rearing facilities, stocking and
improved fishing practices. In each of the States, the Department of
Fisheries has its own farms and hatcheries where suitable training may be
provided. Field tours would also be organized to well established lakes, in
West Bengal, and reservoirs in Tamil Nadu and Gujarat.
16.    The Project envisages the establishment of hatcheries by the private
sector, these hatchery operators would require training which would be
organized by the Central Institute of Freshwater Aquaculture in Bhubaneswar,
Orissa.
17.    Overseas training would be provided to the chief executive officers of
the FFDAs (three from each State) at institutions in South-East Asia
identified by the Network of Aquaculture in Asia. Study tours for senior
staff would also be organized to countries such as China where aquaculture is
well developed.
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
18.   An Environmental Assessment was carried out by consultants and their
report summarized the positive negative impact of the project on the
environment. As a part of their report, a comprehensive Management and
Monitoring Plan was prepared to reduce or eliminate the potential negative
impacts identified, and financing provided under the Tec.nical Assistance
component of the project for the mitigatory actions required, are as follows:



- 60 -
Annex 5
Page 5 of 6
Actions required - Annex 5, Table 1         Rs  10.0 million
Actions recommended for which the
following have been provided:
West Bengal                                6.6 million
Orissa                                     3.8 million
Andhra Pradesh                             3.8 million
TOTAL (Annex 5, Tables 2 and 3)                 24.2 million
Apart from RS 2.8 million earmarked for an ox-bow lake environmental
monitoring program under the inland fisheries component, the above financing
relates to the shrimp component. The main areas requiring mitigatory actions
relate to: (a) the afforestation and regeneration of mangrove in the Meendwip
site area; (b) the construction of sluice gates at the Biderpur site; (c) the
study by CICEF of the lagoon hydrology at Interu; and (d) the assay for heavy
metals in shrimp tissue from the Meendwip site. In addition, the project
would include funds for: (a) administering the environmental monitoring
programs of the three participating states; and (b) an extension and awareness
program to train prawn seed collectors in conservation techniques to
drastically reduce mortality of coastal organisms.
19.   With the exception of Meendwip Island in West Bengal, none of the sites
have mangrove vegetation in the vicinity of the project. Most of that
island's 3,859 ha, since cattle was removed from it three years back, has
begun regeneration with dwarf mangrove forest now 1.5 to 2.0 m high. The plan
for the island provides for the development of about 2,400 ha with about 970
ha of low land areas designated for tidal fed aquaculture ponds. In light of
the inherent value of mangrove which would provide fuel wood for the fishing
community and its key role in maintaining the health of near shore fisheries,
the project would include a program of mangrove afforestation to compensate
for the forest cover that would be lost to pond and infrastructure development
under the project. The DOF would undertake this program using officers
deputed from the Forestry Department. Also of concern, is that included in
the development plan for Meendwip is 400 ha on the southern tip of the island
allocated to the Haldia Port Authority for civil construction of river
training structures to improve the flow of water in the navigation channels.
With the location of the site being opposite one of the major industrial areas
of West Bengal, including the location of the Indian Oil Company Refinery
which discharges hydrocarbon residues into the estuary, it is feared that the
dredging by the Haldia Port Authority would disturb sediments on the river
bottoms that may contain pollutants from amnay years back. As a mitigating
measure, it would be required that pumping stations included in the site
development be placed on the side of the island bounded by the Kulpi-
Rangefalla channel which only receives minimum water from the Haldia port
area. It would also be important that the shrimp tissue from the Meendwip
farm be monitored for heavy metal and other contaminants on the semi-annual
basis, and mitigatory actions adopted where this could become a problem.
20.   Of concern in Andhra Pradesh is the Interu site, where a 300 ha site
would be developed into a prawn farm located at the upper end of an inland
lagoon. Preliminary calculations show the daily water exchange in the lagoon
would create a residual effluent which would lead to the eutrophication of the
lagoon, eventually resulting in poor pond water quality. The proposed
mitigation action require that as a first step, the CICEF conduct a study of
the hydrology of the lagoon, and if the threat is indeed proven to be serious,
then consideration be given to: (a) the construction of a farm discharge



- 61 -
anng 
Page 6 of 6
canal between the lagoon and the sea, and (b) the construction of wetlands
within the lagoon to act as nutrient sink for excessive organic load. In
Orissa (Biderpur site), it is feared that the construction of fringe bunds may
block irrigation drainage from adjacent agricultural lands. This risk would
be mitigated through the construction of sluice gates to allow the drainage of
agricultural water through the shrimp farm dykes.
21.   The inland fi'heries conmponent is not expected to have a significant
environmental impact. The principal area of possible negative impact relates
to the eutrophication of ox-bow lakes. If not managed properly, the lake can
convert to marsh and solid land. For mitigation, this would involve the
periodic physical removal of sediment from the lakes.



INDIA
SHRIMPS AND nSH CULTUBR PROJECT
Supplementary Table 1: Required Mitigatory Actions
Location             Potential Impact          Mitigation                Cost          Rpta (Pg
__________________                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ref.)
(1)  West Bengal/   (a)  Removal of 972        (a)  Afforestation of    Rs.           3.2.21 (pg.
Heendvip..Isl        hectares of               equivalent area    9,125,000    35)
existing mangrove        of mangrove on
vegetation for            intertidal
pond                     portion of the
colistruction.           island.
(b)   Introduction of    (b)  Induced               Rs.          3.2.2.2 (pg
harvest pressure          regeneration of    350,000       36)
on island                mangrove on 200
mangroves from           hectare portion
project                  of island for
beneficiary              future fuelvood
population that          harvest.
will be moved
onto the island.
Rs.         3.2.2.4 (pg
(c)  Production of       (c)  Shrimp tissue        300,000       37)
shrimp in an area        from the Meendwip
so near to heavy         farm should be
industrial               assayed for heavy
pollution may            metals and other
result in                contaminants on a
bioaccumulat ion         semi-annual
of toxins by             basis.
shrimp and health
threat to                                                                       M I-A
consumers.         _                         _



(2)   Orissa/Biderp  Cc)   Construction of       (c)   Sluice gates          Rs.          4.2.3/
ur                    fringe bunds will          should be            150,000       (pg.53)
block irrigation          constructed to
drainage from             allow drainage of
adjacent                  agricultural
agricultural              water through the
lands.                    shrimp farm
dikes.
(3)   Andhra          (d)   Natural exchange    (d)   Prior to               rs. 90,300   5.2.1.4/(pg
Pradesh/              of seawater                finalization of      (*)           .76)
Interu                between lagoon             farm design,                       plus...
site and open             CICEF should                        supplementa
ocean is                  conduct a study                     ry two
insufficient to           of the lagoon                      pages
maintain lagoon            hydrology to
water quality.             determine actual
dimensions of
problem and
propose
engineering
solutions.
TOTAL        10,015,300
*     The summary cost table presented in the main report for the Interu Lagoon mitigation contains additional
estimates for the most likeiy engineering solution, which is to excavate an auxiliary drainage canal to
connect the lagoon with the open Bay of Bengal.
I" -n



SuppletofaryTable 2: hcbmsne  Enviroenantal Monagsm_t Actios tor W_st Bongsl
Location                Potential I pet                   mitigation                      Cost (Re.)   pti tPs Rof)
(I)   West Bongni       If the World Bank sponsored       An Environmental Monitoring     2,06e,000   3.1 (pg. 18)
project successfully introduces   progrom for the state of West
semI-intensiveashrimp             Bengal should bo implemented.
maricultur to West Bengal,        The program would be oriented
thre may bo long-rango            towards coastal mariculturo
degradationof coastal mangrove   and would provide objectivo
estuary, noarshoro fishories and   assessmentsof the long-range
inland water quality (from pond    environmentl e-ffects of
effluent).                        promoting somi-intensive
shrimp mariculture.
Cultivation of shrimp in near
agricultural or urban areas may
couso further probloms with blo-
___________ __   sccumulationof toxins.
(2)   West Beongl      Oxbow lakoe exist naturally in    An oxbow Iake environmentol      2,860,000  1.2.2 (pg. 5)
an accelerated state of           monitoring program should be                3.1.2 (pg. 23)
eutrophication. If not            implem-nted that will optimizo              3.1.5.3 (pg.29)
carefully monitored, additional    managementof these lakes and
oanagemont inputs such as those   prevent catastrophic lovs as
proposed by tho Fisheries         sources of fish and freshwater
project mmy hasten the dec;ino    for lakeshore human
of Isko water quality and         populations.
__________fisheries.                                                                     _______
(3)   West Bengal      Successful promotion of somi-      An extension and awareness      1,800,000   3.2.1 (pg. 31)
intens;iv shrimp cultivation      program should be sponsored to
will increase pressure on wild    train prawn seed fishermen in
seed fishery, in turn             conservation techniques to
threatening other species whose   drastieally reduced mortality
young form part of incidental     of by catch.
harvest of wild seed (by-catch)                                      0
TOTAL         6 ,600 ,000
*Also includes Bihar and Uttar Pradesh.
m fD
N) Xl



SvpplomentaryTable 3: ReecommdWedEnvirenmentallonageent Actions for Ori sea
Location            Potentil Impact                        Mitigation                     Cost (Rpm)  Rpt/(PS Rol.)
(1)   Orissa        If the World Bank sponsored project   An Environmental Monitoring    2,000,000   4.1 (pg 41-46)
successfu Ily introduces semi-        program for the state of
intensive shrimp mariculture to       Orissa should be implemented.
Oriass, there may be long-range       The program would be oriented
degradationof coastal mangrove        towards coastal mariculture
estuary, riarshore fisheries and      and would provide obj-ctive
inland water quolity (from pond       assessmentsof the long-rangs
effluent).                            *nvironmentalIffects of
promoting semi-intenzive
shrimp maricultur._-_
(2)   Orissa        Successful promotion of semi-         An extension and awareness      1,800,000   5.2.1 (pg 70-72)
;ntensive shrip cultivation will      program should be sponsored
increase pressure on wild seed        to train prawn seed fishermen
fishery, in turn threatening other    in consorvation techniques to
species whose young form part of      drastically reduced mort lity
incidental harvest of wild sed (by-  of by catch.
catch).
(3) Andhra Pradesh  If the World Bank sponsored project   An Environmental Monitori ng    2,000,000   S.1 (pg 59-89)                1
succossfully introducos semi-         program for the state of                                                  co
intensive shrimp mariculture to       Andhra Pradesh should be                                                  a
Andhrs Pradesh, there may be long-    implementod. The program
range degradation of coastal          would be oriented towards
mangrove estuary, n arshore           coastal maricultureand would
fitsheries and inland water quality    provide objectiv- assesments
(from pond offluent).                 of the long-range
environmental effects of
promoting semi-intensive
|_________________                                         shrimp  mariculture.
(4) Andhra Pradesh  Successful promotion of somi-         An extension and awareness      1,800,000   6.2.1 (pg 70-72)
intensive shrimp cultivation in       program should be sponsored
Andhra Pradesh will increase          to train prawn seed fishermen
pressure an wiId seed fishery, ir     in conservation techniques to
turn threatening other species whose  drastically reduced mortal ity
young form part of incidental         of by catch.
wharvet of wild seed (by-catch).      _ 
TOTAL          7,600,000                               m x
w tn



- 66 -
Page 1 of 6
Tnd;ia
ShriMp and Fish Culture Prnia=~
The shrimp and Fish Market
Brackish5gater Shrimp
1.    The major impetus to marine fisheries development in India has come from
the export potential of shrimps. Since 1950 when the first consignment of
Indian shrimps was exported to the United States, the Indian fisheries sector
has remained export oriented and shrimp dominated. The total exports from the
fisheries sector - marine, inland and culture accounted for 135,847 tons in
1990/91. Total foreign exchange earnings from the export of these products
was Rs 8,905 million. Shrimp has an average constituted nearly 60% of total
marine exports in terms of volume and nearly 80% in terms of value (Table 1).
2.    India has been the largest producer of capture shrimps with a total
global share of nearly 10%, landings were between 175,000-200,000 tons during
the period 1973-1987. Until 1987 India was the world's largest shrimp
producing and exporting country. However, with the increase, at about 36% per
annium, in cultured shrimps from South East Asian countries, (primarily
Indonesia, Thailand and China) India is now placed fourth. India's marine
shrimps resources are believed to be fully exploited.
World Market
3.    World shrimp production in 1989 was estimated at 2.45 million metric
tons. The five major shrimp producing countries accounted for a total of 54%
of the production. China is the world's largest producer 502,120 followed by
Thailand, 227,200 metric tons, India with over 222,800, Indonesia 200,400
metric tons and the USA 161,610 metric tons. China contributed to over 45% of
the world market production of cultured shrimps in 1989, followed by Indonesia
(105,000 metric tons), Thailand (150,000 metric tons), Ecuador (70,000 metric
tons) and Taiwan (50,000 metric tons). India's culture production is around
30,000 metric tons and its capture production is around eight times more than
the production from culture.  Total world exports, in the major shrimp
producing countries increased between 1977-1986 by 8.4 per cent annually in
volume and 13.5 per cent in value. World production of farmed shrimp
increased 12 percent in 1990 to a record 633,000 tonnes, with China producing
150,000 tonnes, Indonesia - 120,000 tons, Thailand - 110,000 tonnes and
Ecuador producing 73,000 tonnes.
4.    The major importers of shrimp are Japan, USA and the European countries.
In 1990 Japan imported nearly 283,000 tons primarily from Indonesia (20%),
China(15%) ,Thailand (14.8%) and India (13%). Imports to the USA in 1990 were
nearly 227,000 metric tons with China (25%) being the largest supplier
followed by Ecuador (17%) and Thailand (11%). Of the total, the contribution
by India was only 7%. Imports of fresh, chilled and frozen shrimp (the
principal categories of processed shrimps) during the period 1980-1987
increased by 87% in value and 134% in volume. The share of the USA market and
the Japan market has declined from 74% in 1980 to 69% in 1987. The USA



- 67 -
Page 2 of 6
market is moving towards peeled prawns compared to shell-on increasing the
value added for the exporting countries. A new development is the increasing
imports by European countries of salt water prawns compared to traditional
freshwater prawns that were more dominant in theix markets. India has been
the major exporter to the countries in Europe - UK, France and Spain.
5.     Shrimp is generally considered a high valued commodity and has been
affordable only to people in the higher income groups. From 1970-1985 about
40% (and rising to 50% in 1988), of world production of shrimps was consumed
in Japan and the USA. Europe on the other hand has only been consuming about
12% of world supplies. In addition, over the past two decades currencies of
the major market countries have generally grown stronger in relation to those
of the producing countries in the develcoing world. Consequently shrimp
prices in many of the developing countries increased sharply in local
currencies while real prices in the importing developed countries remained
stable or declined during the same period. This shift has meant that on
average shrimp consumption per capita in the developing countries has declined
while average per capita consumption in the developed nations has increased.
In the period 1970 to 1988, shrimp consumption in Japan and the USA grew by an
average annual rate of 6.5 % and 3.75% respectively. The high growth in these
countries are due to economic growth and the decline in real shrimtp prices
over the past 10 years. Currency re-evaluations in the European countries
and Japan have affected the real price of shrimps in these countries.
Measuring shrimp prices is not all that easy as the data on shrimap species is
not specific enough to clearly identify the exact species, sizes a.id product
types. However the general trend in shrimp prices can be assessed. The unit
value of world wide imports of fresh, chilled and frozen shrimp increased from
$ 4.68 in 1977 to $6.83 in 1986 in nominal dollar terms. This is an average
annual increase of about 4.3% per annum. Average prices on the whole were
increasing at a rate of 5.5 percent. This shows that shrimp prices were
declining at a rate of 1.1 percent in real terms.
Indian Marl=
6.    India is dependent to a large extent on the world market for sale of its
shrimp produce. The Marine Products Export Development Authority (MPEDA) has
registered over 217 processing plants with a capacity of 2,125 ton/day
together with 293 cold storage units with a capacity of 38,463 tons throughout
the country. There is presently an excess capacity of shrimp processing
plants with a resulting large amount of underutilization of capacity in these
plants. There are two main reasons for the over capacity: (a) export
industries receive a number of subsidies and no serious efforts are made to
monitor and ensure that these industries are involved in the shrimp industry;
(b) processors are attracted by the benefits of being foreign exchange
earnersl; and (c) many of the plants were installed in the early eighties when
India was the world's largest exporter of shrimps and growing.
1 Many of these industries are not fully involved in the export of shrimps. As they
earn foreign exchange and obtain import licenses they are free to import a variety of
commodities without any enforcement of the regulations. Shrimp export industries were
found to be involved in television assembling and computers fo_ example.



- 68 -
- 68 -                    ~~~~~Annex 6
Page 3 of 6
7.     In 1989-90, shrimp accounted for 52 per cent of seafood export by
volume and 72 per cent by value. Most of the shrimp (97%) from India is
exported frozen in 2 kilo blocks, chiefly in headless shell-on, peeled forms,
in peeled de-veined and undeveined forms. The species more commonly exported
has been the P. Monodon and the P. Indicus. The P. Indicus, white prawns in
the past year has been obtaining prices in the Japanese market that are more
than the black tiger prawns (Table 2). Hence, production in the Project
States may have to diversify into other prawn varieties depending on price and
market conditions, which would not affect its financial and economic
viability.
8.     Japan has consistently been India's major buyer, since 1981, however,
the volume has been declining. Japan's share in exports from India has
declined from 75% in 1980 to 63% in 1987. The reasons for this decline have
been due to Indian exporters diversifying their market and exporting to Europe
and the Japanese have also been increasing their imports of shrimp from
Taiwan, China, Indonesia, Thailand and the Philippines. The USA has been the
second leading market for Indian shrimp importing nearly 23 per cent of total
export volume in 1987. The United Kingdom is in the third place with 8
percent. Diversification of the market has also entailed the processors to
develop more value added products such as individually quick frozen (IQF)
shrimps.
9.    In terms of the value of exports, Japan accounted for 74 percent as
compared to 63 percent in volume. For the USA and UK, the value terms were
15% and 6%. This shows that the higher value shrimp has been exported to
Japan and the peeled smaller sizes has been exported to the US and UK market.
India's share in the world market in 1980 was 11.9 percent by quantity and 9.8
percent by value. By 1986 it had dropped to 7.4 per cent by volume and 7.1
percent by value. Indian exports mostly command a higher share of the world
market by volume rather than value, reflecting the lower price that Indian
shrimps receive in the world market. The lower price is due to a number of
factors: (a) India's distant location from the major export markets; (b)
market perception that Indian shrimps are of lower quality than those that are
exported from other countries due to poor handling. Indian tiger shrimps
imported into Japan, for example have been priced lower than that received for
Taiwanese and Philippine shrimps. As most of future shrimp export will be
coming from cultured shrimps and high quality is easier to maintain, the
farmers and the processors should continue to monitor the quality so that
India may compete in the world markets which is becoming more and more quality
conscious and price competitive.
DoMestiC Market
10.   Domestic consumption for shrimps in India has grown from about 68,700
tons in 1967 to 113,800 tons in 1987. This is an average growth of 2.6
percent. On a per capita basis, average annual shrimp consumption has
remained relatively low (less than 150 grams) throughout the past two decades.
This is partly due to the fact at a large number of Indians are vegetarians
and more importantly, due to the high price of shrimp in relation to the
purchasing power of a large majority of the population. However, there is a
growing middle class in India. In addition, the domestic market is not
consistently supplied and frequently receives only second rate shrimps (?ara
15). Hence, with a reasonable decline in price and consistent supply and



- 69 -
Page 4 of 6
imported quality, the domestic market is expected to grow. For example, in
Calcutta which is the largest fish consuming center in India, the demand for
fish products is estimated at 180,000 tons/yr and present supply is around
70,000 tons. There is tremendous potential to increase supply to the domestic
market and hence reduce the independence of India's processors on the world
market completely.
Markets for the Output from the Project States
11.   In West Bengal, the present area under shrimp culture is about 33,000
hectares. The yields are low and average between 300-900 kgs/ha. The export
volume from West Bengal is about 7,000 tons. The present land area under
cultlire in Andhra Pradesh is about 3,300 ha. Yields are similar to that of
West Bengal and export volume is estimated at 4,000 tons. In Orissa, total
area under pond culture is approximately 5,000 ha and production averages
around 3500 tons.
12.   The marketing procedures from the shrimp farms to the processing plants
are uniform within the three States. The shrimps are taken to collection
points by shrimp farmers at the village and bought by commission agents or
"aratdars" who are also agents of exporters/processors at the village level.
The agents once they buy the shrimp apply ice and the produce is sent to the
main cities where the processors are situated2.  The farmgate price of shrimps
vary from RS 80/kg-Rsl8O/kg depending on the size and quality. To prevent
rapid deterioration, headless shrimps are bought. The processors pay the
suppliers once the quality and size of the shrimps are determined. The
marketing costs for the suppliers is approximately Rs2/kg. The agents are
given a fee of Rsl/kg. The processing costs average Rs25/kg and for IQF
products it is estimated at Rs4O/kg.
13.   The Export Inspection Agency, a Government body is responsible for
quality control ,f the produce that is exported.  The prawns rejected by the
processors for export are sent to the local retail market for domestic
consumption.
ELSirg Outlook
14.   The longterm future outlook for shrimp demand is uncertain but in the
short and medium the market should remain stable. Today, demand for shrimp is
no longer limited by supply; it is supply reaching out for demand. In the
long run, it is anticipated that demand for shrimps will grow at 2.5% p.a.,
leased on anticipated growth in world population, per capita income and
changing food habits. Markets will diverge into areas such as the newly
emerging industrialized markets in Asia and potential increased demand in
Europe.3
2 The shrimps are not always iced at tho pond side and often the shrimps are left to
deteriorate in the sun for up to 3 hours. This is a serious aspect of quality control
that requires training for the farmers.
3 Review of world markets for fish and fishery products from selected Asian-Pacific
Countries, INFOFISII 1991.



- 70 -                              A
Page 5 of 6
15.   There has been a tremendous increase in production of cultured shrimps
from countries practicing intensive and semi-intensive methods of cultivation
such as Thailand, China, Indonesia and the Philippines. The breakthrough in
technology - breeding of post larvae in captivity (hatcheries) and improved
feed have been the primary forces. On the economic front the acceptance of
Japanese and American consumers to tropical shrimps has also been a factor.
The year round supply of tropical shrimp species alleviates the cost of
maintaining cold storage facilities.
16.   Demand for shrimp products in the traditional markets such as Japan and
the USA stabilized and increased supply from China and SouthEast Asian nations
have resulted in a downturn in the price for shrimp. However, the decline in
world markets is mitigated by the fact that the domestic market in the
developing countries have not been fully exploited. Additionally, new markets
may be diversified in Europe by the introduction of different product mixes.
17.   The major risks feared by producers involved in intensive methods of
cultivation include disease and pollution problems. This requires stringent
management techniques. Additionally, supply in the future could also be
limited by higher land, feed costs and sufficient supply of postlarvae
shrimps, which are the essential inputs to viable shrimp industry and will
ultimately establish the cost of production.
18.   In the case of India, intensive culture is only being undertaken by
large private sector holdings. The Project supports semi-intensive farming to
ensure profitability for the shrimp. This has been demonstrated in the recent
price slump in 1989 where farmers in Thailand, China and Taiwan (practicing
intensive shrimp culture) were worse off than their counterparts in
Indonesia, Vietnam, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka. Additionally, Indian processors
are diversifying their product for high valued added products which obtain a
higher price (25% more) and breaking into the new European markets. However,
in the future, the Indian processors should concentrate efforts on better
quality and bigger size shrimps. At present, only 5% of India's shrimp
exports comprise large size, i.e. 8/15 per kilo. Improved handling would
reduce the perception in the Japanese and US markets that the quality of
Indian shrimps are of a lesser quality to Southeast Asian shrimps. In
addition, the potential for increasing local demand is tremendous with some
price adjustment and improved quality and consistency in supply.
Inland Fig eries
19.   Freshwater fisheries is produced primarily for the domestic market.
Inland fish contributes to about one third of total fish production and 57% of
total domestic fresh fish supply. There is a wide gap between demand and
supply of fish in the domestic market and it is expected to widen by year
2000. The National Commission on Agriculture estimated that the deficit is in
the order of 1 million tonnes and by year 2000 demand is expected to reach 5.3
million based on population projections and urbanization trends. Freshwater
fish from ox-bowlakes and reservoirs are predominantly the carp variety -
rohu, hilsa, catla, and mirigal. Seventy eight percent of the fish produced
in ponds is consumed by the rural population whereas 30% of the reservoir
production and 60% of river fish are consumed in the rural areas. About 54%
of the fish is consumed close to source and 25% within 100 kms from the
source. Ave .age per capita consumption is estimated at 3.5 kgs per annum.



- 71 -
Annex 6
Page 6 of 6
20.   The local markets serve as assembly centers for fish produce and are
known as transit and terminal markets. The important fish markets in the
country are Bangalore (terminal), Bombay (terminal), Calcutta
(terminal/transit), Lucknav (terminal), Madras (terminal/transit), and
Vijayawada (terminal/transit). When the outflows as a percentage of inflows
is less than half of the market arrivals, such markets are known as terminal
markets. Sale of inland fish involves a wide range of marketing channels.
There are six principal types of market intermediaries - commission
agents, wholesalers, wholesalers cum commission agents, wholesalers cum
retailers and vendors. In Andhra Pradesh there are cooperative societies that
are involved in the marketing of the fish to retail outlets. Commission
agents extend term loan to their suppliers to ensure supplies on credit to
retailers end vendors. Wholesalers mostly have contract with the cooperative
societies. There are 145 retail markets in the country and 12
wholesale/retail markets.
21.   Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Orissa and Uttar Pradesh are surplus in
freshwater fish. The surplus is often marketed to Assam and West Bengal.
West Bengal is the largest fish coiisuming state and per capita consumption is
around 15 kgs/year, which is 3 to 4 times higher than States such as Bihar and
Uttar Pradesh. The preference is also for freshwater fish in West Bengal
rather than marine fish. The prices for Indian major carps in Calcutta are
as high as Rs40-50/kg but on average the prices are around Rs3O-40/kg. Farm
gate pric3s are around Rs 20/kg.



- 72 -
Annex6
Table1
Export of Marine Products from India
Total Marine               Total Shriap
Year     OualQt Valu                 Quantity    Value
('000 mt)    (Rs M)        ('000 mt)    (Rs M)
1980-81          75.6       2,348            47.8       1,834
1981-82          70.1       2,868            54.7       2,491
1982-83          78.2       3,614            54.8       3,015
1983-84          92.7       3,730            53.7       3,106
1984-85          86.2       3,843            55.4       3,297
1985-86          83.7       3,980            50.4       3,298
1986-87          85.9       4,607            49.2       3,779
1987-88          97.2       5,312            55.7       4,258
1988-89          99.8       5,979            56.8       4,703
1989-90         110.8       6,350            57.8       4,624
Source:  Marine Products Export Development Authority, India



- 73 -
Annax 6
TablW
International Prices for Indian Shrimp
(CIF Japan)
(Count 26/30 - US$/kg)
Black Tiger                  White
1990 July                9.6                     9.8
August             10.3                    10.7
September           8.4                       9
October            10.7                    11.5
November           10.6                    12.5
December            9.0                    10.8
1991 January             8.8                    10.5
February            9.2                   10.75
March               9.5                    11.5
April               8.0                    10.2
May                 9.0                    10.4
June                8.6                    10.5
July                7.4                    9.65
Source:  Infofish Trade News



-74 -                               Annex 7
India
SaxriMp and Fish-Culture Projiect
Supervision Outline
The Association
1.          The IDA start-up mission would agree the format required for
project accounts and reports. In addition, it would agree the Terms of
Reference for the selection and role required of the "monitoring unit" to be
engaged under the umbrella of the CPU (para. 3, below).
2.    Because of the technical aspects associated with the introduction of
semi-intensive shrimp culture, both the Association and the Borrower would
need to ensure that Project implementation is adequately monitored in all
respects, including the training of extension staff and project beneficiaries.
IDA supervision missions should always include an aquaculturist, with an
engineer included in all the earlier missions. The skill requirements
expected for the first 3 years are summarized in Table 1 attached. This would
then be reformulated to better target the areas considered to require more
attention.
3.    As agreed at negotiations, the Borrower would engage under the umbrella
of the CPU, a management-oriented organization for each of the participating
states under the shrimp component. The selected organization would monitor
state project imnplementation (about one week per month in the first three
years of the project), and report quarterly to the CPU with a copy of their
report to the states concerned and to the Association. They would also assist
to identify and resolve project implementation "bottle-necks", where
identified.
4.    The CPU has undertaken to introduce a strong supervision and monitoring
program in Bihar and UP for the Inland Fisheries component, which states have
relatively very small participation in the Project. This would allow IDA
missions to concentrate more on the other three States with the shrimp
components.
5.    Progress and financial reporting have been discussed in para 2.18 of the
SAR. Half yearly reports will be submitted by the SPUe and consolidated by
the CPU. A mid-term review of the Project will be carried out by the CPU,
SPU, and IDA. Attached are also Tables 2A and 2B reflecting the proposed
implementation schedule for the Project; and Table 4 reflects the
organizational chart of the project at the Central, State and Production
levels.
6.    Monitorable indications are summarized in Table 3.



- 75 -                              Annex27
Table 1
IDA    EV
arorxsi*re Dlate,        ActivEty           Expected Skill          Staff Input
(Yr/Semegter)                               Requirements            (Staff-weeks)
92I/93I            Supervision Mission      Procurement                     8
(Start-up)               Disbursement
Finance/MIS Specialist
Training Specialist
Environment
Sociologist/WID
93II               Supervision Mission      Aquaculture                     5
Sociologist/WID
Engineer
Economist
941                Supervision Mission      Engineer                        6
Sociologist/WID
Management Specialist
Aquaculture
941I               Supervision Mission      Engineer                        6
Aquaculture
Environment
Sociologist/WID
951                Supervision Mission      Engineer                        9
Economist
Aquaculture
9511               Supervision Mission      Engineer                        4
Sociologist/WID
Aquaculture



- 76 -
INDIA                                             Annex 7
SHRIMP AND FISII CULTURE PROJECT                                   Table 2.A
Jnplementallon Schedule
Bracklshwater Shrimps Sub-project
YEAR I        YEAR 2       YEAR 3        YEAR 4         YEAR S        YEAR 6        YEAR 7
A. ANDRA PRADESH FARM SITES
1. Bhairavapalem                          _ 
. Inten                                                      -
3. P.T. Palem                                                                                                                  -
4. Ipuru
B. ORISSA FARM SITES
1. Bideipur
2. Narendrapur                                               _i
aM                             .~-
3. Jagaljore & Banpada
-~~~~~~
C. WEST BENCAL FARM SITES                                               I
1. Dadanpatra                                                       V               _                                -       - a
2  Digha_
3. Meendwip                                                                  ...
4. Canning
5. Digiurpar
Support Services
Hatchesies
lee Plants
Feeodmills
IQP Plants
Technica Assistance                                                               lt nlill         11m
Consultansm lTlalllI
LEGEND:                       Survey and Design Approval
Tender Period, Tender Evaluation, approval and Camplaion of Contrac Agroemntu
Construction
Operation
Constuction and Operation
[fJJfl] Tochnical Assistance including Training and EnviromnenL



- 77 -
INDIA                                        Annex  7
SHRIMP AND FISH CULTURE PROJECT                               Table  2. B
Irnplementatlon Schedule
Inland Fish Sub-project
YFAR I       YEAR Z       YEAR 3        YEAR 4        YEAR5        YFAR 6        YEAR 7
A. ANDHRA PRADESH
Hatcheries and Roads
Engincaxing_  _
Construction .7X0000253,§3
Ice Plants (5 ton/day)
P.nginecTing_ 
Constrction                                                        K<0R 3 
Reservoir Development
Renovation of Approawh Road
Cages
Pen Enclorurcs
B. BIHAR
Ox.bow Lake Developmnent
Engineaing
Rcnovation of Approach Road
Sluice  Gates                            ------------------------
Protction Dykesf
Rearing Ponds
Pen Enclosures
Hatcheries *nd Roads
Engineering
Construction
C. ORISSA
Reservoir Develolpment
Engincering
Renovation of Approach Road
Rering Ponds
Pen Enclosures
Ice Plant (5 ton/day)
Engineering
Construction
D. UTTAR PRADESH
Rescrvoir Develolpment
Renovation of Approach Road
Cages
Ox.bow Lake Developnent
Engincering
Renovation of Approach Road
Sluice Gates
Protection Dykes
Pen Enclosures
Hatcheries and Roads
Engineering
Constuction                                                                  _                             l      |
let Plant (5 ton/day)
Engineering
Construction
E. WEST BENGAL
Ox.bow Lake Development
Engincering
Renovation of Apprach Road
Sluice Gaes
Protection Dykes
Rearing Ponds
Technical Assistance                  _                              I
_ Site selects planning. detailed designs, costs estinates,
tendering, tcier evaluation and conpletion of contract agreements.
Reservoir, Lake development and constuction.
[jJJJfl Technical Assistance inludingTraining and EnvitsnnenL



- 78 -
Annex 1
Table 3
ShriMp and F'igh Culture Project
monitorablg indicat~
A.  .hrirp  Moyponent
Net Water Area Deve]eled                                 2Target AI&a
Andhra Pradesh                                       1,393
Orissa                                                 871
West Bengal                                          154i
Total                                                3k8L10
Selections of Beneficiaries
Total                                                5,000
Percentage women - participation                         30%
Female head of families                                  10%
B. Inland Fisheries
Physical Development
Target
Reservoirs    Ox-how Lake
Andhra Pradesh                                  51               -
Bihar                                            -              27
Orissa                                          60               -
Uttar Pradesh                                   22              11
West Bengal
13               55
Ox-bow lakes deweeded                                               1,000 ha
Cooperatives with Revised by-laws
Total                                                  188
Percentage women - participation                        30%
Female head of families                                 10%
C. Others
1.    Annual comparison of Implementation Schedule Tables 2A and 2B.
2.    Project report to be formulated to reflect detailed physical
implementation and cost tables provided to the states (See
implementation files for copy).



- 79 -                                               Annex 7
INDIA: Shrimp and Fish Culture    Project                                                   Fig9ure 1
Schematic Organizational Chart
Govemment
Of India
CENTRAL
Mln ttiry        r         c
LEVEL                                                                        H    ( .        C
Flsharles     |        Contra[ Pro)
Diviin 1                Unit (CPU)
N_____,______._----    -............... ___-_______   -_  ._____ ............... . .......  ............................._. .___ ...___.... __________.___.___
STATE                               FisheIs                Stat Ministry            ±61         3
LEVEL                                Olvislon               of Agriculture
(SPU)
|  BFDAs          § [ 
aracklshwater          Inland Fisheries
i  Shrlmp Ponds           Reservoir/Oxbow L  |
PRODUCTION
LEVEL
IOF                  Htheries                    Shrimp          I  I       e11                   Hthri                       Fish         1
Units                                     E.       Feed           I I                                                 Earrinl  Feed |
L......-.............
e. .  ......... . .................... . ........................ .  ...... . .



-80-
Annex
India
Shrimp and Fish Culture Project
Schedule of DisbUrsements
IDA         Disbursement   Cumulative            % of
Fiscal Year    US$ Million   Disbursement    Total Credit
FY 92 II a/              8.5             8.5                10
FY 93 I a/               3.0            11.5                14
II                2.2            13.7                16
FY 94 I                  5.0            18.7                22
II                7.0            25.7                30
FY 95 I                  7.0           32.7                 38
II                9.0            41.7                49
FY 96 I                  9.5           51.2                 60
II                9.7            60.9                71
FY 97 I                  5.6            66.5                78
II                5.6            72.1                84
FY 98 I                  5.6           77.7                 91
II                5.6            83.3                98
FY 99 I                  1.7           85.0                 99
II                0.4            85.4               100
a/  Includes part of the retroactive financing (US$2.5 m each year)
and special accounts (US$4 M).



- 81 -
Anne
India
Shrimp and Fish Culture Proiect
Documents Available in Project Files
1.    Brackishwater and InAland Fisheries Project; Preparation Report; FAO/CP.
June 1991.
2.    Environmental Assessmant of the World Bank Supported Inland Fisheries
and Brackishwater Aquaculture Project (1991)
3.    Asia Wide Shrimp Agro-Industry Sub-Sector Study (June 1989)
4.    Socio-Economic Aspects of Brackishwater and Inland Fisheries, Six
Selected Sites (January 1991)
5.    India Fisheries Sector Study (March 1989)
6.    Domestic Market Research
7.    Detailed Cost by Components.



IBRD 23344
HIMA'ES  L               II 1 OX-BOW LAKES                                       0
1.^  , t   1 250 ha                  PThe Wo'ltd `eeVe toP erolorely
)eC  H  I N  A          d ;, eocluroyforwh the
-ntrno   r oe  mtTeWrd  -ok
Greep The  -eont;n   sd   3r
and  the  bourndotx e   shown
Sb;, -op do not mph, on the
port at A.e Wend8Ba. Group.
cry jdger-nt  on . tb .1go
SioM, o  tlK riM   o n
Bhopa     MAHY    PRAL  :>W> C     
PRAD SH                       27 OX-BOW LAKES            HUAN
PAHRADESH3i°Cla, 
d }Kanpur °f
Bhpa    AN DH RA PRDS             ,-SRMIN IH   UTR    RJC
P~~~~~5 REEVOR    [7]DES    J            RESERVOIR DEVELOPMENT AREAS
S;               / 51~~~~6 RESERVOIRS
iS t  15300 ha  FS  OX-BOW LAKE DEVELOPMOENT AREAS
g~~~~~ ® (   NATIONAL CAPITAL
ffi    0    100  200    0  OTH-IERCITIES
MH AS                  KILOMETERS         STATE AND UNION TERRITORY BOUNDARIES
Bangaolore               Q' J  O/Madras      nct  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
T HyderabaL N199U
ANDHRA        SHRIMP AND  FISH  CULTURE PR~~OJCTOET19



IBRD 23345
HIMACHAL            8                                                           90'
PRADESHT' mp ..opbo,  p'op-qsi~
Toh 1W0 cMwn;ence osf   odro"Is
bar                                                         rp. c  deH,,: Ifos,s* '-,,-d
t52r veigarh       ,>~~~                                      ond Iho boserdoros lon3
*! .     -~pdntrnp0sPly C
pt ol Th,o Wtd 6 on Go.
_ ~~~VtX  g            \t.=-R<b                      on~~~~~~~~~~~y iudr-in on she knot
DHi
DealhX                   ">t                        '"as                           ff
|             \            ~~~~~~N E P A   <  r  ,f,,{,a     k
UTTAR PRADSH                                                  ' BHUTAN
Lucknow                                    X ,.
z                      0~~~ 
X        /        )      Kanpur
V) f             'f                                L>oPatna
i    3   J + J S    t            4        ~~~~~~~~~~~121 Ih' A R   j 
5 SITES
1Net Water Area - 1546 ha            $
WEST 
o                                                              BENGAL  C '
Bhopal     MADFHYA PRADESH                                      I, Calcutta
3 SITES
Net Water Aiea - 871 ho.
MAHARASH7RA                                 ORISSA
5 SITES                                          °Cultack
2? Net Walte Area - 1393 ha.                                                          20' -
0Hydmrabod                                        INDIA
SHRIMP AND FISH CULTURE PROJECT
NP R A D H  S                              SHRIMP CULTURE AREAS
)   BRACKISH WATER DEVELOPMENT AREA
E   Total Net Water Area - 3810 ha.
z                                              (4) 5  0*NATIONAL CAPITAL
t  ti     0    100  200    0  OTHER CITIES
% ,\: KILOMETERS  t X STATE AND UNION TERRi TORY BOUNDARIES
Bangaloro      0- J          Madras           r    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
(/ TlIL NADU
OCTOBER 1991



