Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22314
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-23290)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 66.9 MILLION (US$85.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
INDIA
FOR THE SHRIMP AND FISH CULTURE PROJECT
June 21, 2001
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 29, 2001)
Currency Unit = Indian Rupee
Rs.1 = US$ 0.0213
US$ 1 = Rs.46.96
FISCAL YEAR
April 1- March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BFDA         Brackish Farmers Development Agency
CICEF         Central Institute of Coastal Engineering for Fisheries
CICFRI        Central Inland Capture Fisheries Research Institute
CPU           Central Project Unit
DOF           Department of Fisheries
FFDA          Fish Farmer Development Agency
GOI           Government of India
ha            Hectare
IQF           Individual Quick Freezing Units
SPU           State Project Unit
SFD           State Fisheries Department
WSD           White Spot Disease
Vice President:    Mieko Nishiinizu
Country Manager/Director:    Edwin R. Lim
Sector Manager/Director:    Ridwan Ali
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Harideep Singh



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
SHRIMP AND FISH CULTURE PROJECT
(Credit No.2329-IN)
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                        1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 10
6. Sustainability                                                                     I 1
7. Bank and Borrower Performnance                                                     13
8. Lessons Leamed                                                                     15
9. Partner Comments                                                                   16
10. Additional Information                                                            16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  27
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  31
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  33
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     34
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 35
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                                   36
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                                 44
Annex 10. Borrower Evaluation of the Project (unedited)                               49
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
SHRIMP AND FISH CULTURE PROJECT
(Credit No.2329-IN)
Preface
This is the Intensive Learning Implementation Completion Report (ILI) for the Shrimp & Fish
Culture Project in India, for which Credit 2329-IN in the amount of SDR 62.9 million (US$85.0 million
equivalent) was approved on January 14, 1992, and made effective on May 28, 1992. SDR 35.9 million
(57% of the Credit) was canceled in February 1997 following the Mid-Term Review. The Credit closed on
December 31, 2000, eighteen months later than planned at appraisal. The final disbursement was made in
May 2001. Disbursement totaled to SDR 19.3 million (31% of the Credit), and SDR 7.7 million is to be
canceled.
Disbursement was suspended from January 24, 1997 due to: (a) the project guidelines relating to
selection of beneficiaries not being implemented satisfactorily by some states (inclusion of specific sections
of the local population, women, and carrying out the process with the involvement of the NGOs for greater
transparency); (b) no action on implementation of Environmental Management Plan; (c) inadequate staffing
for managerial functions at the Central Project Unit; (d) the technical consultants' contract requiring an
extension; (e) the need for clear Terms of Reference, and a detailed action plan, for the involvement of the
NGOs; and (f) the need for a detailed shrimp site operational plan for sites due for commissioning. These
actions could be completed by Government of India and the participating states in early 1998, and the
suspension was lifted, after 15 months, on 31 st March 1998.
The ICR has been prepared jointly by Harideep Singh (SASRD) and Mick Nightingale
(FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program). It is based on field trips in December 1999 (initial ICR mission,
during which the Government of India requested an extension of the closing date following the Orissa
super-cyclone in October 1999 which had damaged some of the project shrimp sites), and December 2000.
Stakeholder workshops were held in Bihar for the inland fisheries component and in West Bengal for the
shrimp component. The results of the two workshops are attached as Annex 9 to the ICR. Since a
comprehensive monitoring and evaluation assignment was getting concluded in early 2000, which was
covered all project-assisted waterbodies, and included a detailed participatory rural appraisal focused on
beneficiaries from the three fish states, a separate beneficiary survey was not carried out for the purposes
of the ICR.
The ICR has been peer-reviewed by Syed Husain (EASRD) and Maria Isabel Junqueira Braga
(LCSEN). The Borrower contributed to the ICR by preparing an Evaluation Report of the Project which is
attached as Annex 10. The November 15-December 2, 1999 (initial ICR mission) Aide Memoire, the
December 4-18, 2000 ICR Mission Aide Memoire, and the detailed Financial and Economic Analysis for
the ICR are available in the project files.






Project ID: P009921                                      Project Name: SHRIP & FISH CULTUR
Team Leader: Harideep Singh                              TL Unit: SASRD
ICR Type: Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR          Report Date: June 21, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: SHRIMP & FISH CULTUR                          L/C/TF Number: IDA-23290
Country/Department: INDIA                                              Region: South Asia Regional
Office
Sector/subsector: AF - Fisheries & Aquaculture
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  11/27/89                               Effective: 05/01/92           05/28/92
Appraisal:  06/20/91                                 MTR: 12/01/95             01/25/96
Approval:  01/14/92                               Closing: 06/30/99            12/31/2000
Borrower/lImplementing Agency:  Government of India/Ministry of Agriculture and State Govenmments of Andhra
Pradesh; Government of India/Bihar; Government of India/Orissa; Government of
India/Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal
Other Partners:  None
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:      M. Nishimizu                             A. Karaosmanoglu
Country Manager:     Edwin Lim                                H. Vergin
Sector Manager:      Ridwan Ali                               J. Wijnand
Team Leader at ICR:   H. Singh                                G. Russell
ICR Primary Author:   Harideep Singh (Bank Task
Leader); M. Nightingale
(FAO/CP)
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                       U
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The main objective of the project was to contribute to poverty alleviation through increased shrimp and inland fish
production and associated employment creation in those sectors. The project objective was clearly stated,



important for socio-economic development and central to the priorities of Government of India (GOI) and World
Bank, as defined in the current joint Country Assistance Strategy (CAS; Report 17241-IN, 12/19/97). This
objective was realistic and achievable at appraisal, and was maintained throughout project implementation.
Actions required to achieve this objective were complex due to a number of factors such as their geographical
spread out over five states, a large number of components (covering site development, establishment of support
services, working capital loans to shrimp pond beneficiaries and fish cooperatives, investment loans to support
service entrepreneurs, environmental management, training and technical assistance and project management), and
participation from a range of institutions (shrimp beneficiaries, fish cooperatives, private sector entrepreneurs,
participating banks, international and domestic technical and management consultants, separate extension agencies
for shrimp and fish components, central project unit, and five state project units). At appraisal, the technological
intensity of the proposed package was not demanding, either for the shrimp or the inland fish component. However,
the social engineering prerequisites of making the heterogeneous groups of poor beneficiaries and affluent
entrepreneurs work together as cohesive and responsible shrimp production groups, and making the huge shrimp
farms function on a commercial basis with almost non-existent management capacity either with the beneficiary
groups, implementing agencies, or the newly created government shrimp extension agency, put the achievement of
the shrimp component objectives at risk.
In hindsight, given the complexity and the riskiness associated with the shrimp component, the per hectare site
development cost of US$11,000, the private participation in the industry, and the managerial and technical demands
it places on the government agencies, the shrimp component was not appropriate for government development
effort. Future developments should be left to the private sector.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Project objectives remained unchanged throughout the implementation period, although there was a significant
reduction in the size of the shrimp component following mid-term review.
3.3 Original Components:
Project actions were focused on tapping the potential of generally underutilized inter-tidal resources for shrimp
production and expanding fish production from inland water bodies. Actions were targeted at the below poverty
line rural population in the states of Bihar, West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, Orissa and Uttar Pradesh. Provision
was made to include a limited number of rural entrepreneurs, both for shrimp production and the development of
support services. Investments were the highest in shrimp culture (80% of the project base cost), followed by project
management (12%), and inland fish component (8%). The project had four main components:
* piloting semi-intensive shrimp culture on 13 farms covering 3,810 hectares - involving site development,
and providing initial working capital loans to beneficiaries (0.5 hectare ponds) for seed, feed and other
expenses for shrimp culture through cooperative banks; entrepreneurs with 1.0 hectare ponds were required
to make their own working capital arrangement;
*   intensifying fish production in oxbow lakes and reservoirs on 188 sites covering 51,180 hectares - involving
infrastructure development and deweeding of oxbow lakes, and providing initial working capital loans to
cooperatives for boats and nets, and stocking of the waterbodies through cooperative banks;
* establishing support services for shrimp and fish production in the private sector - hatcheries, ice and
individual quick freezing plants, and feed manufacture - by providing investment loans through cooperative
banks; entrepreneurs were required to make their own working capital arrangement to operate these
facilities; and
*   supporting a Central Project Unit (CPU) and five State Project Units (SPU) and strengthening of fisheries
institutions. This component also included measures to ensure environmental protection, socio-economic
studies, and monitoring of achievements.
- 2 -



The project design was well related to the achievement of the development objectives. Shrimp sector was
characterized by low yields resulting from extensive culturing practices, poor infrastructure, lack of adequate and
good quality feed, and low stocking density. The inland fish sector was characterized by poor productivity resulting
from stocking of young fry vulnerable to mortality, weed infestation (in oxbow lakes), and inadequate infrastructure
and working capital for operating expenses. The project design, components, and technical and management
packages were responsive to these constraints in achieving higher productivity in the shrimp and fish sectors.
The project design also incorporated lessons from its three predecessor projects in the fisheries sector which
suffered from delayed site identification for project-assisted hatcheries, lack of bank credit to the poorer
beneficiaries, and no or provision recovery of investment cost from beneficiaries. The project identified sites for
shrimp and fish development, arranged credit to beneficiaries through cooperative banks, and incorporated full cost
recovery of the investment cost (in the form of semi-annual payments for shrimp farms developed by the
government and leased out to the beneficiaries), and repayment of working capital loans. Project risks were
correctly identified, related mainly to the shrimp component, and highlighted the difficulties associated with
implementing a project involving poor beneficiaries and the affluent entrepreneurs, including coordination of
research and extension, and organization and management of the shrimp farms. The design proposed a cluster
approach to shrimp site management, and assumed that the high returns from the shrimp component would get the
beneficiary production groups to function effectively, and provided for technical and management consultants to
assist the implementing agencies in monitoring and management. The key risk associated with the inland fish
component related to the inadequate management of the cooperatives for which an amendment to their bylaws for
improved member participation, and intensive NGO involvement, were proposed.
The preparation and appraisal missions had a financial specialist, and a good assessment of the financial
management system was done. A management consulting firm was retained to streamline the accounting and
financial management systems at the CPU in the Ministry of Agriculture, and SPUs in the five project states. This
was achieved early on during project implementation. No procurement specialist was involved in either of the
missions. An early involvement could have resulted in better packaging and perhaps an improved disbursement
pace.
3.4 Revised Components:
West Bengal opted out of the inland fisheries component at startup due to alternative low-cost funding becoming
available to the state. The scope of the shrimp component was significantly curtailed during restructuring following
the mid-term review. The number of shrimp farm sites were reduced to 6 from 13 (46% of SAR target) and the
area from 3,810 hectares to 777 hectares (20% of SAR target). This was largely due to (a) the identified shrimp
sites proving to be impractical on detailed technical surveys during implementation; (b) private sector developments
overtaking project developments; and (c) the Supreme Court decision in 1996 putting an embargo on new sites for
shrimp development. Support services infrastructure targets were also reduced as follows: shrimp hatcheries from
81 to 18, iceplants from 16 to 7 and feedmills from 5 to 4. This reflected the low demand resulting from a lesser
number of project-assisted shrimp production farms, and the spontaneous capacity buildup in the private sector
outside of the project. As a result of these developments, the restructured project was considerably smaller, with
US$50.0 million of IDA credit of US$85.0 million getting canceled in early 1997.
3.5 Qualitv at Entry:
A key risk identified at design stage related to the organization and management of the shrimp farms. There is no
evidence of a consultation process with the potential beneficiaries to discuss possible options and the nature of their
participation in the management of the shrimp farms. The organization and technical management arrangements
for the shrimp production sites were insufficiently defined, especially in view of the innovative production
arrangements proposed for the beneficiaries, who were from the poorest and least educated part of the community.
- 3 -



Additionally, three key deficiencies were observed. First, for both of the main components, the final site
identification was based on either macro-level surveys (in case of shrimp sites) or on the list provided by the state
governments (for inland fish sites). During project implementation, actual surveys had to be carried out which
delayed startup, and resulted in seven of the 13 shrimp sites getting dropped; and in case of fish, many sites
proposed for development turned out to be potentially low productivity waterbodies. Second, while the project
design suggested involvement of NGOs both in the shrimp and fish components for project awareness, selection of
beneficiaries, production group formation, training, and marketing, no assessment was made about the availability
of credible NGOs in the state or their capability and capacity, and no NGOs were formally contracted for the first
year of the project (at least for the ready-to-implement fish component). This resulted in delayed social
mobilization. Third, the shrimp site design preparation was left to be completed during implementation.
Appointment of the international technical consultants for this purpose was delayed by about 18 months, and
affected startup of project investments. Thus, while the project design was satisfactory, the project readiness for
implementation was weak. Quality at entry is therefore rated as unsatisfactory.
No Quality Assurance Group review of Quality at Entry was carried out.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Project development objectives saw a significant change in terms of scale, particularly for the shrimp component,
following (a) a decimation in shrimp crops worldover by the White Spot Disease (WSD) from 1994 for which no
preventative scientific protocols were available; this disease did not exist at appraisal or in the early years of the
project; and (b) a reduction in the area developed under the project during MTR. A comparison of appraisal and
MTR targets, and actual achievements is provided in Annex 1.
Overall Outcome. The overall development objective of increasing beneficiary incomes, through increased shrimp
and fish production, has been partly achieved based on the reduced MTR shrimp site area (20% of appraisal), and
the lower than expected shrimp yields (35-50%) due to affliction by WSD. However, completion of the project
required 18 months of extension of the original Credit closing date, partly due to delayed startup, and partly due to
suspension in disbursement for about 15 months, at a time when physical site development works were taking off.
Achievement of the development objectives is discussed below.
DO 1: Increased shrimp production and incomes. This DO has been partially achieved compared with appraisal
estimates. Since the start of production in 1998, the project farms were afflicted by white spot disease outbreaks.
The exception was the first crop at the Digha farm. Judging from the results obtained in ponds in Digha that did
not develop the disease, the average production exceeded the appraisal target. This was largely due to: (a)
achieving higher than expected survival rates in the ponds (80% versus 60%); and (b) an output level of 1.34
tons/ha/crop was obtained, which is 34% higher that expected at full development at the time of appraisal. The
ponds were generally stocked at 60,000/ha, which was slightly higher that planned for a first harvest. The feed
conversion rate achieved was also better than planned at 1.35:1. In the absence of WSD, extrapolating these results
to all farms, project developments would have produced between 1,600 and 2,100 tons annually (compared with the
appraisal estimate of 1,600 tons for the 777 hectares developed under the project), with an estimated value ranging
from Rs. 453 million to Rs.693 million. Each beneficiary on average would have earned upwards of Rs.100,000
annually compared to the appraisal estimate of Rs.24,400.
The beneficiary income from the shrimp sites during 2000 has been variable. All sites were afflicted with WSD in
varying intensities. However, with improved management practices and the application of the new WSD
management technologies, most sites were able to obtain a crop harvest ranging between 25-50% of expectation
(about 300kgs per hectare compared with the appraisal estimate of 800kgs). Even with this level of harvest, the
-4 -



aggregate realization from sale of shrimp (due to the high international shrimp price) has permitted a recovery of
the operating cost in most cases, and even earning a modest profit. This was the first year of operation for many
sites, and therefore predicting the outcome purely based on 2000 culture performance would be inappropriate.
Improved management of ponds in the project sites which undertook culture operations in 2000 indicates clearly
that the effects of WSD can be managed. It is anticipated that with fuller application of the new technologies to
manage WSD, the impact of the virus could be reduced within the next five years. Also, if WSD follows a similar
pattern to other viruses, it should eventually become less pathogenic. Even assuming that full-scale production can
be resumed in 2006, during the interim period, the total annual production from project developments would
increase from 540 tons in 2001 in a phased manner as follows: 970 tons/ 1,170 tons/ 1,480 tons/ 1,600 tons. The
minimum beneficiary income during this period would range between Rs.30,000 in the second year to Rs. 100,000
or more in the last year. The ERR for this component is 13% (see sections 4.3 on ERR, 4.4 on Financial Return,
and 6.0 on Sustainability for more details).
DO 2: Increased productivity in. and income from, fisheries' water-bodies. This DO has been achieved. The
inland fishery sites developed are largely successful. Around 72% of adjusted MTR and 99% of the adjusted
appraisal physical target is achieved, with a significant percentage of beneficiaries in the target group. The
CICFRI evaluation reports confirm that there is enough evidence of project contribution to an overall improvement
in the quality of life and financial well-being of project beneficiaries. This is further reinforced by the field visits of
the November 1999 ICR mission which concluded that fish catch has increased by up to 250% (up by 200% in
Bihar, 200% in reservoirs and 400% in ox-bow lakes of Uttar Pradesh, and several-fold in Orissa and Andhra
Pradesh). The CICFRI report also shows that there has been a marked reduction in migration of the beneficiaries
as agricultural labor with uncertain incomes. The project has benefited non-project water bodies and fisherfolk too
which are beginning to adopt project proposed technology in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. Uttar Pradesh had amended
its leasing policy, Orissa has developed a state-wide reservoir development policy which is based on project
technology, and Andhra Pradesh has already developed another six reservoirs following project approach. The
ERR for this component is 30%. The financial returns too are very attractive (see sections 4.3 on ERR, 4.4 on
Financial Return, and 6.0 on Sustainability for more details).
DO 3: Employment and income for economically weaker sections in the villages. This DO has been achieved. In
the shrimp sites, the selection of beneficiaries (about 1,300) ensures at least 70% from the weaker sections of the
population. The ICR mission endorsed beneficiary selection processes in Orissa and West Bengal as good
(bordering on best) practice. In the inland fisheries component in Bihar, Andhra Pradesh and Orissa, some 15,000
fisher members of the 118 assisted cooperatives are actively engaged in the fishing activity; in many cases, women
members are also involved in the fingerling rearing activity and marketing of catch. Employment generation,
outside of the project, appears to have taken place too, through development of other fish sites in project states
adopting project norms.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Shrimp Culture Component (70% of proiect cost!
A. Commissioned Shrimp Farms. The appraisal program included construction of 13 shrimp farms in West Bengal,
Orissa and Andhra Pradesh, covering a net production area of 3,810 ha. Resulting from inadequate technical
validation of the identified sites at appraisal, seven of the 13 sites were dropped during implementation. Three sites'
were dropped as a response to environmental concerns: Meendwip - because of high mercury content in the water
around the island; Interu - due to unfavorable lagoon hydrology; and Narendrapur - because a portion of the site
was embedded in a national sanctuary. Three sites (CG Palem, PT Palem, and Ipuru) were dropped as a result of
private sector participation in the industry. Bideipur was dropped because of the embargo on the development of
new shrimp sites resulting from the 1996 Supreme Court directive). Following project restructuring, the area of
shrimp farms was reduced to about 777 ha spread over six sites. At project closing, all the six sites were completed
and commissioned. This is about 20% of the appraisal target, and 100% of the target agreed at MTR.
- 5 -



The final design for the shrimp sites were prepared by the technical assistance team, Aquatic Farms Limited and the
Central Institute of Coastal Engineering for Fisheries, during implementation. The team failed to consider the
possibility of tidal-cum-pump models proposed at appraisal, the importance of pond depth and the associated low
water exchange rates (a factor that would help mitigate White Spot Disease), and the cost and unreliability of
power supply. The concept of clusters of ponds, each with an apex organization for guiding management of
operations which underpinned the organizational model proposed for this component, was not properly interpreted
for the engineering design. In general, the shrimp farms appear to be over-designed and costly, and not adequately
responsive to the proposed organization model.
B. Support Services for Shrimp Culture. At appraisal, there were only two medium-size hatcheries (50 million per
year capacity) operating along the east India coast. The project proposed 22 hatcheries and some 59 mini- and
backyard-hatcheries. However, the explosion in private sector development of shrimp culture between 1992 and
1996, the spread of the WSD thereafter which wiped out shrimp crops completely forcing crop holidays and
reducing the demand for shrimp seed, and the delay in project implementation changed the situation radically. The
mid-term review recognized the evolving industry scenario, and proactively reduced the number of hatcheries to 18,
and dropped all mini- and backyard-hatcheries. However, by the time the project proposals for investment in
hatcheries were considered (following site development activities), there was clear over-capacity in shrimp seed
production, and both the Bank and the state governments agreed that only eight of these 18 hatcheries may be
implemented. This is 10% of the appraisal target and 44% of the MTR target. These hatcheries appear to meet the
standards of design and construction, and are properly staffed. The private sector development also rendered
provisions for ice/IQF plants and feedmills redundant. Only two iceplants were established compared with 16
proposed at appraisal (13% of appraisal and 29% of MTR target). No feedmill was established under the project
compared with five proposed at appraisal. The private sector responded to market demand (including the potential
demand from the project-assisted shrimp sites) by creating capacity from their own resources, resulting in abundant
shrimp seed and other inputs supply. The key outcome of this sub-component (adequate supply of good quality
seed and inputs) has been achieved mostly without project funds.
Inland Fisheries Component (9% of project cost)
A. Infrastructure Development and Site Selection. The inland fisheries component planned to support the
development of 188 waterbodies with a total area of 51,180 ha. At MTR, the overall target was expanded to 221
waterbodies covering 64,084 ha, including an adjustment for the dropped sites in West Bengal. A total of 138
reservoirs and oxbow lakes were developed under the project, covering an area of 34,662 ha (68% of appraisal and
54% of MTR target). The shortfall resulted from the combined effects of: (a) insufficient survey and planning
during preparation which resulted in over-estimation of the size of several waterbodies by a total of almost 14,000
ha. Actual surface area of identified water-bodies turned out to be considerably smaller than at appraisal. For
Andhra, even with 48 of the 51 waterbodies being developed, the total area developed is merely 5,345 ha compared
with the appraisal estimate of 15,300 ha; likewise, even with the entire program being implemented in Bihar, the
total area covered was 1,831 ha compared with 2,240 ha at appraisal; (b) resistance to the involvement of NGOs in
selected waterbodies including inadequate compliance with project covenants resulting in a reduction in the Uttar
Pradesh program from 33 waterbodies to 11 only, a reduction of about 7,450 ha; and (c) delays incurred, including
the suspension of the IDA Credit, which negatively affected implementation in some states; particularly in Andhra
Pradesh where the government decided to drop the additional program agreed at MTR (about 6,220 ha). Actual
expected area to be developed, adjusting for the above, would be 37,000 ha, and actual achievement at is 72% of
the adjusted MTR target, and 99% the adjusted appraisal target.
B. Support Services for Fish Culture. The project provisions included investment loans to private entrepreneurs to
establish support services (hatcheries and iceplants). However, as with the shrimp culture component, these types
of investments were being made independently by private entrepreneurs throughout the project period with private
-6 -



financing sources and few loans were requested under the project. Had this sub-component been reviewed as
intensively as the shrimp component during MTR, a reduction in appraisal targets would have ensued. At closing,
the project assisted 11 hatcheries and one iceplant compared with the appraisal target of 20 hatcheries and three
iceplants. There appears to be no shortage of stocking material or other inputs.
Project Management Component (21% of project cost)
Project funds were disbursed for various aspects of project management, including: (a) establishing and fully
equipping the CPU and five SPUs; (b) assuring implementation of an environmental management plan; (c)
recruiting consultants for technical assistance; and (d) organizing a comprehensive training program for staff
employed in the project. These outputs were fully realized: technical and management consultants were in position
during the course of project implementation, and training activities have been quite successful. The environmental
protection actions were successfully realized through recruitment of three independent agencies to monitor and
manage the environmental impacts in both the components.
Environmental Impact
The shrimp component has had no negative environmental impact as yet as most of the shrimp sites have been
recently commissioned. Three of the 13 sites proposed at appraisal and listed specifically for environmental
management actions were found to be unsuitable during implementation, and dropped. Also, the lower-than-planned
developments under the shrimp component has considerably reduced the environmental risks. Although there is a
risk of inadequate management of bioponds and increasing water pollution from effluent, this is not a major hazard
because of the siting of shrimp farms in intertidal zones.
Two specific actions were recommended at appraisal. First, a coastal zone monitoring program was to have been
initiated. This was contracted out to Orissa Remote Sensing Applications Center (Orissa RSAC) which could not
implement it due to apparent lack of capacity. This was replaced with site specific environmental monitoring
programs executed through the Central Institute of Brakishwater Aquaculture and Andhra Pradesh RSAC. While
this programs recorded the site specific environmental impacts, they could not serve to monitor the impact of
shrimp sector development along the coastal zone. Second, an extension and awareness program for wild shrimp
seed collectors was to have been organized. This was not done.
The inland fisheries component shows no adverse environmental impacts. The environmental actions recommended
at appraisal were mostly for the lakes, and included: (a) water quality assessment prior to fertilizing the lake; (b)
improved stocking of the lake to occupy all niches in the lake eco-system; and (c) periodic removal of the sediment
from the lakes. These actions were replaced by an intensive environmental monitoring program for all lakes through
Central Inland Capture Fisheries Research Institute (CICFRI) which proved very useful.
Social Impact
The social impact of project activities has been mixed. Some 1,290 family beneficiaries are involved with the
shrimp component (17% of SAR, and 100% of the MTR target) and 118 cooperatives with fisheries (63% of SAR,
and 98% of the MTR target). Although it is assessed that a majority of primary beneficiaries are from the target
group, there were isolated instances (especially with the inland fisheries development) where the selection was not
transparent and was decided by local power groups, often in favor of richer farmers. Although initially in some
cases, some traditional fishermen were barred from fishing as a result of a restriction imposed during project
implementation on the maximum number of fishermen per hectare, this was rectified. The targets of increasing
numbers of females that were employed and active heads of households under the project were not achieved. In
general, females' involvement is restricted to drying fish, marketing and net manufacture. The project impacts were
favorable in terms of improving the functioning the fish cooperatives with better representation to women in
management committees, cooperative marketing of the harvest, and sharing of the increased in incomes with the
families. (See Annex 8 for more details)
-7 -



4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Overall. At appraisal, the project was expected to yield an overall Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of 30%. By
applying economic prices to present and expected levels of production and total project expenditures, over 25 years,
it is estimated that the overall ERR would be 16%. This is premised on a base-case for shrimp which assumes a
phased improvement in the shrimp yields, achieving the appraisal output target only in 2006. Assuming a 15%
reduction in the phasing of the shrimp harvest (without altering the final expected output in 2006), the project ERR
drops to 15%.
Shrimp Component. The revised ERR for the shrimp component assumes that farmers will continue to develop
management skills for handling WSD, and that the virus will die out progressively over the next five years, enabling
two good crops to be obtained annually only as late as 2006. The expected crop production level per hectare is
assumed to improve from the second year as follows: 345kgs/ 625kgs/ 750kgs/ 920kgs/ 1000kgs over a five year
period compared to the appraisal expectation of 800kgs/ 900kgs/ 1000kgs over a three year period. In this case, the
ERR would be 13% (compared to 31% at appraisal) which is higher than the deemed OCC of 12% for Indian
investment operations. First year average hectare crop production levels with WSD have been as follows: Canning
site: 280kgs; Dighirpar: 218kgs; Dadanpatrabar: 282kgs; Banapada: 255kgs; Bhairavapalem: 234kgs). Indication
from the cultures undertaken in 1999 and 2000 are that these low levels of output are indeed achievable. Should
the phasing of the harvest be reduced by 15% to 300kgs/ 500kgs/ 650kgs/ 800kgs/ 1000kgs over the same period,
the ERR for the shrimp component reduces to 12%. (See sections 4.4 on Financial Return, and 6.0 on
Sustainability for more details.)
The reasons for the low shrimp ERR, compared with appraisal estimate, are as follows: (a) high site development
costs resulting from inadequate site assessment at appraisal and consequent low development cost estimation,
delays in project startup and consequent change in the site topography over time requiring additional work, delays
in completion of the work due to suspension of disbursement by the Bank and the time lost due to remobilization of
the contractor facilities, two cyclones one each in Andhra Pradesh and Orissa which damaged the sites extensively
and required considerable restoration, and a shift in the shrimp production models from tidal-cum-pumpfed to
pumpfed sites only, making the development more capital-intensive; (b) high facility maintenance cost resulting
from the higher than expected site development cost; (c) factoring in a very conservative and phased improvement
in the shrimp yields over the next five years to move towards full-scale crop production in 2006; and (d) high power
bills resulting from the power companies' levying a minimum charge for load connection, requiring the minimum
power bills to be paid even when the pumping facilities are not used.
Inland fisheries component. The economic return from investmnents in fish culture component is 30% compared to
the appraisal estimate of 26%. The reported harvest has been grossed up to account for the catch which goes
under-reported by the cooperatives to avoid paying a higher lease fee to the government. Excluding the impact of
such under-reporting reduces the fish component ERR to 26%. The investment costs for fisheries development are
lower than estimated at appraisal as many associated investments (landing sheds, roads) were not undertaken, and
some investments (deweeding) were carried out by the beneficiaries themselves. (See sections 4.4 on Financial
Retum, and 6.0 on Sustainability for more details.)
4.4 Financial rate of return:
At appraisal, it was estimated that at full development the incremental returns to small-scale shrimp beneficiaries
(with 0.5 hectare pond) would be around Rs 24,400 annually. The performance of the shrimp component has been
seriously affected by WSD, which has decimated production in most parts of India from 1994 onwards. The one
exception was the first crop at Digha farm, where 72% of the ponds were unaffected by the disease and had a
substantial positive net return. Here, shrimp production of 2.0 to 2.6 tons per ha (on an annual basis) was achieved
in the first year itself, significantly higher than the production envisaged at appraisal (1.6 tons per ha in year 1 and
-8 -



reaching 2.0 tons per ha at full production in year 3). Typically, net returns from ponds with positive results were
Rs 63,000 which exceeded the SAR estimate. The long-term potential of this component is clearly demonstrated.
The financial returns for the shrimp sites during 2000 have been variable. All sites were afflicted with WSD in
varying intensities. However, with improved management practices and the application of the new WSD
management technologies, most sites were able to obtain a harvest ranging between 25-50%. Even with this level
of harvest, the aggregate realization from sale of shrimp (due to the high international shrimp price) has permitted a
recovery of the operating cost in most cases, and even earning a modest profit. It is anticipated that with fuller
application of the new technologies to manage WSD, the impact of the virus could be reduced within the next five
years. If project sites could be maintained and reasonable management and control techniques applied against
WSD, then there is a very good chance that full-scale production could be resumed in 2006, with returns exceeding
appraisal expectations. During the interim period, the minimum financial return, based on the assumption of
phased improvement in shrimp yield, would be about Rs.30,000. This is an achievable and sustainable level of
financial return.
There is considerable variation in the incremental returns from fisheries development. The analyses indicate the
incremental returns from expenditures by farmers on fingerlings and other operating costs. Based on the models
(small or large), the range of returns for typical families from oxbow lakes and small and large reservoirs is shown
in Annex 3. For oxbow lakes, the estimates indicate that the best performance was in Uttar Pradesh, where returns
increased from Rs 2,650 to Rs 7,350 per family. Estimates of returns per family from large reservoirs ranged from
Rs 2,250 (Andhra Pradesh) to Rs 12,500 (Uttar Pradesh), and that from small reservoirs between Rs 17,720
(Orissa) to Rs 36,000 (Andhra Pradesh). Predictably, gains from smaller reservoirs are significantly higher than
from large reservoirs.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Project Implementing Agencies. The CPU in MOA was responsible for overall project co-ordination, including
supporting the five SPUs, verifying work programs, budgets, procurement and financing arrangements, managing
the technical assistance and studies, and monitoring project achievements. Most of these responsibilities were met,
and this capacity is now available within the Ministry of Agriculture for management of other complex fishery
projects. Five SPUs were responsible for planning, managing and organizing project developments. The protracted
project implementation obliged the SPUs to adopt a proactive approach to modifying the organization and
management of project activities. In order for the states to ensure continued growth in these sub-sectors,
post-project activities should focus on building further on the capacity now available with the SPU staff by
strengthening planning, training and extension operations (technical and business management) of SFDs.
Associated Organizations. A range of specialist organizations was contracted to provide production analysis and
environmental monitoring services. This included CIBA, CICEF, CICFRI, and the Remote Sensing Application
Center (RSAC) in Andhra Pradesh. Advice on business administration and economic analysis was provided by the
Economic Development Associates. The services provided by these organizations were of reasonable standards,
but initially lacked depth due to limited operating experience, especially for CICEF and CIBA. CICEF has now
developed considerable experience in shrimp site development planning and monitoring following its association
with the intemational technical firm (Aquatic Farms Limited) recruited under the project. This capacity can now be
used effectively by the private sector shrimp operators. CIBA has consistently improved the quality of the
environmental monitoring and recommendatory services. It can now provide expertise for provide formal testing of
breeding stock, and assisting with private hatcheries' operations. CICFRI's involvement in monitoring the inland
fish component has built M&E capacity in environmental, social, technical, marketing, institutional and financial
management aspects. This can be used for M&E of on-going state fisheries programs.
-9-



Institutions directly involved with project implementation were BFDA and the FFDA. The BFDA was designated to
co-ordinate the organization and management of shrimp farms. However, since this agency was created about a
year before the project commenced, it could not provide the range or intensity of support required by the nascent
organizations, and contributed little to mitigating the effects of WSD. The FFDA played a more effective role.
Both these institutions have matured under the project but their role and potential in routine extension services
should be clarified, and their responsibilities relative to SFDs should be reconsidered, to ensure that optimum
technical and business advice is provided to fishermen.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
There were four main factors outside government control:
*   the WSD infection that has decimated the shrimp culture to date;
* spontaneous shrirmp sector development by private entrepreneurs, which drastically influenced the scale of
project operations;
*   two of the three states involved with shrimp production suffered significant cyclone damage. The site in
Andhra Pradesh was completely damaged in 1997; the Orissa cyclone completely damaged the site in
Orissa, with another two in West Bengal suffering some damage. The second cyclone in October 1999
resulted in GOI seeking an extension to the Credit closing Date by 12 months to undertake reconstruction
work on the damaged sites; and
3   major delays caused by appeals to the Supreme Court regarding the concept of semi-intensive shrimp
culture.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Clearly, the one key action taken by the MOA was to initiate appropriate measures to resolve the legal issues
regarding shrimp pond development following the Supreme Court directive in 1996. This resulted in Ministry of
Agriculture preparing the Aquaculture Authority Bill which laid out the guidelines for shrimp culture in India. One
factor which did adversely affect project outputs and outcomes is the inadequate CPU staffing with qualified
personnel during the initial years of project implementation.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Factors that influenced project outcome, and were within the control of the CPU and SPUs, included the following:
*   For both shrimp and fish production, a co-ordinated program for identifying and informing potential
beneficiaries should have been implemented at the start of the project implementation. They should have
been more proactive in ensuring timely recruitment of NGOs and, thus, the objectivity and transparency in
selecting beneficiaries, providing training and involving them in development and operation planning.
*   The fisheries component succeeded because it was based on proven technologies and management systems
and made few demands on CPU or SPUs. However, it would have been more successful had SPUs paid
greater attention to site selection and refining extension messages, especially with regard to business
administration.
*   The production technologies and operation systems necessary for successful shrimp production were
complex and required high levels of skilled management. CPU and SPUs should have ensured that the level
of management support from BFDA and SFDs essential for sustaining this component were actually
provided.
5.4 Costs and financing:
At appraisal, total costs for the project were estimated at US$95.0 million. The financing plan was based on
contributions of US$2.0 million (equivalent) from GOI, US$2.0 million (equivalent) from the combined
governments of the participating states, US$6.0 million (equivalent) from the beneficiaries, and a US$85 million
IDA Credit. Following up on the mid-term review recommendations, GOI requested a cancellation of US$50.0
- 10-



million from the IDA Credit in 1996, leaving US$35.0 million for investment. At the revised Credit closing date
(12/31/00), total costs are US$30.9 million, of which IDA disbursement is US$26.4 million, which is 31% of the
appraisal estimate. Financial provisions by GOI and the state governments were met. Due to decreased numbers of
beneficiaries, the actual contribution by beneficiaries was reduced to 22% of the original estimate. The reduction in
the scale of the project resulted in a significantly reduced level of procurement-related actions.
At appraisal, the total cost of the shrimp component was estimated at US$76.0 million, while actual expenditures at
December 31, 2000 were US$21.5 million, or 39% of the appraisal expectation. However, actual developments
cover only 20% of the original planned area, which implies cost escalation. This was due to (a) price inflation
resulting from start-up delays; (b) over-design of works and underestimation of construction costs; and (c) cyclone
damages in Andhra Pradesh (1996) and Orissa (1999). The total investment in the inland fisheries component was
originally estimated at US$8.0 million, whereas actual expenditures at December 31, 2000 were US$2.8 million, or
41 % of the appraisal expectation. The project developments represent some 43% of the original planned area,
which implies that actual unit costs were somewhat lower than appraisal estimates. This was largely due to a
reduction in the number of landing sheds, approach roads, and dykes which were found to be unnecessary during
detailed implementation site surveys, and due to the deweeding in 20 of the 27 lakes in Bihar being carried out by
the cooperative beneficiaries themselves. Although overall project expenditures were 68% lower than appraisal
estimates, the costs for the CPU and SPUs were higher than appraisal estimates by 170% and 120% respectively.
These high levels of expenditure resulted from continued project management throughout Credit suspension (despite
the fact that project activities were minimal), and the extended implementation period.
Of the Credit of SDR62.9 million, SDR35.9 million (57% of the Credit) was canceled in February 1997, resulting
from the revised project cost and disbursement estimate at mid-term review. Actual disbursement totaled to
SDR19.2 million (31% of the original Credit); undisbursed balance of SDR7.75 million is due to be canceled.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The project results confirm that the inland fisheries component is highly sustainable. The ERR for this component
is 30%, and the financial returns are attractive. The technical package is relatively simple and has been fully
adopted by the cooperatives. The reservoirs pose no significant environmental problems, and in case of some
oxbow lakes, the impacts could be modest. The environmental management report prepared by CICFRI on
development of oxbow lakes provides generic recommendations on the pre-emptive actions to be taken to mitigate
the adverse impacts. The large base of fisher population participating in the cooperatives, the high social equity
implications of fishery development, and the opportunities it provides for women to participate in activities such as
fingerling rearing, fish marketing and net making, make further investments in this component desirable and
eminently sustainable. The state governments have also taken proactive measures to extend the project approach to
other waterbodies: Orissa has developed a State Reservoir Policy which derives its fundamentals from the project
design. Andhra Pradesh has already extended the project approach to cover additional reservoirs. In Bihar and
Uttar Pradesh, many non-project cooperatives have adopted the project approach. The sustainability of the fish
component is rated as highly likely.
The ERR for the shrimp component based on a phased improvement in yields and steady evolution of the WSD
virus to less lethal levels over a five year period, is 13%. Even with WSD affliction, the financial returns can be
positive. This was demonstrated by some project sites, and many private sector operators, who managed to obtain
improved yields in the presence of WSD through better management of culture operations and by adopting the
recommended technical protocols.
- 11 -



Three additional developments provide a strong justification for rating this component as sustainable in the
longer-term. First, research initiatives world over focusing on WSD control over the last two years have produced
very encouraging results. Two outcomes which are implementable with little additional cost focus on strengthening
the resistance of shrimp through immuno-modulators with feed, and conducting regular histo-pathological tests to
assess the intensity of the infection. In addition, protocols relating to technical aspects of culturing such as
chlorination, fertilization, bio-security, and aeration have also been firmed up, which significantly improve the
prospect of obtaining a good shrimp harvest under Indian conditions. Some sites used a combination of these
measures during their culture operations in 2000, and were able to contain and manage the WSD impact with good
results, including prolonging the culture period by an additional 3540 days. These protocols have yielded its
adopters a harvest close to 50% of the expected output, which would have otherwise been a complete wipe-out.
These protocols have been demonstrated to be adoptable and technologically workable in India. Second, a key
outcome of the adoption of the new products and procedures mentioned above (immuno-stimulants, probiotics,
periodic histo-pathological tests to check inclusion bodies, tray feeding, aeration and better control of
stress-inducing factors) is to enhance the tolerance of shrimp to the virus, which considerably reduce its
susceptibility to stress resulting from lapses in site management. In addition, technical consultants are already on
board in Andhra Pradesh and Orissa, and have so far done a commendable job of crop and WSD management.
West Bengal also appears to be technically well-staffed. It would, therefore, to possible to prevent disease
outbreaks as those that have happened in the past. The ability of the farmers to deal with the WSD has also
improved during the 2000 culture. This component is now significantly less vulnerable in terms of its management
demands. Third, high shrimp prices have more than compensated for the low stocking densities and additional
culturing costs. The beneficiary can get a sustainable financial return from a partially successful shrimp crop with
limited affliction by WSD over the next five years, at the levels assumed for the financial and economic rates of
return.
The key risks associated with the sustainability are as follows. First, the organizational structure adopted permit
the site managements to manage the operations on their own but they will require support and guidance over the
next 2-3 crops before they independently manage their operations. The SFDs and the BFDAs which are now
established institutions will need to continue to assist these groups. Second, the environmental impacts of the sites
are modest given the size of the farms and the provision of bio-ponds to treat the effluent before release from the
farms. This will, however, require effective management of the bio-ponds, and monitoring of the key parameters
before release. A third problem - inadequate working capital with some beneficiaries (resulting from earlier losses
from WSD affliction) - has been resolved at this stage by the three shrimp states by using the centrally-sponsored
BFDA strengthening schemes to part-finance the severely WSD-affected shrimp beneficiaries on a grant basis.
Should the next crop get wiped out (which, though remote, is nevertheless a possibility), the beneficiaries could well
be faced with the prospect of abandoning the project in the face of further indebtedness.
Given the limited experience of the project sites with actual shrimp production, it is difficult to conclusively
evaluate the sustainability of the shrimp component at this juncture. However, based on the present indications of
the management of the WSD by the sites during the 2000 culture operations, the technological protocols which have
proved effective on the ground, the ability of the beneficiaries to deal with the WSD, and the high international
shrimp prices, sustainability of this component is rated as "likely".
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Achievements under the fisheries component indicate that there is scope for further expanding the developments,
intensifying productivity, and raising rural incomes. To achieve this, two actions are required: (a) provide
continuous training for fisheries extension officers, giving special emphasis to improving techniques in physical
planning, optimizing fish production, and marketing and business management; and (b) introduce accurate
monitoring of fish yields, in order to strengthen the planning base and to ensure fair rental charges by the state
governments.
- 12 -



Expansion of shrimp production should be resisted until the problems of WSD are resolved. Sector specialists
anticipate that, as knowledge of WSD improves, farmers will learn how to live with the disease. In addition, in its
evolutionary process, the virus is expected to become less lethal, and profitable shrimp culture (with two full
disease-free crops) will become technically feasible again. In the meantime, however, the challenge for Government
is to formulate a clear policy for enabling some production from the ponds. In a technical sense, this would require
building on the adaptive management techniques initiated by the farmers in 2000, ensuring close monitoring and
management of individual shrimp ponds. This regime would need to be accompanied by (a) rescheduling of lease
payments to recover the site development cost over twenty years; (b) introducing strict controls over the selection of
broodstock, disease monitoring, and sale of disease-free shrimp post-larvae by hatcheries; and (c) providing
continued competent management and extension services to enable farmers to minimize the risk of infection.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's overall performance during the lending stage is rated as unsatisfactory. The project design was
responsive to the requirements of the industry, considered the lessons from the earlier three fisheries projects, and
identified correctly the potential risks. A special study was initiated to upgrade the accounting and financial
management aspects for the project, and to make it uniform for reporting across participating states.
There were deficiencies in the preparation/appraisal process for the shrimp component. First, the Bank's missions
accepted the proposed sites without verification and finalizing the details prior to project start-up. As a result, when
implementation started, some of the sites were found to be unsuitable, and dropped. Second, no sociological
surveys to consult the communities on the possible models of farm management, including the management of
common facilities, were carried out. Third, the participation of the BFDAs in selection and training of
beneficiaries, operation and maintenance of common facilities, and to provide technical assistance such as disease
and water quality analyses was finalized without assessing these newly formed institutions for their management
and technical capacity. This placed the success of the shrimp component at considerable risk. Fourth, NGOs was
considered necessary at the state level to facilitate the beneficiary involvement and participatory processes. This
was done without ascertaining the inventory of the NGOs, their capacity to perform the expected role. This
resulted in considerable delays in NGO involvement in the project. Fifth, details regarding site design and
management depended on the recruitment of consultants; however, this was delayed by eighteen months into project
implementation, and project implementation commenced in the absence of specific provisions for completing survey
and design work. The fish component was also inadequately prepared. First, all sites proposed by the state
governments were accepted for inclusion in the project without screening these for their potential. This resulted in
the project assisting the development of low productivity potential waterbodies. Second, as with the shrimp
component, involvement of NGOs was first envisaged at appraisal but no assessment was made either of the
inventory of the existing NGOs or their capacity to contribute to project implementation. As in case of the shrimp
component, the selection of the NGOs went well into the early years of project implementation.
In case of both components, the analysis of project design shows gaps in the work of the various missions. There
appears to be a discontinuity between the identification and first preparation mission, and the other stages of project
design. No engineer, social scientist, or procurement specialist participated in the appraisal mission. To this
extent, the missions' skills-mix fell short of the proposed preparation and appraisal task.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's performance in project supervision is rated as satisfactory. It was deficient in the early years, and
improved in the later years. Seventeen formal review missions were carried in conjunction with government
authorities, the CPU and SPUs. The fact that seven task team leaders (five during the first 4 years) were assigned
- 13-



over the implementation period affected smooth coordination. In addition, directors of the SPUs complained about
the Bank's inflexibility in tackling implementation issues. A key impact of inflexible supervision was that project
developments were seriously affected by a hiatus caused by the suspension of the Credit by the World Bank in
1997. A preponderance of financial analysts, and a lack of shrimp production specialists or civil engineers,
especially during the early missions, was an oversight. Similarly, because of the complexity of the shrimp
component and the formative nature of the beneficiaries, extensive start-up workshops should have been organized.
The fish component was not reviewed through field visits during the first five years of project implementation.
Supervision improved over the years and made up for the initial deficiencies. First, the focus of the review
missions changed from assessment of construction activities to getting the sites ready for implementation to
evaluation of shrimp production operations, including arranging expert advice on negotiating the negative impacts
of the WSD. The problem solving approach of the review missions is commendable. Second, the Bank recognized
the impact of the initial delays, and extended the closing date by six months initially, followed by another 12 months
to restore the shrimp sites damaged by the November 1999 Orissa cyclone. These extensions proved to be
particularly useful in completing and commissioning project investments, and addressing WSD-related aspects.
Third, the Bank exhibited considerable firmness in the early years of the project in dropping sites found
environmentally unsuitable for shrimp production, and later on another site which was found to be a part of a
national sanctuary. Fourth, recognizing the shortcomings of the data available for evaluating the performance of the
fish component, including its environmental impacts, two separate comprehensive studies were initiated to obtain
more reliable data on fish component outcomes, and to develop mitigatory measures to counter the negative
environmental impacts of developing some oxbow lakes. Fifth, detailed reviews of the fish component were carried
out during every mission starting early 1998, which resulted in the initiation of the M&E study, recommendations
on stocking aspects, marketing, financial management, and strategies relating to fingerling production. The last two
missions focused on further expanding and multiplying the benefits through a more comprehensive assessment of
the nature of the waterbodies, their potential, their response to the production management models adopted, and
possible revision to the management strategies.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The deficiencies at appraisal and early supervision were more than overcome through intensive reviews in the latter
half of the project period, including formal project restructuring in mid-1996, followed by a cancellation of US$50
million of the US$85 million credit. The review missions correctly rated the project as a "problem project" over five
years and recognized the devastating effect of the WSD on achievement of project development objectives.
However, due to the need to complete discrete site development investments already initiated, the Bank could not
recommend early closure. On balance, overall Bank performance is rated as satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Represented by MOA (GOI) and the state fisheries departments, Borrower performance at preparation is rated as
unsatisfactory. The Borrower participated actively in developing ideas during project identification, and generating
the information required for project design. However, after the first preparation mission, it appears that their
contribution to project design and validation of the proposed shrimp sites declined. Furthermore, of the six studies
recommended by the identification mission, only three were assessed to have been completed satisfactorily. For the-
fish component, scant attention was paid to the selection of potentially viable sites, validation of the technical
package (which was linked up merely with the size of the reservoirs and the lakes), and to the types of boats and
fishing gear to be provided under the project.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The MOA's performance during implementation, through its secretariat represented by CPU, is rated as
satisfactory. While the basic administrative performance of the CPU was reasonable, it played little active role in
- 14-



project implementation due to inadequate staffing, and this is confirmed by the fact that "project management" was
rated as unsatisfactory by most supervision missions in the early years of the project. Government's failure to
remedy this weakness was one reason for Credit suspension. Establishing a central project monitoring unit was not
a practical proposition in the Gol setup as the CPU has to function within the set procedures of the Government,
especially on the issues concerning financial implications. Also, non-delegation of financial powers to the heads of
CPU also resulted in delayed decisions and financial sanctions. This was the case with SPUs too. However, the
above shortcomings were compensated by MOA's agreement to use the services of a management consultant to
assist in the monitoring and management of the project activities at project startup. It also responded favorably to
the Bank suggestion of employing a shrimp management expert during the later half of the project to prepare
operational plans for the shrimp sites and also to regularly visit the states to review this component during the
operational phase. It piloted the states' request for an extension in the closing date to complete investments, and
also responded well to the Supreme Court directive for an embargo on further development in the shrimp industry
which eventually resulted in the enactment of the Aquaculture Authority Bill regulating the growth of the shrimp
industry. It successfully coordinated the effort of CICEF in the preparation of shrimp site designs with the
participating states, and also initiated the engagement of the foreign expert technical consultants to work with
CICEF for site design and operations. Procurement was executed satisfactorily, mostly through local competitive
bidding procedures. Audit reports on project accounts indicate sound accounting practices both in the SPUs and
CPU. Work programs, budgets and audit reports were prepared on time, and progress reports issued regularly.
7.6 ImiiplementingAgency:
The performance of the implementing agencies is rated as satisfactory. The five SPUs responsible for planning,
managing and organizing project developments were generally well staffed and their planning, budget and reporting
procedures were reasonable. However, their impact in implementing the project was mixed and there was
significant variation in management standards, which was reflected in the relative achievements. Andhra Pradesh
and Orissa showed the strongest commitment. Activities in Bihar for the fish component were inordinately delayed
due to the project management shifting from SFD to the Irrigation Department midway during project
implementation; activities were resumed after the project reverted to the SFD. The SPU spearheaded the
developments expeditiously in the last two years to complete the program. Uttar Pradesh exhibited the weakest
performance by not complying with the development cost recovery covenant and not using NGOs to revitalize the
participating cooperatives. The Uttar Pradesh program was substantially curtailed and eventually became the
smallest program. The performance of the West Bengal SPU with the largest shrimp component was just about
satisfactory. It involved NGOs in beneficiary selection and proactively formed shrimp cooperatives. However, it
resisted the involvement of the technical consultants after the initial failure of the shrimp crops. It also resisted the
employment of local private sector shrimp technical experts which both Orissa and Andhra Pradesh used to their
considerable advantage to mitigate WSD impact.
7. 7 Overall Borrower performance:
Based on the above, the Borrower's overall performance for the project as a whole is rated as satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
There are seven main lessons from this project, in order of importance:
Government agencies should avoid direct involvement in commercial operations. Government should leave
commercial operations to private sector, and be involved only in regulatory aspects, including providing technical
back-stopping and arranging to resolve technical problems which have wider implications for the industry.
Assisting beneficiaries with actual procurement, management, marketing, and operations should not be attempted
by government agencies.
- 15-



Complexity of project design and back-up support must reflect beneficiaries' abilities. The scope of operation,
engineering technicalities and organizational requirements for a project operation must be within the scope of the
target beneficiaries. Similarly, the intensity of involvement of site management must reflect the beneficiaries'
capabilities.
Aquaculture can have a direct and fast impact on poverty reduction. It is vital that aquaculture developments
be guided by appropriate policies and regulations. They must also be backed up by effective institutions that are
capable of addressing the social, technical and environmental problems, such as displacing existing fisherrnrn or
other users of the resource, disease problems, and effluent disposal.
Target beneficiaries and other stakeholders should be identified, informed and involved during the
preparation phases. Potential stakeholders should be fully informed and directly involved in deciding the concept
and overall objectives, design and implementation arrangements for proposed developments. This will help to
ensure that the scope, technical and operational aspects, and organizational requirements are within beneficiaries'
capabilities. Timely provision of training for intended beneficiaries and technical support staff is essential.
Realistic sequencing of project developments is essential. If comprehensive technical and organizational design
cannot be completed before the proposed start-up date, then the first two years of project implementation should be
dedicated to preparing the target beneficiaries, carrying out pilot trials, and completing all engineering and
organizational plans.
Organizations involved with project management and technical back-up must be staffed with qualified and
committed personnel who are capable and willing to ensure timely implementation of agreed activities and speedy
resolution to problems.
There should be continuity and appropriate skills in Bank teams. Task team personnel must have technical
qualifications and experience necessary for ensuring comprehensive planning and supervision and be able to resolve
implementation problems. In order to ensure adequate attention and accessibility by project authorities, particularly
in case of complex operations, the resident mission should be involved more intensely in the Banks review effort.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Borrower comments on the ICR have been received, and these endorse the ICR. These are in addition to their
contribution to the ICR, which is attached unedited as Annex 1O.
(b) Cofinanciers:
There were no co-financiers.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
No comments were received from other partners.
10. Additional Information
See Annex 7.
- 16 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Output indicators - Shrimp Culture
Appraisal         Revised At Mid Term           Actual               Percentage
Indicator                   Estimate                Review             Implementation      Actual Implementation
(ha of n.w.a.) 1/        (ha of n.w.a.)         (ha of w.s.a.)        Relative To SAR
_____________________                                                              ~~ ~~~~~~~~~(M TR)
Net Water Area Developed
Andhra Pradesh
Bhairavapalem                                    105                        47                  47                   45 (100)
P.T. Palem                                       483
Interru                                          210
Ippuru                                           140
C.G. Palem                                       455 _
Sub total AP                                    1393                        47                  47                    3 (100)
West Bengal
Canning                                          210                       132                 132                   63 (100)
Meendweep                                        916
Digha                                             90                        36                  36                   40 (100)
Dighirpar                                        120                        89                  72                    60(81)
Dadanpatra                                       210                       212                 210                   100 (99)
Sub-total WB                                    1546                       469                 450                    29 (96)
Orissa
Jagatjore/Banpada                                293                       277                 280                   96 (101)
Bideipur         2/                              314                       316
Narendrapur   2/                                 264                       272
Sub-total Orissa                                 871                       865                 280                   32 (100)
Total       -   Shrimp   Site                   3810                      1381                 777                 20 (98) 3/
Development
Establishment of Support              Appraisal          Revised At Mid Term           Actual               Percentage
Services for Shrimp Culture            Estimate                Review             Implementation      Actual Implementation
Relative To SAR
(MTR)
Hatchery                                          22                        18                   8                    36 (44)
Mini hatchery                                     11                         0                   0                          0
Backyard nursery                                  48                         0                   0                          0
Total for Hatcheries                              81                        18                    8                    10 (44)
Ice plant lO t                                     3                         0                   0                          0
Ice plant 5 t                                      3                         2                    1                   33 (50)
IQF Plant                                         10                         5                    1                   10 (20)
Total for ice/IQF plants                          16                         7                   2                    13 (29)
Feed Mill                                          5                         4                   0                          0
-17 -



I/ n.w.a. net water area includes pond area plus reservoirs and water distribution network.
2/ Based on the fact that both sites were recommended to be dropped at MTR, but the Borrower proposed these for
reconsideTation. These sites were eventually dropped.
3/ This percentage is based on expected area of 793 hectares after adjusting for the two Orissa sites proposed for dropping
at MTR.
- 18-



Output Indicators - Fish Culture
Appraisal       Revised At Mid Term         Actual Implementation                  Percentage Actual Relative to
Indicator           Estimate              Review                                                         Appraisal Estimate (MTR)
Development of Reservoirs
Andhra Pradesh
Numbers                          51                       83                             48                          94 (58)
Hectares                     15,300                   21,520                          5,345                           35 (25)
even with 94% of the selected reservoirs, only 35% of the
area was achieved due to inaccurate appraisal estimate
Orissa
Numbers                          60                        79                            52                           87 (66)
Hectares                     19,570                   28,364                         22,976                          117 (81)
Uttar Pradesh
Numbers                          22                        22                             6                           27 (27)
16 reservoirs dropped due to non-compliance with
covenants
Hlectares                    10,960                    10,960                         4,030                           37 (37)
Total Reservoirs
Numbers                         133                       184                           106                           80 (58)
achievement almost 100% when adjusted for Andhra
Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh numbers as above
Hectares                     45,830                   60,844                         33,122                           71 (53)
achievement almost 100% when adjusted forAndhra
Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh area as above
Development of Ox-bow Lakes 1/
West Bengal
Numbers                          1 7                        0                             0    0 (the entire component was dropped by state govemment
_                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~following availability of cheap funding)-
Hectares                      1,860                        0                              0                              0
Bihar
Numbers                          27                        27                            27                          100 (100)
Hectares                      2,240                     2,240                         1,831                           82 (82)
even with 100% of the reservoirs, only 82% of the area
was achieved due to inaccurate appraisal estimate
Uttar Pradesh
Numbers                          II                        10                             5                           45 (50)
numbers reduced due to selected lakes being dropped for
non-compliance with covenants
Hectar-es                     1,250                     1,000                           480                           38 (48)
area reduced due to selected lakes being dropped for
non-compliance with covenants
Totals Ox-Bow Lakes
Numbers                          55                        37                            32                           58 (86)
achievement 1 00% when adjusted for Bihar, Uttar
Pradesh, and West Bengal numbers as above
Hectares                      5,350                     3,240                         2,311                           43 (71)
achievement 100% when adjusted for Bihar and Uttar
Pradesh, and West Bengal area as above
Establishment of Support Services for
Fish Culture
Hatcheries                       20                       20                             11                             55
Ice Plants 5 t                    3                         3                              I                            33
- 1 9 -



Support for
fishermen
a. Boats (numbers)            3430                      3430                       3809 2/                             11L
b. Nets (tons)                  81                        81                           17.5                             22
1! including de-weeding.
2/ including only simple floats in some cases.
- 20 -



Outcome/Impact Indicators - Shrimp Culture
Indicator                 Projected in SAR               Actual                Percentage
Relative to SAR
Annual income per family (Rs.) per         24,400           WITHOUT WSD:                   About 260%
0.5 hectare pond                                            Average: 63,000 1/
WITH WSD:
Average 2000:  6,000 2/        About 25%
Expected 2001: 20,000 3/       About 83%
Expected 2002: 40,000 3/       About 167%
Shrimp Output                      3,810 hectares @ 800     777 hectares (  @ 800       (a) 20% compared
kgs/hectare/crop for Year  kgs/hectare/crop for Year I    with appraisal
I = 3,048 tons (without    = 622 tons (without WSD);    estimate (with
WSD); and about 1,143    and about 240 tons (with    WSD); and 100%
tons (with WSD) 4/       WSD) 4/                     of MTR estimate
(with WSD)
(b) 8% of appraisal
estimate (assuming
original area and
no WSD)
Number of beneficiaries 5/                 7,612                      1,290                    17%
Percentage women participation             2,284                       80                      4%
Female head of families                     10%                    Less than 1%               10%
i/ Based on the outcome of the first Digha site shrimp crop.
2/ Based on the performance of the crops in Year 2000 using the mitigatory protocol to some extent.
3/ Based on a very conservative and phased improvement in shrimp yields.
4/ This is based on the recent WSD crop affliction scenario
5/ Assuming one family per pond of 0.5 ha.
Outcome/Impact Indicators - Inland Fisheries
Indicator              Projected in SAR                 Actual               Percentage relative
to SAR
Annual Incremental Income per      Not specified      RESERVOIR-Large:                      NA
family (Rs.)                                          1,100-10,500; Small:
(around one hectare)                                  4,000-26,500
LAKES-
Small: 900-4,700
Number of Co-operatives                 188                        118                      63%
Percentage women participation         30%                         17%                     57%
Female head of families                10%                         3%                      28%
- 21 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 2 (a)
A. Shrimp Component (Rs.'000)
Project Component              Appraisal           Revised         Cost Incurred      Percentage   Percentage
Estimates          Allocation/      (Dec. 2000)       of            of revised
Estimates                          appraisal     allocation
West Bengal
Digha                                51975                 43846             44530            86           102
Canning                             120969                113498            132969           110           117
Dighirpar                            58694                102142            102142           174           100
Dadanpatra                          131253                185846            185846           142           100
Other sites                         303579                   520               570             0           110
Sub-total for sites               666470                445852            466057            69           105
Support services & working          245734                177212             86102            35            49
capital
BFDA strenghtening                   27750                  2500              5000            18           200
Training                             26891                  5623              2432             9            43
NGO                                                         1430              1430                         100
Sub-total for other heads         300375                 186765             94964            32            51
Total for West Bengal             966846                632617            561021            58            89
Orissa
Bideipur                            177975                241528              1670             1
Narendapur                          134295                   485               612             0           126
Jagatjore/Banapada                  147813                225452            285757           193           127
Sub-total for sites               459983                 467465            288039            63            62
Support services & working          132225                105560             11021             8            10
capital
BFDA strengthening                   16963                  5507              9390            55           171
Training                             14847                  5576               902             6            16
NGO                                                         1000               131                          13
Freshwater prawn culture                                   54656                 0                           0
Sub-total for other heads          164035                172299             21444            13            12
Total for Orissa                  624118                639764            309483            50            48
Andhra Pradesh
Bhairavapalem                       51,851                 35550             35726            69           100
Other sites                         531246                     0                 0             0
Sub-total for sites               583097                 35550             35726             6           100
Support services & working          186594                 35300             17286             9            49
capital
BFDA strenghtening                   24568                     0                 0             0
Training                             13592                   760               598             4            79
NGO                                                          600               517                          86
Sub-total for other heads         224754                 36660             18401             8            50
Total for Andhra Pradesh            807849                 72210             54127             7            75
TOTAL FOR SHRIMP                  2398814                1344591I           924631            39            69
- 22 -



B. Inland Fisheries Component (Rs'000)
Project Component                  Appraisal            Revised       Cost Incurred            Percentage
Allocation/        Allocation/       (Dec 00)                   of
Estimates          Estimates                                Appraisal
Andhra Pradesh
Lake Devpt                                       0               0                 0
Reservoirs                                   5859              938               164                3
Support Services                            36198            14227              8658               24
Hatcheries                                11985            6400                  0               0
Iceplants                                  1756             933                979               56
Support to fishermen                       6910            1308               7679               III
Rearing facilities                         8047            3457                  0               0
Ponds, pens, cages                         7500            2129                  0               0
FFDA strengthening                          13240            9673               2072               16
Equipmt, vehicles                          2489             442                  1/              0
Salaries                                   6620            5560                 I/               0
Other operational costs                    4131            3671               2072               50
Training                                      802              802                14                2
NGOs                                                                              50
Total for Andhra Pradesh                   56099           25640             10957                19
Bihar
Lake Devpt                                  24611           27086              10119               41
Reservoirs                                       0               0
Support Services                            18642           30236               2921                16
Hatcheries                                 2905               0                                  0
Iceplants                                     0               0
Support to fishermen                       3477            7250                                  0
Rearing facilities                         3476            3476                                  0
Ponds, pens, cages                         8784           19510                                  0
FFDA strengthening                           7671             5991              5400               70
Equipmt, vehicles                          1704            1504               4018
Salaries                                   3236            2066   (included above)
Other operational costs                    2731            2421               1382               51
Training                                      350              350                 9                3
NGOs
Total for Bihar                           51274            63663             18449                36
Orissa
Lake Devpt                                      0                0                 0
Reservoirs                                   6223             3222             32412               521
Support Services                            41201            19206             10996               27
Hatcheries                                    0               0                 0
Iceplants                                  1756            1756                 0                0
Support to fishermen                     12933            10269                 0                0
Rearing facilities                        9812             4314                 0                0
Ponds, pens, cages                       16700             2867                 0                0
FFDA strengthening                          15997             8984             16111               101
- 23 -



Equipmt, vehicles                         3297            1871   (included above)              0
Salaries                                  7025           5969   (included above)               0
Other operational costs                   5675            1144             2762               49
Training                                     992             725               812               82
NGOs                                              I               1           1360
Total for Orissa                         64413           32137             61691               96
1/ Incremental cost on maintenance charges and salaries are included in the Operational Costs
Uttar Pradesh
Lake Devpt                                 15605              15028           6744              43
Reservoirs                                  3279               2211            373               11
Support Services                           31904              23215           4109               13
Hatcheries                               8714               3272
Iceplants                                1756               1242
Support to fishermen                     7856              3878
Rearing facilities                       7980               2803
Ponds, pens, cages                      5598               12020
FFDA strengthening                         13225               5201          11064              84
Equipmt, vehicles                        2898               1395
Salaries                                 5333               3030
Other operational costs                  4994                776            691               14
Training                                     665                310             90               14
NGOs
Total for Uttar Pradesh                  64678              36425          23071               36
West Bengal                                                                                   ._
Lake Devpt                                 19907                  0            568               3
Reservoirs                                     0                  0              0
Support Services                           18810                  0              0               0
Hatcheries                                  0                  0
Iceplants                                   0                  0
Support to fishermen                     5445                  0
Rearing facilities                       2787                  0
Ponds, pens, cages                      10579                  0
FFDA strengthening                          6746                  0              0               0
Equipmt, vehicles                        1471                  0
Salaries                                 2795                  0
Other operational costs                  2480                  0
Training                                       0                  0             37
NGOs
Total for West Bengal                    45464                  0            605                1
TOTAL   FOR   INLAND                      281928             157865         114774               41
FISH
- 24 -



C. Project Management (Rs'000)
Project Component                 Appraisal             Revised           Cost        Percentage of Appraisal
Allocation/         Allocation        Incurred
Estimates           /Estimates      (Dec.2000)
Andhra Pradesh                             17330              17329          26331                        152
Bihar                                       4409               5760           7046                        160
Orissa                                     12799              13622          34234                        267
Uttar Pradesh                               4409               4649           7577                         172
West Bengal                                17331              18302          48867                        282
CPU (including consultancies)              59401              97545         160321                        270
Total                                   115679             157207         284376                         246
Annex 2 (b)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ Million equivalent)
NCB            Other           Total          NCB             Other           Total
Works              51 (48)          4 (4)          55 (52)          16.7            1.3            18.0
Goods/Equipm        7 (6)           3 (2)          10 (8)           2.1             1.1
ent &                               I (1)            I (1)                                          3.2
Commnodities                                                                 _
Credit_____
Hatcheries                       16(13)         16 (13)
& Feedmills,                                                                      3.6             3.6
etc.                              7 (6)           7 (6)
Initial
Working
Capital_                                                       .
Consultancies
Supervision                       I (1)          I (1)
Technical                         I (1)          1 (1)
and TA                              2 (2)           2 (2)                           3.1             3.1
Training                                  _
Miscellaneous
Incremental                       2 (1)           2 (1)                           2.7             2.7
Salaries
Total              58 (54)         37 (31)         95 (85)          18.8           11.8            30.6
Note: Brackets denote WB financing
- 25 -



Annex 2 (c)
Project Financing by Component
(UJS$ Million equivalent)
Bank   Govt   Beneficiary   Bank   Govt   Beneficiary   Bank   Govt   Beneficiary
financing                    financing                      financing
Shrimp Culture    71                  5        21.0 -05                       30                  10
Inland Fisheries   7       -          1         2.0      -         0.8        29       -         40
Project
Management         7       4                    3.4     2.9                   4        73
Totals            85       4          6        26.4    2.9         1.3        31       73        22
- 26 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Economic Analysis                  Financial Analysis
Appraisal   Latest Estimates     Appraisal       Latest Estimates
Shrimp Component                   31%             13%              39%                N.A.
Fisheries Component                26%             30%              38%                N.A.
Total Project                      30%             16%
This annex provides the financial and economic analysis of the performance of the shrimp sites in West
Bengal, Orissa and Andhra Pradesh and for fisheries developments in Orissa, Uttar Pradesh, Andhra
Pradesh and Bihar. The financial analyses have been done on the basis of investment and operating capital
employed. In line with the SAR, the analysis for brackish water shrimp component is conducted at the state
level, and the analysis for the inland fisheries component at farm level.
A. BRACKISH WATER SHRIMP COMPONENT
Project Investments
Cost of Site Development. The shrimp component accounted for about 70% of total project expenditures,
and site development accounted for about 80% of these costs. At appraisal, the total construction costs of
the developed sites were estimated to range from Rs.792,000 per ha (Bhairavapalem) to Rs.384,000 per ha
(Digha). The differences in construction costs reflected the different sizes, alignments and tidal regimes of
the sites. On average, actual site development costs per hectare at Rs.673,000 were about 10% higher than
appraisal estimates.
Operation and Maintenance and Cost Recovery. The original site designs were based on central pumping
facilities which included main pumps, pump houses, water supply and drainage channels and stand by
generators to be operated and maintained by the Brackish Water Farmers Development Agency (BFDA).
At the time of appraisal, annual operation and maintenance costs and lease rentals by the beneficiaries were
estimated to be in the range of Rs.29,000 for Andhra Pradesh and Rs.38,000 for Orissa and West Bengal.
It is estimated that the service charge should be about Rs 80,000/ha for Orissa and West Bengal, and Rs
45,000/ha for Andhra Pradesh, more than double appraisal expectations. Most of the increase has been in
the form of capital cost recovery.
Operating Costs. Direct operating costs were estimated at appraisal (in 1999 Rs.) at Rs 20,800/ha/yr, of
which, the largest elements were feed (65%) and seed (25%). Actual operating costs in Andhra Pradesh
have been about Rs 12,000/ha/yr and in Orissa and West Bengal about Rs 24,000, of which 50-60% were
seed and 10-20% feed costs. Other input costs mostly involved fertilizers and lime.
Benefits of the Shrimp Component
The performance of the shrimp component has been seriously affected by WSD, which has eliminated
production in most parts of India from 1994 onwards. The one exception where the crop was not
decimated was the first crop at Digha farm, where 72% of the ponds were unaffected by the disease. Here,
shrimp production of 2 to 2.6 tons per ha (on an annual basis) was achieved, somewhat higher than the
production envisaged at appraisal (1.5 tons per ha in year I and reaching 2.0 tons per ha at full production
- 27 -



in year 3). The performance of the shrimp sites during 2000 has been variable. All sites were afflicted with
WSD in varying intensities. However, with improved management practices and the application of the new
WSD management technologies, most sites were able to obtain a harvest ranging between 25-50%.
Results of the Financial Analysis of Shrimp Component
At appraisal, it was estimated that at full development the incremental returns to small-scale shrimp
beneficiaries (with 0.5 hectare pond) would be around Rs 24,400 annually. The performance of the shrimp
component has been seriously affected by WSD, which has decimated production in most parts of India
from 1994 onwards. The one exception was the first crop at Digha farm, where 72% of the ponds were
unaffected by the disease and had a substantial positive net return. Typically, net returns from ponds with
positive results were Rs. 63,000 which exceeded the SAR estimate. The long-term potential of this
component is clearly demonstrated.
The financial returns for the shrimp sites during 2000 have been variable. All sites were afflicted with
WSD in varying intensities. However, even with a harvest ranging between 25-50%, the aggregate
realization from sale of shrimp (due to the high international shrimp price) has permitted a recovery of the
operating cost in most cases, and even earning a modest profit. It is anticipated that with fuller application
of the new technologies to manage WSD, the impact of the virus could be reduced within the next five
years. If project sites could be maintained and reasonable management and control techniques applied
against WSD, then there is a very good chance that full-scale production could be resumed in 2006, with
returns exceeding appraisal expectations. During the interim period, the minimum financial return, based
on the assumption of phased improvement in shrimp yield per hectare per crop (345kgs/ 625kgs/ 750kgs/
920kgs/ 1 000kgs over a five year period), would be about Rs.30,000. This is an achievable and
sustainable level of financial return.
B. INLAND FISHERIES COMPONENT
Project Investments
Costs of Site Development. Depending on the size of the reservoir and the type of rearing facilities chosen,
the costs for reservoir development were estimated at appraisal to range (in Rs 1999 terms) between Rs
120,000 (60 ha reservoir with cages) to Rs 1,600,000 (> 300 ha reservoir with ponds). For oxbow lakes,
average development costs were estimated at Rs 2,500,000 (100 ha oxbow lake in Bihar or Uttar Pradesh).
Deweeding, crucial for increasing the yields of Indian Major Carp (IMC) species, has been undertaken in
the majority of the oxbow lakes concerned. However, the construction of civil works has been significantly
less than foreseen at appraisal. Civil works in oxbow lakes mostly involved constructing and rehabilitating
sluice structures. For reservoirs, only nine landing sheds and two approach roads have been built. This
shortfall reduced the per hectare development cost significantly.
Lease Fees for lakes and reservoirs were intended to reflect the amount of physical construction, so as to
recover capital costs over a 20-year period. In practice, lease fees have been set by the state irrigation
departments on the basis of the calculations used prior to the project plus an estimate of the increased
yields expected from each lake.
B3enefits of the Inland Fisheries Component
Analyses have been made for oxbow lake developments in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar and for reservoir
developments in Andhra Pradesh, Orissa and Uttar Pradesh (based on the size groupings of the
waterbodies). The analyses indicate the relative returns from incremental expenditures by farmers'
expenditures on fingerlings, operating costs and lease fees. Estimates of incremental returns are based on
average actual outputs from the total lakes and reservoirs in the respective state.
- 28 -



Results of the Financial Analysis of Inland Fisheries Component
Models have been developed as the basis for financial analysis of oxbow lakes and reservoirs based on size:
small (higher yielding), medium and large (lowest yielding) size lakes. For oxbow lakes, the estimates
indicate that the best performance was in Uttar Pradesh, where returns increased from Rs 2,650 to Rs
7,350 per family. Estimates of returns per family from large reservoirs ranged from Rs 2,250 (Andhra
Pradesh) to Rs 12,500 (Uttar Pradesh), and that from small reservoirs between Rs 17,720 (Orissa) to Rs
36,000 (Andhra Pradesh). Predictably, gains from smaller reservoirs are significantly higher than from
large reservoirs. The performance indicated in the table reflects the reported output which is generally
lower by about 25% to avoid higher lease and royalty payments to the government.
Financial Return from Oxbow Lakes and Reservoirs (Rs per familyl
State                  Oxbow Lakes                          Reservoirs
Without Project    With Project    Without Project    With Project
Bihar                   3,700            14,600
Uttar Pradesh
Small                2,650             7,350                         _ _         _
Large                                                    2,000             12,500
Orissa
Small                  -                 -               13,720            17,720
Large                  -                 -               1,400             2,500
Andhra Pradesh
Small                  -                 -               9,500            36,000
Large                  -                 -                500              2,250
C. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
The economic analysis has been conducted for both the shrimp and the inland fisheries component over 25
years. For internationally traded commodities such as shrimp, shrimp feed and imported machinery and
equipment, trade parity prices, net of duties and taxes, have been used for the economic analysis. The 1999
economic farm-gate price of shrimp has been calculated at Rs 285/kg. For commodities not internationally
traded (including Indian major carps) a standard conversion factor of 0.9 is used, in line with the SAR. For
the economic price of fish, a weighted average is taken of the market price of IMC in the four states,
multiplied with the SCR. This results in an economic price of Rs 28 per kg. Achievements under inland
fisheries development permitted a fairly detailed analysis. However, with most shrimp sites having been
recently commissioned, a precise analysis is not possible. For this component, therefore, a base case model
has been developed assuming that WSD will be partially manageable during the next five years, leading to
its elimination by 2006. Project management costs of the CPU and the SPUs have been divided equally
over the shrimp and fisheries component and, the total amount allocated to each component in the relevant
states.
Shrimp Component
Economic costs. Costs include all investments and recurrent expenditures, including pond site construction
(excluding peripheral dykes), equipment, project management, support services, BFDA strengthening,
training and NGO support. Family labor is shadow-priced at 25%, to reflect the limited employment
opportunities in the coastal areas concerned. The construction costs of the peripheral dykes, which have a
broader application as multipurpose cyclone protection, are excluded from the economic analysis.
Rehabilitation of the Orissa site was undertaken and production was initiated in 2000; however, production
commenced in 2001.
- 29 -



Economic benefits. The economic benefits include production from the shrimp ponds, the hatcheries and the
IQF plant financed under the project. The one shrimp crop harvested in 1999 (Digha) and not infected by
WSD yielded about Rs. 13 million The expected crop production level per hectare is assumed to improve
from the second year as follows: 345kgs/ 625kgs/ 750kgs/ 920kgs/ 1000kgs over a five year period
compared to the appraisal expectation of 800kgs/ 900kgs/ 1000kgs over a three year period. With regards
to the operations of hatcheries and the IQF plant, no detailed figures are available. Discussion with two
hatchery owners indicates that they are operating at marginal profits due to the current over-capacity on the
Indian market. For the purpose of analysis it has been assumed that these plants would have a real return to
investment of 10%, adjusted by a SCF of 0.9. Since hatcheries and the IQF plant account for only 8% of
total investment costs, the analysis is not sensitive to this assumption. Non-quantifiable benefits, e.g. the
social benefits resulting from the literacy and medical campaigns carried out at the shrimp site in Andhra
Pradesh and West Bengal and reached some 200 people, have been disregarded in the analysis.
In this case, the ERR would be 13% (compared to 31% at appraisal) which is higher than the deemed OCC
of 12% for Indian investment operations. First year average hectare crop production levels with WSD have
been as follows: Canning site: 280kgs; Dighirpar: 218kgs; Dadanpatrabar: 282kgs; Banapada: 255kgs;
Bhairavapalem: 234kgs). Indication from the cultures undertaken in 1999 and 2000 are that these low
levels of output are indeed achievable. Should the phasing of the harvest be reduced by 15% to 300kgs/
5OOkgs/ 650kgs/ 800kgs/ 1000kgs over the same period, the ERR for the shrimp component reduces to
12%.
Inland Fisheries Component
Economic costs. In the four states with an inland fisheries project component (Andhra Pradesh, Bihar,
Orissa and Uttar Pradesh), a total of 138 water bodies have actually been developed (106 reservoirs and 32
oxbow lakes). Supplementary developments (landing sheds, access roads) have been developed at 24
reservoirs. Costs of lake development include physical development (deweeding, construction of sluices,
landing sheds and approach roads), project management, extension and support for NGOs.
Economic Benefits. The analysis is based on the representative production models. After development,
production ranged from 27 kg/ha to 342 kg/ha, with an average production of 110 kg/ha. For the Bihar and
Uttar Pradesh oxbow lakes, the average annual production increased from about 45 kg/ha to 280 kg/ha.
These production levels were grossed up by 25% to account for the under-reported catch. The economic
rate of return for the inland fisheries component is estimated at 30%, compared to 26% at appraisal.
Should only the reported catch data be used, the ERR drops to 23.4%.
Overall Economic Rates of Return of the Project
The current economic rate of return on the total project, with managed control of WSD and output levels
from inland fisheries as reported, is estimated at 16%. Sensitivity tests indicate that the ERR for the
project drops to 15% with a 15% reduction in the phasing of the shrimp harvest; to 14.8% should
under-reported fish catch be excluded from the ERR calculation, and to 13.7% if both these assumptions
are incorporated into the analyses.
- 30 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                      No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)        Implementation  Development
Month/Year    Count               Specialty                          Progress       Objective
Identification/Preparation
July 1991                       9    Fisheries Specialist (2); Financial
Analyst (1); Sociologist (1);
Economist (I); Environmental
Specialist (1); Engineer (1);
Credit Specialist (1); Statistician
(I)
Appraisal/Negotiation
January 1992                    8    Fisheries Specialist (2);
Economist (2); Financial
Analyst (2); Gender
Specialist (1);
Environmentalist (1)
Supervision
April 1992                      2   Financial Analyst (2)                    S               S
June 1992                       2   Financial Analyst (I);                   S               S
Environmental Specialist (1)
November 1992                    2   Financial Analyst (1); Fisheries        S               S
Specialist (1)
March 1993                       2   Fisheries Specialist (1);               U               S
Operations Officer (1)
October 1993                     3   Fisheries Specialist (1); Financial     S               S
Analyst (1); Operations Officer
April 1994                       5   Operations Officer (1); Fisheries       U               U
Specialist (1); Financial Officer
(2); Sociologist (1)
September 1994                  3   Operations Officer (1); Fisheries        U               U
Specialist (I); Financial Analyst
(1)
February 1995                    3   Operations Officer (1); Fisheries       U               U
Specialist (1); Financial Analyst
(1)
November 1995                    5   Operations Officer (1); Fisheries       U               U
Specialist (1); Financial Analyst
(2); Sociologist (1)
May 1996                         4   Operations Officer (1); Fisheries       U               U
Specialist (1); Financial Analyst
(1); Sociologist (1)
November 1996                    5   Operations Officer (1); Financial       U               U
Analyst (1); Fisheries Specialist
(1); Sociologist (I);
Environmental Specialist (1).
- 31 -



June 1997                      4   Operations Officer (1); Financial      U              U
Analyst (1); Fisheries Specialist
(1); Sociologist (1);
Environmental Specialist (1).
August 1998                    2   Financial Analyst (1); Fisheries       U              U
Specialist (1)
December 1998                  2   Fisheries Specialist (1); Financial    S              U
Analyst (1)
June 1999                      2   Fisheries Specialist (1); Financial    S              S
Analyst (1)
May 2000                       2   Financial Analyst (1); Fisheries       S              S
Specialist (1)
ICR
December 1999                  5    Financial Analyst (1);                S              U
Fisheries Specialist (1);
Economist (1); Sociologist
(I); Environmental
Specialist (1)
December 2000                  3    Fisheries Specialist (1);             S              S
Financial Analyst (1);
Economist (I)
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                       ActualL atest Estimate
No. Staff weeks                US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                    85                           295
Appraisal/Negotiation                         78                           275
Supervision                                  101                           425
ICR                                           27                            100
Total                                        291                          1095
- 32 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Z Macro policies                            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Z Sector Policies                           OH  OSUOM  ON  * NA
Z Physical                                  OH *SUOM ON ONA
0 Financial                                 O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
M Institutional Development                 0 H  O SU *M  0 N  0 NA
E Environmental                            OH  OSUOM  ON  O NA
Social
N Poverty Reduction                  O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
N Gender                             O H OSUOM * N O NA
DG Other (Please specify)            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
N Private sector development                0 H  O SUO M  0 N  0 NA
N Public sector management                  0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
a Other (Please specify)                   O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
The ratings relate to the physical outputs as revised following project restructuring, objectives specified in
SAR duly adjusted for the external unforseen impact of the White Spot Disease, and reflect the dominant
influence of the shrimp component (70% of project costs).
- 33 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU-Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                  Rating
3 Lending                                             OHS OS *U OHU
O Supervision                                         OHS OS   OU  OHU
3 Overall                                             OHS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                              Rating
LI Preparation                                        O HS O S  *  U  O HU
3 Government implementation performance               0 HS 0 S   0  U  0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                   0 HS      S   O  U  O HU
7 Overall                                             OHS OS O U O HU
-34 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
* Implementation Completion Reports:
* Gujarat Fisheries Project (Cr.695/Ln 1394-IN) - 1985
* Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Project (Cr.815-IN) - 1985
* Inland Fisheries Project (Cr.963-IN) - 1991
*  Draft Preparation Report - INDIA: Brackish Water and Inland Fisheries Project (Report No.117/90
CP-IND82, 13/9/90)
*   Staff Appraisal Report No. 10046-IN - INDIA: Shrimp and Fish Culture Project (12/16/91)
* IDA: Development Credit Agreement and Project Agreement, (Credit No. 2329-IN, 1/92)
* Site Specific Operational Plan for Shrimp sites (CPU 10/27/98)
* Environmental Status Report of First Shrimp Crop at Digha Farm (6-10/1998) (CIBA/ICAR).
* World Bank Supervision Reports - 4/92 through 12/99
* Minutes of Meetings of the Central Monitoring and Co-ordination Committee (CMCC), 9/92 through
4/99
* Reports on Audits of Project Accounts, 1997 through 1999
* Progress Reports on the Shrimp and Fish Culture Project, (Orissa, West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh,
Uttar Pradesh and Bihar States), December 1999
* Presentation by CPU on the Shrimp and Fish Culture Project (Credit No.2329-IN), (December 1999)
- 35-



Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results
No beneficiary survey was specially carried out for the ICR. A detailed evaluation exercise was carried for all
project-assisted fish reservoirs and oxbow lakes by CICFRI which involved discussions with beneficiaries
(individually, focus groups, and Participatory Rural Appraisals), and was concluded in August 2000. An extract
on socio-economic impact of the project on the inland fishery component is attached.
CICFRI REPORT ON INLAND FISHERY COMPONENT BENEFICIARY SURVEY
EXTRACT OF CHAPTER 4 ON SOCIO-ECONOMIC IMPACT
A survey of the fishers was conducted to assess the socio-economic impact of the project. In spite of all efforts, the
quality and accuracy of data suffered due to low literacy level and hesitant response of the fishers. The final
outcome of this survey does indicate the project impacts in the areas of increase in fish catch, employment and fish
business income, domestic and productive assets, change in fishing rights, working of the Primary Fisheries
Cooperative Society (PFCS), fish marketing practices, ownership of the fishery requisites, attitude of fishers
towards fish conservation, involvement of women, training, and the performance of NGOs, wherever they existed.
Increase in fish catch, employment and fish business income
In Orissa, fishers were generally of the opinion that yield rate improved after implementation of the project. Nearly
half of the respondents (48%) believed that yield increased due to the project, while 23 % did not think so. The rest
remained indifferent. The fishers mainly attributed this increase in yield to higher stocking rate. Nevertheless, only
31% of the fishers opined that there was an increase in fish business income, while 20% believed that the income
had decreased, and remaining 49% of the fishers could not respond to this question. But their improved living.
standard as indicated by the increase in domestic and productive assets confirmed the positive impact of the project.
Average annual fishing effort per fisher was 238 days yielding over 600kgs fish catch @ 2.5kg per day. The per
fisher fishing effort was maximum at Ghodahada (361 days) with 1,969kgs catch ( 5.5kg per day. The annual
catch per fisher was highest at Bhanjanagar (3,315 kg), while average catch per day per fisher was maximum at
Dadaraghati (14.9kg). (See Table 4.1 for more details.)
In the state of Andhra Pradesh, additional employment due to fisheries activities, and enhanced production and
productivity in terms of annual catch and catch per day per fisher are given in Table 4.2. On an average, the
increase in fisheries activities provided fishers an employment for 159 days. The additional catch per fisher per
annum and per day was 463 and 2.9kg, respectively. These clearly indicate the benefits derived by the fishers
following project intervention.
In Uttar Pradesh, almost all the fishers reported an increase in catch and incomes due to project activities. Fishers in
almost all project waterbodies held such a view. Better stocking practices and increased fishing effort were
attributed to this improved productivity. Better catch composition and fish prices were also reported to have
favored the higher realization during the project period. The comparative account of average fishing effort, annual
catch and daily catch of fishers during pre- and post-project period (Table 4.3) reveals significant increase in these
aspects in project reservoirs and oxbow lakes. For reservoirs, average annual fishing effort has increased from 84 to
150 days. This yielded an additional 166kg of fish @ 0.64kg per day per fisher. These observations clearly
indicated the positive impact of the project in terms of increased employment level, fish production and
productivity. Similar results emerged in respect of oxbow lakes. Although the fishing effort during pre- and
post-project did not change significantly, the average annual and daily catch increased substantially (28 lkgs and
1. 1kg respectively). In case of all the reservoirs, additional employment was generated, whereas this was reported to
have occurred in only 60% of the oxbow lakes. This increase in employment was due to rearing of seed, watch and
ward, and increased fishing effort after project intervention.
- 36 -



In Bihar, the respondents overwhelmingly stated that there was an increase in catch and income. All fishers favored
such a view, except a few in Manjhoul lake, which incidentally recorded the highest increment in fish yield. The
reasons attributed for this desired outcome were the technological changes advised under project. Maximum fishers
(86%) assigned increased stocking rate as the most important factor followed by increased productivity (74%),
clearance of weed and better management practices (23%). Increased fish catch (86%), higher fish prices (60%)
and better catch composition (43%) were the reasons cited by the fishers for increase in their income. The analysis
of fishing effort and fish production per fisher in project lakes (Table 4.4) indicates significant difference between
the pre- and post-project period. The average annual fish catch per fisher nearly doubled during the project period
(627kgs to 1,224kgs). The maximum increase was for Motijheel (1,339kgs). On the contrary, the annual fishing
effort was reported to have decreased in all the lakes. On an average, it reduced from 281 days per annum to 179
days. The reason attributed was observation of closed season, rearing of the fish seed up to advanced fingerlings
stage, and shortening of the fishing period from end of December to June in most of the lakes. The high increment in
annual catch and decrement in fishing effort exaggerated daily average catch from 2.2kg prior to project to 6.8kg
during the project.
Domestic and productive assets
The household asset structure was examined to assess the impact of the project on the socio-economic status of the
beneficiaries. The survey revealed that 92% of the fishers have clay houses, as compared to 8%, who lived in
concrete house. The maximum concrete houses were at Bhanjanagar (80%). Impact of the project was also-reflected
in their other assets and belongings. Forty seven percent of the fishers have diverted a part of their increased
income to purchase domestic assets including land, construction or renovation of house, furmiture, television, radio,
milch and draught animals, etc.
In Andhra Pradesh, most of the fishers (80%) dwelled in concrete houses, and the rest lived in kaccha (clay)
houses. On an average, the houses had more than two rooms. A substantial section of the fishers (70%) reported an
increase in their domestic and fisheries assets after implementation of the project. These were in the form of
addition or renovation of house, purchase of household items and productive assets like agricultural land and other
inputs, dairy or other animals. The prime reason attributed for this rise in their economic status was enhanced fish
business income generated through project intervention.
In Uttar Pradesh, 83% of fishers of reservoir reported an improvement in their domestic and fisheries assets. Much
lesser people held such a view in oxbow lakes (46%). Prior to the project, all the fishers were living in clay houses.
During project period, many of them either renovated the houses or added new rooms. Most of them also reported
an increase in household items.
All the fishers in Bihar had kaccha (clay) houses with more than two rooms. The percentage of fishers having
agricultural land and livestock was 63 and 9%, while 3% of the fishers had their own aquacultural water bodies. A
substantial section of the fishers (77%) confirmed that their assets had increased after the project was implemented.
Change in fishing rights
According to the survey, there was a shift in fishing rights in Orissa after the project was implemented. Fishing
rights in 13 (43%) reservoirs have changed, while it remained unchanged in 17 (57%). In a significant finding of the
survey, it has been reported that fishing rights were denied for a section of fishers on account of the project. Such
deprivation was recorded in at least 13 (43 %) reservoirs. But this shift in fishing rights had a positive impact on
fish production, as revealed by the increase in fish catch and productivity for project sites in the state. There was no
change in the fishing practices consequent to the project in the reservoirs of Orissa.
In Andhra Pradesh, lease period and lease amount was enhanced in most of the reservoirs as per the project norms.
There was no change in the fishing rights in most of the reservoirs (81%). Fishers were denied fishing rights in only
- 37 -



5% of the project sites. In most of the reservoirs (93%) fishing practices were changed, while implementing the
project. Fishing effort was mainly concentrated for a period of 3-4 days. This resulted in increase in fish production
and productivity.
In Uttar Pradesh, after implementation of the project, lease period and lease amount for all the reservoirs were
enhanced. It led to change in lessee PFCS fishing rights in 60% reservoirs. These changes resulted in denial of
fishing rights of fishers, who fished in the reservoirs (80%). But, most of them operated as hired laborers. In
majority of reservoirs (80%), fishing practices remained unchanged during the project period. In oxbow lakes, no
change in fishing rights and fishing practices were observed during the project period. The change in operating
PFCS and leasing norms, particularly increase in lease period had a positive impact on fisheries management and
productivity in all the project sites in the state.
In Bihar, the lease period was uniformly increased to 10 years during project, with a concurrent increase in the
lease amount. The fishing rights remained with same PFCSs, which managed the fisheries prior to the project. All
the societies have officially stated that no fishers were denied of their fishing rights, but there seems to be some
deprival due to adherence to the norm, one fisher per hectare. There was no change in fishing practices due to
implementation of the project in any of the lakes. The fishers observed conservation measures like closed season
and mesh size regulation in all the water bodies covered under the project. But, regulations on minimum size of the
fish to be caught was not followed at Motijheel, Karariea and Basmanpur. The increase in lease period had a
positive impact on fisheries management practices of the lakes. It encouraged the PFCS to adopt better fisheries
practices. This has also led to increased fish production and productivity of the project lakes.
Working of the PFCS
In Andhra Pradesh, almost all the fishers (99%) considered PFCSs as useful and observed changes in functioning
of co-operatives (95%) after implementation of the project. Most of them (93%) welcomed these changes as
beneficial to them and the society. This is a significant fulfillment of one of the main objectives of the project in the
state. In Uttar Pradesh, all the fishers interviewed were members of the PFCS, who observed positive changes in
functioning of the PFCS after implementation of the project. In their opinion the change in by-laws of the PFCS,
and monitoring by state fisheries officials at some of the sites were the main factors that contributed to this
improvement. The fishers opined that active and poor fishers had comparatively better say in the activities of the
PFCS compared to the pre-project period. Their remuneration had also increased due to project.
In Bihar, almost all of the respondents considered the PFCS as useful. They also observed positive changes in
functioning of the co-operatives after implementation of project. During the post-project phase, the active poor
fishers and females had better representation in the management committees of the societies.
Fish marketing practices
In majority (70%) of reservoirs in Orissa, there was a no change in fish marketing practices after the project was
implemented. Marketing exclusively through the cooperative fold was followed in 43% of the reservoirs during the
project period, while individuals marketed their fish themselves in 40%. Both co-operative and individual
marketing co-existed in the rest. The survey has proved that fish marketing through co-operative became more
popular in the state after the implementation of the project. Sixty percent of the societies charged commission for
providing the fish marketing services to their fisher members.
In Andhra Pradesh, the fish marketing activities remained unchanged in 63% of reservoirs. In the remaining
reservoirs, the mode of disposal of catch has changed from individual to the co-operatives. This positive change in
their attitude towards co-operatives can be considered as a desirable impact of the project.
In Bihar, fish marketing practices did not change during the project period, with the exception of Muktapur, where
- 38 -



it has changed from individual disposal of fish to through PFCS. However, the awareness about the virtues of
co-operative marketing has been created among other lakes by the Muktapur experience.
Ownership of the fishery requisites
It has been found that the fishers could save enough resources to buy fisheries assets in the state of Orissa after the
project was implemented. Fishery craft (69%) and gears (94%) were purchased from income generated through
fishing. Since the societies were financed to purchase the inputs in the form of crafts and gill net, the analysis has
also been done to assess the ownership structure of the fisheries assets. While 30% of the fishers were using
society's boats, 52% used their own boats. The more pronounced impact of input resource development under the
project was noticed in case of gill nets, where 54% of the fishers were using nets given by society, while 20% of
them used their own nets. The aforementioned observations revealed that due to project the fishers became better
equipped, with fisheries inputs, either through their own resources or through the society. In Uttar Pradesh, 56% of
fishers in reservoir and 43 % at oxbow lakes owned their boat. Most prevalent gear in both types of water bodies
was gill net. The fishers of oxbow lakes were better equipped with gears as compared to their counterparts in
reservoirs, and acquired most of the fisheries requisites during the project period, which resulted in better fish catch
and increased income. Regarding the fisheries requisites of fishers in Bihar, 89% of the fishers had their own boat
and all of them had gill nets. Cast net was the second popular (49%), followed by traps (43%).
Attitude towards fish conservation
No society seemed to follow closed season as a conservation measure, while the regulations on mesh size and size at
capture of fish were followed by only 43 reservoirs in the Orissa. In Uttar Pradesh, the fishers appear to have
observed conservation measures like closed season, and mesh and fish size regulation. At most of the oxbow lakes
(80%), conservation practices were followed, the only exception was Bhilaura lake.
Involvement of women
In Andhra, majority of fishers (61%) expressed the opinion that their women were involved in fisheries operations,
but their contribution was very low. In Uttar Pradesh, the role of women in fisheries activities was not pronounced.
The fishers' response indicated that only 39 and 23% of fisher women were involved in fisheries activities at project
reservoirs and oxbow lakes. On an average they devoted 2 to 4 hours per day in this activity. Women activities
included net weaving, cleaning and fish marketing. The involvement of women in fishery activities was reported by
91% of the fishers in Bihar.
The training component
Training was arranged in 24 reservoirs in Orissa, which account for 80% of the project sites. The highest number
of 40 fishers were trained at Derjang and Sundar. On the whole, 179 fishers were given the training. No training
was organized at Sorada, Ghodahada, Kuanria, Pilasalki, Saipala and Satiguda. The number of fishers trained were
much more than prescribed in the project (2 fishers for small and medium and 4 in case of large water bodies).
Similar to Orissa, in Andhra Pradesh, training was arranged in 32 (76%) reservoirs. The number of fishers trained
was much more than prescribed (2-4) under project. A maximum of 45 fishers were trained at Marsumilli, followed
by 38 each in Komatur and Velvadam. In all, 634 fishers received training under the project in the state.
In Uttar Pradesh, training was arranged in all the reservoirs, and 80% of the oxbow lakes covered under the project.
The highest number of 20 fishers was trained at Dahaura lake, followed by Pathratal. In case of reservoirs, 4-5
fishers from each waterbody were given training under project.
In Bihar, training did not get much attention as 97% of the fishers did not receive any training. This activity was
assigned to NGOs in the state. They have not given any training to fishers on fisheries management in oxbow lakes,
although, it was planned to be conducted after the visit of institute survey team, in December 1999 by most of the
operating NGOs.
- 39 -



Income passed on to family
In the state of Uttar Pradesh, 80% of the fishers in reservoirs and 88% of them in oxbow lakes have passed on the
increased income due to project to their family members. This was reflected in terms of improvement in their
standard of living (increase in domestic and productive assets), literacy level (higher % of small school going
children), nutritional level (more frequent consumption of fruits and nutritious edibles) and health and hygiene.
Ninety one percent of fishers told that the increase in income was passed on to the family. Ninety one per cent of
the fishers indicated improvement in standard of living and health of the family members, while 51 and 40%
confirmed rise in literacy and nutritional level.
Role of NGOs
The State Fisheries Departmnent of Bihar has engaged nine NGOs for assisting the implementation of the scheme.
Of these, four (Magadh Mahila Vikas Sansthan, Jahanabad at Motijheel, Karariea and Gahari; A.S Viklang
Sarvodya Sansthan, Mahuava at Basmanpur; Orhul Smiriti Sansthan, Sherpur at Muktapur and Manjhoul; and
Aditi, Patna at Motipur) were found to be operating in the project sites. Only 30% of the estimated budget were
disbursed to these NGOs, which affected their performance. Although, an action plan was developed for all the
NGOs, it was not fully complied with.
The NGOs seemed to be actively engaged in lakes of Bihar. In most of the lakes they were able to convince the
fishers about their rights and duties under a co-operative system.. Till now, the emphasis of the NGOs was only on
other social aspects, like literacy, health and hygiene, etc. All the NGOs planned training on the fishery
management in December, 1999 by involving the persons from state department, and some academic institutions.
The office bearers of the co-operatives societies were not giving enough support to these organizations. Considering
the financial constraints under which they operate, the NGOs performance was satisfactory.
-40 -



Table 4.1
The fishers' average annual fishing effort, catch and per day average
catch after implementation of project in Orissa
S.no.    Reservoir                Fishing         Annual          Average
effort          Catch           Catch
(days/ year)    (Kg/year)       (Kg/day)
1        BHANJANAGAR              345             3315            9.61
2         SORADA                  240              312             1.30
3        DAHA                     290              1173           4.05
4         GHODAHADA               361              1969           5.46
5        DERJANG                  288             2394            8.33
6        KUANRIA                  360              750            2.08
7        BUDHA BUDHANI            200             861             4.31
8        PILASALKI                360              190            0.53
9        BEDJORE                  273              182            0.67
10       KALO                     269             427             1.59
11       BANKABAL                 90              45              0.50
12       HALDIA                   188             190             1.01
13       PAUNSIA                  185             145             0.78
14       NESA                     157             139             0.89
15       DADARAGHATI              105             1567            14.92
16       SAIPALA                  270             645             2.39
17       SUNDAR                   360             814             2.26
18       BHASKAL                  360             565             1.57
19       TALSARA                  246              151            0.61
20        SARAFGARH               270              267            0.99
21       KUMBHA                   192             456             2.38
22        JHARBUNDH               303             545             1.80
23       PADMAPUNALLY             271             684             2.52
24        GOHIRA                  140              148            1.06
25       KANJHARI                 261             45              0.17
26        RAMIAL                  209             268             1.28
27        REMAL                   142              333            2.34
28        CHHURIAGHAT             220              1280           5.82
29        SATIGUDA                330             947             2.87
30       BANKASAL                 34              248             7.21
Orissa                  238              601            2.52
-41 -



Table 4.2
The fishers' average annual fishing effort, catch and per day average
catch after implementation of project in Andhra Pradesh
S.no.     Reservoir                 Additional    Additional Catch
Effort
(days/year)
___________________ __  (kg/year)   (kg/day)
1         YUSUFPET                  300            600.0           2.00
2         PAPPSNNAPET               300            3000.0           10.00
3         KOMATUR                   85             390.0           4.59
4         AMBAJIPET                  180           427.5            2.38
5         SIVAMPET                   150           296.0            1.97
6         JAKANNAPET                 120           320.0           2.67
7         SANGAIPET                 60             975.0            16.25
8         GAUPALLY                  53             167.5           3.19
9         CHANDAMPET                 132           225.0            1.70
10        MALKAPUR                  283            700.0           2.47
11        JOGIPET                   234           650.0            2.78
12        YELLAREDDY                117            231.0           1.97
13        RAMADUGN                  348            850.0           2.44
14        INDALWAI                  45             25.0            0.56
15        KELLADI                   282            738.0           2.62
16        PEDGAL                    90             197.5           2.19
17        VELMEL                    270            135.0           0.50
18        RUDROOR                   25             59.0            2.36
19        SANIGRAM                  132            270.0           2.05
20        MOTHE                      150           361.3            2.41
21        TIPPANMAPET                246           485.0            1.97
22        KANAKULA                   186           313.0            1.68
23        PAMMI                     20             50.0            2.50
24        CHIRUMARI                 30             153.0           5.10
25        T.V. PURAM                 132           258.0            1.95
26        B. GANGAVERAM             90             230.0           2.56
27        SATUPALLY                 360            720.0           2.00
28        SADASIVUNIPALAM            120           225.0            1.88
29        BAHUDA                     170           1070.0          6.29
30        MALLIMADUGU                120           1297.5           10.81
31        KRISHNAJURAM              300            1300.0          4.33
32        G.B. NATHAM               252            1048.0          4.16
33        MARSUMILLI                86             187.5           2.17
34        VELVADAM                   12            34.5            2.94
Andhra Pradesh            159           462.9            2.92
-42 -



Table 4.3
The fishers' average annual fishing effort, catch and per day average catch
during pre and post project periods in Uttar Pradesh
S. Reservoir/              Fishing effort (days per year)  Fish catch (kg per year)    Average catch (kg per day)
No Oxbow lake
= ___________________ Pre      Post      Change   Pre       Post      Change   Pre        Post      Change
RESERVOIR
I  Barwar                100.0    153.75    53.75     108.7    296.25    187.50    1.09       1.93     0.84
2  Chandraprabha         70.00     150.00    80.00    83.33     273.33    190.00    1.19      1.82     0.63
3  Musakhand             73.33     123.33    50.00    86.67     148.33    61.67     1.18      1.20     0.02
4  U.Khajauri            108.0    156.00   48.00      103.0    232.00    129.00    0.95       1.49      0.53
5  Dongia                50.00     160.00    110.00    55.00    336.67    281.67    1.10      2.10      1.00
Overall Reservoirs   84.44     149.7*** 65.28      90.28    256.7***  166.39    1.07      1.7***    0.64
OXBOW LAKES
I  Pathratal             201.4    231.25    29.82     687.5    811.46    123.96    3.41      3.51      0.10
2  Saruatal              227.0    227.02   -0.03      928.2    1156.98   228.80    4.09       5.10      1.01
3  Sonarkhurd            240.0    240.00    0.00      380.1    669.15    289.09    1.58       2.79      1.20
4  Dahaura               158.1    177.71    19.58     734.1     1128.13   394.01    4.64      6.35      1.71
Overall Oxbow Lakes  202.5    217.6ns   15.05      690.8    971.9***  281.02    3.41      4.5***    1.06
ns      Significantly not different from pre-project
t** *   Significantly different from pre-project period at I% level of significance
Table 4.4
The fishers' average annual fish catch, fishing effort and fish
catch per day during pre- and post-project implementation period at different oxbow lakes in Bihar
S. No   Lake          Catch (Kg per annum)         Effort (days per annum)    Average Catch (Kg 3er day)
Pre       Post     Change   Pre        Post      Change   Pre       Post      Change
1    Motijheel 1351.3   2690.6   1339.38   250        246       -4        5.41      10.92     5.52
2     Karariya  912.63    1842.6   929.96    124       160      36        7.37      11.50     4.14
3    Basmanpu 391.25    840.6    449.38    346         238      -109       1.13     3.54      2.41
r
4    IGahari   135.00    512.5    377.50    365        125      -240      0.37      4.10      3.73
5    Muktapur 661.88    791.7    129.79    338         167      -171       1.96     4.75      2.79
6     Motipur  400.00    730.0    330.00    364        139       -225      1.10     5.25      4.15
7    Manjhoul 418.00    1062.5   644.50    235         174      -61        1.78     6.11      4.33
Bihar    626.80    1224.2**  597.38    281       179***   -102      2.23      6.83***   4.60
*** Significantly different from pre project period at 1% level of significance
- 43 -



Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results
Objectives. The fieldwork for the ICR included two full-day workshops. The first, held in Patna (Bihar)
on November 20, 1999, focused on fisheries development under the project and, the second, held in
Calcutta (West Bengal) on November 22, 1999, focused on the shrimp production component. The
objectives of the workshops were threefold: first, to learn about the achievements of the relevant
component; second, to obtain objective statements from the different stakeholders on their assessment of the
developments; and, third, to identify favorable aspects and problem areas, as a basis for deriving lessons
for future activities. In both cases, the outcome of the workshop was strengthened by subsequent site
visits by the ICR team.
Participants. Each workshop involved a comprehensive range of stakeholders, including beneficiaries and
their leaders, representatives from local government, the Central Project Unit (CPU) and State Project
Units (SPU), staff from the state fisheries departments, and staff from non-government organizations
(NGO). Messrs. S. Satish and H. Singh from the World Bank Resident Mission in New Delhi organized
the workshop. ICR team members from the FAO Co-operative Program (M. Nightingale, M. Pedini, L.
Hein) actively participated in the proceedings, together with the World Bank Portfolio Manager (South
Asia Region), Mr. 0. Farruk.
O_anization. The program for each workshop was organized as follows:
*  Introduction by the representative of the state Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) and the
Director of Department of Fisheries (DOF) for the State.
*   Description of the objectives of the workshop.
*   General review of achievements with the participants.
*  Analysis session with government personnel.
o  Analysis session with beneficiaries.
*   Analysis session with NGOs.
*   Summary of conclusions.
The two sessions were valuable for promoting exchanges of ideas between different stakeholders,
pinpointing the main difficulties and highlighting the differences in experience between the two types of
production. Both sessions focused on favorable points as well as the reasons for the shortfall in actual
achievements relative to the original plans. Participants in the workshop on shrimp production was
preoccupied with design and technical problems, whereas the fisheries workshop was most concerned with
sustainability and how to maintain the momentum of development.
I. Shrimp Culture Component
1. Sixty-four participants, including representatives from the following stakeholders, attended the
workshop in Calcutta:
Director and officers from the State Project Unit   3
Representatives of beneficiaries and co-operatives  31
Representatives of participating NGOs              14
State Fisheries Department personnel                5
Representatives of the State BFDA                   3
Chairman of the State Co-operative Bank             1
Director of the Central Project Unit                I
World Bank personnel                                3
FAO Investment Center personnel                     3
Total                                              64
- 44 -



Proceedings
2. Following explanation of the objectives, the workshop was initiated by a review of project
achievements by the Director of the SPU. He explained that the shortfall in achievements resulted from the
delays in getting developments started, including organizational delays that partly arose from World Bank
procedures and clearances and reluctance to amend actions specified in the appraisal documents. He also
mentioned the effect of the hiatus resulting from the suspension of credit operations by the World Bank.
He described the encouraging results from the first shrimp crop (Digha) and the subsequent disaster
provoked by viral White Spot Disease (WSD).
3. The project engineers were concerned by the time lag in specifying project developments, from surveys
(1994), through engineering design (1995/6) to construction (1996/7). They also highlighted the delaying
effect of uncertainties and controversies over construction features, especially excavation of ponds and
difficulties of topography and soil types at some farms, both within the project management teams
(including the technical assistance advisors), and between the SPU and successive World Bank Task
Managers. Concerns were also expressed about excessive depth of the central reservoirs that could cause
contamination of the system. Several participants complained that some farms are affected by an uneven
water distribution.
4. Co-operative organizers and new producers voiced concern at the failure to involve the communities in
the concept and design phases, the lack of information on the operation and management of shrimp culture,
and the absence of clear advice on eliminating WSD. They expressed appreciation for the training received
but indicated that there was need for additional assistance. From the discussion on the technical issues
confronting the project, it was evident that neither the farmers nor the BFDA had a clear understanding
either of the disinfection procedures or of the importance to adhere to a strict protocol in order to minimize
the risk of infection. Problems were also experienced in obtaining reliable certified seed and the supply of
batches with inconsistent quality. Shipments of postlarvae generally lack PCR certificates. BFDAs and
farmers saw the lack of sufficient equipment for PCR testing of postlarvae as a major limitation. It was
also evident that the attempts to utilize polyculture as a fall back position in case of WSD epidemic had not
been properly planned and there is little information on the feasibility of polyculture.
5. Farmers were also concerned by the high operation costs, notably for electricity, due to regulations of
the State Electricity Board that had not been noted at the design stage. This, combined with the shortage of
funds for meeting these costs, due to low production resulting from WSD, suggests that payment of
farmers loans will be delayed. The producers were strongly supportive of the objectives but voiced concern
over the inadequate management guidance, especially over how to counter WSD in the organization and
operation of ponds. This concern included questioning the roles of the SPU and the Brackish-water
Farmers Development Agency (BFDA). They were also concerned by the lack of explanation of the costs
and financial obligations of the project developments prior to their enrollment. It was evident that the
enrollment procedure has varied considerable between states. It appears doubtful that the primary
stakeholders will be able to pay lease rentals until the WSD problem is resolved. This will require the lease
payments to be rescheduled.
6. The NGO representatives explained that their involvement with the project had started after the selection
process for beneficiaries had commenced. They described the difficulties in assisting producers in the
absence of strong site management and emphasized the importance for the NGOs involved being able to
assist with technical advice.
Conclusions
- 45 -



7. The Calcutta workshop was effective and highlighted the value and importance of organizing regular
group meetings to enable all stakeholders to exchange ideas. The ICR workshop produced three main
conclusions: (a) shrimnp culture can be very profitable but demands high standards of planning, operation
and management in order to realize the potentials and minimize the effects of negative factors; (b) although
the techniques of brackish water shrimp production were understood in India, the discipline and detail
required was yet to be appreciated by the target group; and (c) the design for the proposed day-to-day
management of shrimp production sites and the dependence on BFDA was not sufficiently spelled and,
therefore, the Agency failed to take the essential lead role in managing the common facilities.
Lessons Learned
8. There were four main types of lessons emerging from the workshop on shrimp culture in West Bengal:
*   It is essential that a social assessment be undertaken at the time of project identification,
thereby ensuring that the views of the primary stakeholders, especially, and also the
community leaders and principal implementation organizations are taken fully into account.
In view of the formative state of the primary stakeholders - which had little experience of
shrimp culture - project activities should have focused more on informing, identifying and
training beneficiaries and support organizations.
*   Close collaboration must be maintained with private sector operators so as to ensure that
project authorities are fully abreast of spontaneous development of new technologies and
therefore able to adjust project operations in timely and propitious ways.
*   The initial two years of project development should have been devoted to (a) recruiting
qualified people (NGOs) to assist with informing communities of the intended developments
and identify interested participants within the target group, to inform them of the potential
benefits and obligations and provide preparatory training - in teamwork with DOF and
other stakeholders; (b) completing detailed engineering designs - in association with the
community concerned; and (c) ensuring that competent management and extension services
are in place and trained, so as to ensure efficient management of the shrimp site from the
start of development.
*   Regulations must be stipulated and enforced by the State Government for ensuring that
professional standards are maintained in the selection of brood stock in the certification and
rearing and marketing of fry.
Action Plan
9.  The workshop concluded by urging the SPU to take a proactive role in strengthening the management
of shrimp farms and ensuring proper organization for minimizing the effects of WPD. It was also agreed
to request GOI to arrange for a further extension to the closing date for the IDA Credit.
II. Fish Culture Component
10. Fifty-four participants, including representatives from the following stakeholders attended the
workshop in Bihar:
State Secretary for the Ministry of Agriculture  1
Director of the State Project Unit           1
Representative of producers and co-operatives  19
Representatives of participating NGOs       15
State Fisheries Department personnel        10
Chairman of the State Co-operative Bank      1
Director of the Central Project Unit         3
FAO Investment Center personnel              3
Total                                       54
- 46 -



Proceedings
11. Following explanation of its objectives, the workshop was initiated by a review of project
achievements by the State Secretary, who emphasized the importance of the fisheries sector to the economy
of Bihar. It was noted that of the 27 lakes originally planned for development in Bihar, seven have been
completed and the detailed plans for additional 10 lakes have been finalized and could be implemented
during the coming season. Some participants questioned the selection of lakes concentrated only in the
northern districts, despite the availability of apparently suitable oxbow lakes in the south too.
12. It was explained that the shortfall in achievements resulted from disruptions at state and central levels,
as well as the disruption caused by the suspension of credit operations by the World Bank, together
extending over three years or nearly one half of the project life. Three main weaknesses in project
implementation were identified by the MOA:
*   delays in recruiting NGOs and the development of producers' co-operatives, that led to a lag in
the recruitment and training of primary beneficiaries;
*   delays in the development of support services and insufficient attention to developing
management techniques for lakes; and
*   profitability of fisheries production appears to be less than originally predicted, but could be
countered by better monitoring of fingerlings and fish catches.
13. Seven co-operatives participated in the session relating to producers' groups. The opportunities
provided by the project for improving livelihood were recognized and nearly half of the groups described
the valuable assistance provided through the project to counter problems of weed infestation in lakes. The
co-operatives voiced concern over the restriction (imposed by CPU/SPU/WB), whereby co-operatives had
been barred from contracting for lake development works under the project. It was contended that
co-operatives could take care of the de-weeding work for themselves in a more economic way, thereby
increasing benefits and reducing credit requirements. Similarly, there was criticism of the regulation that
prevented the use of project funds for purchasing boat-building materials in place of manufactured craft.
The poor standards and distant locations of the Department of Fisheries (DOF) fish nurseries was also
noted and linked to DOF's reluctance to permit co-operatives to produce fry or to benefit from associated
development funds under the project. This has resulted in high mortality in transported fingerlings and
difficulties in ensuring adequate stocking of lakes. Complaints were also expressed about the inadequacy
and lack of durability of pens proposed for rearing advanced fingerlings, compared to traditional ponds.
14. Producers were concerned that some pre-existing fish farmers had been ejected from some lakes due to
the project regulations. They also indicated that the procedures adopted by co-operatives for selecting
primary beneficiaries were not always clear. They also underlined the importance of DOF being better
informed of farmers' needs and to develop capacity for providing up-to-date information on modem fish
production technologies and to take a more proactive role in preventing fish diseases. Allied to this, it was
felt that provision of all types of training for fishing communities should be intensified, in particular for
disease treatment and lake management, both by CIFA and DOF. It was explained that little consultation
had taken place between the DOF and the co-operatives regarding the technical packages to be applied.
However this was compensated by the creation of committees to decide on the best strategies for stocking
sizes and species composition in each lake. Additionally, in view of the limited size of the local markets,
concerns were expressed over the lack of assistance to counter potential problems linked to marketing.
15. Discussion of the achievements of the NGOs provoked a contentious debate. It was evident that the
recruitment of NGOs under the project had mostly been far too late (1998 instead of 1992) to influence the
selection of beneficiaries. Similarly, the NGOs had been unable to play a full role in improving the
- 47 -



efficiency of co-operatives' operations. Co-operatives complained that the role of NGOs was unclear and,
therefore, the impact was mixed and generally less than anticipated in the appraisal.
Conclusions
16. The proceedings of the workshop confirmed that fisheries development under the project has been
partially successful in Bihar. Where developments have been completed, the retums are in line with
appraisal projections. However, there are indications that fish yields are under reported - for taxation
reasons - and therefore developments are probably more profitable than predicted at appraisal. This is
further supported by evidence of increased wealth and strong support for project activities within the
communities concemed. Experience under the project shows that NGOs have a role to play in helping to
ensure that the target group is reached and that co-operatives are managed and accounted in a transparent
way. For technologies that are already understood, it is important that the DOF maintains rigorous
training programs to ensure that extension workers are fully up to date in technological and business
developments.
Lessons Leamed
17.  There are five main lessons from project supported fisheries development in Bihar:
* Additional developments would have been achieved with more dynamic management of the
SPU, and if the disruption in its organization within Department of Fisheries had been avoided.
a A better analysis of the societies is needed before their inclusion in the project and precise
regulations should be established for ensuring transparent selection procedures for
beneficiaries - from the target group (with special attention to women);
=   NGOs do have a valuable role to play, especially with regards to assuring impartial selection
of target beneficiaries and in helping to regulate the business affairs of co-operatives.
However, these benefits can only be obtained if the NGO is recruited at the formative stages
and participates fully in the design of project activities and training programs.
*   Co-operatives should be enabled to play the maximum role possible (assuming adequate
safeguards are applied), including participating in competitive bids for civil works and goods
and in the provision of support services.
*   World Bank supervision of the fisheries development should have been more attentive, because
despite the fact that the basic technologies to be applied were known in India, there is
considerable scope for improving productivity.
Action Plan
18.  The following action plan was agreed at the end of the workshop:
*   In view of the reorientation of the SPU within MOA and the preparedness for development of
ten additional sites, the request by MOA to extend IDA Credit operation for another season is
likely to have significant social and economic benefits.
*   It was agreed that a further meeting would be held by 12/31/99 with the objective of better
integrating NGOs in fisheries development, to draft terms of reference and to decide on work
priorities.
*   DOF should immediately develop training programs to raise the awareness of extension staff to
new technologies and management practices in fisheries development and associated business
management. Similarly, management training should be provided for co-operative committees
and fish farners.
- 48 -



Annex 10. Borrower's Contribution (unedited)
World Bank Project on Shrimp & Fish Culture -
An overall Assessment on its Implementation
Central Project Unit, Department of Animal Husbandry & Dairying, Ministry of Agriculture
Fisheries Sector in India
India ranks sixth in fish production in the world and second in inland fish production. It's contribution
to the world fish production in recent years has been around 4%. With a cumulative growth rate of
4.2% per annum during the past decade, the current fish production (1998-99) is 5.26 million tons
(2.70 million tons of marine and 2.56 million tons inland). The provisional figures for fish production
during 1999-2000 are 5.605. million tons. The export of marine products during 1998-99 has been to
the tune of approximately 0.3 million tons valued at Rs.46 billion (US$1106.91 million). In recent
years, shrimps have accounted for 32% in terms of quantity and 67% in terms of value in the total
exports.
Status of Shrimp Culture in India
The potential brackishwater area available in the coastal region for shrimp culture is estimated between
1.2 million to 1.4 million hectares. Presently, an area of 135,000 ha is under culture with an average
production of about 70 000 tons per year. Cultured shrimps contribute 50% of the total shrimp
exports. The technology adopted ranges from traditional to improved traditional and extensive shrimp
farming. About 91% of the shrimp growers have a holding in between 0-2 ha, 6% between 2 to 5 ha
and the remaining 3% have an area of 5 ha and above.
There are around 250 shrimp hatcheries in the country with an installed production capacity of 11
billion. About 200 hatcheries are in operation producing about 7 billion shrimp larvae. There are about
33 feed mills with an annual installed production capacity of 150,000 metric tons. The current feed
requirement is in the range of 135,000 metric tons. The total investment in this enterprise is estimated
to be about US$500 million. Shrimp culture provides direct employment to about 0.3 million people
and ancillary units provides employment to 0.6-0.7 million people.
Modem shrimp farming has been introduced into Asian Countries during the late 1970's. In India,
commercial shrimp culture started gaining roots only during the mid-eighties. A lot of the credit for
catapulting shrimp farming to its present importance goes to the promotional efforts of Marine
Products Export Development Authority and the Ministry of Agriculture. It was a relatively late start
in India; by this time, shrimp farming had already reached peak in most of the neighboring Asian
Countries; in some the disease had already taken a heavy toll. The boom period of shrimp culture in
India started in 1991-92 and the bust came in 1995-96, with the large-scale outbreak of disease.
The rapid increase in shrimp production in response to lucrative market demand from outside the
country has come at a price. The fact that some States in India were new to shrimp farming, the
general ignorance of shrimp culture, and the lack of an extension service, led to a host of problems.
With grow-out farms expanding at exponential levels, shrimp fry were in great demand - so much so
that advance payments were made by farmers just to be assured of getting the number of post larval
(PL) required. Often PLs were sold when they were still at relatively young stage and highly
susceptible to externalities of commercial-scale-farming practices.
The Coastal Regulation Zone
The Coastal Zone Regulation (CRZ) Notification issued by the Ministry of Environment & Forest in
-49 -



February 1991 under the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 specifies that the coastal stretches
influenced by tidal actions up to 500 m from the high tide line shall be treated as coastal regulation
zone where setting up of new industries (except directly relating to water front) are prohibited.
Hatcheries have been excluded and drawl of ground water in 200-500 meters zone is permitted when
done manually through ordinary wells for drinking, horticulture, agriculture and fisheries purposes.
In a Writ Petition filed in the Supreme Court in 1994 regarding setting up of shrimp farms in coastal
areas, the Court held that aquaculture is an industry and hence covered by the prohibition imposed in
the CRZ Notification mentioned above.
The salient features of the Supreme Court's judgment are:
*  No shrimp culture pond can be constructed within CRZ except traditional and improved
traditional types of ponds
*  Shrimp culture ponds other than traditional and improved traditional set up within CRZ
shall be demolished
*  An Authority to be constituted under Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 to deal with the
situation
* Shrimp ponds outside CRZ to be set up with prior approval of the Authority.
* The Authority so constituted by the Central Government shall implement the precautionary
principle and the polluter pays principles
A Review Petition was filed by the Ministry of Agriculture and others seeking review of the Supreme
Court's judgment in January, 1997. The Review Petition came up for hearing on 21st March, 1997
and initially a month's stay on implementation of the judgment dated 11th December, 1996 was granted.
The stay was extended and in the hearing held on 19th August, 1997 the Court directed that while the
stay on demolition shall continue there will be no fresh stocking of seeds in the aquaculture farms
within 500 m of the high tide line which were required to be demolished. The Petition was last heard on
31 st October 2000 and the Review Petition was admitted. The Court also directed the Aquaculture
Authority to submit a comprehensive Environment Impact Assessment Report within three months of
the issuance of the Order i.e. by 31 January 2001.
The Aquaculture Authority
In pursuance of the directives of the Supreme Court relating to the setting up of the shrimp aquaculture
farms, the Aquaculture Authority has been set up through a Notification dated 6th February, 1997
under the provisions of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986. The Authority is functioning under the
administrative control of the Government of India in the Ministry of Agriculture headed by a retired
Judge of the Chennai High Court with experts drawn from the fields of aquaculture, pollution control
and environment protection, etc. as members. The primary objective of the Authority is to regulate
shrimp farming in the coastal areas. To promote sustainable shrimp aquaculture in the country, the
Authority has taken several steps, including publication of Guidelines for adopting improved
technology for increasing production and productivity in traditional and improved traditional systems of
shrimp farming.
Aquaculture Authority Bill
Considering the need for a legislation to regulate aquaculture and shrimp farming activities in the
coastal areas, Government of India introduced the Aquaculture Authority Bill 2000 to regulate shrimp
farming by setting up an Aquaculture Authority and to amend the CRZ Notification in order to clarify
that aquaculture is a permissible activity within the CRZ. The Bill was introduced in Rajya Sabha and
passed on 20th March, 1997, but could not be taken up in the Lok Sabha due to paucity of time.
- 50 -



Subsequently, the matter was taken up afresh and the Bill was again introduced in the Rajya Sabha on
28th February, 2000. The Bill was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Agriculture
who have presented their report before the Parliament in December 2000 with suggestion for some
amendments in the Bill.
The World Bank Project
The Project was first identified by a FAO/ CP Reconnaissance Mission in November 1989. As a
preparatory work, four studies were undertaken, viz. i) Macro-level survey for Brackishwater areas, ii)
Indicative assessment of domestic market potential for shrimp, iii) Study of manpower and training
requirements for shrimp culture and iv) Review and completion of biological and environmental
infornation related to culture of target shrimp species, etc. The first phase Preparation Mission visited
India in May/July 1990, and produced a Draft Preparation Report which formed the basis of the
Project. Thereafter, a second reconnaissance mission visited the country and suggested inclusion of
oxbow lakes and reservoirs in the Project.
The FAO/CP Project Preparation Mission visited India in March-April 1991 and submitted a detailed
Project report in June 1991. The Project Appraisal Mission of the World Bank visited India during
June-July, 1991 and the negotiations between Government of India and IDA were held in Washington
during November 1991. Thereafter, the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) was finalized in December,
1991 and the Project Agreement was signed between the participating States, Government of India and
IDA on 29.1.92. The Credit Agreement was also signed at the same time and the Credit became
effective from 28.2.92 for a period of seven years up to June 1999. The participating States are:
Andhra Pradesh (Shrimp & Fish), Bihar (Fish), Orissa (Shrimp & Fish), Uttar Pradesh (Fish) and
West Bengal (Shrimp).
The Project duration was extended on two occasions and concluded on 31 st December, 2000.
Objectives
The main objectives of the Project were:
*   increased shrimp and fresh water carp production
*   improvement in productivity, increased employment
*   better foreign exchange earnings
*   increased participation of women in fishery related socio-economic activities; and
*   utilization of lands which otherwise are lying waste
Project Benefits
The Project was originally envisaged to benefit nearly 14,000 households mainly from the poorest
sections of the society. Important associated developments under the Project included measures to
ensure environmental protection, socio-economic studies, environmental analyses and monitoring of
achievements.
Cost of the Project
The originally estimated cost of the Project was Rs.2836 million (equivalent to US$95 million) for the
entire Project duration with 90% of the total cost (or about US$85 million) available as IDA loan
assistance under standard terms of IDA credit. The balance 10% is to be shared among the Central/
State Governments and the beneficiaries. The State-wise break up of the cost is as follows:
States                                Amount (in million Rupees)
1. Andhra Pradesh                                       881.3
- 51 -



2. Orissa                                                  701.3
3. West Bengal                                            1021.3
4. Bihar                                                    55.7
5. Uttar Pradesh                                            70.1
Central Government                                       98.3
Total                                           2836.3
The major components of the Project are brackishwater shrimp component (80% Project cost), inland
fishery component (8%) consisting of reservoirs and oxbow lakes and Project management and training
(12%).
Project Implementation and Monitoring
As per the Project agreement, the five Project States are responsible to carry out the Project activities
defined in the Project document with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and fisheries
practices and shall provide funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
At the Govemment of India level, a Central Project Unit (CPU) is functioning in the Ministry of
Agriculture, Department of Animal Husbandry & Dairying (Fisheries Division) which is co-ordinating
and monitoring the Project activities. The responsibilities include training of Project personnel,
organizing technical consultancy services for the Project activities and meetings of the Central
Monitoring and Coordination Committee which meets once in six months to review the progress. The
CPU was also subsequently entrusted with works relating to environmental monitoring plans,
establishment of disease diagnostic laboratories, NGO action plans and co-ordinating the visits of
World Bank Review Missions, etc.
At the State level, State Project Units (SPUs) have been established to execute and monitor
implementation. The SPUs are also required to invite and evaluate tenders, award contracts, certify
and effect all payments and to co-ordinate with the participating Banks. They are required to select the
beneficiaries in consultation with the NGOs and to promote the Project concepts. Project actions had
significant impact in strengthening institutional operation. In particular, the creation and strengthening
of fisheries co-operatives, the reorientation of fisheries extension services, and the development of
analytical and monitoring capabilities. Fisheries extension services have improved in the Project areas,
bringing the agents closer to producers and strengthening their technical and organizational
involvement. A central project objective, i.e. to foster farmers' groups and co-operatives has partially
succeeded. The associated involvement of NGOs could not be attained to the desired_level.
Project Actions
Project actions were targeted on the poorest parts of the rural population in Bihar, West Bengal,
Andhra Pradesh, Orissa and Uttar Pradesh. The Project also made provisions for involving a limited
number of rural entrepreneurs. The focus of the Project actions was on the following four main
components:
* demonstrating semi-intensive shrimp culture
* supporting intensification of fish culture
*   developing support services for fisheries and shrimp production in the private sector; and
* supporting project management (CPU and SPUs) and institution development
Major developments have been achieved under the Project but not up to the levels envisaged in the
original proposals. The main reason for the shortfall is the inadequate preparation of the technical
details particularly for selection of site, engineering specifications and assessment of social groups
- 52 -



intended as beneficiaries and entrepreneurs. Some encouraging developments were there in the finally
selected sites under the shrimp culture component. However, frequent outbreak of White Spot Disease
(WSD) has severely affected sustainability of the culture operations. The implementation performance
of inland fisheries component was significant but the difficulties experienced in the shrimp component
overshadowed the performance under the fish culture component.
Apart from production developments, project activities made significant contributions in institutional
development, by strengthening extension and establishing breeding and nursery facilities for shrimp and
fish, analytical laboratory facilities. The need for the proposed development of ancillary support
services was negated by parallel investment in private sector.
Fundamental weaknesses in project operation included lack of a feeling of ownership by the target
beneficiaries; unfamiliarity by staff of Fisheries Department in planning, organizing and operating
commercial fisheries operations, particularly shrimp production; and lack of suitable agency for
providing credit for potential shrimp and fish producers vis-a-vis a fifteen months long suspension of
credit disbursement at a critical stage of construction,
Mid-term Review and Restructuring
The Review Mission of February, 1995 suggested restructuring of the entire Project. The exclusion of
some sites, slow progress and the reasons for restructuring the entire Project as suggested by the
Mission can be attributed to the following reasons:
*   Exclusion of large shrimp sites (Meendwip in West Bengal - 916 ha) due to environmental
considerations and inclusion in areas falling under national park (Narendrapur in Orissa
included under Bhitarkanika National Park).
*   Adoption of semi-intensive shrimp farming technology by the private sector, especially in
Andhra Pradesh (480 ha site in PT Palem).
*   Delayed decisions of some State Govemment(s) on account of resistance from section of
local population resulted in slow progress.
*  Non-delegation of powers and inadequate deployment of manpower.
*   Better incentives by local institutions compared to the assistance available under the
Project.
*   Natural calamities like rain and floods causing considerable damages and delays.
Accordingly, the restructured proposal was submitted to the Bank which was considered and agreed to
by the May 1996 Review Mission. The Bank agreed to curtail the total amount of credit by US$50
million and the restructured cost of the Project came down to Rs.1726.6 million. In physical terms, the
shrimp culture area came down from 3810 ha to 778.85 ha. Similarly there was some change in the
area pertaining to the inland fisheries component also. While the area under reservoirs increased from
45,830 ha to 65,525 ha, the area under oxbow lakes came down to 3,175 ha from 5,350 ha.
Suspension of Credit by World Bank
World Bank imposed suspension on disbursement of credit to the Project with effect from 24th January
1997 as action points on the following aspects were not effectively carried out to the satisfaction of the
Bank:
*   Selection of beneficiaries in compliance with agreement and inclusion of NGOs
*   Implementation of Environmental Management Plan
*   Staff for CPU
*   Revision of consultant's schedule
- 53 -



* Detailed NGO action plan
*   Detailed operational plan
After fulfillment of action on the above issues to the satisfaction of the Bank the suspension was lifted
on 31st March 1998. Works at shrimp sites resumed thereafter. However, valuable 15 months period
was lost due to suspension of the Project, which created an element of uncertainty amongst the Project
States and beneficiaries. The suspension of the credit disbursement had a serious, negative and lasting
effect on project developments, delaying some developments by up to two years and postponing others
indefinitely. Besides creating a situation of uncertainty about the future of the Project, it had its
repercussions with the budgeting of funds by Project States.
Financial and Physical Progress of the Project
A statement indicating state-wise allocation of funds, expenditures incurred, disbursement position, etc.
is given in Annex 2 to the ICR. The physical performance in respect of the major components, as
reported by the States is given below:
Andhra Pradesh: Under the shrimp component, culture operations were undertaken in Bhairavapalem
Sub-area I in May, 1999. Works at Sub-area II were also completed. Procurement of 105 numbers of
6.5 hp marine diesel engines were completed. Two technical managers were also appointed. 95
beneficiaries were selected and the ponds allotted to them. Three production groups and an apex body
was formed. However, premature harvest was resorted after sixty days due to white spot disease
(WSD). The culture operations were taken up in Sub-area I and II during April 2000 after completion
of the additional works pertaining to warehouse, cover for pump set, improvements to the slopes, etc.
However, the WSD struck once again causing damage to almost the entire crop. Under support services
only two shrimp hatcheries have been set up which have started production. Under fish component, 42
reservoirs out of 51 were developed by giving credit to 42 fishermen cooperative societies for purchase
of seed, feed, boats, nets and construction of pens/ rearing ponds. The per ha production of reservoirs
has increased to 125-150 kg/ha per year from the pre-project level of 50-25 kg/ha/annum. The per
capita income of beneficiary has gone up to Rs.5,000-6,000 from a level of Rs.1,500-2,000. Except
for one ice plant all the other support services in this component were dropped due to lack of interest
shown by the entrepreneurs.
Bihar: Out of the 27 lakes included under the Project, seven lakes have been fully developed. In the
next set of 10 lakes, deweeding has been completed by the fishermen co-operatives and the lakes are
ready for stocking. Construction works is in progress which is expected to be completed shortly. Work
in respect of the third phase of 10 lakes has also been initiated. NGOs have been contracted who are
involved in the awareness campaign, literacy program, etc. The productivity level in the seven lakes
leased out to cooperative societies has gone up with the stocking of the lake.
Orissa: In the shrimp component, civil works were completed in Banapada and cluster III and IV of
Jagatjore. The remaining two clusters of Jagatjore were expected to be completed by December 1999
and commissioning of the site was proposed for February 2000. However, due to the super cyclone
that hit the Orissa coast in October 1999, 33% of the Project site was affected resulting in an estimated
loss of about Rs.40 million. Selection of beneficiaries has been completed and ponds have been
allotted. Apex Body has been formed. The beneficiaries have also been given 15 days training.
In the Banapada site, the culture operations were initiated during middle of June 2000 and harvesting
has been completed in beneficiaries' ponds. The culture operations at Jagatjore cluster III have also
been taken up during August 2000 taking all the ponds of beneficiaries and entrepreneurs.
- 54 -



Under fish component 52 reservoirs have been developed against 79 and have been stocked with
advance fingerlings. Another four reservoirs are also expected to be developed shortly. A total of 2,120
fishermnen members have been benefited. The productivity increase is maintained at 30.39 kg/ha/year
between the pre-project and post-project period.
West Bengal: Civil works and electro-mechanical works have been completed in all the four shrimp
sites out of which three have been commissioned. The first crop in Digha despite disease and
premature harvest yielded an average of 11 tons per hectare of shrimp. The second crop was a total loss
due to disease and the third crop was undertaken with poly- culture of mullet and shrimp. The total
harvest from polyculture (in an area of 47 ha) is reported to be 540.70 kg of shrimp and 2000 kg of
mullet with a total revenue of Rs.2.41 lakhs. The fourth crop was stocked in March 2000 and was a
failure since the seed procurement was not adequately controlled and some wild seed gained entry into
the culture system. The first crop at Canning was affected by disease and partial harvest was resorted
to. Even subsequent attempts to raise shrimp crop have ended with mixed results - total crop failure to
partial harvests. At Dighirpar site the first culture operation (with mullets and shrimp) was taken up in
August 1999 with poly culture of mullets and shrimp and resulted in a poor crop. The site was stocked
again during April 2000 and has been affected by the white spot disease.
Amongst support services two shrimp hatcheries have been commissioned and the remaining two are
under construction. Although agreement was executed and first installment released for one ice plant,
the entrepreneur has not resumed construction activity. One IQF Plant has also been commissioned.
The other IQF plant is in progress.
Uttar Pradesh: Against the target of 22 reservoirs and 10 oxbow lakes, 18 reservoirs and 10 oxbow
lakes have been leased to co-operative societies. Recently, lease for five reservoirs have been canceled
on non-payment of lease rent. However, civil works were undertaken only in four oxbow lakes and
three reservoirs. Loans have been granted for setting up of 15 mini hatcheries out of which 10 have
become operational. No other envisaged support services were developed. NGOs have not been
contracted. A maximum yield of 277 kg/ha/year in lakes and 110 kg/ha/year in reservoirs has been
reported to be achieved compared to 151 kg/ha/year in lakes and 48.4 kg./ha/year in reservoirs prior to
the Project period.
The overall implementation of the fish culture component of the Project is considered satisfactory
although the reporting of catch was found inadequate. The fact that in the States like Andhra Pradesh
and Bihar, the technology adopted in the Project reservoirs/lakes are being adopted in the non-project
water bodies confirm the fact that the target group has taken up well the concept of stocking advanced
fingerlings for increased production. In the case of shrimp culture component, the Project has helped in
familiarizing the sophisticated technology with the target groups. However the investments are
considered to be beyond the reach of these beneficiaries.
Management
The overall management of the Project was carried out by the Central Project Unit (CPU) established in
Fisheries Division of the Ministry of Agriculture. A staff strength of 13 posts was sanctioned for
establishment of the CPU, out of which 4 posts were to be created afresh. However, only one post (of
FRIO) could be created and the other staff arrangement was to be made through redeployment or on
part-time basis. This resulted in considerable difficulty in regular monitoring and supervision of the
Project. CPU was co-ordinating the activities with the SPUs, the World Bank and the Ministry of
Finance. CMCC meetings were held once in six months to review the progress of the project. The
- 55 -



various action points emerged during the visits of Supervision Missions were pursued with the SPUs
for suitable follow up action. CPU monitored the functioning of technical consultants from Aquatic
Farms Limited, Ohio and the payment of their consultancy charges. An Artemia Consultant was also
appointed and the pre-feasibility study on production and processing of Artemia cyst was circulated to
interested parties. The functioning of the Management Consultants (EDA) was also monitored for
preparation of quarterly progress reports and their circulation. Periodic visits to shrimp sites were
undertaken and contingency measures during disease occurrence were worked out.
In order to facilitate the SPUs in preparation of NGO Action Plan, a NGO Consultant was contracted.
The CPU also engaged a Sr. Management Consultant to advise CPU and SPUs on shrimp culture
management practices during 1998-99. In addition, 18 Shrimp Culture Specialists at the local level
were selected and their services made available to the SPUs to work as local technical managers for
shrimp site. West Bengal, however, did not avail the services of the specialists. The Environmental
Monitoring and Management works both for shrimp and fish components were organized by
contracting the concerned ICAR Fisheries Research Institutes (Central Inland Capture Fisheries
Research Institute, Barrackpore and Central Institute of Brackishwater Aquaculture, Chennai). The
entire work was monitored and payment of the consultancy charges were also handled in the CPU. In
addition a Consultancy assignment for monitoring of inland fishery component of the Project was
organized and exchange of experiences between Project States was organized.
A total of 83 candidates from different SPUs and CPU were trained abroad in shrimp farming practices
and CPU co-ordinated the entire program. A new program for strengthening the disease diagnostic
laboratories of the SPUs and three ICAR Research institutes was formulated and the entire procedural
work for preparation of bid documents was carried out. Funds were also made available for
procurement of the basic field equipment required by the Fish Farmers Development agencies (FFDA),
Brackishwater Fish Farmers Development Agencies (BFDA) to the Project States.
The CPU also organized the following workshops:
*   Workshop on Construction Supervision for Shrimp Farms
-   Workshop on Shrimp Farm Operation
3 Introductory Workshop on the Concepts of Project Implementation
3 International Workshop on Development of Sustainable Management Practices in Shrimp
Farming
SPUs were responsible for day to day management of operations, mainly through fisheries extension
officers (FEOs). At farmer level, FEOs appear to have been attentive and supportive. However, the
support for keeping the farmers abreast with technical information and management procedures was
inadequate. These aspects were particularly important in view of the commercial nature of the main
components of the Project. The entrepreneurs who were required to play the role of guide could not
provide any assistance to the small beneficiaries.
In the case of fish culture component, it is felt that the staff was inadequate to manage the large number
of water bodies under the Project which resulted in insufficient monitoring of the program.
Assessment of Project Implementation
Shrimp
It is a fact that the Project enabled small-scale shrimp farmers living below poverty line to undertake
scientific shrimp farming, and
*   familiarize with sophisticated technology
*   investments beyond their reach could be achieved
- 56 -



*   training on minute details of culture aspects, etc.
*   the infrastructure created for water exchange, hatchery produced seed, environmental
management plans, etc. shall go a long-way in building sound and sustainable development
of shrimp culture, and
* shall serve as model/pilot project for co-operative farming activities
The Project enabled small scale shrimp farmers living below poverty line to undertake scientific shrimp
farming and to familiarize with the sophisticated technology. However the repeated occurrence of
shrimp disease had a demoralizing effect and the beneficiaries could not get proper advice and guidance
resulting in panic harvesting. The experience gained has however demonstrated that it is possible to
obtain a reasonable return from shrimp culture even in the presence of disease provided suitable
management and culturing protocols are adopted.
Fish
Under the fish component the following benefits were noticed:
*   adoption of the technology of stocking advanced fingerlings for higher rate of survival and
increased productivity of reservoir by the fish growers
*   benefits are visible in improved living standards, savings, children education, health care,
etc.
_   manpower development in managerial functions -elected management body, marketing of
products at competitive rates, etc.
The Inland Fisheries Component of the Project has also led to spin-offs and non-project water bodies
too are beginning to adopt Project proposed technology in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. Orissa has already
developed a statewide reservoir development policy which is based on the Project technology. All water
bodies in Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh and a majority in Orissa and Bihar have been developed
and stocked using the Project technology. The development objectives for fish culture have been
successfully achieved with adoption of technology, good cooperative functioning and reasonable
reporting of catch data.
The studies relating to preparation of environmental management plans for the shrimp sites and oxbow
lakes (Bihar and Uttar Pradesh) have achieved good progress.
Constraints in implementation of the Project
At the outset it may be appropriate to state that while the basic concept is sound from a technical point
of view, actual implementation involved risks in terms of (i) the lack of experience in the country to
build and organize large farms with sophisticated machinery and first time shrimp farmers; (ii) required
synergy between small-scale operators and entrepreneurs in the same farms, and (iii) capacity and
commercial orientation of the State Govemment to handle such mega ventures.
It is felt that for a large, multi-agency complex Project involving hundreds of beneficiaries from the
poorest section of the society, a small pilot-scale attempt should have been made. The ICR-Mission
visiting the Project sites during October 1999 were of the similar view and their observations on this
aspect are quoted below:
"The Project objectives appear, superficially, to be straightforward. However, the range of
different actions required for successfully implementing the developments is highly
interdependent and quite complex. The scale of operation for demonstrating new management
concepts for shrimp production appears to be extremely ambitious. For this reason, a program
- 57 -



approach, starting with a pilot development, might have been more appropriate, with a project
implementation plan allowing for two-years start up activities. Even in fish component, there
were no projects of this magnitude in the past involving a large number of bencficiaries at one
place. In shrimp, the problems are more complicated involving larger sites where things
become unmanageable at times, especially on occasions like shrimp disease".
The semi-intensive culture technology envisaged in SAR for shrimp culture necessitated high
investments. However, the technology had to be diluted to extensive culture on account of Supreme
Court's directives and the pronounced shift to responsible and sustainable aquaculture practices. With
the reduced stocking, the productivity level and the resultant income are not commensurate with the
investments. Consequent to revisions in the economic according to the level of technology (improved
traditional to extensive), problems concerning repayment of development costs, requests for
moratorium, reduced lease rent and extended repayment schedule, have cropped up and are proving to
be major impediments in continuation of the Project.
Disease has played havoc and its repeated occurrence at the initial period has demoralized the
beneficiaries. Motivating the beneficiary groups and awareness building has been a Herculean task for
which the, SPU, NGOs and extension workers have proved to be inexperienced. All the commissioned
shrimp sites were afflicted by White Spot Disease (WSD) in varying intensities and resulted in a much
reduced shrimp output. Analysis of the reasons would indicate that the beneficiaries themselves are to
be blamed in most of the occasions for stocking wild seed, failure to chlorinate the affected ponds,
unhygenic practices and allowing movement of pet animals in the pond areas, late stocking of the seed,
etc. Constructional defects have also contributed in the ineffective arresting of disease spread.
Investments on NGO, when there has been little output have resulted in infructuous expenditure. This
has been largely due to the absence of qualified NGOs with experience of work in fisheries sector,
especially in shrimp States.
Unlike fish component, where there is a well established institutional structure in the form of
co-operative Societies which needed only marginal improvement and revamping, the institutional
framework in shrimp component is weak - and yet in the formative stage. The technical guidance was
lacking, as there was no suitably trained extension staff in the required number to render on the spot
advice. The project objectives and the obligations and the financial implications of involvement have
not been properly understood by the beneficiary groups due to which decision were taken by the
beneficiaries in a very casual way.
Cluster approach of bringing in together both small beneficiaries and entrepreneurs sharing common
facilities have resulted in practical problems. Entrepreneurs well established in their venture and who
are in a position to guide and assist financially and technically were not interested due to small
holdings. Middle level entrepreneurs selected were unable to protect the beneficiaries as they were too
involved in their own problems of finance management, competence, etc. The compatibility between
these two groups appeared lacking in all aspects and no synergy could be developed so far.
In spite of reconnaissance survey and limited micro level surveys, etc. the site selection were not ideal
resulting in changes and ultimately dropping of sites. This resulted in infructuous expenditure.
Adequate micro-level planning should have preceded the fixing of the loan components.
The project has lacked flexibility to accommodate required changes on the basis of felt needs from
time to time. The conditions put forth by the Bank on issues like NGO involvement, beneficiaries'
selection, rehabilitation of encroachers, environmental concerns, etc. are some of the examples.
- 58 -



Provisions like dwelling places for beneficiaries at site whose villages are far off were not thought of.
This has put additional constraint on the beneficiaries.
The sites have been affected by cyclones in Andhra Pradesh and Orissa and bad weather conditions and
heavy annual rain falls leading to salinity fluctuations in West Bengal. Besides damages due to rains,
floods and cyclone, the high cost pumping system (electro-mechanical ) is also not compatible with the
required water exchange levels at present required for extensive culture systems.
The idea of having the CPU as an independent decision making body to directly co-ordinate the
activities as spelt out in SAR was not a practical proposition in the Government of India set up, The
CPU has to function within the set procedures of the Government, especially on the issues concerning
financial implications etc. The change of personnel in the project management does not help in
maintaining the continuity of the project concept and programs resulting in delays at different levels.
The management aspects, therefore, continued to be a weak link in the Project. Further, CPU and
SPUs were not adequately manned and the frequent change of personnel affected the continuity of the
Project. Against the approved staff strength of 13 for the CPU, four posts (one DC, one FRIO and 2
STAs) were to be created and the other staff was to be adjusted through redeployment of the existing
staff. However, only one post of FRIO was created and the remaining posts could not be created due to
objections from Ministry of Finance though the matter was taken up at Minister's level. This
subsequently had a major impact on the monitoring and back stopping of the Project.
The CPU was responsible for overall Project co-ordination, including supporting SPU, verifying work
programs, budgets, procurement and financing arrangements, managing the technical assistance and
studies, monitoring project achievements, and providing a conduit with the World Bank. Because of the
complex nature of overall project operations, this required a dynamic approach focused on enabling
project development and problem solving.
Non-delegation of powers to the Heads of SPU resulted in delayed decisions and financial sanctions.
Delayed decision of State Governments on account of resistance from local populations, inability of the
States administration to clear Project areas and prolonged delay in tendering farm construction of
approved sites, etc., contributed to the slow progress. The complex tendering procedures also impeded
the progress of work at times
The investments in support services (hatcheries, ice plants and IQF facilities) have been modest
compared with the revised targets agreed at MTR. This has been due largely to the stagnation in the
shrimp industry starting from 1995 due to WSD, and thereafter due to uncertainty and reduced
investment in shrimp farming, resulting from the Supreme court judgment. Also, with the delay in
commissioning of the Project shrimp sites, the demand for seed did not materialize as per expected
schedule. The private sector initiatives also took over some Project support service investments. Some
facilities created under the Project, therefore suffered. Being skeptical about the outcome of the project,
its profitability, viability and risks, entrepreneurs did not show much interest to set up support services
and many of them were dropped as the Project progressed.
Better incentives and cheaper interest rates provided by the local institutions compared to the assistance
provided under the World Bank Project acted against the interest of the Project (e.g. dropping of all
oxbow lake program by West Bengal on account of National Cooperative Development Corporations
assistance).
- 59 -



The large size of the Project and accompanying innovations, it is evident that the Project designs were
either partially or not fully understood by the Project States. Other factors that impacted Project
implementation subsequently relate to design and engineering deficiencies, inadequate provisions for
support of beneficiaries, and inconsistent and inadequate management and supervision, including
availability of technical expertise and back stopping.
It is felt that there was no involvement of primary stakeholders (direct beneficiaries) in the design stage
and little consideration was given to altemative approaches to development. Similarly, State
Governments went ahead with the site construction without any participation by primary stakeholders.
The beneficiaries in most cases were not aware of the project concept, their financial responsibility etc.
This resulted in a casual attitude as beneficiaries thought that they are not accountable for any lapses or
losses incurred in the culture activities. This was the reason that the beneficiaries failed to react to the
urgent needs during disease crisis etc. and failed in following the protocols advised by technical
consultants / extension officers.
Suggestions
The role of the State is paramount in success of shrimp sites that have been set up under the Project.
The State Departments of Fisheries have to develop a complete sense of engendering ownership of the
facilities and move ahead with the beneficiaries in a participatory mode.
If the Project is to succeed a mechanism is needed to arrive at proper coordination and collective
responsibility. Compatibility between the different user group of the facilities that have been set up is
essential for future sustainability.
The May, 2000 Review Mission recommended adoption of some protocols including administering
immuno-stimulants along with feed, histological tests for early identification of virus in the cells etc.
which were circulated to the Project States. Some of them have already initiated action which helped in
the partial harvests which enabled the beneficiaries for an aggregate realization from sale of shrimp.
Other protocols relating to pond chlorination, pond treatment and cleanliness, and bio-security are
additional developments, which considerably reduce the chances of WSD spread.
The introduction of modem diagnostic tools such as DOT/blot and PCR technique to check the
presence or absence of white spot virus in the shrimp fry prior to purchase or stocking helps reduce the
risk. In addition, new management techniques such as bio-remediation through various microorganisms
and enzymes, probiotics and immuno-stimulants added to the feed are proving to be useful and should
be used.
Availability of technical expertise at each shrimp site is essential. This site-level support will also
instill confidence in the beneficiaries. The past experience with the BFDA officials has met with
limited success. The situation can only improve with the involvement of experts who have hands-on
experience in managing shrimp farms. Local experts are available with sufficient experience and the
States should immediately recruit such experts to help the beneficiaries. Their services can be availed
till the beneficiaries are able to manage the sites on their own.
Commercial orientation of the BFDA's has been highlighted in successive observations of the Missions
fielded by World Banks. This aspect continues to be unattended and is one of the weakest link in the
Project. A training module should be immediately developed and implemented targeting BFDA staff
management body functionaries and Production Group Heads.
- 60 -



The Project will continue to require intense technical backstopping from the Ministry of Agriculture
and the concerned R&D Institutes. Provisions must be made to ensure adequate extension support in
the Annual Plan(s) of the Ministry of Agriculture.
Reduction of the lease rent and re-scheduling of the payment may be considered to keep the involvement
of beneficiaries intact.
Efforts have to be made to develop program of brood stock development at National level.
Establishment of Crop Protection Fund is also essential to tackle the emergency situation for which
beneficiaries are to be prepared mentally. Building up of co-operative spirit and living together is a
strong felt need. In view of clear threat of the White Spot Disease and the bad claim experience in the
concerned area, the insurance companies have decided not to extend the comprehensive cover for
shrimp/prawn farming activities. In such an eventuality the initiative has to be taken by the
beneficiaries themselves/apex bodies to have the in-house farm insurance by contributing a fixed sum
during harvesting of each crop.
Special assistance after a couple of years of wear and tear for renovation of ponds & infrastructure and
one time subsidy for inputs may be considered under the Centrally Sponsored Scheme on Integrated
Development of Brackishwater Aquaculture in view of the disease problem. In the normal times the
apex body / governing body should devise a self-supporting system so that such maintenance costs are
met out of the mandatory contributions from beneficiaries on an annual basis.
Shrimp beneficiaries' ponds may also be considered for inclusion under satellite farming system where
the operations could be guided and financed by corporate sector.
Field laboratories with adequate facilities at all the sites are essential to provide first hand diagnosis and
they should be set up immediately. The three advanced laboratories set up under the Project should
have functional links with the field laboratories to provide time-bound services to the beneficiaries.
Elaborate and comprehensive guidelines should be prepared on sustainable shrimp aquaculture and
translated in Bengali, Oriya and Telugu so that the beneficiaries can be properly educated. This would
help to mitigate the problems, especially those related to disease and health management.
Production groups may be considered for transformation into well-organized cooperative structures
with guidance from Government.
- 61 -



