Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2329 IN
                 (Shrimp and Fish Culture Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                and
                      STATE OF ANDHRA PRADESH
                          STATE OF BIHAR
                          STATE OF ORISSA
                      STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH
                                and
                       STATE OF WEST BENGAL
                      Dated January 29, 1992
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2329 IN
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated January 29, 1992, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and STATE OF ANDHRA
PRADESH, STATE OF BIHAR, STATE OF ORISSA, STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH and
STATE OF WEST BENGAL, acting by their respective Governors (Project
States).
      WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between INDIA, acting by its President (the Borrower) and
the Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to sixty-two
million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 62,900,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that the Project
States agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as
are set forth in this Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Project States, in consideration of the
Association's entering into the Development Credit Agreement with
the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in
this Agreement;
Page  2
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
      Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 2.01. The Project States declare their commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out
Parts A, B and C of the Project with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
engineering and fisheries practices, and shall provide, or cause to
be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
      Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Project States shall carry out the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and
9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts A, B and C
of the Project.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Project States shall, at the request of
the Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to
the progress of the Project, the performance of their respective
obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to the
purposes of the Credit.
      (b)   The Project States shall promptly inform the Association
of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance by the Project States of their respective
obligations under this Agreement.
      Section 2.05. (a) Except as the Association may otherwise
agree, each Project State shall ensure that the relevant
Participating Bank, acting as a financial agent on behalf of such
State, provides relevant Project Sub-loans to relevant Project
Beneficiaries for carrying out relevant Sub-projects under Parts A.2
and B.2 of the Project in accordance with:
            (i)   the provisions of the relevant Participation
                  Agreement;
           (ii)   terms and conditions of Project Sub-loans
                  satisfactory to the Association including those
                  set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and
          (iii)   criteria satisfactory to the Association,
                  including those set forth in Schedule 3 to this
                  Agreement, for the selection of: (A) Individual
                  Shrimp Beneficiaries eligible to receive Shrimp
                  Working Capital Sub-loans for carrying out Shrimp
                  Working Capital Sub-projects; and (B) Cooperative
                  Beneficiaries eligible to receive Category I Fish
                  Working Capital Sub-loans and Category II Fish
                  Working Capital Sub-loans for carrying out
                  Category I Fish Working Capital Sub-projects and
                  Category II Fish Working Capital Sub-projects,
Page  3
                  respectively.
      (b)   Each Project State shall exercise its rights under the
relevant Participation Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of such State and the Association, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, such State shall not assign,
amend, abrogate or waive such Participation Agreement or any
provision thereof.
      (c)   Each Project State shall ensure that the relevant
Participating Bank exercises its rights under the relevant Project
Sub-loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
such Participating Bank, such State and the Association, and shall
further ensure that except as such State shall otherwise agree, such
Participating Bank shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive such
Sub-loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
      Section 2.06. The relevant Project States shall carry out the
development of shrimp ponds under Part A.1 (a) of the Project in
such sites acceptable to the Association.
      Section 2.07. Each Project State shall ensure that its FFDA
and BFDA are adequately staffed with personnel having experience in
social and cooperative development.
      Section 2.08. For the purpose of implementing Part C.3 of the
Project, each Project State shall carry out such mitigatory actions,
satisfactory to the Association, as required for preventing,
reducing or eliminating the potential negative effects of the
Project on the environment.
      Section 2.09. Except as the Association may otherwise agree,
each Project State shall take steps, satisfactory to the
Association, to ensure that shrimp ponds developed under Part A.1 of
the Project and fishing reservoirs and ox-bow lakes developed under
Part B.1 of the Project shall be leased immediately upon their
completion under leases containing such terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association including those set forth in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.10. Each Project State shall ensure that such Shrimp
Sub-projects as carried out under Part A.2 of the Project by
entities wholly- or partially-owned by the State included within the
category of Shrimp Beneficiaries shall:
      (a)   upon the completion of such Shrimp Sub-projects be
managed through entities wholly- or majority-owned by private
entrepreneurs under arrangements, including performance criteria,
satisfactory to the Association; and
      (b)   within a period not exceeding 2 years after such
completion, take steps, satisfactory to the Association, to divest
the State's interests in such entities wholly- or partially-owned by
the State.
                            ARTICLE III
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 3.01. (a) The Project States shall maintain records
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of
Parts A, B and C of the Project of the departments or agencies of
the Project States responsible for carrying out the Project.
      (b)   The Project States shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal
                  year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                  auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the
Page  4
                  Association;
           (ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available,
                  but in any case not later than nine months after
                  the end of each such year: (A) certified copies
                  of its financial statements for such year as so
                  audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said
                  auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                  Association shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and financial
                  statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
                  Association shall from time to time reasonably
                  request.
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
      Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
      Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of the Project States thereunder shall terminate on
the earlier of the following two dates:
            (i)   the date on which the Development Credit
                  Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
                  terms; or
           (ii)   the date 20 years after the date of this
                  Agreement.
      (b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify the
Project States of this event.
      Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                             ARTICLE V
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
      Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified
or at such other address as such party shall have designated by
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                   197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA),
                                             64145 (WUI) or
Page  5
                                             82987 (FTCC)
      For Andhra Pradesh:
            Chief Secretary
            Government of Andhra Pradesh
            Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh 500022, India
            Cable address:
                  CHIEFSEC
                  Hyderabad
                  Andhra Pradesh, India
      For Bihar:
            Chief Secretary
            Government of Bihar
            Patna 800001
            Orissa, India
            Cable address:
                  CHIEFSEC
                  Patna, Bihar
                  India
      For Orissa:
            Chief Secretary
            Government of Orissa
            Bhubaneshwar 751001
            India
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  CHIEFSEC                  953067210
                  Bhubaneshwar
                  Orissa, India
      For Uttar Pradesh:
            Chief Secretary
            Government of Uttar Pradesh
            Luckhnow
            Uttar Pradesh,
            India
            Cable address:
                  CHIEFSEC
                  Luckhnow
                  Uttar Pradesh,
                  India
      For West Bengal:
            Chief Secretary
            Government of West Bengal
            Calcutta
            West Bengal, India
            Cable address:
                  CHIEFSEC
                  Calcutta
                  West Bengal,
                  India
      Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of any Project State may be taken or executed by
Page  6
its Chief Secretary or such other person or persons as such Project
State shall designate in writing, and such Project State shall
furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and
the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
      Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Joseph Wood
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                        South Asia
                  STATE OF ANDHRA PRADESH
                  STATE OF BIHAR
                  STATE OF ORISSA
                  STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH
                  STATE OF WEST BENGAL
                  By /s/ Lalit Mansingh
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:      Procurement Procedures
1.    Except as provided in paragraphs 2 and 3 hereof, civil works,
and equipment and vehicles under Categories (1) and (2), repec-
tively, of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development
Credit Agreement shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.    Civil works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$10,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
$4,000,000, may be carried out through force account.
3.    Equipment and vehicles estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $20,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed the equivalent of $2,600,000 may be, and boats and furniture
shall be, procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at least
three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
4.    Fishmeal shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at
least three suppliers from at least three different countries
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
Part B:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
Page  7
      (a)   With respect to each contract for civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more and each contract for
equipment, fishmeal and vehicles estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to
said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to
the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in
respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit
Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower and the Project States in
carrying out the Project, the Borrower and the Project States shall
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                 Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans
1.    Each Project Sub-loan shall be made by a Participating Bank
pursuant to the provisions of the relevant Participation Agreement
and, unless otherwise agreed by the Association, shall include the
following terms and conditions:
      (a)   Amount. (i) The amount of a Shrimp Sub-loan for a Shrimp
            Sub-project or a Fish Sub-loan for a Fish Sub-project
            shall not exceed 80% of the cost of such Sub-project.
            (ii) The amount of a Shrimp Working Capital Sub-loan for
            a Shrimp Working Capital Sub-project, or a Category I
            Fish Working Capital Sub-loan for a Category I Fish
            Working Capital Sub-project, or a Category II Fish
            Working Capital Sub-loan for a Category II Fish Working
            Capital Sub-project may be up to 100% of the cost of
            such Sub-project.
      (b)   Term. (i) Shrimp Sub-loans and Fish Sub-loans may be
            made for a term of up to ten years and may include a
            grace period not exceeding one year. (ii) Shrimp Working
            Capital Sub-loans, Category I Fish Working Capital Sub-
            loans and Category II Fish Working Capital Sub-loans may
            be made for a term of up to three years.
      (c)   Interest. The interest rate for each Project Sub-loan
Page  8
            (i) referred to in clause b (i) of this paragraph shall
            be at the prevailing market rate but not less than 16%;
            and (ii) referred to in clause b (ii) of this paragraph
            shall be at the prevailing market rate but not less than
            14%.
      (d)   Security. For the payment of principal and interest on
            Project Sub-loans, the normal security arrangements of
            the Participating Banks shall be followed.
      (e)   Disbursements. Disbursements under a Project Sub-loan
            shall be made based on progress in the implementation of
            the respective Sub-project.
2.    No Project Sub-loan for a Sub-project shall be made unless:
      (a)   in the case of a Shrimp Working Capital Sub-loan to an
Individual Shrimp Beneficiary, and a Category I Fish Working Capital
Sub-loan and a Category II Fish Working Capital Sub-loan to a
Cooperative Beneficiary, such Beneficiaries shall have been selected
by the relevant Project States in accordance with criteria,
satisfactory to the Association, including those set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
      (b)   the relevant Participating Bank shall have appraised
such Sub-project for its technical, financial and economic
soundness; and
      (c)   the relevant Project State shall have approved such Sub-
project based on such appraisal and the application, if necessary,
of such selection criteria.
3.    A Shrimp Sub-loan made to an entity wholly- or partially-owned
by the State included within the category of Shrimp Beneficiary for
a Shrimp Sub-project under Part A.2 of the Project shall include the
following additional undertakings from such entity:
      (a)   that such entity wholly- or partially-owned by the State
shall manage such Shrimp Sub-project upon its completion through an
entity wholly- or partially-owned by private entrepreneurs under
arrangements, including performance criteria, satisfactory to the
Association; and
      (b)   that within a period not exceeding 2 years after such
completion, such entity wholly- or partially-owned by the State
shall take steps, satisfactory to the Association, to divest the
State's interest in such entity.
4.    Project Sub-loans shall be made on terms whereby the
Participating Banks shall obtain, by Project Sub-loan Agreements
with Project Beneficiaries, rights adequate to protect the interests
of the Association, the Participating Banks and the Project States,
including, the right to:
      (a)   require Project Beneficiaries to carry out and operate
the respective Sub-projects with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance with sound technical, financial and managerial standards
and to maintain adequate records;
      (b)   require that: (i) the goods and works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the respective Project Sub-loans shall be
purchased or executed at a reasonable price, account being taken
also of other relevant factors such as time of delivery and
efficiency and reliability of the goods and availability of
maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor, and, in the case of
works, of their quality and the competence of the parties executing
them; and (ii) such goods and works shall be used exclusively in the
carrying out of the respective Sub-projects;
      (c)   inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of
the Association or the Project States if they shall so request, such
goods, works, plants and construction included in the Sub-projects,
Page  9
the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
      (d)   obtain all such information as the Association, the
Participating Banks or the Project States shall reasonably request
relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and
financial condition of the Project Beneficiaries and to the benefits
to be derived from the Sub-projects; and
      (e)   suspend or terminate the right of the Project
Beneficiaries to the use of the proceeds of the respective Project
Sub-loans upon failure by them to perform their obligations under
the respective Sub-loan Agreements or upon notice by the Association
that it intends to exercise its remedies under Article V of the
Development Credit Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 3
             Procedures and Criteria for Selection of
                Individual Shrimp Beneficiaries and
             Cooperative Beneficiaries referred to in
             Section 2.05 (a) (iii) of this Agreement
I.    Individual Shrimp Beneficiaries (ISBs)
1.    ISBs shall be selected for carrying out Shrimp Working Capital
Sub-projects utilizing the proceeds of Shrimp Working Capital Sub-
loans under Part A.2 of the Project by a sub-committee including the
Block Development Officer, a representative of the local Panchayat,
the Fisheries Extension Officer or the District Fisheries Officer,
the local Bank Manager of the Participating Bank, the Chief
executive officer of the BFDA, and a representative of an active
non-governmental organization. At least 10% of ISBs shall be
targetted to women head of households selected in accordance with
paragraph 3 below.
2.    The process of selection shall be phased so as to coincide
with the development of the shrimp pond sites under Part A.1 (a) of
the Project, to enable production groups referred to in paragraph 6
of Section I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement to be formed at a
sufficiently early stage and to permit commercial and technical
training to be provided before such sites are leased pursuant to
Section 2.09 of this Agreement.
3.    The criteria to be applied for the selection of ISBs shall be
as follows:
      (a)   such individuals shall be selected from the weaker
socio-economic sections to be determined based on a socio-economic
review of the villages adjacent to the sites referred to in
paragraph 2 above;
      (b)   individuals belonging to the lowest income group of such
section shall have priority;
      (c)   they shall be certified by an appropriate official to be
engaged in fishing activities for their normal occupation; and
      (d)   they shall enter into leases in accordance with the
provisions of Section I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
II.   Cooperative Beneficiaries (CBs)
1.    The criteria to be applied for the selection of CBs shall be
as follows:
      (a)   those cooperatives in the Project States shall be
selected that shall have revised their by-laws in a manner
satisfactory to the Association providing, inter alia, for the
following:
            (i)   membership shall be restricted to those engaged
                  in fishing activities for their normal
Page  10
                  occupation;
           (ii)   at least 30% of members shall be targetted to
                  women, either individually or jointly, including
                  at least 10% to female head of households;
          (iii)   the managing committee shall be elected for not
                  longer than a perod of three years with no more
                  than three nominated members, including one
                  representative from an active non-governmental
                  organization;
           (iv)   the Chairman of the managing committee shall be
                  from one of the elected members of such committee
                  and at least two such members shall be women; and
            (v)   proper accounts shall be maintained which shall
                  be annually audited;
      (b)   they shall be creditworthy and without any arrears;
      (c)   they shall adhere to all conservation and regulatory
requirements of the relevant Project States; and
      (d)   they shall enter into new lease arrangements in
accordance with Section II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and shall
not have conflicting prior leases.
2.    The process of selection shall be phased so as to coincide
with the development of the fish reservoirs and ox-bow lakes under
Part B.1 of the Project and to permit commercial and technical
training before such developments are leased pursuant to Section
2.09 of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 4
              Terms and Conditions of Leases referred
               to in Section 2.09 of this Agreement
I.    Leases of Shrimp Ponds Developed under Part A.1 of the
      Project
1.    At least 70% of such ponds to be leased shall be targetted to
Individual Shrimp Beneficiaries selected in accordance with
procedures and criteria set forth in Section I of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement. Up to a maximum of 30% of such ponds to be leased shall
be targetted to private entrepreneurs included within the category
of Shrimp Beneficiaries carrying out Shrimp Sub-projects utilizing
the proceeds of Shrimp Sub-loans (hereinafter "private
entrepreneurs") (Individual Shrimp Beneficiaries and private
entrepreneurs are sometimes collectively referred to herein as
"Lessees").
2.    Each pond shall be leased pursuant to a written Lease
Agreement (hereinafter "Lease Agreement") between a relevant Project
State (hereinafter the "Lessor"), a Lessee and a Participating Bank,
the involvement of such Bank to be limited for purposes of
paragraphs 3 and 5 hereof.
3.    Lease payments shall be made by a Lessee through the
Participating Bank party to the Lease Agreement.
4.    Lease payments shall be calculated according to the following
principles:
      (a)   the overall cost of each site development shall first be
determined, taking into account the cost of the clusters within such
site, including common services and ponds, and 25% of the cost of
the protection dykes, but excluding the cost of approach roads and
electricity connections outside the clusters;
      (b)   where such overall cost exceeds 5% of the estimated cost
Page  11
of each such site, the actual amount of such overall cost to be used
in setting lease payments shall be satisfactory to the Association;
      (c)   once the overall cost of each site development is
determined pursuant to clauses (a) and (b) of this paragraph 4, such
cost shall be apportioned to the pond subject to the lease
(hereinafter "pond cost");
      (d)   private entrepreneurs shall make a down payment of 20%
of such pond cost, with lease payments for the pond subject to the
lease calculated to amortize the remaining 80% of the pond cost over
20 years at an interest rate of 16% per annum, payable twice per
year, with a grace period of six months; and
      (e)   in the case of Individual Shrimp Beneficiaries, lease
payments shall be calculated to amortize the entire pond cost over
20 years at an interest rate of 14% per annum, payable twice per
year, with a grace period of six months.
5.    Individual Shrimp Beneficiaries shall be required to deposit
at least 50% of their income from the first crop in the
Participating Bank, party to the Lease Agreement, to be used
exclusively for inputs for the second crop.
6.    The Lessees of each cluster of ponds shall commit to organize
themselves into production groups for purposes, inter alia, of
assisting each other in the adoption of technical know-how and
extension services, and for other cooperative activities to advance
the interest of the cluster.
7.    Lessees of each cluster of ponds shall agree to pay to the
relevant BFDA an annual service charge sufficient to cover the
direct operating and maintenance cost for the common services of the
clusters.
8.    The Lease Agreement shall be for a term of 15 years with an
automatic option for a 5 year renewal, provided the Lessee fulfills
its financial and production group obligations. In addition, it
shall have a first option for a subsequent lease, provided it
continues to fulfill such obligations.
9.    Where the Lessee is in arrears for at least two payments, the
Lessor shall have the right to terminate the Lease Agreement, to
sell any available production to satisfy the arrears and to enter
into a new Lease Agreement with another Lessee.
II.   Lease of Fish Reservoirs and Ox-bow Lakes Developed under
      Part B.1 of the Project
1.    Such fish reservoirs and ox-bow lakes shall be leased to
Cooperative Beneficiaries selected in accordance with procedures and
criteria set forth in Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement for
carrying out Category I Fish Working Capital Sub-projects and
Category II Fish Working Capital Sub-projects utilizing the proceeds
of Category I Fish Working Capital Sub-loans and Category II Fish
Working Sub-loans, respectively.
2.    Such leases shall be made pursuant to a written Lease
Agreement hereinafter ("Lease Agreement") between a relevant Project
State (Lessor) and a Cooperative Beneficiary (Lessee).
3.    Such Lease Agreements shall be entered into with only those
Cooperative Beneficiaries that do not have conflicting prior leases.
4.    The amount of the lease payments shall be calculated to cover
at least 50% of the incremental cost of the infrastructure
development of the reservoirs and ox-bow lakes apportioned to the
area subject to the lease over the life of the new Lease Agreement
which shall be for 5 years with an automatic option for a five year
renewal. Lease payments shall be made twice a year.
5.    Where the Lessee is in arrears for at least two payments, the
Lessor shall have the right to terminate the Lease Agreement, to
Page  12
sell any available production to satisfy the arrears and to enter
into a new Lease Agreement with another lessee.
6.    The Lessee shall commit to properly maintain the leased areas
and where the Lessor carries out such maintenance due to the neglect
of the Lessee, the Lessor shall be entitled to recover the cost
thereof from the Lessee.
