Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20577-BIH
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-26380; IDA-2638 1)
ON AN
IDA CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR7.0 MILLION
TO
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
FOR AN
EMERGENCY PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECT
Juiie 28. 2000
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank
authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective on Juiie 27, 2000)
Currency Unit = Konvertible Mark (KM)
KM I = US$ 0.47949
US$1 = KM 2.08555
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BiH      Bosnia and Herzegovina
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
DM       Deutsche Marks
ETF      Employment and Training Foundation
IDA      Intemational Development Association
MIS      Management Information System
NGO       Non-Governmental Organization
O&M       Operations and Maintenance
OHR       Office of the High Representative
OSCE       Office for Security and Cooperation in Europe
PIU      Project Implementation Unit
PWEP       Public Works and Employment Project
RS      Republika Srpska
TOR      Terms of Reference
UNDP       United Nations Development Program
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager/Director:   Christiaan J. Poortman
Sector Manager:     Michal Rutkowski
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Sarah Forster
ii



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY PUBLIC WORKS AND EMPLOYMENT PROJECT
CREDIT 2904-BOS
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                               I
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                              I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry    2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                       3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                         9
6. Sustainability                                                            10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                             11
8. Lessons Leamed                                                            13
9. Partner Comments                                                          15
10. Additional Information                                                   15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                         16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                         17
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                         20
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                         21
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components         23
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                            24
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                        25
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                          26
Annex 9. Borrower Contribution to the ICR                                    30
MAP 28578R
iii
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The Emergency Public Works and Employment Project (PWEP) was designed in the immediate
post-conflict context of Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH). It was one of the World Bank's first
investment projects under the overall framework of the Priority Reconstruction and Economic
Recovery Program. It was designed as part of a broader employment generation program which
combined investments in: (i) public works; (ii) employment counseling; (iii) education and
retraining; and (iv) microcredit for business development.
The project development objectives were to:
(i)    create rapid employment for those unemployed as a result of the war;
(ii)  rehabilitate small-scale public infrastructure and clean-up war-damaged public property;
(iii)  reinforce the decision-making role and responsibilities of municipal governments in
municipal infrastructure project design and management; and
(iv)   deliver visible impact at the local level in the near term.
These objectives were clear, realistic and relevant to the country context in the immediate post-
conflict period of massive unemployment and widespread infrastructure damage. The project
objectives are judged to have been responsive to the borrowers' circumstances based on feedback
from State and Entity government, municipal government and community representatives. The
objectives were also well within the capacity of the implementing agencies to achieve.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Although the project objectives remained valid throughout the implementation period, in 1998, it
was agreed to place more focus on the second objective of rehabilitating small-scale
infrastructure and less on the first objective of creating employment through financing labor-
intensive works. This shift in focus was agreed in order to respond to local demand and
conditions on the ground. After the first year of implementation, municipal government priorities
were to repair basic economic infrastructure, such as water and roads, rather than use project
resources for labor-intensive works schemes. Other projects related to business development
were seen as more important for job creation Furthermore, it became an increasing priority to
support the return of internally displaced persons and refugees to war-damaged villages where
repair of basic infrastructure was a precondition for return Hence, in 1998, the targeting strategy
was revised to provide a greater allocation of funds towards areas with high numbers of returnees,
lower the minimum sub-project labor content from 50 percent of total cost to 33 percent, and give
priority to projects directly linked to refugee return. This new strategy was implemented from
1998 onwards. Despite the change in implementation strategy the original labor-intensive target
of 50 percent labor cost related to the first project objective was still met.
3.3 Original Components:
The project had two components, with expected financing at appraisal as follows:
Public Works (estimated US$41.4 million, or 92 percent of total cost) to finance labor-intensive
public works sub-projects at the municipal level up to a maximum sub-project cost of
US$ 100,000 on a demand-driven basis, subject to meeting of eligibility and appraisal criteria.
Institutional Support (estimated US$3.6 million or 8 percent of total cost) for the establishment
and institutional capacity-building of Public Works Departments within the two Entity
Employment and Training Foundations (ETFs) to act as project implementing units (PlUs)
responsible for overall project management.
2



These components were directly related to the achievement of the objectives. The design took
into account the lessons learned from other public works and social fund projects existing at the
time, particularly the Latin American Social Funds project. Although community organizations
were strongly involved in project identification, the project did not institutionalize community
participation as much as some social funds projects. Greater attention to community and NGO
involvement is recommended in any follow-up operation.
3.4 Revised Components:
Not applicable.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project is rated as Satisfactory for quality at entry. The project objectives were responsive to
client demands and consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS); project design
was simple and appropriate to the emergency context; safeguard policies were observed; and the
project made reasonable assumptions about local demand and institutional capacity leading to
successful project implementation.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4. 1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Data in this section originates from the PIU management information systems (MIS) as of
May 15, 2000. Additional information comes from the Program Evaluation (Impact Study) of the
Federation Public Works and Employment Project (January 2000), carried out by the Institute of
Economy - University of Sarajevo, and from field trips and interviews made during the
supervision and ICR missions.
Objective 1: Create rapid employment for those unemployed as a result of the war.
The project target was to create 104,000 man-months of employment, providing a basic salary
and level of social security for the unemployed. In total, to date, 42,730 man-months of
employment have been created. This is equivalent to the employment of 20,000 people on a
short-term basis and 900 permanent workers. An estimated 80 percent of those employed were
demobilized soldiers.
Number of Man-months
Appraisal              Actual            Ratio
RS               26 000                 13 170            50%
Fed               78 250               29 560             38%
Total             104 250               42 730            41%
Note: The employmentfigures are related to the worksfinanced by the project
(excluding local cofinancing).
The low actual:appraisal ratio (41 percent) is largely due to the fact that only 52 percent of
expected financing was raised. Furthermore, labor costs increased during project implementation
leading to less job creation per dollar financed. For those works contracted, actual average labor
content was 58 percent, above the target of 50 percent. Taking into account donor cofinancing
that will continue to be spent until Spring 2001, it is estimated that overall the project will
contribute to the creation of 47,000 man-months of employment (45 percent of target).
The project also created work for 294 enterprises (Federation 227, RS 67) which were contracted
to carry out the works, and the majority of which were private enterprises.
3



Objective 2: Rehabilitate small-scale public infrastructure and clean-up war-damaged
public property and assets.
The project goal was to finance 443 public works sub-projects. This target was exceeded, despite
less than expected cofinancing. A total of 471 sub-projects have been implemented in 129
municipalities (88 percent of total). This achievement is due to: (i) a lower than projected
average cost per project - actual was US$45,000, compared to appraisal estimate of US$93,000;
and (ii) higher than anticipated cofinancing raised by municipalities.
No. of S  -projects
Appraisal            Actual            Ratio
RS                   130                 IlIl             85%
Federation           313                 360             117%
Total                453                 471             104%
By final implementation completion, once trust funds are disbursed, it is projected that a total of
525 sub-projects will have been financed (116% of total).
Objective 3: Reinforce the decision-making role and responsibilities of municipality
governments in municipal infrastructure project design and management.
During the war, municipal governments virtually collapsed and by war's end they had limited
human and financial capacity. The majority of immediate post-war reconstruction efforts were
doing little to build local capacity, with resources channeled largely through international NGOs.
Hence, this project aimed to reinforce the role of municipal governments in reconstruction and
development, and assist build their capacity to deliver improved infrastructure and services.
The risk of this approach was largely political. Several municipal governments were opposed to
the international community's efforts to encourage return of minorities and practiced ethnic
discrimination; others had little public accountability. Although there were no explicit political
criteria regarding the eligibility of municipalities, care was taken not to provide financing to
municipalities who were obstructive to the basic principles of the Dayton Peace Accords. This
was achieved by relying on information and guidance from the Office of the High Representative
(OHR), responsible for the overall implementation of Dayton, and the Organization for
Cooperation and Security in Europe (OSCE), responsible for municipal elections and which had
an extensive field presence and field knowledge. These agencies advised the World Bank team
on which municipalities were "black listed" from receiving international assistance, who in turn
informed the PIUs which were willing to abide by such decisions. This situation required
sensitivity and a field-based team leader to handle. Decision-making on project approvals was
difficult at times given lack of consistent guidance from OHR and the sensitivity of the World
Bank towards explicitly taking into account political criteria in decision-making. This raises the
question whether the World Bank could operate more effectively in such highly politicized, post-
conflict environments by being more explicit about socio-political factors.
Municipal demand for financing was extremely high:
* a total of 1,384 applications were received (Federation: 1,013, RS: 371), i.e. more than 9
applications per municipality (151 Municipalities). This is less than actual demand; as in the
final year of implementation the PlUs have advised municipalities that financing is limited
and not to send in new applications.
4



* 129 municipalities (Federation 79: RS: 50) benefited from project investment, i.e. 88 percent
of total.
Municipalities were responsible for sub-project identification, design, contracting and
supervision. During project implementation, the PIU staff observed significant increases in
municipal capacity to design and manage investment projects, and apply transparent and
competitive procurement methods. According to the Federation evaluation study, 95 percent of
municipalities said that they received valuable technical assistance from the ETFs. In Republika
Srpska, the PIU estimates that institutional capacity improved in 50 percent of municipalities as a
result of project involvement.
Local involvement and ownership of the investments is further evidenced by the high level of
cofinancing by local governments:
*  Cofinancing raised by municipalities totaled US$9,956,000 (Federation US$6,030,000, RS
US$3,250,000), i.e. 32 percent of the total investment.
*  Cofinanced works totaled 246 sub-projects (Federation 180, RS 66), i.e. 53 percent of the
sub-projects.
Municipalities raised cofinancing from various sources, primarily international donors or NGOs
(often in the form of materials and equipment), Cantonal Governments (in the Federation), the
municipal budget (or municipal public utility company), and citizens in the concerned
communities (in cash or in labor). Community participation was high in many municipalities,
with communities often responsible for initiating project proposals and contributing to financing
and project maintenance.
Objective 4: Deliver visible impact at the local level in the near term.
This objective was really a statement to underline the importance of delivering a visible peace
dividend to the people of BiH and is not easily quantifiable. Hence, the objective was not
monitored against any performance indicators in the Forms 590/Project Status Reports. However,
the large number of sub-projects undertaken throughout the country did have a visible impact in
the concerned communities, particularly small rural communities (see Section 4.2: Outputs by
Components). In some communities, particularly in Republika Srpska, PWEP investments were
the first investments since the beginning of the war and had a major impact, as much
psychological as economic. People virtually rioted in several communities to be employed on the
public works schemes; for many, this was the first cash income in four years which benefited not
only employee households but had a ripple effect throughout the local economy. Overall, there is
a high level of beneficiary satisfaction with the projects. The Federation evaluation study shows
that:
*  83 percent of the interviewed beneficiaries are satisfied with the works.
*  88 percent of the interviewed beneficiaries think that the projects strongly (65 percent) or
significantly (23 percent) improved their quality of life.
*  86 percent of the interviewed beneficiaries say that there was no better sub-project that
should have been financed.
5



4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1: Public Works (92 % of project cost)
a) Achievements
A total of 471 public works sub-projects were financed in 129 municipalities (88 percent of total),
60 percent in rural areas and 40 percent in urban areas. The four main types of projects financed
were: rural road repair (40 percent of total investment), water supply (14 percent), war ruins
clean-up (8 percent) and urban sewage (8 percent). See table below for complete breakdown:
Project Portfolio Breakdown
Component             No.      Dimension     Unit   Cost (DM)    ____     i
Rural Road Repair                186       1,378,934  m        14,246,784    40%
Drinking Water Distribution       78        208,232   m        4,908,002      14%
War Ruins Clean-Up               45         226,383   m        2,852,803       8%
Urban Surface Sewage             43         351,921    m_      3,056,691       8%
Local Electricity Network        35         195,672   m         1,841,067      5%
Social Service Buildings         25         162,570   m2        1,676,377      5%
Urban Street Repair              24          26,509   m         1,588,357      4%
Reforestation                     13            400   ha        1,036,035      3%
Urban Sewage Piping              20          22,082   m         1,021,636      3%
Cemetery Rehabilitation           10        175,905  7;_         739,147       2%
Local Telephone Network            9        136,732   m          698,368       2%
Other                            44                            2,316,949       6%
TOTAL                           532 ',                        35,982,216    100%
Note:
I/ the impressive figure for roads (1,380 km) isfor emergency repairs, i.e. cleaning ditches and repairing
the worst parts of the roads.
2/ the no. of components (532) is greater than the no. of contracts as some contracts include several components.
PWEP also:
*  prioritized projects that supported the return of refugees to war-damaged communities. An
estimated 60 percent of projects were linked to refugee return in some way. In some cases,
the projects supported the rebuilding of ethnic trust and return to multi-ethnic living. For
example, there were several cases of municipalities with majority Bosniak residents applying
for projects for the return of Croat residents, and vice versa.
*  financed works with a direct positive impact on the environment, such as war ruins clean-up,
water supply, urban sewage, solid waste collection and reforestation for a total close to DM 9
Million (25 percent of total).
The Federation evaluation study included an assessment of the priorities of inhabitants and
municipal governments versus what types of projects were financed, which provides some
indication of the project's responsiveness to local demand. The table below compares the
priorities of citizens, municipalities and PWEP (as per funds contracted), based on the top two
priority investments, water supply and road improvements.
6



Priority Comparison
Pnoriiv       Citizens  NMunicipal.    PWEP
Investments
Local roads          21%         41%         44%     |
Kura                     21%         40%|
Urban                    20%           4%1
Water supp1y         31%         17%         14%
Other                48%         42%         42%
ITotal               100%        100%        100%
It is interesting to compare the differing investment priorities:
*  Water supply is the first priority for inhabitants with 31 percent; this figure drops to 17
percent for municipalities and 14 percent for PWEP.
*  Rural roads are the main type of infrastructure financed by PWEP (40 percent); whereas it is
only a 21 percent priority for the municipality and inhabitants.
These differences can be explained by the following factors:
*  Local inhabitants prioritize the need to improve water supply which directly affects their
quality of life.
*  Municipalities may have a broader view and see roads as benefiting several settlements and
of greater municipal interest.
*  PWEP originally targeted high labor-intensive projects, hence priority was given to rural
roads which were more labor-intensive projects than water supply or urban streets. As this
mismatch between local demand and the project criteria became apparent, the criteria were
changed to stop giving priority to projects based on their labor intensity, but to focus more on
local social and economic needs.
In general, the infrastructure projects were adequately designed and executed. However, quality
of works could be improved. The Federation evaluation noted that 16 percent of beneficiaries
consider the quality of works to be poor. Reasons for this include the fact that:
*  PWEP focused on rehabilitation of existing infrastructure. The main demand in rural road
works was asphalt, but project limits on total cost and labor content did not allow for
asphalting of roads.
*  The project cost ceiling (US$100,000) in some cases gave municipalities the unintended
incentive of cutting costs to achieve as much work as possible within the cost limit, with a
negative impact on quality. Although no technical audit has been performed, it is estimated
that low quality works account for less than 10 percent of total projects. In any future
operation, it is recommended that more quality control measures are built into project design.
The project had a high level of regional coverage (88 percent of all municipalities). Project
financing was targeted based on criteria related to population, number of displaced/returnees, and
war damage. The Borrowers' Report provides a summary of the allocation of funds per
canton/region. Overall, the distribution of funds closely matched the agreed allocation.
Component 2: Institutional Support (8% of project cost)
This component supported the establishment of project implementing units (PIUs) in both
Entities. These PIUs were established as separate units of government-created Employment and
Training Foundations. In the Federation, the PIU was entirely independent of the other ETF units
managing the microcredit and vocational training/employment services programs, whereas in RS,
7



the unit operated under common management and shared financial management and support
services.
Both PIUs performed their functions in a highly professional manner, managing more than 1,300
applications and 471 contracts in the entire BiH. The Federation PIU had a total of 9-12 staff
during the course of implementation (Director, Finance Manager, Technical Manager, 4-5
Engineers, MIS Specialist, Accountant, 2 support staff), while the RS PIU had around 8 staff
involved (3 full-time technical staff with part-time support from an additional 5 RETF
management and support staff). Both PIUs demonstrated strong management capacity, technical
skills and developed effective financial management and project management information
systems. Operating costs remained low at 6 percent of total investment, well below the 8 percent
maximum limit established during negotiations.
The one institutional aspect that did not function well was the Board of Trustees, particularly in
the Federation, although fortunately this did not affect the PlUs' performance and overall
achievement of objectives. The Board of Trustees was composed of Government ministry
representatives, plus the Employment Institutes and Chamber of Commerce. High government
turnover in the Federation led to irregular meetings and lack of government involvement and
support for the project. In a follow-up operation it is recommended that the institutional set-up
and composition of the Board be re-examined to ensure a better functioning and more
representative Board.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return:
The classical economic analysis (ERR, IRR, NPV) is not applicable for this type of project where
actual investments are not predetermined. In the appraisal report it was explained that priority
would be given to sub-projects with the highest employment generation potential. These projects,
such as war ruins clean-up, rehabilitation of riverbanks, parks and cemeteries, were not expected
to have high economic rates of return but would have high social benefits. In later years, the
project targeted more economic infrastructure (water supply, road repair) likely to have higher
rates of return.
At the sub-project level, it was agreed to apply criteria to ensure that projects were cost-effective.
Criteria for maximum cost per beneficiary and unit cost for each type of sub-project were
included in the Operational Manual and used to evaluate whether expected benefits would be
achieved in a cost efficient manner. As an example, the average cost for rehabilitation of rural
roads (the main type of work) is only US$7,500 per kilometer, which is very low.
Cost effectiveness was also encouraged by using competitive procurement methods. Seventy
percent of all contracts were procured through Simplified National Competitive Bidding.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project had limited institutional development goals and the achievements in this area are
judged to be modest. The main impact was at the level of the project implementing agencies
(PIUs) which developed strong project management capacity, and managed the project in a
professional, transparent and accountable manner according to clear policies and procedures.
8



This capacity is reflected in the fact that the implementing agencies were also contracted to
provide project management services for UNDP and the British Government.
The project also contributed to improving the institutional capacity of municipalities to provide
improved infrastructure and services. Specifically, the project had the following impact:
* Partnership with the PlUs sensitized municipal governments to a more service-oriented
approach to local government.
*  Experience with PWEP is judged to have improved institutional capacity in more than 50
percent of municipalities served (through establishment of development departments or
committees, capable of taking better care of public participation, project prioritization, project
design and financial management).
*  Building on their experience with PWEP, many municipalities attracted new sources of
financing from both donors and government.
*  Although there was no organized training for municipalities, according to the Federation
independent evaluation study, 95 percent of municipalities stated that they received hands-on
technical advice from PIU staff. Fifty six percent were very satisfied with this assistance and
23 percent were satisfied. Institutional improvements were recognized primarily in the areas
of project implementation (69 percent) and administrative procedures, including contracting
(42 percent). Ninety eight percent of the interviewed municipalities said they would be able
to use this experience to independently apply for and implement projects with other donors.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency: Lack of cofinancing was
the only major factor outside government control (see Section 5.4 on financing). This affected
the overall scale and speed of the operation. The project was designed as a two-year, US$45
million operation, with US$10 million financed by IDA and US$35 million to be financed by
other donors. Ultimately, a total of US$15.77 million in donor cofinancing was raised over a
period of 4 years. Despite less-than-expected levels of financing, the project exceeded targets in
terms of sub-projects financed. However, the speed and scale of investment was slower than
planned and did not make full use of the institutional capacity of the PlUs.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control: In the Federation of BiH, all payment
orders for projects were required to be signed by the PIU Director and countersigned by an
appropriate Ministry representative from the other 'ethnic group'. This arrangement caused
problems for PWEP where numerous small payments were being made to contractors on a daily
basis. The Ministry representative concerned repeatedly delayed signing payment orders. This,
in turn, led to delays in payments to contractors and, hence, to sub-project implementation. The
maximum delay was 105 days. Delays in signing generally occurred when the Ministry wanted
to influence project management decisions, often in a manner contrary to the project's policies
and procedures. For example, not approving projects in municipalities dominated by opposition
parties, or refusing to sign payment applications for Bosniak contractors that won bids in
contracts in Croat municipalities. Such political influence was resisted by the PIU, but often
required the World Bank's intervention. Communication between the Ministry and PIU
management has now improved. However, such signature arrangements should be reconsidered
in any follow-on project.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control: Both Entity project implementing
agencies proved to be extremely capable, with highly effective management and staff. This
capacity led to smooth implementation performance and the successful achievement of the project
objectives.
9



5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The project was implemented at a lower cost than originally planned. The target was that ETF
operational costs would amount to a maximum of 8 percent of project financing. In fact,
operational costs amounted to 6 percent of project financing (including local cofinancing).
The project did not achieve its cofinancing targets; however, cofinancing was still substantial. A
total of US$15.77 million was raised from six bilateral donors, 45 percent of the original
cofinancing target. This is considered a good result compared to cofinancing raised for other
projects in BiH. Donors demonstrated support for the project through providing more than one
tranche of financing in the case of the Dutch, Italian and Norwegian Governments. In addition,
from 1997 onwards, municipal governments provided a total of US$9.96 million in cofinancing,
such that overall project financing amounted to US$35.74 or 79 percent of the original target.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The project is given an overall rating of Likely for sustainability, based on the assumption that a
follow-on operation will build on the achievements of this project and support a greater focus on
sustainability. Sustainability for this operation relates mainly to the institutional and financial
capacity of municipalities to operate and maintain the investments. Lack of adequate
maintenance is a generic issue in BiH where there is a history of insufficient attention to
operations and maintenance, and limited financial resources for O&M at all levels. Under the
project, municipalities were required to prepare maintenance plans for each project. Typically,
maintenance is done according to the type of investment:
*  For rural roads, in most cases, municipalities hired people from the local community to be
responsible for basic maintenance of road sections. More intensive repair works are carried
out by the public utility company or contracted out to a private contractor.
*  For water supply, electricity, telephone networks, maintenance is the responsibility of the
relevant public utility company. Here, low levels of fee payments and inadequate financial
planning for O&M are problem areas.
*  For streets, parks, and public buildings, maintenance is usually done by the municipal utility
company.
Based on field visits to completed projects, maintenance is rated as Poor to Fair. A follow-up
operation should pay greater attention to the institutional and financial sustainability of
investments, including:
* greater community involvement in all stages of the project cycle, including maintenance.
* establishing cost recovery plans and targets for revenue-generating sectors.
* assisting municipalities and utilities establish operations and maintenance plans and budgets.
* introducing performance-based grant agreements linking financing to performance on O&M.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations.
The project served its purpose of creating short-term jobs in the immediate post-war context of
mass unemployment. Although unemployment remains very high (estimates are around 40
percent), public works schemes are not considered a priority future investment from ajob
creation perspective in today's economic environment. Impact studies in other transition
economies show that public works schemes can actually have a negative net impact on
employment, as people on such schemes are not seeking long-term employment. The Bank's
focus now in terms of job creation is on improving the flexibility of the labor market, supporting
10



private-sector led growth, and investing in targeted employment programs for the unemployed,
particularly denmobilized soldiers.
However, this operation did develop an effective mechanism to channel financing for local
investment. There is strong Government interest at State, Entity and local levels in designing a
follow-up operation that would channel grant financing to low-income municipalities to improve
basic infrastructure and services. In the Federation, the project is also regarded as one of the few
mechanisms the Government has to provide financing to support refugee return in a quick and
responsive manner.
A follow-up operation has been included in the Country Assistance Strategy that would further
develop the institutional mechanisms established under this project. This project will be designed
under a policy framework that ensures it complements, not undermines, the recently-approved
Local Development Project, which provides loan financing for creditworthy municipalities linked
to improvements in governance, institutional and financial capacity, and cost recovery. The PIUs
will continue to operate until Spring 2001 with existing donor funds. It is recommended that this
new operation be prepared for Board approval by Spring 2001, so that operational continuity can
be achieved. C'urrently, the project is in the lending program for FY02.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in preparing the project is judged as Satisfactory. The main driving
forces behind the Bank's preparation effort were speed and simplicity. The aim was to design a
project that could quickly deliver results on the ground, and provide a peace dividend to local
people countrywide. The Bank's performance is judged Satisfactory against these factors.
Project identification to effectiveness took six months. An initial project identification/
preparation mission took place in February 1996, six weeks after the signing of the Dayton Peace
Agreement. Pilot projects, financed by a Dutch grant, were under implementation twelve weeks
after Dayton. Appraisal combined with negotiations took place in May/June 1996; the project
was approved by the Board on July 30, 1996 and became effective on August 20, 1996.
Clearly, speed can jeopardize quality. However, the team composition included a senior Bank
staff and consultant with extensive experience in similar operations elsewhere, which ensured for
a rigorous project design, plus a Team Leader and Project Officer with awareness of the political
and social context. That said, many lessons have been learned from this operation that should be
integrated into the design of any follow-up operation.
7.2 Supervision:
The supervision effort is judged to have been Satisfactory. During the first two years of operation
there was intensive supervision by the field-based Team Leader and the support of a locally
recruited Project Officer, supplemented by the involvement of a consultant engineer who
participated in regular supervision missions. Such field-based supervision allowed for daily
contact with the PlUs which greatly facilitated their establishment and institutional capacity
building, including financial management and procurement capacity. Supervision missions were
carried out regularly with continuity of staff on both the Bank and PIU side, which helped project
implementation run smoothly. Close working relationships based on mutual trust and respect
were established between the Bank and the PIU staff. The Bank aimed to be responsive to PIU
needs and open to approving modifications to the project design based on realities on the ground.
The Resident Representative also played an important role in supporting the project, and was very
responsive at providing management support at critical times.
1 1



In the second two years of operation, the intensity of supervision declined. This was appropriate
given the project was operating smoothly. However, with hindsight more attention might have
been paid earlier on to the development impact of the project and issues of community
involvement and sustainability. These issues are now being recommended as priority areas of
focus for the follow-up project.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, the Bank's performance is rated as Satisfactory. The Bank team supported the design
and implementation of an effective operation which met its objectives. Furthermore, the Bank
was instrumental in raising cofinancing for the project, albeit in lesser amounts than originally
envisaged.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance during preparation is considered to be Satisfactory. The Ministries
of Finance in both Entities took a lead role in developing an appropriate institutional structure for
project implementation. In the Federation, the government appointed a preparation team which
worked intensively with the Bank preparation team on the project design. This team was well-
experienced and made a major contribution to the design of the project. In the RS, the future
Executive Director of the RETF worked with the project preparation team, although his late
appointment and competing demands on his time meant that RS involvement in preparation was
less than in the Federation.
7.5 Government implementation performance.
The Government's implementation performance is rated as Satisfactory in Republika Srpska, but
only Marginally Satisfactory in the Federation. During the first two years of project
implementation, the Ministry of Finance chaired the ETF Boards in both Entities. During this
time regular Board meetings were held and the ETFs received appropriate oversight and policy
input. In later years, the Ministry of Social Affairs, Displaced Persons and Refugees took over as
chair of the Federation ETF Board. During the last year of implementation, this Ministry
continually blocked payments based on dissatisfaction with the regional targeting of funds and
particular projects. This obstruction was largely rooted in the lack of trust between the Croat
ministry representative and Bosniak PIU management. Although, the Government on occasion
had legitimate concerns, such payment delays were considered unwarranted. The World Bank
had to intervene and mediate differences on several occasions. Communication between the
Ministry and the PIU have improved over the last few months and it is hope that such political
interference will not occur during the remainder of project implementation.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the two Entity PIUs is judged to be Highly Satisfactory. Both PIUs had
extremely effective management, combined with strong financial management capacity, well-
trained and professional technical staff, and excellent support staff. One criticism is that
insufficient attention was paid to monitoring and evaluation during the project. Responsibility for
this weakness lies both with the Bank and the Borrower. Furthermore, the PlUs were dominated
by engineers. This led to a focus on the technical aspects of project implementation, with
insufficient attention to social and economic analysis. It is recommended that these weaknesses
be addressed in the follow-up operation.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance is rated as Satisfactory.
12



8. Lessons Learned
The lessons learned from this project are distilled from an analysis of the project's strengths and
weaknesses. These lessons may be of relevance to BiH, but also the design of similar operations
in other post-conflict situations.
Strengths
*  the project design was simple and straight forward to implement. The project met its
development objectives and achieved good results in terms of job creation and infrastructure
rehabilitation, directly benefiting 20,000 people through short-term employment and 450
communities through clean-up of war damaged property and improvements in local
infrastructure.
*  labor-intensive public works schemes proved an effective means of creating rapid
employment in the immediate post-war phase and providing a basic level of income support.
The employment impact of the project was greatest in small, rural communities where
employment prospects were extremely limited after the war.
*  the project's simple design and clear policies and procedures facilitated smooth and rapid
implementation and ensured transparency.
*  through their professional behavior, transparency of procedures and ability to deliver results
on the ground, the PlUs developed a good reputation among municipalities and helped build a
sense of trust between the Entity and municipal levels. This helped re-establish institutional
linkages and communication between levels of Government important to the overall process
of institution-building and building of social trust in post-conflict BiH.
*  the PlUs helped develop the institutional capacity of municipalities to provide improved basic
infrastructure and services, particularly in the areas of project implementation and
administrative procedures, including contracting.
*  municipalities raised significant amounts of cofinancing for the investments (even though it
was not required), demonstrating their ownership of the investment projects.
Weaknesses
*  although the PlUs functioned well, the Boards of Trustees, composed largely of Government
ministries, did not. The Boards provided little guidance, support and overall supervision of
the project.
*  the project design, implementation and supervision paid insufficient attention to the appraisal
of projects based on social, economic, financial and environmental criteria. Although in the
early phase of implementation this was not an issue given the emergency nature of
interventions (urgent labor-intensive works, such as clean-up of war damage), in latter phases
this weakness meant that in some case the economic justification for project choices was
questionable, and the social implications of projects were not always fully taken into account.
An extreme example, was the use of funds by a municipality in eastern Republika Srpska to
remove the damaged remains of Bosniak homes from which citizens had fled and make the
area into a public square. This particular event was reported and quickly stopped, and today
13



as the political and security situation has improved, there is hope that Bosniaks will be able to
return to this area.
* technical quality of works was less than satisfactory in an estimated 10-20 percent of sub-
projects and the quality of maintenance of sub-projects varied widely.
* project monitoring and evaluation systems were poorly developed. This was largely due to
the emergency nature of the project, and insufficient attention paid to this aspect by both the
Bank and the PIU.
* the issue of lack of local government accountability and representation of minority ethnic
groups was not adequately addressed in the project design. Public accountability and
representation and involvement of communities in the project varied depending on the
qualities of the municipal government concerned. Certain communities were excluded from
project financing, particularly minority communities in municipalities dominated by another
ethnic group.
Lessons Learned and Recommendations
The project design proved an effective mechanism to target resources to the community level, and
empower local government and communities in the reconstruction and development process.
Financing labor-intensive works as a means of short-term job creation was an effective strategy in
the immediate post-conflict environment. However, local priorities quickly shifted to creating
long-term jobs through business development, while demand under this project was for more
capital-intensive infrastructure projects to improve basic public services. Job creation objectives
are better met through improving the flexibility of the labor market, supporting private-sector led
growth, and investing in employment programs that support long-term employment, as is the
current Bank strategy.
The overall institutional framework for the project needs to be reconsidered. To ensure better
accountability, it is recommended that a more representative range of stakeholders be involved in
the governance of a future operation, e.g. association of municipalities, community development
organizations, private sector.
The institutional capacity of the implementing units needs to be strengthened and new skill areas
developed, particularly social, economic and environmental analysis. Such skills might be added
by contracting out such services to NGOs or the private sector.
Improving local governance should be at the core of any follow-on operation. Involvement of
local communities in the decision-making and project cycle should be increased, so as to ensure
greater responsiveness to citizen demand, greater transparency and accountability and
representation of all, regardless of ethnicity. This participation should be culturally appropriate
and build on and improve existing traditions and processes for local community representation.
Field experience shows that the level of project impact increases with the level of community
participation.
Institution-building is key to local development and to providing services in an efficient,
equitable and sustainable manner. Greater attention needs to be paid to institution-building and to
quality of works and operations and maintenance in future project design.
14



Any future grant financing should be considered within a broader municipal finance framework,
and better targeted towards low-income, non-creditworthy municipalities and poor communities.
Grants should be performance-based so as provide incentives for institutional improvements.
Greater attention needs to be paid to monitoring and evaluating the impact of investments.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrowers' report is attached as Annex 9.
(b) Cofinanciers:
During the ICR mission, the team solicited feedback from all cofinanciers. Overall, cofinanciers
expressed their satisfaction with project implementation. The one issue raised, by the
Government of Italy, was that of information sharing and visibility. The Italian Government
would liked to have had more visibility during project implementation. This concern is
acknowledged. In the future, it is recommended that the PlUs give more effort to inform donors
of the specific projects they are financing and to invite them for field visits and project openings
on a regular basis.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Contractors were the main partners in project implementation. Feedback from the Federation
evaluation study is that contractors were generally satisfied with the procurement procedures and
quality of relations with PIU staff. The only complaint was about irregular payments in the
Federation. These delays were a known frustration during project implementation, as discussed
in Section 7.5.
The PIUs also partnered with NGOs. Partnerships were generally related to refugee return
projects, whereby an NGO would finance reconstruction of houses, and the PIU would finance
repair of the water network in that community. Or, in other cases, NGOs would finance materials
and the PIU would finance the labor cost of the same project. In general, these partnerships seem
to have worked well.
10. Additional Information
15



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Not applicable. Log Frame not required for emergency projects. Performance indicators and
results described in text.
16



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in USS'000)
Appraisal                                            Fed. %      RS %      Total%
__________________________Estimate                     Actual/Ltest Estimate
Project Cost By Component             USS million _        l        US$ million               or         of         of
Federatio    RS       Total   Federation    RS       Total    Appraisal Appraisal Appraisal
n
Public Works Fund               27,640    13.750    41.390    12.442     5.963      18.405     45O       4130%      44o
Institutional Support
Salaries  950       510       1,450     645        261        906       68%        51%        62%
Technical Assistance  610       260       870       91         25         116       15%        10%        13%
Training    90        50       140        34         5         39        38%        10%       28%
Goods and Equipment    280       170       450        45        95         140       16%       56%        31%
Operating expenses   430       260      700        350        94        444       81%        36%        63%
Total Project Costs       30,000    15,000    45,000     13,607    6,443      20,050     45%        43%        45%
I/ The difference between appraisal and actual estimates did not jeopardize project implementation, as the project was designed as a fund which could operate on a smaller
scale than originally planned.
2/ Amounts refer to latest spending figures.
17



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (A ppraisal Estimate) (US$ thoisands eqgui%alent)
National       Direct         Force         Other          Total
Expendilure Category         SNCB         Shopping     Contracting     Account
1. Public Works                  17,790                       14,490        9,110                        41,390
(2,695)                     (2,261)       (1,434)           -           (6,390)
2. Training&TA             _                      -                                        1,010          1,010
.              -             -             -          (1,010)        (1,010)
3. Vehicles and Equipment                        450            -                                         450
(450)                                                    (450)
4. Recurrent Costs                               30                           -            2,120          2,150
-             30-                          -          (2,210)        (2,150)
Total                         17,790          450          14,490        9,110          3,130         45,000
(2,695)        (480)         (2,261)      (1,434)        (3,130)       (10,000)
I/ Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by IDA.
2/ The "other" category includes consulting services to be procured following Bank guidelines and salaries, fees and other operating costs for which procurement
procedures will not be applicable.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements - Actual (US$ thousands equivalent)
i                                               National        Direct        Force        Other
Expenditure Category          SNCB         Shopping      Contracting    Account                    Total Cost
1. Public Works                  13,653                        3,392         2,615                       19,660
(5,690)                        (97!)       (1,038)          -           (7,699)
2. Training and TA                                                                          144            144
-  -           -                        (144)          (144)
3. Goods andEquipment                             105                                       35             140
(105)                                     (35)           (140)
4. Operating costs                                 -                                       1,360          1,360
-              -              -            -          (1,330)        (1,330)
Total                         13,653           105           3,392        2,615         1,539         21,304
(5,690)         (105)          (971)       (1,038)       (1,509)        (9,313)
18



Iroject Financing bv Co ponent (in US$ million)
Percentage of
Component           Appraisal Estimate       ActuaVLatest Estimate        Appraisal
Bank    Govt.    CoF.     Bank     Govt.    CoF.   Bank Govt. CoF.
Public Works Fund     6.39       0      35.0     7.74      9.4     15.4   121%   NA    44%
Institutional Support  3.61      0       0       1.88       0      0.29   52%    NA    NA
Total                 10.00      0      35.0     9.62     9.40     15.74  96%    NA    45%
19



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
I Not Applicable.
20



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty       Performance Ratinc   -
(e.g. 2 Economists. I FWS.
etc.)
Count      Specialty                  Implementation    De%elopment
klonth''Year  __              ___                      Progress          Ob (ibet, 
Identification/Preparation
February 1996                     1 Team Leader, I Civil
2    Engineer (Project                NA               NA
_____________________ __  ___  Consultant)
Appraisal                 _
April/May 1996                    1 Team Leader, I Sr.
3    Economist, I Civil Engineer      NA               NA
(Project Consultant)
Negotiation                _ ..  ...._                                     _  _
June 1996                         1 Team Leader, I Resident
Representative, 2 Legal
10    Counsel, I Sr. Country           NA               NA
Officer, 3 Economists, I
Procurement Specialist, I
)Disbursement Specialist
Supervision
Oct/Nov 1996                     1 Team Leader, 1 Sr.
4    Economist, I Civil Engineer,      S                S
I Project Officer
March 1997                       1 Team Leader, I Civil
3    Engineer (Project                  S               S
Consultant), I Project Officer
June 1997                        1 Team Leader, I Civil
3    Engineer (Project                HS               HS
Consultant), I Project Officer
December 1997 (MTR)              I Team Leader, I Civil
3   Engineer (Project                 HS               HS
Consultant), I Project Officer
April 1998                   3   1 Team Leader, I Project          S                 S
Officer, I Project Officer
Oct/Nov 1998                     1 Team Leader, I Civil
3    Engineer (Project                 S                S
Consultant), I Project Officer
March 1999                   2   1 Team Leader, 1 Project          S                 S
Officer
October 1999                 2   1 Team Leader, I Project           S                S
Officer
21



Stage of Projct Cycle                No. of Prm     d ant Spciky        Perfrmnce Rating
(e.g. 2 ECOFomists, I FMS,
etc.)
Count      Speciaty                  Implemenaion      Development
MonthNear                                             Prowess     |    Objective
ICR
May 2000                         I Team Leader, I Civil
4    Engineer (consultant), I          S                S
Operations Analyst, I
Project Officer
(b) Staff:
Stae of Project Cycle           AcmIiate     Estate (Bank Budget)
____________             _ I     llNo. Staff weeks           USS'OOO
ldentificationlPreparation             I 1                   30,000
Appraisal/Negotiation                   7                     19,700
Supervision                            65                   150,000
ICR                                     6                     14,000
Total                                  89                   213,700
22



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
D  Macro politics                                             NA
I  Sector politics                                            NA
Z  Physical                                                    SU
Z  Financial                                                  M
Z  Institutional Development                                   SU
Z  Environmental                                               M
Social
Z  Poverty Reduction                                       M
Z  Gender                                                  N
L Other (specify)
Z  Private Sector Development                                  M
Z  Public Sector Development                                   M
Other (specfy)
23



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                            Rating
  Lending                                  El HS    ZS S       EU  [:HU
  Supervision                              E HS    Z S    E U    E HU
J Overall                                   E HS       S   0U     EHU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                         Rating
Z  Preparation                              E HS       S   EU     EHU
  Government implementation performance    E HS    Z S    El U   El HU
  Implementation agency performance        E HS    Z S    0 U    E HU
Z  Overall                                  E HS    Z S     E U   E HU
24



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Project Documents
Bosnia and Herzegovina: Emergency Public Works and Employment Project, Technical Annex,
Report No. T-6922-BiH, July 8, 1996.
Bosnia and Herzegovina: Emergency Public Works and Employment Project, Memorandum and
Recommendation of the President, Report No. P-6922-BiH, July 8, 1996.
Bosnia and Herzegovina: Emergency Public Works and Employment Project, Development
Credit Agreement (Cr. 2904- BOS),
World Bank Identification, Preparation, Appraisal and Negotiations Aide Memoires: February
1996, April 1996, June, 1996.
Supervision Documents
World Bank Project Status Reports, Supervision Mission Aide Memoires: October 1996, March
1997, June 1997, December, 1997, April 1998, October, 1998, March 1999, October 1999.
BDPA Consultant Supervision Reports: October 1996, March 1997, June 1997, December 1997,
November 1998.
Audit Report on the Project Financial Statements for the year 1997, Deloitte and Touche.
Audit Report on the Project Financial Statements for the year 1998, PriceWaterhouseCoopers.
Other
PWEP Operational Manual, August 1996.
Charter of the Employment and Training Foundation.
Annual Reports and publications from Employment and Training Foundations.
Institute of Economic, University of Sarajevo, Public Works and Employment Project, Impact
Study (Programme Evaluation), Final Report, January 2000.
25



Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results
An independent institution (Institute of Economics - University of Sarajevo) carried out an
Impact Study (Program Evaluation) of the Public Works and Employment Project (PWEP)
during the period June - September 1999. The following are the final observations regarding the
project.
SUMMAR Y OF SUR VEY RESUL TS
Project Implementation
Among all survey interviewees (beneficiaries, municipalities, contractors) there was a constant
relatively high degree of satisfaction with the implementation of the project. This is especially the
case for beneficiaries and municipalities who consider that the project has strongly or
significantly influenced the improvement of living conditions at the local level.
Transparency
A high degree of transparency or publicity was achieved Local residents were familiar with the
implementation of the Project and participated in choosing the priorities. Municipalities were
informed about the project in a timely manner and have had an opportunity to independently
determine their priorities. A majority (84 percent) considered LORA 's (Project Implementation
Unit in the Federation BH) work completely transparent, and 98 percent considered the
procedure for choosing the project was fair and correct. Contractors were chosen mainly
through competitive bidding and 96 percent thought that the work of the municipal commission
for choosing contractors was unbiased and transparent.
Maintenance and sustainability
The willingness to maintain the implemented projects was emphasized Beneficiaries are
interested in participating with work or resources that contribute to the implementation of similar
projects. The municipalities display a high degree of belief (98 percent) that they would be
capable of independently applying for and implementing similar projects. The beneficiaries and
municipalities successfully detected priorities for the implementation of similar projects.
Use of procedures
Applied procedures for nominating, choosing and implementing projects were mostly rated as
acceptable and customary.
Efficiency of the organization LORA in the implementation of the project
The success of the organization LORA is especially emphasized and publicized. All those
surveyed stated that the personnel in LORA successfully fulfilled their part of the work. Almost
90 percent of the municipalities were very satisfied or satisfied with the degree of offered
assistance from LORA, and all of the contractors surveyed would again accept ajob that LORA
is financing. There was only one serious concern, and that was dissatisfaction from a contractor
regarding payment, that is, the slowness of receiving payment for finished works.
26



EFFECTS OF THE PROJECT
Effects of the Public Works and Employment Project (PWEP) are numerous and mutually
connected, so that it does not simply fix the boundaries of effects according to types. If they are
considered from different aspects, then we can discuss the predominate effects of the project from
economic, social, ecological, psychological and other viewpoints. If they are considered integral,
then high synergetic effect of the project is undeniable.
1. Economic effects
Although the project was not primarily focused on the economic goals, some significant goals
were achieved.
Direct economic effects
a) The project enabled the engagement of 26,577 man-hours of temporary employment.
17,025 workers were employed, of those 10,646 workers had the status of
"temporarily employed";
b) The average duration of implementation of sub-projects was approximately two
months, which can be taken as the average period of employment for the engaged
workers;
c) Participation of the cost of labor in total value of the implemented projects amounted
to 63.75 percent or 13,192,893 KM. The average salary, depending on the types of
projects and period of implementation, was from 225 KM to 350 KM, which was the
average actual salary in the Federation,
d) For the paid salary of the workers adjustments were made for all local taxes and
contributions, which presents a positive economic effect in the municipal budget and
domestic social and health funds;
e) Solving the most urgent infrastructure problems which, for the rest, enabled the start
up and implementation of residential business activities, firms and companies on a
local level;
f) Improving the economic position of the local public utility and construction
businesses because 186 companies participated in the implementation of the project,
both private and state owned.
Indirect economic effects:
a) Creating new additional demand in the domestic market at least in the value of paid
salaries of the employed workers (13,192,893 KM);
b) Supporting the movement and intensifying the business activities of the domestic
construction companies by increasing the levels of used capacities;
c) Stimulating the development of the domestic industry producing raw materials and
also the domestic services market;
d) Strengthening private business and business initiative by engaging domestic private
firms in the implementation of works;
27



e) Increasing the degree of business-like operations, efficiency and education in the
segment of project design and implementation by local firms;
f) Contribution to the development of less developed or undeveloped municipalities
and environments by solving the most urgent infrastructure problems;
g) Increasing the value of municipal property by implementing sub-projects such as
road repairs, water supply systems, local electric and telephone lines etc.;
h) Increasing the budget by taxing the material and services used in implementation of
subprojects;
i) Creating domestic potential in the segment of reviving resources (effects of
reforestation - 396 hectares of land);
j) Opening the perspective for constantly employing temporary employed workers.
2. Social effects
The project had, as one of its basic goals, to contribute to solving social problems in the
immediate post-conflict environment and to reconstruct the devastated social structure in the
entire country. It was especially important to create new jobs and to create an opportunity to
employ people. With regards to the social effects, it is difficult to quantify but the following are
qualitative findings.
As basic social effects of the project we can identify the following:
a) Creating salaries through temporary employment represents the foundation of social
security;
b) Employing demobilized soldiers, thereby creating conditions for survival for the
people and their families who started accepting the war as a normal and permanent
situation and the wages earned fighting in the war as the only source of income.
10,090 demobilized soldiers were employed, which is 59.3 percent of the total
number of workers employed, or 95 percent of the temporary employed workers;
c) Employing displaced people and those returnees especially on a local level, which
directly influenced improving their material situation;
d) Improving infrastructure, which significantly increased living standards (water
supply systems, electricity and telephone lines, roads, etc.). This directly
contributed to return of displaced people ad refugees to their pre-war homes;
e) Development of undeveloped areas, because the greater amount of implemented
projects in underdeveloped or undeveloped municipalities will give a meaningful
impulse to the development of municipalities, which due to their bad material
position could not independently implement infrastructure projects;
f) Development of rural areas which always presented a problem in Bosnia and
Herzegovina. With the practical implementation of the strategy of development,
development of urban areas was the priority and almost always at the expense of
developing villages and local village communities. In the last war, rural areas
actually suffered the greatest physical and social destruction. Therefore, the project
achieved important results in the physical and social reconstruction of rural areas;
g) Decreasing ethnic tension and strengthening ethnic trust. Previously, there were
often cases of municipalities with majority Bosniac residents applying for projects
for the return of exclusively Croat residents and vise-versa;
28



h) Decreasing social tension and strain of the residents in socially sensitive categories
(demobilized soldiers, returning refugees, orphans, families without a bread winner);
i) Strengthening mutual trust and fortifying small communities at the local level;
j) Fortifying peace, restitution and strengthening of trust in civil structures of the
government (local community, municipality, canton, Federation);
k) Strengthening and fortifying belief in the general value of life in peace.
3. Other effects
Other effects could be considered in afew segments such as those that contribute to taking care
of and protecting the environment (ecological), and effects in the segment of educating all the
participants in the implementation of the project, psychological and other effects.
Ecological effects
a) Removing war ruins;
b) Reforestation, rehabilitation of city parks and cemeteries, landscaping, rehabilitation
of landfills and public housing facilities, building or repairing local roads and city
streets; building or improving water supply systems and drainage lines, and also
village drainage canals; building or repairing drinking water reservoirs etc.;
c) Developing in the consciousness of the local residents the importance of taking care
of and protecting the environment.
Effects in education
a) Education of all participants in the areas of: project design, implementation,
financing, monitoring and the need for project maintenance. With this education,
responsible municipal officials gained the experience of managing the contractors.
We consider that this effect especially contributes to the sustainability of the project;
b) Education in the segment of becoming familiar with the methodological approach
and procedures for selecting projects;
c) Education in the segment of cooperation with domestic and international
humanitarian, development and other organizations and institutions.
Psychological and other effects
a) Creating and fortifying an atmosphere of general security for individuals and their
families;
b) Creating and strengthening belief in peace;
c) Creating belief in living from wages;
d) Strengthening ethnic trust;
e) Strengthening trust in the civil government structures;
Strengthening trust in the chosen local representatives of the municipality.
29



Annex 9. Borrower Contribution to the ICR
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Public Works and Employment Project
Implementation Completion Reports (Borrower's)
Introduction
Employment and Training Foundations of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina
(hereinafter referred as "the Federation") and Republika Srpska (hereinafter referred to as "RS")
(Federation and RS - collectively referred to as "Entities") have been established by Entity
Governments during 1996, as institutions with administrative, technical and financial autonomy
and capacity to execute different, employment-related projects designed and supported by the
World Bank.
Within ETFs, Public Works and Employment Departments have been set up to manage
the day-to-day implementation of the Public Works and Employment Project (hereinafter referred
to as the "PWEP").
The project was aimed at creating temporary employment through financing labor
intensive public works on a municipal level, and to strengthen the responsibility and decision
making role of local governments. Rehabilitation of war damaged local infrastructure is also an
important project objective.
Sub-project eligibility criteria has been modified during the project implementation
following a demand for less labor intensive and more sophisticated civil works which would
make a significant infrastructure improvement and facilitate a refugee return process.
The project was initially designed as an operation of US$45 million, out of which US$10
million was from IDA. Over 90 percent of the total project funding was supposed to be spent for
sub-projects. However, the total amount of funding available for the project was about US$25.35
million or 56 percent of the initially projected amount.
Project Financing
Sub-projects        Operating Costs            Total
Source         min US dollars millions) (in US dollars millions) (in US dollars milhion0)
1. IDA Credit                 7.74                 1.88'                 9.62
2. Norwegian Grant            4.55                  0.00                  4.55
3. Swiss Grant                1.09                  0.00                  1.09
4. Japan Grant                5.00                  0.00                  5.00
5. Italian Grant              1.58                  0.00                  1.58
6. Dutch Grant                3.22                  0.29                  3.51
TOTAL                        23.18                  2.17                 25.35
As of May 15, 2000, 85 percent of the financing available has been contracted and 81
percent disbursed (over US$20.5 million). IDA credit has been 94 percent disbursed.
' US $ 1.4 million of IDA allocation for operating costs has been re-allocated to the category "sub-
projects".
30



Primary Project Objectives
The followitig were the main project objectives:
I. Employment - to create rapid employment, even temporary, for those unemployed as a result
of the war;
2. Infrastructure improvement - to rehabilitate small scale public infrastructure and to lesser
extent clearn-up the war damaged public property and assets;
3. Local governments capacity building - to reinforce the decision-making role and
responsibility of municipality governments for local infrastructure, including project design,
bidding, supervision and maintenance;
4. Deliver visible impact at the local level in the near term.
Since the first stated objective of the project was to create temporary employment, the projects
have been categorized (prioritized) by their type and labor intensity of works:
First priority - urgent and labor intensive:
* War ruins clean up;
* Rehabilitation of forests which were exploited for fuel and thereby destroyed during the war;
* Surface sewage in urban areas, mainly cleaning up ditches, streams and river banks;
* Cleaning up of rural drainage canals;
* Rural road rehabilitation (unpaved roads);
* Rehabilitation of urban parks and gardens;
* Rehabilitation of cemeteries;
* Local electricity networks which are under the responsibility of the municipality;
Second priority
* Rehabilitation of public infrastructure and public housing (mainly weatherproofing of
buildings) in municipalities where there was no other public housing financing available;
* Rehabilitation of water supplying networks;
* Street repairs;
* Rehabilitation of irrigation networks;
* Rehabilitation of rural public buildings, such as schools, health centers (not administrative
buildings),
Third priority
* Urban sewage piping;
* Municipal landfills for garbage deposit;
* Drinking water intakes, reservoirs and treatment plants;
* Sewage treatment plants;
* Local electricity networks under municipal responsibility;
* Local telephone networks under municipal responsibility;
(Note: Regular maintenance of infrastructure was not eligible for financing under the PWEP).
31



As stated above, sub-project eligibility criteria has been modified to address a demand for
less labor intensive civil works. Accordingly, the following changes to the original categorization
have been introduced:
Project objectives - the order of priorities was changed as follows:
(1) rehabilitation of public infrastructure (with emphasis on refugee return);
(2) employment; and
(3) visible impact and reinforcing a decision making role of local governments.
Project priorities:
1. FIRST PRIORITY WORKS (with high economic impact):
Drinking water distributive networks, rural road repairs, drinking water intakes, plants, local
electricity networks, local telephone networks, street repairs;
2. SECOND PRIORITY WORKS:
Rural drainage canals, irrigation systems rehabilitation, tramway lines repairs, reforestation,
urban surface drainage, urban sewage piping, social services buildings;
3. THIRD PRIORITY WORKS:
War ruins clean up, municipal landfills, sewage treatment plants, park and cemetery
rehabilitation.
Summary Project Implementation
Implementation of the project has been carried out in accordance with the principles
established in the basic project documents (Technical Annex) and following the operational
procedures that have been laid out in the project's Operational Manual (promotional activities,
screening, appraisal, approval and supervision).
As of May 15, 2000 a total of 1,386 applications have been submitted by municipalities
(1,014 in the Federation and 372 in the RS). Out of that, 569 sub-projects (41 percent) were
appraised and approved as acceptable for financing according to the established criteria.
477 contracts have been signed in total value of DEM36,330,084. Out of this, 432 sub-
projects have been completed. Breakdown by entities is shown in the table below.
Federation BH        Republika Srpska  [       TOTAL
Applications received        1,014                  372                  1,386
Appraised                     436                   134                   570
Contracted (number      364     24,305,730   113     12,024,354    477     36,330,084
and amount in DEM)            l                    l I
Procurement of civil works was under the responsibility of municipalities - in accordance
with the World Bank procurement procedures.
32



The following procurement methods have been used:
1. SNCB - Simplified national competitive bidding;
2. DC - Direct contracting;
3. FA - Force Account.
Procurement   Federation              Republiha Srpska       TOTAL
Method
No.     Amount (DEM) No.       Amount (DEM) No.        Amount (DEMI)
DC            90      5,087,732       16     1,093,017       106     6,180,749
FA            31      3,044,804       10     1,574,030       41      4,618,834
SNCB          243      16,173,194     87     9,357,307       330     25,530,501
Total         364     24,305,730      113    12,024,354      477     36,330,084
As shown in the table above, SNCB method has been used in 330 sub-projects (70
percent). At the very beginning of the project implementation, at least three quotations were
required in response to written invitation but this has change, as agreed with the World Bank, to
public advertisements in the daily newspapers. Contractors were private and state owned
construction companies or local public utility companies.
The frequency of contracting was somewhat erratic during the year. It can be observed that
there were less contracts in the winter months, which is quite understandable having in mind the
nature of the project.
The average sub-project term was 2 months. The average duration includes the approved
extensions of deadlines for completion, mainly due to the weather conditions. The average
amount per sub-project was DEM66,774 in the Federation and DEM106,410 in Republika
Srpska.
Labor intensity of sub-projects
About 42,526 man/months of temporary employment has been created (Federation -
29,117; and RS - 13,409) and approximately 27,600 workers have been engaged (duration of
employment: 10 days to 4 months). On average, the labor content was 58 percent of the total
costs for sub-projects (62 percent in the Federation and 49 percent in the RS2).
Project contractors
Two hundred ninety different companies have been contracted under the project (220 in
the Federation and 70 in the RS). Public announcement of the bidding process prevented the
establishment of "private" relationships between local authorities and local contractors.
2 RS figure is lower due to more capital intensive sub-projects financed out of the Italian Grant (US$1.6
million) dedicated only for Brcko and implemented under a special arrangement.
33



Regional Distribution
In order to ensure a demand driven distribution of funds, a cantonal/regional allocation of
funds has been established taking into consideration the total population, number of refugees,
displaced persons and expected returnees as well as the war damage.
Federation
No.      Contracted
Canton       of Projects  Actual Cost   %
________      DE M
1. Una-Sana            44       3,095,038    12.74%
2. Posavina             8        574,645     2.37%
3. Tuzla-Podrinje      71       4,906,897    20.20%
4. Zenic-Doboj         56       3,356,184    13.82%
5. Gorazde             12        662,930     2.73%
6. Srednja Bosna       51       3,318,868    13.66%
7. Neretva             42       2,702,055    11.12%
8. Zap. Hercegovina     6        439,162     1.81%
9. Sarajevo            62       4,616,045    18.92%
10. Zapadna Bosna      12        633,902     2.62%
Total                  364      24,305,730    100%
Republika Srpska3
No.      Contracted     %
R e g i o n       Of       Actual Cost
Proieets     DEM
Banja Luka         32       3,719,609   30.93%
Bijeljina         36      3,219,409    26.78%
Doboj            18      2,079,661    17.30%
Sokolac           6        643,585     5.35%
Srbinje           6        712,051     5.92%
Trebinje          3        431,069      3.58%
Vlasenica         12       1,218,970    10.14%
Total           113      12,024,354    100%
3Initial allocation has changed due to donor grants targeted to specific geographic areas: Italian Grant for
Brcko (Bijeljina region) - US$1,578,780 and Swiss grant for Banja Luka region - US$62,500, Doboj
region - YS$ 137,500 and Bijeljina region - US$50,000.
34



EVALUATION OF THE ACHIEVEMENTS - Primary objectives
1. Employment
The PWEP, with its primary objective to create rapid (though temporary) employment for
those unemployed as a result of the war, has been very successful in supporting temporary job
creation through labor-intensive public works.
As already mentioned, about 42,500 man-months of temporary employment has been
created under the project. Almost 27,600 workers were employed in various sub-projects. Most
of them, about 65 percent were temporary employed workers. Out of the total number, about 80
percent were demobilized soldiers.
Employment analysis showed that a significant number of unemployed found a
temporary employment within the Project. For the majority it was the first postwar opportunity to
earn some income.
The level of temporary employment varied for different types of sub-projects. Some
types of works (cemetery rehabilitation, war ruins clean up, urban and rural drainage canals, river
banks clean up, reforestation etc.), were more appropriate to create job opportunities. Frequency
of these works was higher in the beginning of the Project because of the higher labor content
requirement.
Other types of sub-projects, such as reconstruction of local telephone and electricity lines,
water reservoirs, intakes and plants, public housing etc., although equally important, have
created less opportunities for temporary employed workers. These types of sub-projects required
highly-skilled workers, mainly those already employed by the contractors.
Being an active labor market mechanism, the PWEP in Bosnia and Herzegovina has had
positive impact on a long-term employment generation. Namely, for many contractors hired to
perform works under the PWEP (especially during 1996 and 1997), it was their first post-war job
opportunity. Being out of business for 4 to 5 years, they did not have enough workers at disposal
and had to hire new labor force. Many unemployed workers hired for 2 to 3 months under the
PWEP, have used the opportunity to prove themselves and get a long-term employment.
2. Rehabilitation of public infrastructure
In the very beginning of the project implementation, with the employment as the first
objective, priority was given to sub-projects with higher labor content (see above). Although
fully justified from the employment perspective, the impact of such works on infrastructure
rehabilitation was not considerable.
The second phase of the project started with slightly modified strategy whereby
rehabilitation of local infrastructure was set as the first priority. During this phase, sub-projects
such as local road repairs have been prioritized by municipalities (almost all municipalities in
both entities required rehabilitation of at least one local road). Typically, local road repair
projects were usually followed by projects that supported reconstruction of waterways, local
electricity distribution networks etc. Such an approach has created necessary preconditions and
facilitated refugee return.
3. Reinforcing the decision-making role of local authorities
In order to explain objectives of the project and its implementing arrangement and
procedures (application guidelines), a series of promotional meetings have been organized (in the
35



initial phase of the project) throughout the country. This was an initial opportunity to emphasize
the importance of transparent local governance, particularly related to the priority project
selection. The PWEP was also one of the first projects that has established partnerships with
local governments as ultimate providers of local infrastructure.
A similar promotional campaign was carried out to introduce and explain the
modifications that have been made to the original project design and encourage municipalities to
co-finance the sub-projects either from their own source revenues or by raising funding from
other donors. As a result of these activities and hand-on technical assistance provided by the
PWEP engineers, the rejection rate has dropped from over 30 percent during the first phase of the
project implementation to 15 percent by the end of the project. Furthermore, municipal co-
financing has been significantly increased. In the Federation, out of 364 financed sub-projects,
municipal/cantonal co-financing was provided for 180 sub-projects, in the total amount of
DEMI 1 .3 million. In the RS, out of 113 contracted sub-projects, 66 had co-financing in total
value ofDEM5,91 million.
Responsibility for bidding procedure was also under the local governments. Only in a
few cases, the PWEP PlUs did not accept the contractors awarded and the bidding procedure
must have been repeated several times due to material errors.
Municipalities were also in charge of day-to-day supervision of the sub-projects. Such a
supervision has contributed that municipalities feel the ownership of the investment and it was in
their direct interest that the quality and impact of the financed sub-projects be at an optimal level.
Finally, one of the most important things was the procurement procedure. Local
governments had an opportunity to apply an open, transparent, fair and cost-effective
procurement cycle. Their capacity in that field did almost not exist, and today, all participating
municipalities have generally adopted procurement procedures in accordance with the World
Bank procurement guidelines.
4. Visible impact at the local level
FEDERATION           REPUBLIKA SRPSKA
Type of works            S&   ~Of works (wai)    Scope of woMks (wai)
War Ruins Clean Up                    198,410 (m3)             44,096 (m3)
Urban Sewage Piping                    17,072 (m)               5,010 (m)
Urban Surface Sewage                  289,214 (m2)             62,657 (m2)
Drinking Water Intakes, Plants         1,499 (m3)            1,380 (m3/hour)
Public buildings                      162,569 (m2)              800 (m2)
Local Electricity Network       |      140,027 (m)             55,645 (m)
Local PTT Network                      102,335 (m)             30,397 (m)
Rural Road Repair                     840,382 (m)              735,768 (m)
Street Repair                          17,033 (m)               4,776 (m)
Cemetery Rehabilitation               155,905 (m2)             20,000 (m2)
Park Rehabilitation                   161,491 (m2)             26,238 (m2)
Rural Drainage Canals           |      113,773 (m)             15,500 (m)
Drinking Water Networks         |      188,332 (m)     [       26,331 (m)
Cooperation with the World Bank and Other Donors
The World Bank has played the key role during an initial phase of the project, its design
and fundraising. During the project implementation, the Bank continued to play an important role
and it has provided support to the management in both entities. Overall, cooperation with the
36



World Bank could be assessed as excellent. However, taking into consideration the type of
activities financed under the project, better results could have been achieved in fund raising.
IDA Credit funds were used to finance sub-projects (US$7.74 million or 80 percent) and
provide institutional support i.e., operating costs of the Project Implementation Units in two
entities (US$1.88 million or 20 percent).
Although the amount of co-financing was not as initially projected, significant co-
financing has been provided by the governments of Netherlands, Norway, Japan, Italy and
Switzerland in the total amount of US$15.75 million. Over 98 percent of donor financing has
been allocated for sub-projects. We would hereby like to thank all the donor governments for
their continued support for the project.
It is also important to mention very good cooperation with other organization such as
Office of the High Representative (OHR), UNHCR, WFP, HELP, UNDP, USAID.
From the above figures it can be concluded that Public Works and Employment
Departments of Employment and Training Foundations have carried out very cost effective
operation with operating cost ratio at 8.36 percent. However, having in mind the level of
municipal co-financing raised for sub-projects (over US$9 million) the level of operating costs
(including technical assistance, goods and recurrent costs) would be even lower at 6.31 percent.
PROJECT EFFECTS
Social effects
Main social effects would be as follows:
*  Creating income through temporary employment proved to be an important intervention in an
immediate post-conflict environment.
*  Through job opportunities created and salaries earned under the project, basic needs of were
satisfied and it brought certain social security to workers and their families;
*  Decreased social tensions among vulnerable categories (demobilized soldiers, displaced
persons, returning refugees, war widows etc.);
*  Through employment of demobilized soldiers, the project created improved living conditions
for this particularly vulnerable category and helped their reintegration into the civilian life.
70 percent of the total number of employed were demobilized soldiers.
* Employment of displaced people and those returning to their pre-war homes, directly
improved their poor material position;
*  With investments in underdeveloped areas, i.e. poor municipalities, PWEP provided strong
and meaningful impulse to the municipal development, because due to their weak financial
position municipalities could not independently implement infrastructure projects;
*  Development of rural areas was supported by the project. The role of local (village)
communities was improved through subprojects implemented and it really contributed to a
better cooperation with local governments (on a municipal level).
*  Decreasing ethnic tension and strengthening, even slowly, inter-ethnic trust.
37



* Encouraging the return process of displaced and refugees.
* Strengthening and fortifying belief in the general value of life in peace.
Economic effects
Although the PWEP was not primarily focused on the achievements of economic goals, some
significant goals were reached.
Direct economic effects
* The project has created over 42,500 man/months of employment.
* The average duration of implementation of sub-projects was 2 months, which can also be
taken as the average period of employment for the engaged workers;
* Out of the total value of the implemented projects, DEM20,962,524 was for labor or 58
percent of the contracted value. The average gross salary, based on 184 workiig
hours/month, including food allowance and required taxes and contributions was DEM627
(net DEM296 + DEM82 food allowance) in the Federation and DEM432 (net DEM276 +
DEM46 food allowance) depending on the types of projects and period of implementation;
* The reconstruction of the basic local infrastructure enabled the start up of business activities,
private and state owned companies on a local level.
Improvement of the financial situation in the local utility and construction companies
because 290 companies (either private or state owned) participated in the implementation of
the project.
Indirect economic effects of PWEP were:
*  By investing in some municipalities as a first investor in a post-war period (for example rural
road repair) the PWEP encouraged other donors to invest in the same areas;
*  Creation of additional demand in the domestic market, at least for the value of salaries paid to
employed workers. For instance, municipality of Novi Grad - rural road repair - the income
in small shops surrounding the construction site (remote area) where new 140 workers were
hired, was more than doubled for the duration of sub-project implementation.
*  Support to the mobility of construction businesses and improvement of business activities of
local construction companies through increased usage of their production capacities;
*  Support to the development of the domestic construction industry and domestic market of
services;
*  Increased degree of business operations, efficiency, and also education in the segment of
skillful preparation and implementation of projects by local firms;
*  Contribution to the development of less developed or underdeveloped municipalities through
reconstruction of the most urgent infrastructure projects;
*  Increased the value of municipal property (roads, water supply systems, local electric and
telephone networks etc.)
*  Increased budget revenues through taxes paid on goods and services used in implementation
of subprojects;
38



* Created perspective for long-term employment of unemployed workers engaged in project
implementation, because contractors had the opportunity to check their skills.
Other effects
Other effects could be considered in a few different segments such as environmental, educational,
psychological and other effects.
Ecological effects
* Through financing of projects like: cleaning up of war ruins and garbage, reforestation,
rehabilitation of city parks and cemeteries, repair of local roads and city streets, arranging and
cleaning up of river banks, regulation of the streams through urban areas etc., the PWEP has
significantly contributed to cleaner environment and developed the consciousness of local
inhabitants and governments about importance of environment protection. Sub-projects
designed in a way that their implementation could negatively affect the environment were
not considered eligible for financing under the PWEP.
Effects in education
*  Education of all participants in the areas of project design, implementation, financing,
monitoring and the need for maintenance after project implementation, was an opportunity
for municipal officials to gain experience and adopt sound principles in contracting local
works. This effect especially contributes to the sustainability of the project.
*  Key stakeholders gained new experiences with methodological approach and procedures for
project selection;
* Established links between municipalities and international and national humanitarian,
development and other organizations.
Psychological and other effects
*  Atmosphere of increased security for individuals and their families;
*  Creation and strengthening of belief in peace;
* Creation of habit and belief in living on wages earned, not rents gained from state or
humanitarian assistance;
*  Support of the inter-ethnic trust;
* Support and strengthening of trust in the civil government structures;
*  Strengthening of the trust in the chosen local representatives of the municipality;
39



LESSONS LEARNED
The PWEP was focused on stimulation of the employment of unemployed population,
especially demobilized soldiers, refugees and other vulnerable groups. Although, significant
results were achieved, overall ecnomic growth did not follow, negatively affecting creation of a
more sustainable jobs. Therefore, the project can not be considered as of a significant importance
in terms of generating sustainable employment. Also, funds for maintenance of facilities repaired
under the PWEP are still missing due to a financial weakness of local governments.
However, the project was oriented to the recontruction and development of municipal
infrastructure, which is in direct connection with creation of conditions for the return of refugees
and improved living conditions for resident and diplaced population.
Evaluating achivements in the light of this objective, the PWEP proved that, under the
circumstances of total physical, political and social destruction, with relatively low investment,
an extraordinary contribution to the overall developement can be achieved.
The PWEP placed the municipal government in focus of fulfulling the first two goals and
required them to develop managment capabilities and long-term responsiblites for maintaining
municipal infrastructure (development, maintenance and transition to market conditions fulfilling
the public function in this area).
The PWEP, with modified project strategy, and based on an important role of municipal
authorities, encouraged local governments to mobilize all available resources (entity
governments, cantonal and municpal budgets, other local and international donors and creditors)
which resulted in very high amount of co-financing.
Contractors respecting contract conditions, became responsible for organizing work in the
spirit of goals, priorities and the project criteria. They were also responsible for labor content in
the total costs of the project, participation of demobilized soldiers and duration of works.
Local communities have also initiated numerous sub-projects.
PWEP is good example how well-thought project with clear objectives can be a framework
for succesful implementation and good results. However, this project can not solve all the
problems concerning employment, reconstruction and other related issues.
Problems mentioned should be solved in the framework of the economic developement
strategy for BiH. Cost-benefit analysis, as a orientation for the wide evaluation of the project,
confirmed that the PWEP has achieved not only good results in employment, but also in the area
of municipal infrastructure.
PWEP opened numerous possibilities to municipal goverments to develop different kind of
initiatives for building infrastructures and employing demobilized soldiers, of course within the
framework of the goals set, limitations and priorities which the PWEP has introduced. It is
particularly significant that the municipal governments did not have influence on the local
committees, in the sense of choosing contractors exclusivly from the municipal area. Generally,
the municipalities with projects financed by PWEP made efforts to engage not only human
resources from all the social groups from a municipality but also other resources (businesses of a
required profile, constant employment of workers, machinery and transport devices from a
municipality etc.). Such an effort was limited by the need to ensure the efficient use of
40



disposable resources, which also influenced the way of choosing contractors. Transparency and
competition in that area is visible, majority of works were contracted through simplified bidding
procedure. In the meantime, the PWEP resisted pressures to favorize local contractors, what
ensured the efficiency and consistency of the criteria and maintained the concept of the project in
its entirety.
Different works resulted in different ratios of the temporary employed and permanently
employed, as well as the share of demobilized soldiers in the implementation of the Projects.
This showed that the effect in employment can not only be related to the category of demobilized
soldiers, because some projects required greater participation of qualified workers and so
lessened the possibility of employing non-specialized workers on a temporary basis. In other
words, the value and significance of road works or water supply systems in relation to the works
of cleaning up of war ruins or village drainage canals are incomparable. That shows the need for
emphasizing the pluralizm of goals in such projects, which was also the case in the PWEP and in
the future such a system of goals should be developed for similar operations.
To strengthen the decision making role of the local govemments specific knowledge and
skills were required. It should be stressed that this is a process in which results are seen through
an increased capacity of municipalities to: (i) select the priority projects; (ii) provide co-
financing for priority projects; (iii) better communicate with local communities. Based on the
experience gained through the project implementation, local govemments have built up their
capacities to independently apply for similar projects and approximately 50 percent of them is
fully capable to implement similar projects in an appropriate manner.
Future operations
Taking into consideration the general situation in the country and the fact that the
reconstruction phase is coming to an end, it is certain that parts of the county, especially rural
areas, will need further assistance in infrastructure rehabilitation and development. This is an
important factor for improvement of overall living conditions, return of refugees and displaced
persons and creation of an enabling environment for economic growth. Under such premises and
using the lessons learned from the PWEP, a follow up operation should be designed. Naturally,
the follow up project should be designed as a self-sufficient operation of a longer term nature to
support sustainable development. The ultimate objective could be to co-finance priority
infrastructure projects in poor municipalities progressively building their capacity to fully take
over the responsibility for local infrastructure.
41



I
I
I
I



IBRD 28578R
'6               ,,Oige                  18 ~    To Osijek  
To Zagreb      Zare      CROATI A           T O Vinlkowci  ~*-'1 
To Osujek
rmcpn                   )T"1 o \ Belgrode
Brod         ,: t1            F       .: ms vese45J 
45Denikao
0 -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-n0v
~~~ t   \           \     {   +    O Kobne   ,^J ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P,ijepolje
Swa 11   \   )   A lS 7         J   \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ \. ia 
>~~~~~~~~~~ZC            POAN /i  UKRAINFEERA
-~ ~~~~~8 DAYTON3p AGEMNUE                   (    REPUBLI OFc __c~
M~~~~~~~~~         ~ ~ - - .   ' - '   c*  t   Mu Z. O SVIA
RIVERSd. VSk.AU                   H UNGAY E   . )
~~~~~~
CROASTCTDCIISIAOMNA ,,
lezer                              0 SkvneWadBnkfescnea,es
in,ooln,y  Xn    Areae  f  25   0   7
Isa rvr pod-; a! Th  Wal &ssl
OCTOB
BOSN IA  AN D  H E RZEGOVI NA                             soro~~~~~~v  grod
TO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a                  Pol      V lMgF POAN/ UKWE
Zador ~ ~ ~   DYTNGREENUE                                                     U tiT\oi9+  ;f.  e
RIVERS                                SWwTZ  X  AUSTRIA,, HUNGARY/ ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T
49  NA;nONAL CAfrTAL  dWle Msop gnbUnT11e  Ke Al.I FEDnERAL_   E C
or nny erJorsemeREo;UGREC OF@
(SERBIA OBE/IR9



i
i
i
i
I
I
I
i



