CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 587 PA
Development Credit
Agreement
(Pre-investment Studies Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED OCTOBER 17, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 587 PA
Development Credit
Agreement
(Pre-investment Studies Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED OCTOBER 17, 1975


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 17, 1975, between REPUBLIC OF
PARAGUAY (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Project will be partly carried out by the Central Bank of the
Borrower (hereinafter called Banco Central) with the Borrower's assistance and,
as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to Banco Central part
of the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
(C)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and Banco Central;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and Banco Central of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time
to time;


﻿4
(b)   "Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and Banco Central pursuant to Section 3.01(b) of this
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(c)   "FP" means Fondo de Preinversiones, an account to be opened by
Banco Central pursuant to Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement;
(d)   "ONP" means Oficina Nacional de Proyectos, an agency of the
Borrower established by Decree No. 13,299 of the Borrower dated June 30, 1970;
(e)   "Management Committee" means the committee to be established by
the Borrower pursuant to Section 3.02 of this Agreement;
(f)   "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by Banco
Central through the Management Committee to a Sub-borrower for a Sub-project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to Banco
Central under the Subsidiary Agreement;
(g)   "Sub-borrower" means an agency of the Borrower to which Banco
Central proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan;
(h)   "Sub-project" means a particular pre-investment study to be carried
out by a Sub-borrower utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan;
(i)   "Reglamento" means the statement of lending and operating policies
and procedures applicable to FP to be issued by Banco Central pursuant to Section
2.03 of the Project Agreement; and
(j)   " STP" means the Secretaria T,cnica de Planificaci6n, of the Presidencia
de la Repiblica of the Borrower, established by Decreto-ley No. 312 and ratified
by Law No. 841 dated September 14, 1962.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to four million dollars ($4,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement,


﻿5
as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between the
Borrower and the Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; provided, however,
that, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made
on account of expenditures for a Sub-project unless a Sub-loan therefor shall have
been approved by the Association.
(b)   Except as the Borrower, the Association and Banco Central shall
otherwise agree, applications and requests for Sub-loans made pursuant to the
provisions of Section 2.05 of the Project Agreement shall be submitted to the
Association on or before December 31, 1978.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1980 or such later
date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on May 15 and
November 15 in each year.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each May 15 and November 15 commencing
November 15, 1985 and ending May 15, 2025, each installment to and including
the installment payable on May 15, 1995 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.07. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.08. Banco Central is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under
the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause


﻿6
Banco Central to perform, in accordance with the provisions of the Project
Agreement and the Subsidiary Agreement, all the obligations therein set forth, shall
take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities,
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to. enable Banco Central to
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)   The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit allocated to
Category (1) of Schedule I to this Agreement available to Banco Central under
a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and Banco Central
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
(c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association
and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall:
(a)   Appoint and maintain, in Banco Central, a committee composed of:
(i)         a representative of its Ministry of Finance;
(ii)        a representative of STP; and
(iii)       a representative of Banco Central as Chairman.
(b)   Cause Banco    Central to   manage FP    through   the Management
Committee.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the services
required for the Project shall be procured pursuant to the provisions set forth
or referred to in Section 2.08 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. (a) In order to assist the Borrower to carry out Part B.1 of
the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants acceptable to the Association
upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
(b)   In order to assist the Borrower to carry out Part B.2 of the Project,
the Borrower shall employ (i) a specialist in management of pre-investment work,
(ii) a highway engineer, and (iii) an agricultural economist, all acceptable to the
Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.


﻿0
7
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take all necessary steps to cause the
Sub-borrowers to make punctual payments under the Sub-loans.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall cause ONP to provide technical assistance
to Banco Central to carry out Part A of the Project.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause ONP to make known to the
representatives in Paraguay of the member countries of the Association and
Switzerland with the register of consultants kept by ONP, and advise such
representatives that only those consultants who have been or will be included in
such register are eligible to participate in the carrying out of Sub-projects.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall reorganize ONP into two departments,
namely, (i) a technical department to identify and appraise projects, and to supervise
the execution of piojects financed out of the resources of FP; and (ii) a department
in charge of programming and budgeting, and of administrative and financial
matters.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
limit to not more than thirteen the number of pre-investment studies undertaken
by ONP in any one year until December 31, 1978.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall, within one year from the date of this
Agreement or such other date as the Association may otherwise agree, take such
measures as shall be necessary to establish and maintain ONP as the executive
office of the Committee of External Financing, established under Decree 3.797,
dated March 25, 1969, to assist such Committee in the carrying out of its objectives
as set forth in such Decree.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions
the following additional events are specified pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a)  Banco Central shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under
the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Agreement;


﻿8
(b)   the Borrower, Banco Central or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the
Management Committee or ONP;
(c)   an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that Banco Central will be able to perform its obligations under the
Project Agreement; and
(d)   a change shall have been made in the Reglamento without the
Association's consent which may materially and adversely affect the carrying out
of Part A of the Project by Banco Central or ONP.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a)   the events specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower and Banco Central; and
(b)   the event specified in paragraph (b), or paragraph (d) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
Banco Central have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate
and governmental action;
(b)   the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Agreement on behalf of
the Borrower and Banco Central, respectively, have been duly authorized or ratified
by all necessary corporate and governmental action;
(c)   the FP has been opened as required by Section 2.02 of the Project
Agreement;
(d)   the Management Committee has been appointed as required by Section
3.02 of this Agreement;


﻿9
(e)   the Reglamento has been issued as required by Section 2.03 of the
Project Agreement; and
(f)  ONP has been reorganized as required by Section 4.01 of this
Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, Banco Central, and is legally binding
upon Banco Central in accordance with its terms; and
(b)  That the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and Banco Central,
and is legally binding upon the Borrower and Banco Cenlral in accordance with
its terms.
Section 6.03. The date January 15, 1976 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Section 4.02 of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Ministro de Hacienda of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Hacienda
Asunci5n
P~araguay
0S166-


﻿10
Cable address:
MINHACIENDA
Asunci6n
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN  WITNESS    WHEREOF, the      parties hereto, acting through  their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
By /s / Miguel Solano Lopez
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / G. K. Wiese
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿0
11
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)   Sub-loans under               3,400,000            70%
Part A of the
Project
(2)   Technical Assis-                100,000            100% of foreign
tance to ONP                                       expenditures
under Part B.1
of the Project
(3)   Unallocated                     500,000
TOTAL         4,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other than the
Borrower.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on
goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit decreases or increases,
the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the


﻿12
disbursement percentage then applicable to such item as required to be consistent
with the aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals may be made in respect of Category (1) on account of expenditures
incurred after April 1, 1975 in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $100,000; and
(b)   expenditures for administrative costs of the Sub-borrowers or salaries
of its regular staff.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an    amount of the Credit or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1 above, if the
Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated
to any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another Category and
which in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures,
and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿13
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following:
Part A:     Selected  pre-investment studies designed to identify and prepare
high-priority investment projects in the transport, agricultural,
education, tourism and other sectors in Paraguay. Sub-loans will be
provided for this purpose by Banco Central.
Part B:     Technical assistance to ONP in:
1.    subjects related to Sub-projects which require expertise.
2.    (a)   identifying and preparing Sub-projects;
(b)   appraising Sub-loan applications;
(c)   selecting and contracting consultants services;
(d)   preparing terms of reference for Sub-projects;
(e)   supervising the execution of Sub-projects;
(f)   reviewing and assessing Sub-projects upon completion; and
(g)   training ONP's staff.


