CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 587 PA
Project Agreement
(Pre-investment Studies Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
BANCO CENTRAL DE PARAGUAY
DATED OCTOBER 17, 1975


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 17, 1975, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and BANCO
CENTRAL DE PARAGUAY (hereinafter called Banco Central).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between Republic of Paraguay (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to four million dollars ($4,000,000), on
the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only
on condition that Banco Central agree to undertake such obligations toward the
Association as hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS by a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and Banco Central, part of the proceeds of the credit provided for under
the Development Credit Agreement will be made available to Banco Central on
the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS Banco Central, in consideration of the Association's entering into
the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. Banco Central shall carry out Part A of the Project described
in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement through the Management
Committee with due diligence and efficiency under the supervision of qualified


﻿4
and experienced management and in accordance with the Reglamento, and shall
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. Banco Central shall open and maintain an account (FP) and
pay into such account the proceeds of the Credit made available to Banco Central
under the Subsidiary Agreement and any other proceeds made available for, or
accruing from, the carrying out of Part A of the Project described in Schedule
2 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. Banco Central shall issue a Reglamento, satisfactory to the
Association, embodying the lending and operating policies and procedures applicable
to FP, including the following:
(i)        interest on the principal amount outstanding of Sub-loans shall
be six per cent (6o) per annum;
(ii)       Sub-borrowers shall repay Sub-loans over a period of not more
than seven years, including a grace period of not more than two
years;
(iii)      Sub-borrowers shall pay a commitment charge of one per cent
per annum on the undisbursed balance of Sub-loans; and
(iv)       Sub-borrowers shall pay a penalty charge of two per cent per
month on overdue service payments.
Section 2,04. Banco Central shall use the proceeds of the Credit made
available to it under the Subsidiary Agreement exclusively to make Sub-loans under
the terms and conditions established in the Reglainento.
Section 2.05. Banco Central shall use all sums paid into FP in connection
with the Project exclusively for:
(a)   financing pre-investment studies in accordance with the Reglamento;
(b)   servicing the financial obligations of the Borrower under the
Development Credit Agreement;
(c)   paying itself a service charge of not more than 1-1/2% per annum
of the principal amount outstanding of the loans made out of FP's resources; and


﻿5
(d)   paying ONP a service charge of not more than 1-1/2% per annum of
the principal amount outstanding of the loans made out of FP's resources.
Section 2.06. When submitting a Sub-loan to the Association for approval,
Banco Central shall furnish to the Association an application, in form satisfactory
to the Association, together with:
(a)   a description of the Sub-borrower;
(b)   a description of the Sub-project (including its cost);
(c)   the terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the Schedule of
Amortization for the Sub-loan;
(d)   complete information on the consultants to be employed therefor,
including their terms of reference or other terms and conditions of their
employment; and
(e)   such other information as the Association shall reasonably request.
Section 2.07. (a) Banco Central undertakes that, unless the Association shall
otherwise agree, any Sub-loan will be made on terms whereby Banco Central shall
obtain, by written contract with the Sub-borrower or by other appropriate legal
means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Association and Banco Central,
including the right of Banco Central to:
(i)         require the Sub-borrower to carry out the Sub-project with due
diligence and efficiency and to maintain adequate records;
(ii)       require the Sub-borrower to employ qualified and experienced
consultants acceptable to the Association and ONP, to an extent
and upon terms and conditions, including terms of reference,
satisfactory to the Association and ONP;
(iii)       require the Sub-borrower to establish for each Sub-project
arrangements   and  procedures, satisfactory  to  ONP, for
supervising and directing the work of the consultants employed
therefor, recommending modifications of the consultants' terms
of reference or other terms and conditions of their employment,
and  reviewing the reports and recommendations of such
consultants;


﻿6
(iv)       require the Sub-borrower to take all reasonable measures to
facilitate the work of the consultants in the performance of their
services for the Sub-project and make available to them all
information relevant to the Sub-project;
(v)        require the Sub-borrower not to amend or waive any of the
terms and conditions of employment of the consultants, or grant
any material extension of time or any approval of sub-contracts
or modifications thereof, or agree to substitutions of personnel
of such consultants, without prior agreement of ONP. The
Sub-borrower shall not suspend payments under any contract
with such consultants without prior consultation with Banco
Central and ONP and shall not terminate any contract with such
consultants without prior consultation with the Association and
ONP;
(vi)       require the Sub-borrower to cause the consultants employed for
the Sub-project to furnish promptly to ONP copies of the
documents prepared by them    for the Sub-project, including
reports and drafts thereof, in such number as ONP shall
reasonably request;
(vii)      require the Sub-borrower, from time to time, to exchange views
with ONP with respect to the contents of the documents referred
to in (vi) above;
(viii)     require the consulting services to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Sub-loan to be used exclusively in the carrying out of
the Sub-project;
(ix)       obtain all such information as the Association, Banco Central
and ONP shall reasonably request relating to the Sub-project;
and
(x)        suspend or terminate the right of the Sub-borrower to the use
of the proceeds of the Sub-loan     upon failure by such
Sub-borrower to perform its obligations under its contract with
Banco Central.
(b)  Banco Central shall exercise its rights in relation to each Sub-project
in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Association, Banco Central
and ONP; (ii) comply with its obligations under this Agreement and the Subsidiary
Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes of Part A of the Project.


﻿7
Section 2.08. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, consultants
employed for the carrying out of a Sub-project shall be selected and employed
in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of the Reglamento.
Section 2.09. Banco Central shall duly perform all its obligations under the
Subsidiary Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, Banco
Central shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of
amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Agreement or any
provision thereof.
Section 2.10. (a) Banco Central shall, at the request of the Association,
exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of Part A of the
Project, the performance of its obligations tinder this Agreement and tinder the
Subsidiary Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)   Banco Central shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress of Part A of the Project,
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by Banco
Central of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. Banco Central shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of Part A of the Project and of each Sub-project (including the cost thereof),
and reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices consistently applied the
administration of FP.
Section 3.02. Banco Central shall: (i) have FP audited each fiscal year, in
accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association: (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as
available, but in any case not later than four months after the end of each such
year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the
Association sIch other information concerning FP and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.


﻿8
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of
Banco Central thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Development
Credit Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, except for the
obligations of Banco Central under Section 3.02 of this Agreement which shall
cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate or on a date twenty years after the date of such Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Developmeni Nssociation
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For Banco Central:
Independencia Nacional y 25 de mayo
Asunci6n
Paraguay


﻿9
Cable address:
BANCO CENTRAL
Asunci6n, Paraguay
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of Banco Central may be taken or executed by the President or such other person
or persons as the President shall designate in writing.
Section 5.03. Banco Central shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person
or persons who will, on behalf of Banco Central take any action or execute any
documents required or permitted to be taken or executed by Banco Central
pursuant to any of the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 5.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / G. K. Wiese
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
BANCO CENTRAL
By /s / Miguel Solano Lopez
Authorized Representative


