Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20477 BIH
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDRI 1.4 MILLION (US$15.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
FOR A
PILOT EMERGENCY LABOR REDEPLOYMENT PROJECT
May 22, 2000
Bosnia and Herzegovina Country Unit
Human Development Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 15, 2000))
Currency Unit =  Convertible Mark (KM);
equivalent 1:1 to Deutsche Mark
DEM I  =  US$0.465736
US$ I  =   DEM2.14714
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CET          Counseling Employment and Training
CIMC         Combined Joint Civilian Military Task Force
DCA          Development of Credit Agreement
EBRD         European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EDA          Enterprise Development Agency
EDRP         Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project
El           Employment Institute
ETF          Employment Training Foundation
EU           European Union
FBiH         Federation of Bosnia Herzegovina
Fl           Financial Institution
FMS          Financial Management System
FY           Fiscal Year
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
IBRD         International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA          International Development Association
ILO          Internationial Labor Organization
IMF          Internationial Monetary Fund
KM           Convertible Mark
LACI         Loan Administration Change Initiative
LIP          Local Initiatives Project
LIPII        Second Local Initiatives Project
LDP          Local Development Project
LMIS         Labor Market Information System
MFI          Micro-Finanice Institution
MIS          Managemenit Iniformationi System
M&E          Monitorinig and Evaluation
MoF          Ministry of Finance
MoD          Ministry of Defense
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn, ECAVP
Country Director:    Christiaan J Poortman, ECCO4
Sector Manager:    Michal J. Rutkowski, ECSHD
Task Team Leader:    Maniza B. Naqvi, ECSHD



MOSPDR    Ministry of Social Policy, Displaced Persons and Refugees
NGO         Non-Governmental Organization
OECD        Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
OHR         Office of the High Representative
OSCE        Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe
PAD         Project Appraisal Document
PELRP       Pilot Emergency Labor Redeployment Project
PIU         Project Implementation Unit
PTSD        Post Traumatic Stress Disorder
PWEP        Public Works and Employment Project
RS          Republika Srpska
SA          Special Account
SFOR        Stabilization Force
SOE         Statement of Expenditure
SRTAP       Social Reform and Technical Assistance Project
SOSAC       Social Sector Adjustment Credit
TA          Technical Assistance
TORs        Terms of References
WB          World Bank






BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
PILOT EMERGENCY LABOR REDEPLOYMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page
A. Project Development Objective                                                      3
1. Project development objective                                                   3
2. Key performance indicators                                                       4
B. Strategic Context                                                                  4
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project  4
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                       4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices               6
C. Project Description Summary                                                        7
1. Project components                                                               7
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                   14
3. Benefits and target population                                                  14
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                   15
D. Project Rationale                                                                 20
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                      20
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies      21
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                        22
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                24
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                     25
E. Summary Project Analysis                                                          25
1. Economic                                                                       25
2. Financial                                                                       26
3. Technical                                                                       27
4. Institutional                                                                   27
5. Social                                                                          27
6. Environment                                                                     28
7. Participatory Approach                                                          29
F. Sustainability and Risks                                                          29
1. Sustainability                                                                 29
2. Critical risks                                                                  30
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                  32



Page
G. Main Credit Conditions                                                            33
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                        33
2. Other                                                                           33
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                      33
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                     34
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                      35
Annex 2: Project Description                                                         37
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                     39
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary       43
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary  44
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                   47
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                 53
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                               54
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                              55
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                        57
Annex 11: Review of Financial Management Arrangements                                59
MAP(S)
IBRD 28578R



BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
Pilot Emergency Labor Redeployment Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSHD
Date: May 22, 2000                           Team Leader: Maniza B. Naqvi
Country Director: Christiaan J. Poortman     Sector Manager: Michal J. Rutkowski
Project ID: P070146                          Sector(s): SE - Labor Markets & Employment
Lending Instrument:                          Theme(s): Social Protection
Specific Investment Loan (SIL)
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
LI Loan       Z Credit           LI Grant        L Guarantee        [ Other (Specify)
For Loans/CreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): $15.00 million equivalent
Proposed Terms: Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                     Years to maturity: 35
Commitment fee: 0.5%                         Service charge: 0.75%
Finatl Pla                                  Local            Fign                TaI
GOVERNMENT                                      1.50              0.00              1.50
IDA                                            15.00              0.00             15.00
DUTCH TRUST FUND                                1.01              0.00              1.01
Total:                                         17.51              0.00             17.51
Borrower: STATE OF BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
Responsible agencies:
MINISTRY OF FINANCE of the Federation of Bosnia & Herzegovina
MINISTRY OF FINANCE of the Republika Srpska
Implementing agencies:
Project Implementation Unit of Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina
Address: Antuna Branka Simica 4
Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina
Contact Person: Mr. Marko Pejcinovic, Director; Mr. Amrudin Nurak, Deputy Director
Tel: (387-71) 655-155    Fax: (387-71) 665-155             Email:
Employment and Training Foundation of the Republika Srpska
Address: Narue /byrsac 7/11
Banja Luka, Republika Srspka
Bosnia and Hersegovina
Contact Person: Mr. Srecko Bogunovic, Director
Tel: (387-58) 218-140 or 218-620    Fax: (387-58) 217-947  Email: Bsrecko@lname.com
1



FY    2001        2002         2003
Annual              3.0           5.2          6.7
Cumulative          3.0           8.3         15.0
Project implementation period: 3 years
Expected effectiveness date: 09/15/2000  Expected closing date:  09/30/2003
OCS PAO Form Re. Marh2XO
2



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
A.   Background
Following the Dayton Peace Agreement of November 1995, an estimated 425,000 soldiers were
demobilized from the Bosniac, Croat and Serb armies. Their reintegration into civilian life was
facilitated by the Bank's Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project (EDRP) which
closed in September 1999. In the Madrid Agreement of 1998, the two Entities, the Federation of
Bosnia-Herzegovina (FBiH) and Republika Srpska (RS), committed themselves for a further
reduction in force of 30 percent in two phases of 15 percent each in 1999 and 2000.
The overall objective of the military downsizing is to improve the policy environment through:
(i) budgetary savings of 30 percent of the defense budget; (ii) improved security in the region and
sub-region; and (iii) increased mutual trust between the Entities. The first reduction in force was
accomplished by December 31, 1999 with the discharge of a combined total of approximately
4,792 soldiers from the three armies. Of this number, eligible beneficiaries for the Pilot
Emergency Labor Redeployment Project (PELRP) is approximately 3,097 ex-soldiers (net of
retirees and those who have found alternative employment): 1,178 Bosniacs; 1,033 Croats and
886 Serbs. There was little advance planning and little assurance that the severance payments to
which ex-soldiers are entitled would actually be paid, justifying the emergency nature of the
Project. Another 5,160 soldiers are to be discharged at the end of 2000.
A=twriied    Demobzd         Atborlded  .T .Dem6biIik-d
Army -Si     soier as of    Army size E      oliers as-of -
*anuary 1, 199#  Decemner 31, January   200  DMemiber 31i 2
FBiH:
Bosniac        23,885        1,178         20,300              2,090         17,255
Croat           10,000       1,510          8,500              1,275          7,225
Republika       14,095       2,114         11,980              1,795         10,185
Srpska
B.   Project development objective
Despite high unemployment rates prevailing in the general population, targeted assistance to ex-
soldiers is justified because: (i) ex-soldiers are a specially vulnerable group, and their economic
problems need to be addressed before they turn into social problems; and (ii) their successful
reintegration into peaceful civilian life would be an important contribution to enhancing security
in the region.
The primary Project development objective would be to provide ex-soldiers with the means for
self-reliant existence. The Project would focus on supporting the ex-soldiers in their ability to
find employment and to create sustainable jobs and businesses, redeploying ex-soldiers within the
economically active population. The secondary Project development objective would be to test
different active labor market measures to encourage employment generation, small business
creation for the benefit of ex-soldiers and provide stimulus to local training and consultancy
firms. If successful, these measures could be applied on a broader scale for other downsizing
programs (closing of coal mines, privatization, etc.).
3



2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The key performance indicators would be: (i) the number and percentage of ex-soldiers employed
or self-employed one year after having received assistance; (ii) the continuation of their
employment beyond a certain period of time, i.e. 6 months or a year; (iii) the continuation of their
business enterprises beyond a certain period of time after registration; and (iv) the cost-
effectiveness of active labor market measures compared to other interventions in the country and
in other transition economies. The indicators would be measured through: (i) the confirmation of
employment contracts and business registrations by the Project Implementation Units (PIUs) and
their extension agents; (ii) a close supervision and monitoring throughout the life of the Project;
and (iii) the calculation and comparison of average costs per successful redeployment.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see
Annex 1)
Click here to get to the CAS Document
Document number: 20301-BIH             Date of latest CAS discussion: 04/25/2000
The proposed Project is fully consistent with the Bosnia and Herzegovina CAS which was
presented to the Board on May 18, 2000. The Pilot Emergency Labor Redeployment Project
(PELRP) responds to the CAS priority of building social sustainability in Bosnia and
Herzegovina (BiH ) by focusing on ex-soldiers whose social and economic integration is key to
social sustainability in the Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH). In addition, the PELRP's primary
objective of providing ex-soldiers with the means for self-reliant existence focuses on sustainable
self employment opportunities and responds to the CAS priority of fostering private sector led
growth. The mechanisms for creating such opportunities under the Project are based on
principles of good governance such as self selection of peers for receiving benefits, as well as a
demand driven menu of options for services and opportunities.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
A common theme emerging from the Bank's Social Assessment (1999) is that people in BiH see
employment as the key to rebuilding lives. At the same time, unemployment estimates range
from one-third to over one-half of the economically active population. It is to be noted that data
on employment and earnings are deficient, and information on employment in the informal
sector, which is an important source of income for many, is not available. Of the registered labor
force, 36 percent is unemployed in the RS and 40 percent in FBiH. These high unemployment
rates coupled with a high incidence of poverty (monthly net wages are about DM381 or $2,500
per year in FBiH, and DM205 per month or about $1,300 per year in RS) are major concerns to
all and pose a particular challenge to authorities for facilitating the reintegration of ex-soldiers
into civilian life.
Ex-soldiers' face a double challenge when returning to civilian life. On one hand, they tend to
have a skills and employment profile that puts them at a disadvantage compared to other
unemployed persons. They also have to adjust mentally to the new environment and are forced to
change their career after an employment that was perceived prestigious and secure. On the other
hand, economic activity in the country is generally low and unemployment rates are high. Many
Soldiers demobilized immediately after the Dayton Peace Agreement were called demobilized soldiers
because these included men who had joined to fight the war but were not career soldiers. The reduction in
force as stipulated in the Madrid Agreement corresponds to the downsizing of existing armies. Hence,
soldiers discharged under the Madrid Agreement are career soldiers and are called ex-soldiers,
4



ex-soldiers are therefore likely to join the ranks of the unemployed if they do not receive some
form of assistance.
In addition to high unemployment, the economy in BiH still suffers from the legacy of central
planning. Regulations and levies are manifold, restricting the growth of small-scale private
enterprises. Key policy issues identified for the transition period include an effective labor
market information system, market wage determination, labor and employment policies and
legislation, non-discrimination, targeted employment programs aiming at a comprehensive
strategy addressing unemployment, employment services, and pro-business policy and legal
reforms (EC/WB 7/9). Active labor market measures have thus far not yet been applied in a
systematic manner in either the FBiH or RS. With the immediate post-war situation giving way
to issues emanating from the transition to a market economy, active labor market policies will
increase in importance over the years to come. The authorities are cognizant of these needs and
have initiated a number of appropriate measures: for instance through a reduction of employment
taxes in the FBiH in November 1999 and one-year tax exemptions for newly created businesses.
However, harmonization of transition policies is complicated by the fact that the authorities at
cantonal level have wide-ranging authority on labor and business development issues. For
instance, the Sarajevo canton runs a special micro-credit scheme for demobilized soldiers
whereas other cantons do not.
Benefits for war veterans place an enormous burden on the State budget. In total there are
approximately 228,000 veterans in BiH who are recipients of benefits. Within BiH there are
essentially three frameworks for veterans' programs, each serving their respective army.
Regardless of the differences between the three offices, the principal issue which they face and
recognize is the same: the difficulty in matching the demands within the current legal frameworks
with the resources available. There have been recent changes in both Entities in the legal
frameworks which highlight the importance of the professionals within the ministries which
develop alternative approaches to dealing with the issues. In FBiH, a Ministry of Veterans
Affairs was established in December 1999, replacing the previous directorate which was under
the direct responsibility of the Prime Minister's office. There is no single legal framework under
which this ministry is to function, although a draft law has been proposed. The change in
administration requires that each canton in FBiH establish a ministry of veterans' affairs.
Previously some of the cantons had established a ministry; however it is expected that their
relationship with FBiH will change with the establishment of the Entity ministry. The result has
been the continuation of implementation of veterans benefits in two separate offices, with
separate legal frameworks, benefit structures, and separate financial accountability. There is
frustration on the part of the beneficiaries, and - as benefits are lower than entitlements - unclear
directions on what they can expect to receive. In the RS, there is a combined Ministry of Labor
and Veterans' Affairs. In November 1999, a new law was passed which changed the base from
which veterans' benefits are calculated from the minimum wage to the average salary in the
Entity. The resulting increase in budget resources has been primarily allocated towards disabled
veterans, while the demands on other services continue to increase. These developments point to
the need for technical assistance to the veterans administrations in both Entities.
Many of the soldiers demobilized after the Dayton Peace Agreement have not been able to access
a steady source of income. However, the unemployment rate of demobilized soldiers seems to be
better off than that of the general population (EC/WB 2/9; SOSAC 6). Moreover, while the
Bank's EDRP achieved its objectives, it was not aimed at longer-term (self-) employment
generation (see Section D.2 below). The authorities in both Entities are therefore seeking to
provide ex-soldiers with a comprehensive program of support which would contain three
components:
5



i.   Severance payments. The employment contracts of soldiers (to be) discharged under the
Madrid Agreement are terminated prematurely. According to the provisions of the labor laws,
these ex-soldiers are eligible to receive severance payments equal to six months of salaries. The
provision of severance payments as a transitional safety net will help ex-soldiers cover the short-
term basic needs of their families until reintegration assistance becomes available. However, the
budgetary situation in both Entities may not allow for the provision of this financial assistance,
especially since salaries are also in arrears. This issue will be treated outside the Project, and the
Project does not foresee the provision of a transitional safety net.
ii.   Pensions. Many ex-soldiers are eligible to receive pensions. The pension system for ex-
soldiers differs from those of civilian pensioners. Moreover, there are two pension systems for
ex-soldiers in the FBiH: one for Bosniacs, and another for Croats. Since the Bank is assisting the
governments in the area of pensions through the Public Finance Sector Adjustment operation,
pension issues will also be treated outside the Project.
iii.   War Veteran's Benefits: Supporting war veterans requires rationalization and better
targeting since the current systems place an enormous burden on the State resource. Under the
Project, approaches would be tested which could demonstrate better ways of targeting benefits
such as targeting war veterans with benefits through self-selecting approaches. This may be
piloted under the Project as future-sponsored program. In addition, the Project would support
technical assistance to the veterans administrations in both Entities which would include: analysis
of the current veterans programs and benefit levels; staff training; workshops and seminars. The
objective of the technical assistance would be aimed at amending the current programs. The goal
would be to ensure that those veterans most in need would receive adequate compensation within
the resources available, and those who are able to reintegrate into the work environment are
encouraged to do so. The technical assistance would also focus on staff training within the
ministries and their exposure to international practice.
iv    Reintegration assistance. The governments aim at providing demand-driven and multi-
sectoral reintegration assistance to ex-soldiers. This component would be supported by the
PELRP.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The Project rests on a number of strategic choices:
i.   The potential positive political and social impact of military downsizing justifies targeted
assistance to ex-soldiers, even though they may not be among the poorest.
ii.   The Project would use to the fullest the existing incentives in the current regulatory
framework which facilitate the creating ofjobs and the opening of small businesses.
However, the Project does not aim at reforming the regulatory system or developing a
comprehensive sector strategy.
iii. Assistance would also be targeted to the needs of the market. For instance, an assessment
of local skills needs and business opportunities would be undertaken before providing
training to ex-soldiers.
iv. The Project would be designed using a menu approach, i.e.: (i) offering-ex-soldiers a range
of activities in different sectors; and (ii) enabling ex-soldiers to choose the activity that best
6



meets their needs. It is to be understood, however, that no assistance can guarantee lifetime
jobs; ex-soldiers will have to learn how to cope with economic realities.
v.   The execution of individual Project components would be the responsibility of specialized
agencies. Existing local agencies would be used to the extent possible, including non-
governmental organizations (NGOs), micro-finance institutions (MFIs), employment
institutes (Els), and training centers, in order to avoid delays in start-up and strengthen their
capacities for future operations.
vi.  The Project would organize mechanisms which would allow it to rely on strong feedback
and input from ex-soldiers through monitoring of the activities under the Project.
vii. The PIUs would play a significant role in maintaining and updating databases on potential
employers, service providers and the progress of each ex-soldier registered to receive
benefits. This would serve not only as a tracking and information mechanism under the
Project, but would also serve as an incentive to Els to perform using their capacity which
was strengthened under the EDRP.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The Project will have two components: (i) Counseling, Employment and Training; and (ii)
Project implementation.
Counseling Employment and Training. The Project would finance demand-driven reintegration
services through a Counseling, Employment and Training (CET) component. These services
include support for employment, micro-enterprises, farming, skills enhancement, and higher
education. Comprehensive information and counseling services would be offered to all ex-
soldiers in areas such as pre-discharge orientation, professional orientation, (self-) employment
opportunities, and "as needed" post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Business advisory services
would be available for ex-soldiers who choose to go into small-scale business or farming. Each
activity would have a maximum amount allocated per beneficiary which would be based on the
experience under the EDRP. Service providers would participate under the Project under
performance-based contractual arrangements with the PIUs and would be eligible for technical
assistance to strengthen their capacities.
Project Implementation. The Project would support Project implementation through providing
necessary equipment, financing operating costs, financing technical assistance, and carrying out a
staff development program. This assistance would be offered not only to the PIUs in both
Entities but also to local executing agencies and parent ministries. The Project would also
finance the carrying out of market assessments, beneficiary assessments and impact evaluations.
The sub-components are:
7



Counseling, Employment and Training:                 14.45      82.5         13.10         87.3
1. Counseling:
Pre-discharge orientation;
Professional Orientation; Referrals;
Post Traumatic Stress Disorder;
2. Employment:
Business Advisory Services;Micro
Financial Services (see future sponsored
programs); Incentives Program for
Employers
3. Training and Education:
Testing for professional skills; Skills
Enhancement;
4. Higher Education
5. Future Sponsored Programs
Project Implementation                                3.06      17.5          1.90         12.7
(Monitoring and Evaluation;Technical
assistance, Project Management
Coordination and liaison
Financial Management,
MIS, equipment, recurrent costs)
TotalProjectCosts                  17.51     100.0         15.00        100.0
Total Financing Required                  17.51     100.0         15.00        100.0
NB. The Government of the Netherlands has committed US$ 1.01 millioni as cofinancing of the PELRP. The Table reflects the total
cost of the Project including US$1.5 million in Government contributions.
Component 1: Counseling, Employment and Training (US$ 14.45million).
The counseling, employment and training component (CET) would finance different reintegration
services, including counseling, employment, business advisory services, access to financial
services and farming, skills enhancement, and higher education. As the choice of service would
be left to ex-soldiers, a budgetary allocation within the component cannot be established ex ante
for any of the activities. A socio-economic survey in the form of questionnaire has been jointly
developed by the World Bank, SFOR and the Ministries of Defense for both Entities. The
questionnaire will be administered by June 2000 to the soldiers discharged in 1999; and by
October 2000 to those who will be discharged in the year 2000 while still in the barracks. The
questionnaire will be used to build a profile of the socio-economic background of each ex-soldier,
as well as his potential and needs. The information will be entered into a database which will be
maintained by the PIUs. It will serve as a living file for each soldier in order to track his progress
through the Project. This database will also serve as the primary mechanism for determining the
optimal menu of services for each individual. In order to ensure equity among activities to the
extent possible, upper financial per capita ceilings will be set based on the experience gained
under the EDRP. There is no upper limit per activity, thus the component would be allocated
8



according to direct demands by ex-soldiers. Conversely, counseling services, which have proven
to be among the most important support activities for demobilized soldiers, would be offered to
all ex-soldiers and would be managed under a fixed budget.
Counseling
Counseling services would be offered throughout Project implementation and would include:
(i) pre-discharge orientation; (ii) professional orientation; (iii) referral; and (iv) post-traumatic
stress disorder.
*  Pre-discharge orientation: Soldiers discharged in 1999 did not receive any structured
information before leaving the barracks. As a result, many may find it even more difficult to
adjust to the new civilian environment. For the second reduction in force of 15 percent in
2000, a pre-discharge orientation program would be developed and implemented by
specialized providers to give ex-soldiers a head start in their new life. Pre-discharge
orientation may include general information about the program and Project, civil rights and
obligations as civilians, psychological counseling to help mental adaptation, and professional
orientation (see below). For reasons of cost-efficiency, the pre-discharge orientation program
would preferably be implemented prior to formal discharge when ex-soldiers are still
reachable.
*  Professional orientation. All ex-soldiers would have access to professional orientation, which
would include: taking a test to determine their professional skills base and educational levels,
counseling on interview techniques, job searching methods, curriculum-vitae writing, and
career planning. Such counseling would be developed and implemented by specialized
providers on the basis of experiences gained under the EDRP and would be available to ex-
soldiers throughout Project implementation.
e  Referral. The PIUs (in particular, the extension agents), as well as specialized providers,
would identify current vacancies (including opportunities emanating from Bank or other
projects) and refer ex-soldiers to reintegration activities that could fit their profile and
aspirations. Referral would be self-standing but could be linked to professional orientation.
The employment institutes are expected to play a major role in this process once the labor
market information system (LMIS) has been fully developed. However, for purposes of the
PELRP this capacity will not be developed sufficiently in time to meet the needs of the ex-
soldiers for 1999 and 2000. In the meantime, the PIUs will take the lead in this activity. The
PIUs would cooperate closely so as to ensure information flow on local skill needs, job
vacancies and business opportunities across Entities and with all major partners including the
employment institutes. The participation of the PIUs in this area should serve to provide
healthy competition to the employment institutes and incentive towards better performance.
The PIUs would enter into umbrella contracts with service providers based on their ability to
enlist ex-soldiers into their proposed training programs. The PIUs would assist the service
providers in advertising their proposed programs so that ex-soldiers would have the
information and choice on which provider to consult. Service providers may also receive
placement bonus for each ex-soldier who has found sustainable employment. Employment
institutes would be eligible under the Project as service providers, and would need to compete
for contracts with other providers.
*  Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Serious problems with PTSD among demobilized
soldiers have not occurred thus far. It is to be noted, however, that PTSD symptoms often
occur long after the guns fall silent. A small-scale initiative was financed under the EDRP
and affirmed the need for such assistance, at least on a limited scale. The Project would
9



contract specialized providers to develop a proper program of PTSD counseling that would be
accessible to all ex-soldiers and demobilized soldiers upon request throughout
implementation.
To facilitate the provision of information, counseling and referral services to ex-soldiers, the PIUs
would contract periodic special market assessments that would provide more systematic guidance
on which skills are needed and which goods are in short demand in different parts of the country.
The assessments would also identify the hidden demand for labor. They would be shared with
the service providers and other projects and agencies.
Employment
The Project's would focus on increasing the potential of ex-soldiers in their ability to find
employment or be self-employed. Existing regulations enable employers to hire staff on
probation for a period of up to six months. A probation contract is considered temporary
employment and, thus, exempt from payroll taxes. Furthermore, no termination benefits would
have to be paid if the employee did not perform well.
These tax and regulatory incentives would be used by the Project to employ ex-soldiers.
Furthermore, provision of other financial and non financial incentives to employers would be
explored if the employer is willing to affirm his/her commitment to enter into regular
employment contracts with ex-soldiers when the probation period is over, without substituting ex-
soldiers for other staff. These incentives could include bonuses for employers for each ex-soldier
who receives permanent employment. The employer would be responsible for training the ex-
soldiers as required for the specific job. While these arrangements cannot guarantee permanent
jobs for ex-soldiers, they would ensure that employers only recruit ex-soldiers if they are in need
of additional staff. Employment thus generated should, therefore, be for the longer-term.
Self-employment
There are two basic parts of self-employment: farming and small businesses. The Project would
support both in similar ways, through: (i) providing business advisory services, and
(ii) facilitating access to financial services through existing financial institutions (FIs) and micro-
finance institutions (MFIs).
Business advisory services. Business advisory services would only be available for ex-soldiers
who choose to go into small-scale business or farming. These services would include business
skills training, assistance for preparing project proposals and business plans in order to meet
credit approval criteria, and assistance for accounting. Additional attention would be placed on
environmental aspects of the proposed projects. The services would be available during start-up
and during operations. They would be offered by specialized providers, who would be awarded
contracts on the basis of the demand for the services. Service providers would be paid on the
basis of performance triggers during the course of their contracts (these triggers would include the
number of persons they had trained in keeping with the contract) and they would receive a bonus
payment if the proposals they helped to design were approved by the credit providers.
Business Advisory services would assist in preparing ex-soldiers to develop their potential as
creditworthy clients for existing MFIs. See section on future sponsored programs for access to
financial services.
Testing: (see section on professional orientation.)
10



Skills enhancement
When employment support is not feasible for individual ex-soldiers, they would have three
options to acquire or enhance their marketable skills, through: (i) institution-based training; or (ii)
on-the-job/apprenticeship training; or iii) business management training. Before a training
activity is undertaken, the local needs for the respective skills would be assessed by the PIUs
(extension agents), for instance through confirmation by local employers and associations in the
public and private sectors. Contact between ex-soldiers and training providers could be
established either by the PIUs through its network of extension agents, advertising of training
programs offered by various service providers and database, or by ex-soldiers themselves. In any
case, the training providers would submit to the PIUs proposals which would not only include the
type and substance of the training but also the names of ex-soldiers and evidence of their
registration for this training. In addition to being a means for the PIUs of verifying the demand
for the service provider, this would also serve as a basis for the payments under the service
contract to the service providers. Providers would be reimbursed by the PIUs according to a pre-
determined payment schedule based on agreed performance outputs.
Depending on the trade, training could last from three to six months. On-the-job training or
apprenticeships would be undertaken directly in enterprises. Institution-based training would be
offered through vocational training centers or other providers and would be linked to internships
in enterprises. These internships would help ex-soldiers to adapt better to real work environment.
Enterprises that accept internships would be identified, and relevant arrangements made, before
the training starts.
Enterprises accepting intermships or providing apprenticeship training would be reimbursed for
reasonable expenses. Contrary to the employment support, which is the preferred option and
where training is the responsibility of the employer, enterprises would be under no obligation to
recruit ex-soldiers after the training or internship is completed. However, they may receive a
recruitment bonus should they enter into a regular employment contract with an ex-soldier. In the
case of institution-based training, the training provider would also receive a referral bonus.
Furthermore, a limited stipend during the training period would be provided to those ex-soldiers
whose households have no other source of income.
Higher education
Specifically for those ex-soldiers who had started university education before joining the military,
the Project would finance scholarships to pursue or complete university or higher technical
education. Having considerably higher per capita costs, this support would be available for a
limited number of ex-soldiers. Their aptitude, as well as the value-added of a degree or diploma
in a certain field, would be carefully evaluated by the Ministries of Education with assistance
from the PIUs and by service providers qualified to assess the educational potential of ex-
soldiers.
Scholarships would be available: (i) for the entire cycle of tertiary education, depending on the
field, for up to five years; and (ii) within BiH and, possibly, the region. For scholarships outside
the former Yugoslavia, the Ministries of Education, assisted by the PIUs, would contact bilateral
donors for separate funding outside the Project. As their duration extends beyond the Project's
life, the implementing agencies would administer the scholarships on behalf of the PIUs. Ex-
soldiers qualifying under this activity would receive a stipend to cover their living expenses as
well as the cost of educational materials. The stipend would be paid to them on the basis of the
records of their attendance at the educational institution on a monthly basis. The education fee
would be paid directly to the education institution by the PIU.
11



Future Sponsored Programs
The Project is focused on being client-oriented and providing those services and support to the
ex-soldiers as are demanded by them. The Project will therefore hold a substantial amount of the
credit in this component which will be committed to those services under the Project which show
success and demand. The component will rely on a strong monitoring and evaluation system
(M&E) within the PIUs in order for the funds to be committed to high demand services. One of
the activities which may be considered some time after the Project has been effective is the
establishment of a credit line for start up businesses, to be funded under this component through
the existing micro finance institutions which currently do not lend for start up businesses. This
facility would allow for ex-soldiers to apply for such loans but would not be targeted to them.
The rationale for providing such a credit line would be to create a source of financing for start-up
businesses since it is expected that the majority of ex-soldiers who would be eligible for self-
employment will have start-up businesses. The MFIs, however, would lend for start-up
businesses only to those clients who meet their lending criteria. Given that many FIs and MFIs
have so far focused mainly on lending for working capital, this approach would encourage these
institutions to lend to these new clients for start-up businesses and may encourage them to think
of ways to diversify their credit products so as to enable other clients, including ex-soldiers, to
undertake investments. Business Advisory services under the PELRP would assist ex-soldiers in
strengthening their capacity to manage micro-enterprises, structure proposals and be responsible
clients for the MFIs.
Access to Financial Services. The second Local Initiatives Project (LIPII) will become effective
12 months after the PELRP. The PlUs of the PELRP, together with the preparation team for the
LIPII, will develop micro-financial services that would fit the needs of clients such as ex-soldiers.
The PELRP would do the following:
* Assess the demand for credit by ex-soldiers and for what purposes.
- Train and inform ex-soldiers about micro- and small financial services, and the terms and
conditions of MFIs in BiH.
* Provide business training (in bookkeeping, business proposals, management etc.) to ex-
soldiers through its business advisory component.
* Assess and monitor whether ex-soldiers are able to access credit from existing MFIs, why and
why not.
* Collect information and data on this target group on demand for credit; constraints to
accessing financial services and business opportunities; and feed this information as input
into the preparation of LIPII (the LIPII intends to have new financial products).
* Monitor the ability of ex-soldiers to receive loans after the LIPII becomes effective with a
range of new financial services.
A credit line to the MFI would involve a service contract between the MFI and the PELRP for the
credit line and the costs related to monitoring and lending to start-up businesses. The credit line
would be paid directly from IDA to the Special account of the PIU for LIPII, and through it to the
MFI.
12



Component 2: Project Implementation (US$3.06 million).
The Project would be implemented by the PIUs in both Entities, through extension staff in the
cantons and through demand-based service contracts with service providers for counseling
services, employment and business advisory services and training services.
Project Management
In the FBiH, the implementation of the Project would be undertaken by a project implementation
unit established on April 15, 2000. The PIU will subcontract its FMS to the PWEP's PIU. In the
RS, the implementation would be undertaken by the PIU which was responsible for the
implementation of the ERDP in that Entity. The PIUs would be responsible for overall Financial
Management System (FMS), procurement, Management and Information System (MIS),
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) and developing and updating operations manuals. The PIUs
would also coordinate and liaise with other government agencies within the Entities, with each
other, with donors and with the World Bank. The PIUs would maintain and update the database
on service providers and on the ex-soldiers.
The PIUs would be responsible for the implementation of a transparent financial management,
monitoring and evaluation, maintenance of the database on ex-soldiers and all Project activities,
supervision of executing agencies and consultants, and cooperation across Entities. To facilitate
their work, the Project would support the PIUs through providing necessary equipment, financing
reasonable operating costs, financing technical assistance (for capacity building and studies), and
carrying out a staff development program.
Service Providers.
Service providers, through service contracts with the PlUs, would be responsible for the
implementation of the Prograns, i.e. Counseling, Employment and Training activities:
(a) Counseling, which includes Pre discharge Orientation, Professional Orientation; Referrals,
and PTSD; (b) Employment, which include Business Advisory Services, credit line for start-up
businesses, and Incentives Program for Employers; (c) Training, which includes Testing for
Professional Skills, and Skills Enhancement; and (d) Education, which includes Higher
Education.
Service contracts between PIUs and service providers would be performance-based. Payments to
service providers would be based on submitted reports of work completed by the service
providers, which would be verified by the PIUs through extension agents and through a sample
group of beneficiaries/clients. In addition, performance audits of the service providers will be
conducted by independent agencies such as NGOs.
To the extent possible, the service providers would include local NGOs, firms, agencies and MFIs
which would execute individual program activities. Since their capacities are still limited, the
Project would strengthen and build the capacities of the local agencies involved in execution -
including employment institutes, counseling providers (general, professional, business, PTSD),
and training providers - through financing of workshops, training courses and regional study
tours. Such capacity building is expected to improve the efficiency and sustainability of
executing agencies. Furthermore, local executing agencies would learn how to serve the market
better by adjusting their products to the needs of ex-soldiers and other clients. Local agencies
thus strengthened would also be in a position to execute future operations more effectively.
13



Technical Assistance: The Project would extend this capacity building support to the parent
ministries, i.e. the Ministry of Social Affairs, Displaced Persons and Refugees in the FBiH and
the Ministry of Labor and War Veterans in RS, to facilitate supervision, coordination and
cooperation within and between Entities. Furthermore, the Project would consider covering the
additional needs of employment institutes regarding the effective functioning of the LMIS, such
as the costs of networking between employment institutes of the MIS system which had been
supported by the EDRP.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the Project:
While the Project does not directly support specific policy and institutional reforms, it is expected
to influence labor market and social safety net policies through innovative service delivery
approaches to be piloted under the Project. These include piloting self-selecting and demand
based schemes for the delivery of benefits. The Project indirectly influences key policies aimed
at increasing stability in the country through demobilization of forces. The Entity governments
have embarked on a program of military downsizing aimed at reducing the strengths of the armed
forces and of the defense budget. The Project does not directly contribute to military downsizing
or public expenditure reallocation. In particular, the second round of reduction in force will be
undertaken in 2000 irrespective of whether or not there will be reintegration assistance in place at
the time of discharge. However, it is envisaged that the Project will be operational by that time
and provide assistance to help allay fears of soldiers before discharge, and cushioning the
potentially negative impact of such downsizing on discharged soldiers. In turn, the successful
reintegration of discharged soldiers into civilian life could provide a conducive environment for
further reductions in force.
3. Benefits and target population:
The direct benefit of the Project would be for ex-soldiers discharged in 1999 and 2000 under the
Madrid Agreement to have access to opportunities for a steady stream of income, enabling them
to lead productive and peaceful lives. To the extent that such income is sustainable, numerous
indirect benefits would follow. As the settlement pattem is expected to be dispersed, local
economies across the country may be revitalized. Gainfully employed ex-soldiers are less likely
to search for alternative income sources (e.g., crime). Rather than being a burden on the state (in
particular, unemployment benefits), ex-soldiers may contribute to improving the fiscal situation at
the cantonal and Entity levels. Furthermore, the institution-building efforts under the Project
would strengthen local organizational capacity for the benefit of future operations.
The target population of the Project is approximately 8,000 ex-soldiers discharged under the
provisions of the Madrid Agreement. The support received by these ex-soldiers will also benefit
their families. In addition, the credit line for start-up businesses which might be funded as a
future sponsored activity would not exclusively target ex-soldiers. Other start-up businesses
which meet the criteria of MFIs would be eligible for this credit. Therefore, an estimated 30,000
people are expected to benefit under the Project. If pilot schemes for targeting benefits to war
veterans are included in the future sponsored programs then the number of beneficiaries may
increase. All ex-soldiers would be eligible to receive general information and counseling
assistance. However, only those specially vulnerable ex-soldiers who are unemployed and
without access to pensions or other benefits (e.g., disability) would be able to access individual
support activities such as employment, skills enhancement, and micro-enterprises. Prior to
effectiveness, a socio-economic survey on soldiers discharged in 1999 is now under
implementation to determine their demographic characteristics, needs and aspirations. This
survey, which would also serve as baseline information for the Project's management information
system (MIS) (see below), would serve to determine the design of Project activities, track each
soldiers progress and determine the best way forward for each. Soldiers demobilized after the
14



Dayton Peace Agreement who are unemployed are by now considered part of general
unemployed population and would not receive benefits under the Project.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The Project duration is planned for three years. A Project implementation manual (PIM)
satisfactory to IDA, which set out the details of financial and technical criteria and procedures, is
being drafted by the two PIUs with the assistance of the World Bank, and would be a Condition
of Effectiveness.
The institutional structure would contain a Steering Committee at government level and a PIU for
each Entity. The Steering Committees would comprise the core ministries (labor/veteran affairs,
finance, defense) as well as other concerned ministries (e.g., agriculture, education). The
responsibilities of the Steering Committees include policy guidance, program oversight,
supervision of Project implementation, and cooperation across Entities. The Steering Committees
would meet once every six months whereas the core ministries could meet more often for
technical reviews.
The PIUs would include in their implementation manuals a mechanism through which
representatives of the ex-soldiers would self-select a group of peers to supervise and monitor the
activities of the PIUs. This group would be rotating in nature and would change in membership
every six months.
The PIUs would be responsible for Project implementation, transparent financial management,
monitoring and evaluation, counseling on Project activities, supervision of executing agencies
and consultants, and cooperation across Entities. The PIUs would build on the capacities of the
Bank's EDRP with the organizational setup adjusted according to the lessons of other Bank
projects. The PIUs would also be responsible for coordination with other projects (Bank, donors,
UN agencies) so as to augment the redeployment options for ex-soldiers.
The PIUs would be staffed appropriately with special emphasis given to the network of extension
agents already established under the Bank's earlier project. The extension agents would be
responsible for monitoring progress, counseling and providing information to ex-soldiers, the
verification of reliability of prospective providers (see below), follow-up with local providers,
and day-to-day contact with local authorities and local organizations. Staff qualification being a
key element to success; a staff development program will be carried out regularly.
Existing agencies, local and intemational, private and public, would be responsible for the
execution of individual activities through service contracts. The Project would contain three
different procedures for contracting services:
(i)   Contracts between PIUs and service providers for activities with general benefits, such as
market assessments, beneficiary assessments or pre-discharge orientation, may be awarded
on the basis of consultant qualifications (CQ).
(ii)   Contracts between PIUs and service providers for employment support and on-the-
job/apprenticeship training and financial services: The PIUs through the extension agents
would contact reliable prospective providers to identify job/apprenticeship openings.
Service providers are expected to contact PIUs and register themselves as potential
participants once the PIUs begin to inform the public about the Project through
informational advertising.
15



(iii)  Those providers who have been verified as reliable would be added to a list of service
providers. Ex-soldiers interested in a particular service would choose those among the
service providers who would meet their needs best. The provider would sign a contract
with the PIU to provide training to a number of ex-soldiers. The service providers would
be paid on the basis of monitorable triggers for performance and completed outputs.
Monitoring and evaluation is central to all activities under the Project and key in tracking lessons
in what works and what doesn't. The socio-economic questionnaire jointly designed by SFOR,
the Ministries of Defense; the armies and the World Bank will be implemented for the ex-soldiers
discharged in 1999 by the first week of May 2000. The filled questionnaires will be returned to
the World Bank and to the two PIUs by the first week of June. The Defense Ministries and the
militaries are responsible for the implementation of the questionnaire. SFOR will assist in
following up on the progress. The information in the socio-economic questionnaires will form
the basis for the baseline for the targeted beneficiaries. This will be entered into a database to be
maintained and updated by the PIUs. This database will serve not only as a tracking system and
an open file for each ex-soldier but will also be the basis of the monitoring and evaluation system.
In order to evaluate and assess the impact of the activities supported under the PELRP, a control
group will also be entered into the system. The control group will consist of persons outside of
the target group but with possess similar profiles. These persons will not receive benefits under
the PELRP. The design of the monitoring and evaluation methodology and control group will
begin in early June 2000 with the two PIUs. A consultant has been identified to carry out this
work. Monitoring and evaluation are among the key responsibilities of the PIUs and the
consultant will ensure that the system is in place before the Project becomes effective. The PIUs
would not only maintain a database on ex-soldiers and providers but also on their performance
and progress. In addition, as a pilot operation, the appropriateness and cost-effectiveness of
activities need to be monitored closely. To this end, a computerized MIS would be established in
each PIU. Reporting would be undertaken by the extension agents and the service providers.
Simple standard reporting formats would be developed. The MIS would also contain links to the
computerized FMS.
Each quarter, the PIUs would prepare reports on the preceding quarter and work programs for the
following quarter. The quarterly reports and work programs would be submitted to the Steering
Committees and the Bank for information. At the beginning of every year, the PIUs would
prepare a review of the preceding year and work program for the following year, both of which
would be submitted to the Steering Committees and the Bank for approval.
During the life of the Project, two external evaluations, one mid-term and one final, would be
contracted to independent consultants. Both evaluations would analyze: (i) the achievements in
Project implementation; (ii) the impact on the ex-soldiers and the local economies; and (iii) the
appropriateness of the institutional arrangements and administrative mechanisms. Both
evaluations would be based on: (i) the internal MIS and the financial monitoring reports; and
(ii) a beneficiary and community assessment to evaluate impact on the ground. The mid-term
evaluation would be followed by the Bank's mid-term review mission. In addition the Project
would be closely supervised by the World Bank.
Financial Management and Disbursement.
Each Entity will be responsible for its own financial management of the Project (see Annex 1 I
for detailed financial management arrangements). In accordance with OP/BP 10.02 and the
LACI requirement, a Bank accredited financial management specialist reviewed the proposed
financial management systems.between March 2000 and May 2000. Based on the assessment, it
is found that there are inadequate financial management systems in the new PIU in the FBiH and
16



in the Employment and Training Foundation (ETF) in the RS, and that they do not satisfy the
Bank's minimum financial management requirements. The establishment of a financial
management system satisfactory to the Bank, as assessed by a certified financial management
specialist, will be a condition of Board Presentation. An agreed action plan (see Annex 1 1) to
produce a system that meets the Bank's miniimum financial management and LACI requirements
has been accepted by the ETF in RS and the new PIU in the FBiH, including:
*  The PIU in FBiH is to finalize institutional arrangement for contracting out financial
management to the PIU-PWEP and initially sign the contract stating the types and scope of
the services which will be provided by the PIU-PWEP, by April 28, 2000.
*  The ETF-RS is to nominate key financial officers by April 30, 2000.
*  The PIU-PWEP in the FBiH is to nominate and recruit key financial officers, including PIU-
PWEP to hire an accountant/bookkeeper who would assist in day-to-day management of an
increased portfolio, by May 15, 2000.
*  The PIU/ETF will complete draft financial manuals by May 31, 2000, which will be
reviewed and approved by the Bank to ensure adequate procedures are in place. The Manual
covers the following aspects: (i) flow of funds; (ii) financial and accounting policies; (iii)
accounting system and internal control mechanisms; (iv) Chart of Accounts; (v) financial
reporting (including formats of financial management reports); (vi) auditing arrangements;
(vii) budgeting; and (viii) organization and staffing for financial management functions
*  Confirmation of the adequacy of Project financial management arrangements by May 30,
2000.
*  The ETF-RS is to purchase an additional license for its existing computerized Project
accounting system (Scala) by July 31, 2000.
*  The PIU-PWEP is to decide whether to improve and enhance its existing accounting system
to include planning and budgeting modules and PMRs, or to purchase a new accounting
system which will meet the PMR requirements, by June 30, 2000.
*  Complete implementation of a computerized Project accounting system which will enable the
PIU-PWEP/EFT-RS to produce PMRs, by September 30, 2000. The accounting system will
comply with internationally accepted standards and will: (i) reliably record and report all
assets, liabilities, and financial transactions of the Project; (ii) provide reliable financial
information for managing and monitoring Project activities; and (iii) provide quarterly PMRs
on a timely basis
The Project's financing plan, which includes credit from the bank, and the Project's planned
expenditures have been realistically estimated and that the Project is financially sustainable.
The Project financial statements would be prepared in accordance with the format provided by the
Bank. This would also include a separate opinion by the auditor on the operation of Special
Account (disbursements made against certified statement of expenditures or PMRs). An
independent auditor acceptable to the World Bank would audit the Project financial statements,
and the audit report would be sent to the Bank within six months of the end of the fiscal year.
The Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations (MFTER) of BiH has signed a 3-year
contract (1998-2000, renewal yearly) with PriceWaterhouseCoopers Netherlands in June 1999 for
the audit of all Bank's financed non-revenue earning projects in BiH. Based on the satisfactorily
performance, the MFTER renewed the contract with the same auditors in January 2000 for the
1999 audits. This arrangement would be acceptable to the Bank. In accordance with the agreed
action plan, the PIUs would need to submit a written notification to the Bank from the MFTER of
BiH, by May 31, 2000, that the PELRP will be included in the global auditing contract. It is
expected that the cost of audit will be financed from the credit.
Disbursements from the IDA Credit would initially be made on the traditional system
[reimbursements, direct payments and special commitments with full documentation and against
Statements of Expenditure (SOE)], as appropriate, and would be considered for conversion to the
17



new disbursement procedures (i.e., based on Project Management Reports - PMRs) after the FMS
is operating satisfactorily. The target date for this conversion is one year after expected Project
start date. Proceeds of the World Bank credit would be allocated in accordance with Table C,
Annex 6. To facilitate timely Project implementation, the Government will establish, maintain
and operate, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, two separate Special Accounts
denominated in US$ for the FBiH-PIU and the RS-PIU. Currently no local banks in the country
could be considered totally reliable and financially sound. It is therefore recommended that
banks outside BiH should be used.
When the financial management system is implemented, each Entity will prepare quarterly
Project Management Reports (PMRs), which would be submitted to the Bank within 45 days of
the end of each quarter. These reports would be used for Project management purposes for
tracking Project progress, procurement and disbursement. The following areas would be covered
by the PMRs: (a) Financial Report - Project sources and uses of funds, uses of funds by Project
activity, Project balance sheet, Project cash withdrawals, Special Account statement, Project cash
forecast; (b) Project Progress Report - output monitoring reports for contract management and
unit of output by Project activity; and (c) Procurement Management Report - procurement
process monitoring for goods, works and consultants' services, contract expenditure reports for
goods and works and consultants' services. First quarterly PMRs, for quarter ended March 31,
2001, will be submitted to the Bank by May 15, 2001. The PMRs will be in a format discussed
during negotiations and will follow examples given in the Bank's LACI Implementation
Handbook.
Financial Risks
From the financial management perspective, the PELRP is considered as high-risk Project. The
main reasons include large number of transactions with small payments, many service providers,
large number of ex-soldiers to whom the PIU/ETF might need to make payment directly, and the
roles of the Project's extension agents, especially their relationship with services providers/ex-
soldiers. The potential financial management risks include: (i) inadequate internal controls
mechanism in PIU/ETF; (ii) delays in preparation of Project Management Reports; (iii) poor
accounting environment and few qualified accountants in BiH; (iv) misuse of counseling,
employment and training activities (CET); (v) the roles of the Project's staff, especially the
extension agents and their relationship with the service providers and/or ex-soldiers; and (vi)
public perceptions of corruption. These risks are considered as manageable due to the various
risk-mitigation measures taken. Nonetheless, these are highlighted here in view of their potential
for adversely affecting Project performance. These aspects will be monitored closely as part of
Project supervision.
Internal control mechanisms by PIU/ETF are not yet established and documented and could
require proper implementation. This risk is mitigated by insisting on the completion of the
financial manual prior to effectiveness. The financial manual will include the establishment of
financial policies and procedures, the proper delegation and segregation of financial authorities,
the implementation of proper internal control procedures, and installing proper budgeting and
planning process.
There is a risk that preparation of the Project Management Reports would be delayed and that the
quality of the reports may be of variable or unsatisfactory quality, especially given that the
PIU/ETF have not previously prepared project financial statements or PMRs. Timely preparation
and use of the Project management reports, and satisfactory quality of these reports, are essential
to facilitate effective Project management. The risk-mitigation factors are the substantial upfront
actions which are being taken on: (i) design of a comprehensive financial management system;
(ii) computerization of the financial management system; and (iii) recruitment of key financial
18



staff to augment financial management capabilities. When there is a scarcity of appropriate
software in BiH, the borrower can be advised to look elsewhere for proven software.
Disbursements from the IDA Credit will not be made on the basis of Project Management
Reports (PMRs), but will rather be made on the traditional reimbursement basis in the first year.
Disbursements will be converted to the PMR-based method, after the financial management
system is satisfactorily operated.
The Bank would stipulate the terms of reference for the finanicial mlanaoemeint staff inicluding the
accouLnitant and would have the no-objection authority in the recruitment of the accountant.
Financial management capacity in the Project would be built up through Bank supervised and
stipulated detailed finanicial mianagement arrangoements and procedures and throuigh the creation
of a project implementation unit closely monitored by the Bank.
Concerning funds under the CET, the risk of misuse or fraud will be minimized in the following
ways: (a) Contracts to be signed between the PIU/ETF and the winning service providers will
contain a clause to assure the utilization of funds according to agreed objectives, as well as a
remedies section, which will include the possibility of black-listing a provider which does not
comply with agreed procedures and/or funds utilization; (b) Payments linked to performance:
payments to service delivery providers to be based on verified deliverables as agreed and
stipulated in contracts; (c) Payments for the on-job-training and incentive program for employers
will be based on additional independent documents, including original copy of employment with
the pension fund and paper from the Employment Institute indicating a change of employment
status; (d) contracts with service providers to be based on appraised capacity; (e) Contracts
(above a specified threshold of $25,000) will require no-objection of the WB; (f) A committee
comprised of beneficiaries will evaluate the quality of service every six months and the
committee will be on a rotational basis; (g) Close monitoring and supervision by PIU/ETF and
their extension agents - periodic quality supervision will be carried out by the PIU/ETF; (h)
Supervision of financial flows will be carried out by the PIU/ETF on a sample basis and by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank on a yearly basis; (i) Regular performance audit of
the service providers will be carried out by local independent auditors/groups; (j) Third party
quality supervision will be undertaken on a sample basis with technical assistance to be hired
specifically for this purpose; (k) Intensive supervision by the World Bank - overall supervision,
including procurement supervision, will be undertaken on a periodic basis by Bank staff; and (l)
A third component called "Future Sponsored Programs" which will read "Funds will be allocated
to the activities in Counseling, Employment and Training component as they demonstrate success
and demand, by the end of the first year of the Project. Decision to allocate funds will be based on
the results of close monitoring and evaluation by the PIU/ETF as well as the IDA supervision
missions."
The roles of the Project's staff, especially the extension agents and their relationship with the
service providers/ex-soldiers, could be compromised and increase the potential risk to the Project.
This risk can be mitigated by the following actions: (a) employing independent and competent
agents, i.e. no ex-soldiers; (b) the operational manual would have appropriate policies and
procedures on the operation of the agents; (c) the MIS would produce exceptional reports
indicating unusual approval by specific agent for the PIU/ETF directors; (d) approval beyond a
certain $ amount or % should be verified by the PIU/ETF director; (e) regular monitoring and
supervision of the agents by the PIU/ETF directors; and (f) very effective vetting process of all
service providers.
The working relationship between the PIU and PIU-PWEP in the FBiH could become
unsatisfactory, leading to poor financial management services. This risk is mitigated by the
following actions: (a) proper contractual agreement specifying the scope, the types and costs of
services to be provided, (b) establishing proper communication channel between the PIU and
PIU-PWEP, (c) the PELRP will be suspended in case any of the parties (PELRP and PWEP PIU)
19



breaks the contract before its expiration or integration of the finance unit under the PELRP PIU,
and (d) the Bank has to agreed with any new or alternative financial management arrangement, if
this materializes.
During 1999 and subsequently, serious concerns had been raised concerning fraud, waste and
abuse of donor funds in BiH. The anti-fraud unit of the Office of the High Representative had
raised this issue. Media reports alleged losses of over $1 billion of donor funds. It has been
recognized that there has been an absence of a functioning legal framework and institutions of
law. Enforcement of law is recognized to be weak. In the 1999 Corruption Perception Index,
BiH was not included in the indices. However, we can extrapolate the likely ranking for BiH
based on its neighboring countries - Croatia was ranked #74 with the score of 2.7, Albania was
ranked #84 with the score of 2.3, and Yugoslavia was ranked #90 with the score of 2.0. Therefore
we can reasonably estimate the ranking for BiH of around #80s and a score of low to mid 2.0s.
This index relates to perceptions of corruption as seen by business people, risk analysts and the
general public and ranges between 10 (highly clean) and 0 (highly corrupt). Perceived corruption
as reported in the press is principally in the area of procurement. Even though the Project is to be
implemented in a business environment with a high rate of perceived corruption, the risk that
Bank's funds will not used as intended for financing the defined investment program is judged as
acceptable by "ring-fence" the Project through the establishment of PIU/ETF and the recruitment
of suitably qualified accounting and procurement staff. Furthermore the Project has identified
several steps indicated above, to minimize the risk of misuse or fraud of the Bank's funds.
Financing Plan
Of a total Project cost of US$17.51 million, IDA would provide a Credit in the amount of
US$15.00 million. An additional counterpart funding US$1.50 million would be provided by the
two Entities, to cover taxes, social benefits, employee costs and other operating expenses. At the
negotiation, the representatives from the respective Ministries of Finance of the two Entities and
the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations agreed that they would provide these
counterpart funding. The remaining financing required of US$1.01 million would be provided by
the Dutch co-financier for the FBiH components. At the time appraisal, the FBiH Government
has already received firm confirmation from the Dutch co-financier.
Co-financing arrangements
Several donors and UN agencies have expressed their interest in providing assistance to the
reintegration of ex-soldiers. Some donors indicated their interest in channeling funds through
existing Bank trust funds (the Netherlands, Italy) whereas others (including other Bank projects)
may absorb ex-soldiers in their respective target groups. In the former case, all provisions of the
PIM would apply. In the latter case, the procedures of the individual projects would apply. It is
not possible to plan beforehand how many ex-soldiers may be absorbed by these projects. It
would, therefore, be of critical importance that the MIS include information on conditions of
access of the other projects in order to facilitate cross-referral.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The Bank's EDRP focused on training and employment, with some general counseling. Despite
quite impressive results, the Entity governments feel that it would not be possible to replicate the
design of that project because: (i) the profile of ex-soldiers as former professional soldiers is
20



different from the profile of recruits during the war; (ii) given the increase in wages, the low per
capita costs can no longer be maintained; (iii) given today's generally unfavorable labor market
situation, more sustainable longer-term options for gainful employment should be identified; and
(iv) a greater focus should be on self-employment (including farming) with attendant special
counseling.
In order to facilitate Project implementation, the use of other Bank PIUs as executing agencies
was considered, in particular the financial management capacity of the FBiH PIU for PWEP as
providing this service to the PELRP PIU in the FBiH. This linkage not only addresses building
adequate FMS capacity in a new PIU quickly, but also creates possibilities for future integration
of FMS capacity for several operations such as the PELRP, the LIPII, LDP and the proposed
Social Fund or PWEPII. Another linkage for the PELRP would be the PIU for the Local
Initiatives Project (LIP), which has been successful in nurturing MFIs in both Entities. Concerns
about the integrity of this Project, in terms of its objectives and clients especially in view of the
LIP II currently under preparation, led to the rejection of this alternative. However, the PELRP
would use the same MFIs, accepting their standard procedures, and the LIP could provide
assistance to the PIUs between appraisal and effectiveness.
A standard socialfund concept was also considered yet rejected because social funds typically
support the provision of basic services and infrastructure to poor communities, possibly including
a micro-credit component. The PELRP, however, targets individual ex-soldiers as beneficiaries
and requires special implementation mechanisms. Furthermore, the Project is not a poverty-
focused intervention as ex-soldiers are a very vulnerable but not necessarily poor target group as
they tend to have the lowest unemployment rates and the highest wages.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies
(completed, ongoing and planned).
Apart from the Bank's EDRP, no externally financed project supported the reintegration of
demobilized soldiers specifically. However, many projects provided assistance to demobilized
soldiers as part of their normal target groups. Never having been a coordinated and
comprehensive program, no information is available as to how many demobilized soldiers
ultimately had access to project benefits.
Furthermore, local level governments in both Entities have a wide degree of autonomy in
employment issues. Consequently, one canton or municipality may offer targeted assistance to
demobilized soldiers while others do not. For instance, Sarajevo canton launched a micro-credit
scheme several years ago, providing demobilized soldiers with access to credit on preferential
terms (six months grace period, three years repayment period, and interest rate of eight percent).
Short of a major national study which is outside the scope of the Project, it is impossible to
establish which cantons provided which type of assistance to demobilized soldiers, and with
which results.
Latest Supervision
Sector Istue                    Project                        (PSR) Ratins-
.___________________ .        .                             3(Bank-financed projects   ny
Bank-financed                                                  Implementation Development
Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Emergency Demobilization and        S             S
Reintegration Project (EDRP)
Public Works and Employment         S             S
21



Sco =su                         P  Hg .ggiTlEi:l:S. Nrojec.t   (PR  Ra:t ings
Project (PWEP)
Local Initiatives Project (LIP)    HS            HS
Other development agencies
International Labor Organization
(ILO)
United Nations Industrial
Development Organization
(UNIDO)
United States Agency for
International
Development(USAID)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
. Sector & Themes   K  KM
Though unique in its approach of facilitating the reintegration of ex-soldiers into civilian life in a
post-war transition economy, the Project builds on the lessons from diverse fields, including:
(i) post-war reconstruction in the country; (ii) the Bank's EDRP; (iii) the Bank supported Local
Initiatives Project; (iv) demobilization and reintegration projects in other countries; and (v) active
labor market policies in transition economies.
Lessons from reconstruction in Bosnia and Herzegovina. A review of post-war reconstruction
activities (World Bank and European Union 1999) identifies constraints to private investment and
business development in the legal, judicial constraints, and administrative areas. While the
Project cannot address the overall regulatory framework dealing with employment and small
businesses, every effort would be made to strengthen existing incentives and possibly test new
ones. Furthermore, the review states the importance of integration among services, the inclusion
of private sector providers, institutional development, the role of government, donor cooperation,
and the inclusion of stakeholders in policy dialogue. These issues would be taken up on the
limited scale of the Project (see Section E for more details). The Project also builds on the
lessons of the recent social assessment (World Bank 1999) which clearly states the importance of
employment in the rebuilding of lives and livelihoods in BiH (see also section E.5).
Local Initiatives Project. The LIP has achieved impressive results in reaching people with micro-
loans and in the process of building sustainable institutions which provide access to financial
services to the poor. The project, through its MFIs, has 15,000 active clients. Average loan size
is KM2,9 18 ($1,500 ), with loan terms of up to 2 years at commercial rates of interest.
Repayments are close to 100 percent. Fifty two percent of the borrowers are men, of which a
majority are demobilized soldiers. Thirty four percent of loans disbursed are for services, 44
percent for trade, 12 percent for agriculture and 9 percent for small-scale production. The project
has created the legal environment in the country for micro finance. Non-bank institutions cannot
lend money in BiH, therefore a separate Micro-credit Organization law to allow NGOs to do
micro-lending was instituted. Seven out of the eight micro-credit organizations currently being
financed have now reached 100 percent operational sustainability and are expected to be fully
financially sustainable by June 2000. The main lesson from this project is that sustainable micro-
finance institutions can only be created when their ability, and those of their clients, to manage
22



and assess risk has been developed. Through this project, MFIs are able to lend to both non-
registered and registered businesses without any problems. Part of the envisaged goal of LIPII is
to introduce new products for micro-enterprises, including longer-term investment loans for start-
ups and possible support for development of business development services. The PELRP will be
complementary to the LIP and the LIPII in that the credit needs of its targeted beneficiaries and
their ability to access credit will be closely monitored and evaluated. This information will be
channeled to the LIPII preparation and ways and means for providing access to financial services
to this target group will be established. Through the PELRP ex-soldiers will have access to
advise on starting up new businesses and managing existing ones as well as advise and
information on the services offered by the MFIs and the criteria required for on-lending to clients.
The general experience of provision of credit to ex-soldiers as a reintegration assistance shows
that often, demobilized soldiers view such assistance as an acquired right and do not feel the need
to repay the credit. This experience is confirmed by the Sarajevo canton small credit scheme
where repayment rates barely reach 30 percent. At the same time, the LIP which also provided
micro-credits to soldiers demobilized after Dayton, has repayment rates of almost 100 percent.
The provision of micro-credit was firmly requested by the Entity authorities as a key component.
The Project would, therefore, assist beneficiaries in applying for loans to the existing MFIs. The
PELRP would assess the experience of its beneficiaries in obtaining loans from the existing
MFIs. If the beneficiaries are unable to obtain loans, then the Project may consider setting up a
loan guarantee fund, at least one year after Project effectiveness. Under PELRP, the Business
Advisory services would include training for ex-soldiers on how to apply for micro-credit: the
procedures, terms and conditions required by MFIs and the importance of ensuring proper
repayment rates.
Demobilization and reintegration in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The EDRP's objectives were:
(a) provision of counseling and job-placement services; (b) support for small business; (c) support
for transitional temporary employment through public works and public service employment; and
(d) temporary income support/cash benefits. The project achieved quite impressive results. In its
three years of operation, in both Entities combined, it exceeded it targets for objective (c) and
20,000 demobilized soldiers received institution-based or on-the-job training. The placement rate
(measured as employment after 120 days of having received assistance) was over 80 percent. The
average cost per training was around US$300. In addition, over 3,300 demobilized soldiers
received counseling services. Unlike in other countries with similar projects, this project in BiH
was actually three distinct projects, with three separate implementing agencies. This is clearly not
the optimal organizational structure, however it represents the reality in BiH. The management
assistance component of the project provided support and guidance in setting up the overall
institutional framework, including the Entity ETFs which paved the way for the successful
implementation of three Bank-financed projects. The management assistance component also
provided support to develop most of the manuals required for evaluation and selection of
proposals, provided guidance in the establishment of western-European dissemination standards;
and broadened scope of BiH
For present-day circumstances, among the key shortcomings of the earlier project are the lack of
information on each ex-soldier before and after receiving assistance, the lack of assistance to
micro-enterprises, the lack of assistance to farming activities, and the lack of business skills
training. At the time of project preparation in early 1996, it was anticipated that the Bank's
PWEP and the LIP would provide additional assistance to demobilized soldiers. In RS, all three
projects were implemented by the ETF in Banja Luka, and cross-referral did take place. In the
FBiH, however, the projects were implemented by different PIUs, making coordination of
interventions very difficult. The current Project, therefore, aims at the provision of multi-sectoral
assistance to ex-soldiers implemented through one agency in each Entity.
23



Furthermore, the earlier project was oriented more toward service providers, putting special
emphasis on the provision of services. The current Project would build on the capacities thereby
established but would shift focus toward beneficiaries, giving them the choice of service provider.
Service providers would be awarded contracts only on the basis of demonstrated demand for their
services through a training proposal to the PIUs including a list of enrollees for their training
programs. Another lesson from the earlier project relates to the cantonal Steering Committees
established thereunder. These committees have not proven very effective or essential and would,
therefore, be discontinued.
Reintegration of demobilized soldiers. The Bank has been involved in demobilization and
reintegration programs in various countries. Given the specific circumstances of BiH, many of
the lessons learned are not immediately applicable. Nevertheless, the Project has been designed
with the Bank's experiences from other countries in mind. In particular, the Project would be a
time-bound operation with a light institutional structure. Service contracts would be awarded to
those providers of service whom the ex-soldiers choose as having the best programs for their
needs. Outreach and counseling form the foundation of the Project, which also offers a menu
approach enabling ex-soldiers to choose what best fits their needs.
Active labor market programs. There are many lessons emanating from the experiences of active
labor market programs in transition economies. The success of such measures depends not only
on their design but also on overall economic environment. The transition from a centrally
planned to a market economy invariably leads to shifts in the labor market, and the relevant
institutional and regulatory framework needs adjustment lest it stifles a nascent labor market in
the strict sense of the term before it can fully develop. Active labor market measures often have
high deadweight and substitution effects, resulting in limited net impact on employment.
Good practice suggests starting with modest programs before embarking on larger-scale
operations. The Project follows this path. It would test different active labor market measures on
a limited scale for a small target group. The Project would also contain sound impact evaluations,
another feature of good practice, incorporating the lessons from the impact study of the EDRP as
well as other relevant work in transition economies.
The challenge of assisting ex-soldiers find access to a steady source of income is daunting in any
context, even more so in a country like BiH which still suffers from the effects of an atrocious
war and which stands only at the beginning of a long transition to a market-led economy.
However, there are encouraging examples of support to small businesses and employment. For
instance, the Economic Development Agencies (EDA) set up under an ILO project are
noteworthy, demonstrating the usefulness of good business advisory services.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
There is strong borrower commitment and unanimous support in Entities for the Project from
both civilian and military authorities. The commitment of both governments to the Madrid
Agreement was already demonstrated by the completion of the first reduction in force of 15
percent in 1999. The governments are committed to the second round of 15 percent reduction in
force even without reintegration assistance. The numbers to be demobilized for the year 2000
have been provided to SFOR and the Bank. Furthermore, the Bank received a formal request by
the joint presidency for financial and technical assistance for the reintegration component of the
overall program. In this regard, it is also to be noted that the FBiH government already created a
demobilization working group under the Minister without portfolio and comprising the ministries
24



of labor, finance and defense. This working group is tasked with the development of the overall
program for the FBiH.
Ownership is also very high. The Bank organized a technical project planning workshop during
the preparation mission and a discharge workshop with the heads of the personnel for the military
during the pre-appraisal mission. The objective of the first workshop was to identify appropriate
Project components and attendant implementation mechanisms. Representatives from both
Entities participated in the workshop, including government officials (ministries of finance,
labor/veterans affairs and defense), NGOs, PIUs, and employment institutes. The results of the
planning workshop form the basis for the Project's design. Overall, the Bank's engagement has
been much appreciated by the civilian and military authorities in both Entities.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank's ability to supervise, assess and monitor projects in terms of their financial
management and procurement activities provides a strong incentive for other donors to commit
their funds to such projects. Several donors are interested in assisting in the reintegration process,
however their experiences and capacities are limited. They have asked the Bank to play the lead
role and have indicated financial assistance through Bank-managed trust funds. Other donors,
even though their bilateral programs may not include direct assistance to ex-soldiers, endorse the
Bank's lead role and follow the overall program closely.
Furthermore, and in particular the Stabilization Force (SFOR), the Office of the High
Representative (OHR), and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) as
the three major international players fully support the Project and the Bank's lead role. The Bank
is collaborating closely with these institutions to ensure that the Project fits well within the
overall policy and security framework. SFOR views the Project as the crucial civilian component
for improving the regional security situation; complementing the military component of reduction
in force; and furthering the development of a strategy for the future size, shape and structure of
spending by the Entities on defense. Consequently, the Bank is cooperating with the SFOR,
Combined Joint Civilian Military Task Force (CIMIC), including the collection and analysis of
socio-economic data and the execution of a pre-discharge orientation program, to bridge the gap
between reduction in force and reintegration.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
LI Cost benefit NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
LI Cost effectiveness
Z Other (specify)
The Project is not amenable to detailed cost-benefit analysis. Its design foresees higher per
capita costs than under the EDRP. Average costs were $182 for counseling and referral, $493 for
institution-based training, $269 for on-the-job training, and $269 overall. At the time of
appraisal in 1996, average wages were estimated at approximately $50 per month, thus average
project costs were over five times average monthly wages. Currently, minimum wage in the RS
is $40 and in the FBiH is $60, average monthly wages range from approximately $150 in RS to
approximately $200 in the FBiH. Costs for services (training, counseling, etc.) have likewise
increased.
25



The placement rate of the EDRP was over 80 percent for both institution-based and on-the-job
training. Placement was measured as being formally employed 120 days after completion of the
training. Both Entity governments feel that four months is too short a period for generating
sustainable (self-) employment. A period of one year after having received assistance is deemed
more appropriate. More sustainable (self-) employment opportunities would require higher up-
front investment with a longer duration per activity. The Project would therefore contain upper
financial per capita ceilings for each type of support activity. The relationship for each activity
between annual eamings per sustainable (self-) employment generated and the average cost
would be the Project's key performance indicator.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
The reduction in force of a total of 30 percent of the 1998 strength of the three armies would have
a substantial fiscal impact, reducing defense expenditure by an agreed 30 percent. The Project
itself would have additional impacts. To the extent that ex-soldiers are eligible to receive
unemployment benefits, support for their redeployment in civilian jobs and businesses would
alleviate the governments from paying these benefits.2
The current overall legislative frameworks are not very favorable for private sector development
in a transition economy. Nevertheless, incentives exist at different levels of government (entity,
canton) that facilitate employment generation and the creation of businesses. For instance,
employers can recruit personnel for a probation period of up to six months without having to pay
payroll taxes or severance packages. Small businesses are exempt from sales and other taxes
during the first year of operation. In the short-term, the authorities would forego revenues. In
the longer-term, however, they would profit from increases in incremental revenues for each
sustainable job or business created.
For helping ex-soldiers access credits for small businesses or farming, the Project would not
create new institutions but would refer these well-established channels as possible sources of
financing to ex-soldiers, in particular existing MFIs. The Bank's LIP helped to establish such
MFIs in both Entities. These MFIs have shown a high rate of success in lending and repayments.
For instance, repayment rates in RS reach almost 100 percent. Therefore, the procedures
established by these MFIs as well as commercially viable terms and conditions would apply to
the ex-soldiers as well and therefore the PELRP would ensure that ex-soldiers are informed and
trained about micro finance before they apply for loans
Aiming solely at employment generation and creation of small business, the Project does not
generate any recurrent costs except for the PIUs. Only a small amount of counterpart funding
(approximately 10 percent) is envisaged for the Project due to the following reasons: (i) it is an
emergency operation that had not been foreseen and thus included in the budget for 2000; and (ii)
the governments need to address the outstanding issue of severance packages (transitional safety
net) for ex-soldiers (if paid to all ex-soldiers as required, the costs of the transitional safety net
may be equivalent to the Project budget).
2The employment institutes in the FBiH (Mostar and Sarajevo) and in RS (Banja Luka) are responsible for
administering unemployment benefits. However, it is not fully known to the employment institutes
whether or not the Ministries of Defence have paid the required contributions while the soldiers were in
active duty. Thus, they cannot currently establish which ex-soldiers are eligible to receive unemployment
benefits.
26



Fiscal Impact:
Estimating the fiscal impact of the 30 percent reduction in military personnel in terms of
budgetary savings is beyond the scope of this Project and would involve for instance a clear
definition of the sources and uses of funds. However, on the basis of the available wage bill data
for the 5,802 ex-soldiers for 1999 the average annual wages of the soldiers who have been
discharged is as follows: Bosniac: US$2,921; Croat: US$4,736; RS: US$12,76.5. Therefore, the
annual wage bill for these ex-soldiers for each army (net of pensions and other benefits such as
war veterans benefits) could be estimated as follows: Bosniac: US$ 3,440,938; Croat:
US$7,151,360; RS: US$ 2,698,521. This would translate into annual savings in wage bills for
each of the three armies, respectively; and for the State of BiH a total annual savings of
US$13,290,819 a result of the reduction. Similar information for the 5,160 soldiers to be
demobilized for the year 2000 is not available at this time. The mechanisms and modalities for
the discharge of soldiers for the year 2000 have not been determined yet and are most likely to
follow as soon as the PELRP has been finalized. The PELRP is expected to enhance the
likelihood of further reductions beyond the year 2000 not only of military personnel but also of
military capabilities.
.SaIaries in USS         VFH (Croat)       VFB (Bosniac)      VRS (Serb)
Monthly Salary Range         138-1162.5         63 5-635          35.5-316.5
Monthly Average Salary         394.5             243.5               98
Average Salary per year        4,736             2,921             1,,276.5
(1999)
3. Technical:
The Project would not support public works programs or any other construction of infrastructure.
No detailed technical analysis is required. Regarding investments in machinery by (groups of)
ex-soldiers going into small businesses and farming, the business advisory services offered under
the Project would assist in the identification of possible technologies and ensure their
appropriateness and environmental soundness.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies:
The Project activities under the Counseling, Employment and Training Component will be
contracted out by the PIUs to service providers through public tendering by the PIUs.
b. Project management:
Two PIUs, one in the RS and the other in the FBiH, will be responsible for the implementation of
the Project. T he PIU in the RS is located within the Employment Training Foundation, which
implemented the EDRP. The PIU in the FBiH is newly established, and key staff have been
appointed. The PIU for the PWEP in the FBiH, under agreement with the PELRP PIU, will carry
out the FMS activities for the PELRP.
5. Social:
A detailed socio-economic questionnaire assessing the needs and socio economic profiles of each
ex-soldier is under implementation for the soldiers discharged in 1999. The information from the
questionnaires will be entered into the PELRP database (to be developed and maintained at the
PIUs) and will serve as the baseline for the monitoring and evaluation of the Project as well as
individual files which will follow the progress of each individual soldier. A control group will
also be similarly covered. The information from the questionnaires will be key in determining
27



the focus of activities under the Project from the menu of options in the Project design. The
questionnaires will be completed by July 2000 for the year 1999 and entered in the database well
before Project effectiveness. SFOR has offered to follow up on the implementation of the
questionnaire with the Ministries of Defense as well as the militaries for the soldiers discharged
in 1999 and for those to be discharged during 2000 as well.
A social assessment was drafted in April 1999 for BiH. The report does not focus on soldiers or
ex-combatants but on the overall social conditions of all the people in the country. The
assessment finds that living standards have dropped dramatically from prewar times with people
suffering widespread loss of family assets during the war. However, the majority of people now
have access again to basic municipal utility services in large part due to the donor-financed
reconstruction effort. But access to employment opportunities is limited. Unemployment is
pervasive and the overall unemployment rate is 45 percent for agriculture and-non agriculture
workers, with non-agriculture unemployment as high as 59 percent. Employment is seen as key
to rebuilding lives as well as the economic structure of the state. Reliance on subsistence
agriculture has not offset the loss of formal employment as a source of income. Many people
expressed concern about corruption and would like to see more citizen involvement in local
decisions and more transparency and accountability in decision making at the local and central
level government structures. The Social Assessment's operational relevance to the PELRP is that
economic cooperation is likely to precede socio-political integration. An important means to
encourage social reintegration is to break down barriers to trade and economic activity across
Entities and ethnic boundaries, and to encourage ethnic diversity in the workplace. The PELRP
would focus on integration through increasing the beneficiaries' opportunities for economic
integration.
In many countries, social reintegration poses a particular challenge to ex-soldiers. They may lack
social capital or be stigmatized as conveyers of violence and misbehavior. In the case of BiH,
however, ex-soldiers may not encounter major problems emanating from social reintegration.
The majority is expected to settle in the vicinity of their families. However, a number of ex-
soldiers expressed their desire to settle in the community of origin, which may be in the other
Entity. In these cases, special provisions would need to be made by the authorities (see section
F.3 below). The Social Assessment however found that the war has accelerated urbanization, and
that displaced people in focus groups report the stigma of being of village origin. Yet their fears
of ethnic isolation and concern over lack of equal access to services and employment
opportunities upon return to home villages outweigh the problems such stigma brings and are
cited as reason for remaining in a more urban setting. Many of those that were interviewed
reported social tensions between urban and rural residents and between displaced and domiciled
residents. Ex-soldiers (not covered in the SA) may also face similar issues of access to services
and jobs depending on rural or urban origins.
The war in BiH was atrocious for soldiers and civilians alike. In contrast to the war recruits who
were demobilized after the Dayton Peace Agreement, the professional soldiers discharged in
1999-2000 underwent thorough physical and mental examinations. Nevertheless, judging from
similar experiences in other countries, it is not unlikely that over time, some ex-soldiers may
develop symptoms of PTSD. An initial consultancy, which affirmed the need for such
assistance, was already financed under the EDRP. The Project would build on this experience
and include special counseling services for ex-soldiers and demobilized soldiers in need.
6. Environmental assessment:           Environment Category: C
None of the activities financed by the Project are expected to have an environmental impact.
Nevertheless, appropriate environmental aspects would be considered when assessing credit-
28



financed business or farming proposals. Specific environmental evaluation criteria would be
included in the PIM.
7. Participatory Approach (key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced or
may influence; if participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable):
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Despite the emergency nature of the Project and the large number of primary beneficiaries,
participatory methods have been applied during the design phase. Prior to discharge, soldiers in
the FBiH armies were consulted as to the assistance they would require to facilitate their return to
civilian life. This information would be substantiated for all three armies through the
administration of a socio-economic survey which would provide quantitative data on ex-soldiers'
demographic characteristics, needs and aspirations. On the basis of this consultation process,
Project activities and the PIM would be fine-tuned as required.
Extensive consultations have been held with authorities from both Entities, culminating in a
Project planning workshop the results of which form the basis for the Project's components,
institutional structure, and implementation arrangements. Further collaboration was sought
during the preparation process, including a Project review workshop (linked to pre-appraisal) and
a discharge planning workshop to properly link the military process of discharging ex-soldiers to
the civilian process of their reintegration in civilian life.
StakehO                                e     t                -             pe0, eioh
Beneficiaries                           CON                COL               COL
Non-governmental organizations           CON               COL               COL
Local and central government             COL               COL               COL
Other donors and agencies                COL               COL               COL
IS: information sharing; CON: consultation; COL: collaboration.
b. Other key stakeholders:
Ex-soldiers in 1999 and 2000; Veterans associations; Micro Finance Institutions; training and
consultancy firms; academic institutions.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
There are three critical factors for the sustainability of Project benefits: (i) stability; (ii) transition;
and (iii) growth.
i.   Stability. The strength of each of the three armed forces even after this reduction in force of
30 percent will be higher than what would be required for a country the size of BiH.
Furthermore, a unified command structure, one of the long-term goals of SFOR, will take time to
achieve. Overall, however, SFOR has been able to solidify stability in the country, evidenced by
the recent disbanding of all units in the Brcko area.
29



A major concern for the Project remains regional stability. Due to their close political and
economic ties, events in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia will have direct impact on RS, as
was the case with the embargo on Yugoslavia following the Kosovo crisis. To a somewhat lesser
extent but nonetheless important, developments in Croatia will affect the situation in Herzeg-
Bosna, the Croat part of the FBiH. Conversely, a successfully implemented program of military
downsizing, assisted by a targeted project of reintegration of ex-soldiers, could be an important
element in further strengthening peace and security in the country and region.
ii.   Transition. BiH is at the very beginning of the transition from a centrally planned to a
market economy. Judging from experiences in other post-communist countries, this transition is
likely to be painful. During this process, the dominant public sector will have to give way to the
private sector, and the regulatory and legislative framework that constructed and protected the
former will now have to be adjusted to facilitate the development of the latter.
At a time when unemployment is already at critical levels, major transition programs are under
consideration, including privatization and the closure of coal mines. These programs are likely to
lead to the retrenchment of far greater numbers of employees and workers. Given this acute state
of affairs, the situation of ex-soldiers entering the labor market might well be described as
precarious. Broader-based government efforts are therefore required to advance the transition
process while offering a safety net to the most vulnerable. The Project provides such a safety net
for ex-soldiers that aims at addressing the structural causes of the problem and not just its
frictional symptoms.
iii.   Growth. Evidence from transition economies as well as from OECD countries clearly
suggests that the effectiveness of any active labor market measure depends on the economic
environment within which it is applied. In particular, the higher the growth rate, the more
dynamic the labor market and the faster the absorption of the unemployed in rapidly expanding
businesses. The authorities are thus challenged to provide a more conducive environment for
private initiative that would help to improve the situation not only of ex-soldiers but also of the
unemployed in general.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
From Outputs to Objective
Ex-soldiers suffer from a dependency     M        Extended counseling and training that
syndrome.                                         reintegration assistance is not a right, is time-
bound; provision of assistance on sliding scale.
Authorities do not provide conducive     S        CAS and other Bank operations are addressing
framework for private sector                      the need for a proper framework in a transition
development.                                      context. The Project's MIS would help to
identify relevant bottlenecks.
Labor market is not dynamic.             H        The existing LMIS would be strengthened to
improve the capacity of the employment
institutes to function as effective employment
brokers.
Employment growth does not open          H        CAS and other Bank operations aim at
opportunities for sustainable (self-)            improving the structural factors affecting the
employment in different sectors.                  potential for economic growth. The Project's
30



MIS would help to identify relevant bottlenecks.
From Components to Outputs
Financial Managemnent capacity and     H       PIM would spell out transparent procedures and
procurement capacity of PIUs.                   effective controls; close monitoring of ex-
soldiers and service providers.
Executing agencies do not have         M        Capacity building needs would be assessed
sufficient capacities.                          during preparation and start-up; relevant support
activities would be carried out during
implementation; partnering with other Bank
PIUs and international agencies/NGOs could be
envisaged.
Beneficiaries will be referred to other Bank
projects providing relevant services instead of
replicating services under the Project
Financial Management and procurement
capacity are conditions of Board.
Legal and regulatory framework does    M        Existing incentives for generating employment
not facilitate redeployment of ex-              and creating small businesses would be
soldiers into the private sector.              identified and used to the fullest; cooperation
with relevant local authorities would be sought
to monitor the adequacy of the incentive system.
Quality of Service Providers is not    M        Payments linked to performance: Payments to
good.                                           service delivery providers to be based on
verified deliverables as agreed and stipulated in
contracts.
Contracts with service providers to be based on
appraised capacity.
Contracts (above a specified threshold of
$25,000) will require no objection of the WB.
Overall Quality of each component      M        1) Intensive supervision by World Bank.
2) Close monitoring and evaluation by PIU
through the monitoring and evaluation system.
3) Performance audit of service providers
through an independent agency such as and
NGO.
4) A committee comprised of beneficiaries will
evaluate the quality of service every six months.
This will be included in the PIMs.
31



Demand for activities under the         M        A third component called "Future Sponsored
Project remain to be tested.                     Programs" will allow for allocation of funds to
the Counseling, Employment and Training
activities as they demonstrate success and
demand, by the end of the first year of the
Project.
A questionnaire to determine the socio-economic
profile and needs of each ex-soldier will be
implemented and analyzed during Project
preparation. The profile will be inputted into the
MIS and will serve as a monitoring and
evaluation file for each ex-soldier.
A strong Monitoring and Evaluation system in
the PIUs. Decision to allocate funds will be
based on the results of close monitoring and
evaluation by the PIUs as well as the IDA
supervision missions."
Overall Risk Rating                      S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Ex-soldiers are vulnerable but not necessarily among the poor. Assistance targeted to ex-soldiers
may therefore be criticized by other unemployed groups, including the war-disabled and soldiers
demobilized after Dayton. From a political perspective, this assistance is justified as it would
help to improve security in the country and region and increase mutual trust between the Entities.
Nevertheless, this potentialfor social discontent needs to be, and can be, addressed in various
ways.
Firstly, Project assistance does not attempt to guarantee lifetime jobs to ex-soldiers. To the
contrary, through the entire counseling process starting before discharge, ex-soldiers would be
alerted to the fact that they will have to learn how to cope with economic realities. The support
provided to ex-soldiers would not place them in a markedly privileged situation over other
groups. Secondly, the logic of the pilot nature of the Project is that if the tested active labor
market measures prove successful, they could be extended to the unemployed population in
general. The Project's MIS would be designed to identify those activities for which demand is
high and which are successful.
A major controversial aspect could emerge from the intention of ex-soldiers settling in the other
Entity. Many ex-soldiers from RS and the FBiH either have assets in or originate from the other
Entity. This issue of settlement in another Entity is identical to the problem facing internally-
displaced persons and refugees. Both governments will have to place particular attention on this
problem for two reasons.
Firstly, if ex-soldiers were hindered to follow their desired path into civilian life, their return may
be fraught with more mental and physical difficulties than could be expected otherwise.
Secondly, denying ex-soldiers their choice of community of settlement might lead to a breakdown
in mutual trust with consequences far beyond the limited group of ex-soldiers. The Project's MIS
32



would: (i) assist the Entities to identify the number of ex-soldiers who choose to settle in the other
entity; and (ii) trace their social and economic reintegration process in order to identify possible
problem areas early on. On a broader scale, SFOR would continue to monitor the security
situation in the cantons and collaborate with the Entities as appropriate.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
(a) A Project Agreement has been executed on behalf of IDA and an Entity on terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA.
(b) For the Entity referred to in paragraph (a) above:
(i)    an Operational Manual has been completed satisfactory to the Association;
(ii)   a Subsidiary Financing Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower
and the said Entity on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA;
(c) A Monitoring and Evaluation system has been established in both PIUs.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Conditions of Board Presentation:
(a) Establishment of a financial management system, satisfactory to the Association, by each of
the entity PIUs by May 30, 2000
(b) The Project auditors have been appointed by May 31, 2000: In accordance with the agreed
action plan, the PIUs would submit a written notification to the Bank from the Ministry of
Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, that the Pilot Emergency Labor Redeployment
Project will be included in the global auditing contract. All projects in Bosnia Herzegovina
are audited under a global auditing agreement and the letter from the Ministry is a formality.
Financial and Implementation Covenants:
(a) First Quarterly PMR submitted to the Bank for quarter ended 31 March 2001 by May 15,
2001.
(b) The entities shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Association for the
strengthening of the financial management system not later than September 30, 2000, or such
later date as the Association shall agree.
(c) Mid Term Review to be reviewed with the Association, by December 31, 2001
H. Readiness for Implementation
[:   1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and
ready for the start of project implementation.
Z    1. b) Not applicable.
S   2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
33



Id"  3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of
satisfactory quality.
Z    4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
%3   1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
1111  2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project
complies with all other applicable Bank policies.
Maniza  Naqv                        JC Christiaan J. Poortrnan
Team Leader                   Sector ManagerlDirector          Country ManagerlDirector
34



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
Pilot Emergency Labor Redeployment Project
Link to good practice examples
'Key Paeformance
aHi ,e, , ,h,y ~~~~~of M;00 ,'''  slln torlng ,&    ...... Criticaii,Assumptiom- 
"Mmhy of, Cobjectr   Sector Idicators:trV,&                           rM-
Sector-related CAS Goal:    Sector Indicators:      Sector/ country      (from Goal to Bank Mission)
reports:
*    SFOR and relevant
entity authorities
consolidate stability in
the country.
Project Development Objective:   Outcome / Impact   Project reports:     (from Objective to Goal)
Indicators:
1. Primary objective: To    1. Number and           1. External          *  Entity governments
provide ex-soldiers with the    percentage of ex-soldiers  evaluation reports  advance transition
means for self-reliant      employed or self-       (annually);              process with Bank and
existence.                  employed one year after   beneficiary            IMF.
having received         assessment reports    *  Regional developments
assistance.             (annually).             favor trade and economic
and political stability.
2. Secondary objective: To    2. Cost-effectiveness of  2. Comparative
test different active labor  active labor market     analysis of average
market measures for         measures compared to    costs per successful
employment generation and    other interventions in the  redeployment per
small business creation for the  country and in other  activity (part of mid-
benefit of ex-soldiers.    transition economies.    term review).
Output from each component:   Output Indicators:     Project reports:    (from Outputs to Objective)
. Ex-soldiers provided with    . Number of ex-soldiers  1. Implementation    *  Ex-soldiers do not suffer
reintegration assistance.   assisted by activity;   progress reports        from dependency
number of activities    (quarterly) by PIUs;    syndrome.
financed; average costs   extemal evaluation    *  Authorities provide
per ex-soldier and per  reports (annually).     conducive framework for
activity                                        private sector
development.
2. Effective implementation,  2. Timeliness of       2. Implementation    *  Labor market is dynamic.
monitoring and evaluation of   submission of monitoring  progress reports  *  Economic growth opens
the Project.                reports; level of quality in  (quarterly); financial  opportunities for
monitoring and evaluation  audit reports        sustainable (self-)
activities; level of quality  (annually); external  employment in different
of financial management;  evaluation reports    sectors.
capacity building       (annually).
activities undertaken.
35



Extension agents are
effective.
Database/MIS is system in
updated regularly and
considered as central to the
Project activities
Project Components I Sub-    Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:   (from Components to Outputs)
components:                  component)
1. Counseling Employment   1. US$ 14.45million.       Disbursement reports, *  Services match
and Training                                           progress reports         needs/demand
(monthly);
Executing
Supervision Reports.     agencies/Service
providers have sufficient
Extension agents         capacity
reports on completed
contracts
MIS/data base reports
on each ex-soldiers
file.
2. Project implementation    2. US$ 3.06 million      Financial audit reports Data base system/MIS is
(annually).          effectively used and updated
Legal and regulatory
framework facilitates
redeployment of ex-soldiers
into the private sector.
36



Annex 2: Project Description
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
Pilot Emergency Labor Redeployment Project
By Component:
Project Component I - Counseling, Employment and Training - US$14.45 million
The counseling, employment and training component (CET) would finance different reintegration
services, including counseling, employment, business advisory services, access to financial
services and farming, skills enhancement, and higher education. As the choice of service would
be left to ex-soldiers, a budgetary allocation within the component cannot be established ex ante
for any of the activities. A socio-economic survey in the form of questionnaire has been jointly
developed by the World Bank, SFOR and the Ministries of Defense for both Entities. The
questionnaire will be administered by June 2000 to the soldiers discharged in 1999; and by
October 2000 to those who will be discharged in the year 2000 while still in the barracks. The
questionnaire will be used to build a profile of the socio-economic background of each ex-soldier,
as well as his potential and needs. The information will be entered into a database which will be
maintained by the PIUs. It will serve as a living file for each soldier in order to track his progress
through the Project. This database will also serve as the primary mechanism for determining the
optimal menu of services for each individual. In order to ensure equity among activities to the
extent possible, upper financial per capita ceilings will be set based on the experience gained
under the EDRP. There is no upper limit per activity, thus the component would be allocated
according to direct demands by ex-soldiers. Conversely, counseling services, which have proven
to be among the most important support activities for demobilized soldiers, would be offered to
all ex-soldiers and would be managed under a fixed budget.
Sub Component: Future Sponsored Programs
The Project is focused on being client-oriented and providing those services and support to the
ex-soldiers as are demanded by them. The Project will therefore hold a substantial amount of the
credit in this subcomponent which will be committed to those services under the Project which
show success and demand. The component will rely on a strong monitoring and evaluation
system within the PIUs in order for the funds to be committed to high demand services. One of
the activities which may be considered some time after the Project has been effective is the
establishment of a credit line for start up businesses, to be funded under this component through
the existing micro finance institutions which currently do not lend for start up businesses. Given
that many Fls and MFIs have so far focused mainly on lending for working capital, this approach
would encourage these institutions to lend to these new clients for start-up businesses and may
encourage them to think of ways to diversify their credit products so as to enable other clients,
including ex-soldiers, to undertake investments.
Project Component 2 - Project Implementation - US$3.06 million
The Project would be implemented by the PIUs in both Entities, through extension staff in the
cantons and through demand-based service contracts with service providers for counseling
services, employment and business advisory services and training services. In the FBiH the
implementation of the Project would be undertaken by a PIU which was established on April 15,
2000. The Financial Management activities of this PIU will be undertaken by the PIU for the
PWEP. In the RS the implementation would be undertaken by the PIU which was responsible for
the implementation of the ERDP in that Entity. The PIUs would be responsible for overall
37



Financial Management System (FMS), procurement, Management and Information System
(MIS), Monitoring and Evaluation and developing and updating operations manuals. The PIUs
would also coordinate and liaise with other government agencies within the Entities, with each
other, with donors and with the World Bank. The PIUs would maintain and update a database on
service providers and on the ex-soldiers.
The PIUs would be responsible for the implementation of a transparent financial management,
monitoring and evaluation, maintenance of a database on ex-soldiers and all Project activities,
supervision of executing agencies and consultants, and cooperation across Entities. To facilitate
their work, the Project would support the PIUs through providing necessary equipment, financing
reasonable operating costs, financing technical assistance (for capacity building and studies), and
carrying out a staff development program.
38



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
Pilot Emergency Labor Redeployment Project
,, g ~~~~.                 LW  MIX  $r
Counseling, Employment and Training              14.45              0.00                 14.45
Project Implementation                            2.06              1.00                  3.06
Total Baseline Cost                              16.51              1.00                 17.51
Physical Contingencies                           0.00              0.00                  0.00
Price Contingencies                              0.00              0.00                  0.00
Total Project Costs                       16.51              1.00                 17.51
Total Financing Required                         16.51              1.00                17.51
39



Bosnia and Herzegovina
Pilot Emergency Labor Redeployment Project
Estimated Detailed Project Costs
IDA               Government                 Other
Amount    %    Amount    %    Amount    %
1. CCounseling, Employment and Training
A. Counseling                                     800.0                  70.0                   150.0
B. Institutional Training                         300.0                   0.0                    70.0
C. On-the-Job Training                           6,000.0                 600.0                   0.0
D. Business Advisory Services                    2,000.0                 160.0                   0.0
E. Future Sponsored Programs                     4,000.0                 300.0                   0.0
Sub-Total Counseling, Employment and Training    13,100.0     91%       1,130.0      8%         220.0       0%
2. Project Management
A. Investment Costs
Office equipment/furniture                        45.0                    15.0                   15.0
Vehicles (4wdx3)                                  40.0                    30.0                   20.0
Vehicles (x7)                                     55.0                   25.0                    15.0
FMS/MIS Software                                  40.0                    0.0                   20.0
Sub-Total Investment Costs                        180.0       56%        70.0        22%         70.0       22%
B. Technical Assistance
Training                                          85.0                    0.0                    50.0
Foreign TA                                        200.0                   0.0                   250.0
Local TA                                          85.0                    0.0                   50.0
Audit                                             60.0                    0.0                    0.0
Sub-Total Technical Assistance                    430.0       55%         0.0        0%         350.0       45%
C. Recurrent Costs
Incremental Staff Salaries                        750.0                  300.0                  250.0
Staff Travel                                      150.0                   0.0                    50.0
Equipment O&M                                     80.0                    0.0                   20.0
Vehicle maintanance/fuel&lumbricants<_            75.0                    0.0                    10.0
Utilities/Office Supplies                         105.0                   0.0                    10.0
Rental of Premises                                90.0                    0.0                    20.0
Other recurrent costs                             40.0                    0.0                    10.0
Sub-Total Recurrent Costs                        1,290.0      66%        300.0       15%        370.0       19%
Sub-Total Project Management                     1,900.0      62%        370.0       12%        790.0       26%
TOTAL                                            15,000.0     86%       1,500.0      9%        1,010.0      6%
40



Bosnia and Herzegovina
Pilot Emergency Labor Redeployment Project
Estimated Detailed Project Costs
Federation BH
IDA                Government               Other
Amount       %        Amount        %       Amount        %
1. Counseling, Employment and Training
A. Counseling                                    600.0                   50.0                  150.0
B. Institutional Training                        200.0                   0.0                   70.0
C. On-the-Job Training                           4,000.0                400.0                  0.0
D. Business Advisory Services                    1,500.0                100.0                  0.0
E. Future Sponsored Programs                     3,000.0                200.0                  0.0
Sub-Total Counseling, Employment and Training    9,300.0     91%        750.0       7%        220.0       0%
2. Project Management
A. Investment Costs
Office equipment/furniture                        25.0                  10.0                   15.0
Vehicles (4wdx2)                                  20.0                  25.0                   20.0
Vehicles (x5)                                     25.0                  15.0                   15.0
FMS/MIS Software                                  30.0                   0.0                   20.0
Sub-Total Investment Costs                        100.0      45%        50.0        23%        70.0       32%
B. Technical Assistance
Training                                          50.0                   0.0                   50.0
Foreign TA                                        100.0                  0.0                  250.0
Local TA                                          50.0                   0.0                   50.0
Audit                                             30.0                   0.0                   0.0
Sub-Total Technical Assistance                   230.0       40%         0.0        0%        350.0       60%
C. Recurrent Costs
Incremental Staff Salaries                       500.0                  250.0                 250.0
Staff Travel                                     100.0                   0.0                   50.0
Equipment O&M                                     60.0                   0.0                   20.0
Vehicle maintanance/fuel&lumbricants              55.0                   0.0                   10.0
Utilities/Office Supplies                         75.0                   0.0                   10.0
Rental of Premises                                50.0                   0.0                   20.0
Other recurrent costs                             30.0                   0.0                   10.0
Sub-Total Recurrent Costs                        870.0       58%        250.0       17%       370.0       25%
Sub-Total Project Management                     1,200.0     52%        300.0       13%       790.0       34%
TOTAL                                           10,500.0     84%       1,050.0      8%        1,010.0     8%
41



Bosnia and Herzegovina
Pilot Emergency Labor Redeployment Project
Estimated Detailed Project Costs
Republika Srpska
IDA               Government                 Other
Amount    %    Amount    %    Amount    %
1. Counseling, Employment and Training
A. Counseling                                     200.0                  20.0                    0.0
B. Institutional Training                         100.0                  0o0                     0.0
C. On-the-Job Training                           2,000.0                 200.0                   0.0
D. Business Advisory Services                     500.0                  60.0                    0.0
E. Future Sponsored Programs                     1,000.0                 100.0                   0.0
Sub-Total Counseling, Employment and Training    3,800.0      91%        380.0       9%          0.0        0%
2. Project Management
A. Investment Costs
Office equipment/furniture                        20.0                    5.0                    0.0
Vehicles (4wd)                                    20.0                    5.0                    0.0
Vehicles (x2)                          ,          30.0                   10.0                    0.0
FMS/MIS Software                                   10.0                   0.0                    0.0
Sub-Total Investment Costs                        80.0        80%        20.0        20%         0.0        0%
B. Technical Assistance
Training                                          35.0                    0.0                    0.0
Foreign TA                                        100.0                   0.0                    0.0
Local TA                                          35.0                    0.0                    0.0
Audit                                             30.0                    0.0                    0.0
Sub-Total Technical Assistance                    200.0      100%         0.0        0%          0.0        0%
C. Recurrent Costs
Incremental Staff Salaries                        250.0                  50.0                    0.0
Staff Travel                                      50.0                    0.0                    0.0
Equipment O&M                                     20.0                    0.0                    0.0
Vehicle maintanance/fuel&lumbricants              20.0                    0.0                    0.0
Utilities/Office Supplies                         30.0                    0.0                    0.0
Rental of Premises                                40.0                    0.0                    0.0
Other recurrent costs                              10.0                   0.0                    0.0
Sub-Total Recurrent Costs                         420.0       89%        50.0        11%         0.0        0%
Sub-Total Project Management                      700.0       91%        70.0        9%          0.0        0%
TOTAL                                            4,500.0      91%        450.0       9%          0.0        0%
42



Annex 4
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
Pilot Emergency Labor Redeployment Project
The Project is not amenable to detailed cost-benefit analysis. Its design foresees higher per
capita costs than under the EDRP. Average costs were $182 for counseling and referral, $493 for
institution-based training, $269 for on-the-job training, and $269 overall. At the time of
appraisal in 1996, average wages were estimated at approximately $50 per month, thus average
project costs were over five times average monthly wages. Currently, minimum wage in the RS
is $40 and in the FBiH is $60, average monthly wages range from approximately $150 in RS to
approximately $200 in the FBiH. Costs for services (training, counseling, etc.) have likewise
increased.
The placement rate of the EDRP was over 80 percent for both institution-based and on-the-job
training. Placement was measured as being formally employed 120 days after completion of the
training. Both Entity governments feel that four months is too short a period for generating
sustainable (self-) employment. A period of one year after having received assistance is deemed
more appropriate. More sustainable (self-) employment opportunities would require higher up-
front investment with a longer duration per activity. The Project would therefore contain upper
financial per capita ceilings for each type of support activity. The relationship for each activity
between annual earnings per sustainable (self-) employment generated and the average cost
would be the Project's key performance indicator.
43



Annex 5: Financial Summary
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
Pilot Emergency Labor Redeployment Project
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Pilot Emergency Labor Redeployment Project
Estimated Detailed Project Costs
00/01      01/02      02/03      Total
1. Counseling, Employment and Training
A. Counseling                                       1,020.0       0.0        0.0   1,020.0
B. Institutional Training                             37.0      166.5      166.5     370.0
C. On-the-Job Training                               660.0    2,310.0    3,630.0   6,600.0
D. Business Advisory Services                        216.0      972.0      972.0   2,160.0
E. Future Sponsored Programs                         430.0    1,720.0    2,150.0   4,300.0
Sub-Total Counseling, Employment and Training      2,363.0    5,168.5    6,918.5  14,450.0
2. Project Management
A. Investment Costs
Office equipment/furniture                            75.0        0.0        0.0       75.0
Vehicles (4wdx2)                                      90.0        0.0        0.0       90.0
Vehicles (x5)                                         95.0        0.0        0.0       95.0
FMS/MIS Software                                      60.0        0.0        0.0      60.0
Sub-Total Investment Costs                           320.0        0.0        0.0     320.0
B. Technical Assistance
Training                                              67.5       67.5        0.0      135.0
Foreign TA                                           112.5      168.8      168.8      450.0
Local TA                                              67.5       33.8       33.8      135.0
Audit                                                 20.0       20.0       20.0       60.0
Sub-Total Technical Assistance                       267.5      290.0      222.5      780.0
C. Recurrent Costs
Incremental Staff Salaries                           390.0      455.0      455.0    1,300.0
Staff Travel                                         100.0       50.0       50.0      200.0
Equipment O&M                                         31.0       31.0       38.0      100.0
Vehicle maintanance/fuel&lubricants                   26.0       26.0       33.0       85.0
Utilities/Office Supplies                             40.0       37.5       37.5      115.0
Rental of Premises                                    36.7       36.7       36.7      110.0
Other recurrent costs                                 16.7       16.7       16.7       50.0
Sub-Total Recurrent Costs                            640.3      652.8      666.8   1,960.0
Sub-Total Project Management                       1,227.8      942.8      889.3   3,060.0
TOTAL       3,590.8    6,111.3    7,807.8  17,510.0
44



Bosnia and Herzegovina
Pilot Emergency Labor Redeployment Project
Estimated Detailed Project Costs
Federation BH
00/01      01102      02/03      Total
1. Counseling, Employment and Training
A. Counseling                                         800.0        0.0        0.0      800.0
B. Institutional Training                             27.0       121.5      121.5      270.0
C. On-the-Job Training                               440.0    1,540.0    2,420.0   4,400.0
D. Business Advisory Services                         160.0      720.0      720.0    1,600.0
E. Future Sponsored Programs                         320.0    1,280.0    1,600.0   3,200.0
Sub-Total Counseling, Employment and Training       1,747.0    3,661.5    4,861.5   10,270.0
2. Project Management
A. Investment Costs
Office equipment/furniture                             50.0        0.0        0.0       50.0
Vehicles (4wdx2)                                       65.0        0.0        0.0       65.0
Vehicles (x5)                                          55.0        0.0        0.0      55.0
FMS/MIS Software                                       50.0        0.0        0.0       50.0
Sub-Total Investment Costs                           220.0         0.0        0.0     220.0
B. Technical Assistance
Training                                               50.0       50.0        0.0      100.0
Foreign TA                                             87.5      131.3      131.3      350.0
Local TA                                               50.0       25.0       25.0      100.0
Audit                                                  10.0       10.0       10.0       30.0
Sub-Total Technical Assistance                        197.5      216.3      166.3      580.0
C. Recurrent Costs
Incremental Staff Salaries                           300.0       350.0      350.0    1,000.0
Staff Travel                                           75.0       37.5       37.5      150.0
Equipment O&M                                          25.0       25.0       30.0       80.0
Vehicle maintanance/fuiel&lubricants                 N0.0         20.0       25.0       65.0
Utilities/Office Supplies                              30.0       27.5       27.5       85.0
Rental of Premises                                     23.3       23.3       23.3       70.0
Other recurrent costs                                  13.3       13.3       13.3       40.0
Sub-Total Recurrent Costs                             486.7      496.7      506.7    1,490.0
Sub-Total Project Management                          904.2      712.9      672.9   2,290.0
TOTAL                                               2,651.2    4,374.4    5,534.4  12,560.0
45



Bosnia and Herzegovina
Pilot Emergency Labor Redeployment Project
Estimated Detailed Project Costs
Republika Srpska
00/01      01/02      02/03       Total
1. Counseling, Employment and Training
A. Counseling                                        220.0         0.0        0.0      220.0
B. Institutional Training                              10.0       45.0       45.0      100.0
C. On-the-Job Training                                220.0      770.0    1,210.0   2,200.0
D. Business Advisory Services                          56.0      252.0      252.0      560.0
E. Future Sponsored Programs                          110.0      440.0      550.0    1,100.0
Sub-Total Counseling, Employment and Training         616.0    1,507.0    2,057.0   4,180.0
2. Project Management
A. Investment Costs
Office equipment/furniture                             25.0        0.0        0.0       25.0
Vehicles (4wdx2)                                       25.0        0.0        0.0       25.0
Vehicles (x5)                                         40.0         0.0        0.0       40.0
FMS/MIS Software                                       10.0        0.0        0.0       10.0
Sub-Total Investment Costs                            100.0        0.0        0.0      100.0
B. Technical Assistance
Training                                               17.5       17.5        0.0       35.0
Foreign TA                                            25.0        37.5       37.5      100.0
Local TA                                               17.5        8.8        8.8       35.0
Audit                                                  10.0       10.0       10.0       30.0
Sub-Total Technical Assistance                         70.0       73.8       56.3      200.0
C. Recurrent Costs
Incremental Staff Salaries                             90.0      105.0      105.0      300.0
Staff Travel                                          25.0        12.5       12.5       50.0
Equipment O&M                                           6.0        6.0        8.0       20.0
Vehicle maintanance/fuel&lubricants                     6.0        6.0        8.0       20.0
Utilities/Office Supplies                              10.0       10.0       10.0       30.0
Rental of Premises                                     13.3       13.3       13.3       40.0
Other recurrent costs                                   3.3        3.3        3.3       10.0
Sub-Total Recurrent Costs                             153.7      156.2      160.2      470.0
Sub-Total Project Management                          323.7      229.9      216.4      770.0
TOTAL                                                 939.7    1,736.9    2,273.4   4,950.0
46



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
Pilot Emergency Labor Redeployment Project
Procurement
The total value of the Project is US$17.51 million, of which IDA Credit will finance
US$15.0 million; the Government of Bosnia Herzegovina will finance US$1.5 million
and the Netherlands Government will finance US$ 1.01 million through a Recipient
managed Trust Fund Agreement. The Project will be implemented by PIUs, which have
been established in the FBiH and RS Entities of BiH. The RS PIU has successfully
implemented the EDRP, a project which preceded this one. The present RS PIU director
will become the PIU director of the PELRP as well. The FBiH has established a new PIU
for which there is a proposed structure and new staff with skills relevant to the
implementation of PELRP have been nominated to key positions. The procurement
activity in this Project is limited mainly to service contracts. The total value of goods to
be procured under the Project is about US$0.320 million. The total value of technical
assistance and training to be procured under the IDA credit and the Netherlands TF is
about US$0.78 million. The Bank's standard bidding documents will be included in the
Project Implementation Manual (PIM) and would be utilized for the procurement of IDA-
financed goods and consultants services. Sample contracts for the Counseling,
Employment and Training activities (CET) will also be included in the PIM.
All IDA financed procurement of goods will be carried out in accordance with the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in January 1995, and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January
1999. Consulting services and training shall be procured in accordance with the
"Guidelines. Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers ",
published by the Bank in January 1997, and revised in September 1997 and January
1999.
A capacity assessment of the Implementing agencies was carried out and completed prior
to negotiations. Based on the procurement risk assessment, an action plan will be agreed
and finalized to be included in the PIM.
Procurement methods (Table A)
(a) Goods and Equipment (US$ 0.32 million)
Goods to be financed under the Credit include: office equipment, computers, off-the-shelf
software, furniture, materials, vehicles, and equipment for reproduction of examinations.
(i) International Competitive Biding (ICB). Goods and equipment which are estimated
to cost more than US$100,000 per contract may be procured using ICB procedures;
(ii) International Shopping (IS). Goods and equipment contracts costing less than
US$100,000 per contract may be procured by IS procedures. International Shopping
procedures will be based on comparing price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers from two different countries in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
(iii) National Shopping (NS). Goods and equipment contracts estimated to cost
US$50,000 equivalent or less per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the Guidelines.
47



(iv) Direct Contracting (DC). Goods which are of a proprietary nature may, with the
Associations' prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the Guidelines.
(b) Counselina, Employment and Training Services Contracts (US$ 14.45 million)
See Annex I I for detailed descriptions of activities.
Selection of Individuals: Individuals will be hired according to section V of the
Guidelines. The value of these individual contracts will range between US$1000 and US$
10,000 and the aggregate value of these contracts under this component will be
US$100,000. These individuals will be hired mainly for the supervision of each of the
activities and components funded under this category; they will be independent of
providers of services. Their performance and contract management will be monitored
closely by the PlUs and Bank Supervision missions.
Selection of Service Providers: In response to a broad advertisement interested service
providers will submit their qualifications and proposals. Tailor made programs will be
defined and Standard terms of references, minimum qualification requirements, standard
conditions of engagement will be finalized and service providers meeting with these
requirements will be invited to submit proposals under QCBS with the exception of on
the Job training providers who will submit proposals under LCS. The value of these
contracts will range between US$3,000 and US$ 100,000 and the aggregate value of these
contracts under this component will be US$14.45 million. As the program progresses
and interest and success of each of the component is measured after about one year,
reallocation of funds amongst categories will be considered and appropriate corrections
and adjustments will be made in the procurement plans. Contracts and progress of
performance will be managed by PIUs and closely monitored of service providers,
individual and providers of technical assistance. Periodic ex-post procurement audits will
be conducted by an independent auditing firm that will report the compliance with agreed
procedures for selection and delivery of services and measures to be undertaken to
improve and rectify any problems noted.
(c) Technical Assistance and Audit ($0.78 million)
Consultant firms (QCBS and LCS) or individual selected based on qualifications (CQ) or
as individual consultants (section V) respectively will be hired to train the execution
agents and/or the service providers as the case may be.
The value of these contracts for firms will range between US$2,000 and US$ 100,000.
and to aggregate value of these contracts under this component will be US$250,000
The value of contracts for individuals will range between US$5,000 and US$75,000 and
to aggregate value of these contracts under this component will be US$1.32 million
(d) Incremental Operatina Costs (US$1.96 million)
IDA will finance the operating costs of the PIUs including staff salaries, Project related
travel and subsistence, vehicle insurance, operation and maintenance cost for equipment,
office maintenance and supplies over the life of the Project on a declining basis. These
cost will be subject to IDA approval on an annual basis. The Government of BiH will
finance 50 percent of incremental recurrent costs on an increasing basis and will be
expected to finance these costs fully by the time of completion of the Project.
48



Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement MethodI
Expenditure Category
IC      NCB                        Other            N.BF.        Total Cost
1. Works                           0.00              0.00               0.00             0.00            0.00
(0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.00)
2. Goods                           0.00              0.00              0.320             0.00           0.320
(0.00)            (0.00)            (0.18)           (0.00)           (0.18)
3. Service Contracts               0.00              0.00               14.45            0.00            14.45
(0.00)            (0.00)            (13.10)          (0.00)          (13.10)
4. Technical                       0.00              0.00               0.78             0.00            0.78
Assistance and Audit
(0.00)            (0.00)            (0.430)          (0.00)          (0.430)
Incremental Operating              0.00                                 1.96             0.00            1.96
Costs                             (0.00)            (0.00)             (1.29)           (0.00)          (1.29)
Total                          0.00                                  17.51           0.00            17.51
(0.00)            (0.00)            ( 15.0)          (0.00)          (15.0)
I / F igures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies
2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through international and national shopping, consulting services,
services of contracted staff of the Project management office, training, technical assistance services, and
incremental operating costs related to (i) managing the Project, and (ii) re-lending Project funds to local
government units.
3/ The total cost includes US$ 1.5 million Government Counterpart funds which will finance taxes, custom duties
and a percentage of incremental operating costs on a declining basis.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Procurement of goods and services will be carried out according to the agreed procurement
plan described in Table D and will be subject to the reviews noted in Table B of this Annex.
The Bank's prior review of procurement will cover all ICB, the first five IS and NS packages,
all Service Contracts over US$25,000 equivalent, terms of reference for all consulting
assignments; all consulting contracts with individual consultants. With respect to prior
review, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix I of the Guidelines shall
apply.
49



Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior
Review 1
1. Works
2. Goods           >1I 00,000       ICB            All
<50,000 -        IS          First five
> 100,000
<50,000         NS
3. Services                 100 000 -  QCBS       all
Consultants    50 000 - 25 000      LCS            all
-25 000.        CQ             all
Other        First 10
_icontracts              _
4. Technical
Assistance
5. Operating
Expenses
I Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 1 1.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for 0uidance.
T otal value of contracts subject to prior review:
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One
every 6 months (includes special procurement supervision for post-
review/audits) Post Review will apply to one in five contracts.
50



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Disbursement will be made based on full documentation for eligible expenditures using
funds on deposit in the special account. The PIUs' financial management capacity will be
reviewed after one year and if it is considered that they have gained sufficient experience
with the FMS and reporting using PMRs, they may switch to PMR-based disbursement.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expen8itWset. Category   - E     A-6A 40t in US"Tiin --    Financing Percentage
Part A of the Project (FBiH)
1. Goods I/                                   100,000             100% of foreign expenditures; 100%
of local expenditures (ex-factory
cost) and 85% of local expenditures
for other items procured locally
2. Services Contracts2/                      9,300,000                          90%
3. Technical Assistance3/                     230,000                          100%
4. Incremental Operating Costs4/              870,000                90% of expenditures incurred
through December 31, 2002; 75%
thereafter of expenditures incurred.
SUB-TOTAL                                    10,500,000
Part B of the Project (Republika
Srpska
1. Goods 1/                                    80,000              100% of foreign expenditures; 100%
of local expenditures (ex-factory
cost) and 85% of local expenditures
for other items procured locally
2. Services Contracts2/                      3,800,000                          90%
3. Technical Assistance3/                     200,000                           100%
4. Incremental Operating Costs4/              420,000                90% of expenditures incurred
through December 31, 2002; 75%
thereafter of expenditures incurred.
SUB-TOTAL                                    4,500,000
Total Project Costs                          15,000,000
Total                                        15,000,000
1/ Goods will include vehicles, computer hardware and software and furniture.
2/Services will include counseling, on the job training, business advisory services, institutional
training.
3/Techncial assistance includes audits.
51



4/lncremental Operating Costs will include: incremental staff salaries; operations, and maintenance of
equipment; rent; vehicle maintenance; fuel; utilities; office supplies; and audit.
Use of statements of expenditures
(SOEs):
Replenishment applications should be submitted on a monthly basis and must be fully
documented and supported by bank statements and reconciliation statements. Disbursement
should be made based on SOE for contracts for: service contracts and consulting valued less
than US$ 25,000, for all contracts for Goods with the exception of the first 5 contracts valued
less than $100,000 and all incremental operating costs. This documentation will be made
available for the required audit as well as to Bank supervision missions, and will be retained
by the PIUs for at least one year after receipt by the Bank of the audit report for the last fiscal
year in which disbursement was made.
Special account:
To facilitate timely Project implementation, the borrower will establish, maintain and operate,
under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, two separate Special Accounts for the
FBiH and RS PIUs, respectively. FBiH authorized allocation is US$ 1,000,000, limited to
400,000 until withdrawal reached US$1.6 million. RS authorized allocation is US $450,000,
limited to 150,000 until withdrawal reached US$600,000. For PMR Disbursement: FBiH
authorized allocation should not exceed US$ 2.1 Million. RS authorized allocation should not
exceed US$ 0.9 million.
52



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
Pilot Emergency Labor Redeployment Project
Project Schedule                                       Planned                       Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)                 8
First Bank mission (identification)                   10/01/2000
Appraisal mission departure                           04/24/2000                    04/24/2000
Negotiations                                          05/03/2000                    05/10/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                         09/15/2000
Prepared by:
Preparation assistance:
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                          Specialty
Maniza Naqvi                           Task Team Leader
Markus Kostner                         Post Confict Specialist
Goran Tinjic                           Operations Analyst
Lucas Janssens                         Procurement Specialist
Nikola Kerleta                         Procurement Analyst
Siew Chai Ting                         Financial Management Specialist
Imelda Mueller                         Program Assistant
Samra Basic                            Team Assistant
53



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
Pilot Emergency Labor Redeployment Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
1.     Project implementation manual.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1.     BTO Aide-Memoire, February 2000.
2.     October note.
3.     March 2000 BTO Aide-Memoire
4.     Social Assessment 1999
C. Other
1.    Colletta, Nat J., Markus Kostner and Ingo Wiederhofer. 1996a. The Transitionfrom
War to Peace in Sub-Saharan Africa. Directions in Development. Washington, DC:
World Bank.
2.    Colletta, Nat J., Markus Kostner and Ingo Wiederhofer. 1996b. Case Studies in War-
to-Peace Transition. The Demobilization and Reintegration of Ex-Combatants in
Ethiopia, Namibia, and Uganda. Discussion Paper No. 331. Washington, DC: World
Bank.
3.    Employment and Training Foundation. 1997. Handbookfor Marketing the Skills of
Unemployed People to Employers.
4.     Employment and Training Foundation. 1997. Program Monitoring Guide.
5.    Employment and Training Foundation. 1997. Job Search Handbookfor Job Seekers.
6.    Employment and Training Foundation. 1997. Operational Policy Manual.
7.    Implementation Completion Report Emergency Demobilization Project March 27,
2000 Report No. 20172
*Including electronic files
54



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA: Pilot Emergency Labor Redeployment Project
Status of Bank Group Operations (Operations Portfolio)
Closed
Projects 78
Difference Between
Board                                                   Last PSR                                                         Expected and Actual
Date                                              Supervision Rating b/           Original Amount in US$ Millions         Disbursements ai
Fiscal                                         DvlpetIpeetto
Year  Active Projects                         Develob ment  ImPoementation      IBRD         IDA      Cancel.   Undisb.     Orig. Frm Rev'd
1997    P045310    EMG PUB WORKS & EMPL              S              S                 0         10           0      0.55      0.74          0
1997    P044522    ESSEN. HOSPITAL SERV              S              S                 0         15           0       1.3      2.19          0
1997    P045311    LOCAL INITIATIVES                 S             HS                 0          7           0      0.12       0.4          0
1998    P045313    EDUCATION RECONSTR.               S              S                 0          11          0      1.06      1.49          0
1998    P045483    ELEC. POWER II                    S              S                 0         25           0     21.94     22.48          0
1998    P045134    FORESTRY                          S              S                 0          7           0       6.2      3.42          0
1998    P048462    RECON ASST-REPUBLIKA              S              S                 0         17           0      2.14      2.01          0
1998    P045484    TRANSPORT RECON. II               S              S                 0         39           0      3.52      4.11          0
1999    P044523    BASIC HEALTH                      S              S                 0          10          0      9.19      0.79          0
1999    P059763    CULT. HERITAGE PILOT              S              S                 0           4          0      3.63      2.37          0
1999    P062936    ENT EXP FACIL (BEEF)              S              S                 0          12          0      9.95      4.35          0
1999    P048461    ENTER & BANKING PRIV              S              S                 0         50           0     25.27      7.92          0
1999    P056192    LOCAL DEVELOPMENT                 S              S                 0          15          0     14.25      0.18          0
1999    P055432    PFSAC II                          S              S                 0         72           0     43.65     68.76          0
2000    P058512    EDUC 3                                                             0           0          0         0         0          0
55



Bosnia-Herzegovina
Statement of IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 4/30/00
(In US Dollars Millions)
Held                    Disbursed
FY Approval Company            Loan  Equity Quasi Partic Loan  Equity Quasi Partic
1997/99     Bosnia Micro            0   0.27     0      0     0   0.27      0     0
1985 Energoinvest        7.49      0     0      0  7.49      0      0     0
1997 Enterprise Fund        0   1.71     0      0     0   0.39      0     0
1998 SEFAkova            1.79      0     0      0  1.79      0      0     0
1999 SEF Bosnalijek         0      0  2.09      0     0      0  2.09      0
1999 SEF Kopex           1.89      0     0      0  1.89      0      0     0
1998 SEF Lignosper       1.95      0     0      0  1.69      0      0     0
1999 SEF Lijanovici      2.12      0     0      0  2.12      0      0     0
1997 Sarajevska          2.73      0     0      0  2.73      0      0     0
1977 TKA Cazin           3.13      0     0      0  3.13      0      0     0
1998 Wood Agency-AL       4.2      0     0      0     0      0      0     0
1998 Wood Inga           1.48      0     0      0   0.3      0      0     0
0 Wood Konjuh         2.12      0     0      0  1.88      0      0     0
0 Wood Kozara         1.48      0     0      0  1.25      0      0     0
0 Wood Podgradci      1.06      0     0      0  0.87      0      0     0
1998 Wood Vrbas          1.48      0     0      0   0.3      0      0     0
Total Portfolio:       32.92   1.98  2.09      0 25.44   0.66  2.09       0
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan Equity Quasi Partic
56



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
Bosnia and Herzegovina at a glance                                                                     4/11/00
Bosnia   Europe &    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                    and      Central   middle-                  -
Herzegovina        Asia  Income       Developmentdiamond*
1998
Population, mid-year (millions)                        4,2        473       908                  Life expectancy
GNP per capta {At/as method, US$)                     920        2.190     1,710
GNP (At/as method. US$ b/i/ions)                       3.9       '            7039  1 ,                T
Average annual growth, 1992-98
Population (V.,'                                      t1           01        1.1                      a 
Labor force (%)                                                    0.3       1.5     GNP              I               Gross
per                            primary
Most recent estimnate (latest year available, 1992-98)                               capita                       enrollment
Poverty I% of population below national poverty tine)
Urban population l% of totalpopulatfon)                42          68        58
Ufe expectancy at bath (years)                         71          59        68
Infant mortality (per /000 irve births)                 3          23        38
Child malnutntion (% of children under 5)               .-          ,                          Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of populat;tOn)                                      76
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                                4        14
Gross pnmary enrollment (/ oaf school-age population)             100       103         B osma and Herzegovia
Mate                                                            101       105              Lower-middle-income group
Femate                                                           99       100
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1978     198S        1997      1993 8.
Economic ratios*
GDP (UtS$ billions)                            .                   3.5       4.1
Gross domestic investment/GOP                                     41A4      38.0                    Trade
Exports of goods and services/GOP                                 28.5      33.7
Gross dormestic savingsfGDP                                       -4.2       1.1
Gross national savings/GOP                                        11.3      10.9
Current account balance/GDP                                      -30 1     -27.1     Domestic          1
Interest payments/GDP                                               ..       1.4                                 Investment
Total debt/GDP                                                   110,0      74.0      avings
Total debt service/exports                                        38.0      10.0
Present value' of debtlGDP                                          ..      60 0
Presene value of debtlexports                            .                 179,0
Indebtedness
1978-88  1988-98     1997        1993   199-802
(average annualgrow 
GDP                                   .        ..    29.5         13,0       g 53-Bosnia and Herzegovina
GNP per capita                                 ..    28.2         12.1      11.5         ----Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services                  ..    53.3         33.7      17.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(% of GDP)                                  1978     1988        1997      1998    | Growth of investment and GDP (')
Agriculture                                     .        .        17.0      15.8      I
Industry                                                          27.0      27.8    Go
Manufacturing                                                                      40..
Services                                                          56.0      56.4    20
Private consumption                                                           ..   -20      93   94   95   96   97   98
General government consumption                 ..D .                 .GOI                                     *GDP
Imports of goods and services                                     741       70.6
1978-88  1988-98        1997     1998      Growth of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                                                         200
Industry                                                                            150 -
Manufacturing                                                                 ,    100 
Services                                                 ..I
Private consumption                                                                  s-
General government consumption                                                        0
Gross domestic investment                                          3.7      -3S5            93   94   90  9g   97   98
Imports of goods and services                                     15.2       7.8            - Exports           Imports
Gross national product                                            31.8      17.5
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond
will be incomplete.
After debt rescheduling in 1996.



Bosnia and Herzegovina
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1978     1988      1997      1998      Inflation (%)
Domes;tic prices
(% change)                                                                          20 T
Consumer prices (KM, Federation)                         ..      14.0       5.0     10
Implicit GDP deflator                           ..      ..         ..        ..      0
-1- 03   94           99r^    97   98
Government finance                                                                           3    9
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                .20
Current revenue                                 ..       ..      27.8      32.6    -30        -G DP deflator
Current budget balance                          ..       ..       1.3      -0.6                 w       C   Federation)
Overall surplus/deficit                         ..       ..      23.0      20.7
TRADE
(UIS$ mifl,ons)                              1978     1988      1997      1998      Export and import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob) ]575                                                    17      3,00 
Commodity 1                                    ..      ..         ..              2,5001-
Commodity 2                                   ..       ..         ..       ..    2,        0001                 K
Manufactures                                  ..       ..         ..
Total imports (cif)                                             2,333     2,573     1,l000    TU
Food                                                                              1,000
Fuel and energy                               ..       ..        ..        ..    soo
Capital goods                                 ..       ..         ..       .. o_
Export price index (1995=100)                                                             92 ..     94 ..
Import price index (1995=100)                   ..       .                                       Exports     * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                               1978     1988       1997     1998      Current account balance to GDP (%1
Exports of goods and services                            ..    1,002      1,367      0
Imports of goods and services                            ..    2,606      2,864     -s  92   93
Resource balance                                         ..   -1,604    -1,498  n o
Net income                                               ..      -228     -111    -15
Net current transfers                                    ..      772       510    -20'l
Current account balance                                  ..   -1,060    -1,098    -25
Financing items (net)                                           1,151     1,014    -30
Changes in net reserves                                  ..       -91       85    -35
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)         ..        ..        80      175
Conversion rate (DEC, local KM/ US$)            ..       ..      1.73      1.76
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1978     1988      1997      1998
(US$ millions)                                                                      Composition of 1998 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                     ..    2,981      2,981
IBRD                                                  ..       566       596
IDA                                                    ..      292       437                   G 278
Total debt service                                       ..       385       131
IBRD                                                   ..       36        35          F:400
IDA                                                    ..         2        2
Composition of net resource flows                                                                   -2s 3
Official grants                                       ..       996       917                    __                  437
Official creditors                                     ..       126      181
Private creditors & others                            ..      -107       -75
Foreign direct investment                              ..         0      100                                 070
Portfolio equity                                      ..                  E0 a1,t24
World Bank program (IBRD & IDA)
Commitments                                   0        0         77      100      A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                         ..        65       135      8 - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                          .        .          0        0      C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Net flows                                              ..        65      135
Interest payments                            ..       ..        38        38
Net transfers                                ..       ..        27        97
Including external financed public projects.
Development Economics                                                                                                 4/11/00
,    7g=gWg  jg  jg_ == gi. w v y 97.==d~EMO                              0 MOM



Annex 11
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Proposed Pilot Emergency Labor Redeployment Project
Review of Financial Management Arrangements
General
A review of the Financial Management System was undertaken between March 2000 and April
2000 to: (a) assess the Project's capacity and readiness for the implementation of LACI;
(b) review the presence of the necessary elements for sound Project financial management system
such as internal controls, Project accounting, Project staffing and audit arrangements; and (c)
prepare a time-bound action plan for strengthening the financial management system to achieve
Project Management Report (PMR)-based disbursement that would assist the Project to move
towards LACI. (A report on the Review of Financial Management System is included in the
Project files and in the Project Implementation Manual).
Project Management and Coordination
The proposed Project is a single operation with two parts, one in each Entity (one in Republika
Srpska and the other in Federation of BiH). The new Project Implementing Unit (PIU) in the
FBiH and the Employment and Training Foundation (ETF) will be the implementing agencies for
the Project. The PIU/ETF will be charged with managing contracting and expenditure under the
Project and coordinating Project activities. The current PIU in the FBiH, established under the
EDRP, will not be used for PELRP. In the RS, the ETF which implemented the EDRP, would be
the implementing agency.
The FBiH PIU is to sub-contract financial management services to the PWEP PIU (operating
under the FBiH Employment and Training Foundation) which has the necessary capacity and
skills to provide such services. Such an arrangement would be more cost-effective than to build
up a completely new capacity for which it will take months to get familiar with the specifics of
the WB financed projects and related requirements. The closing date of IDA credit for the PWEP
is June 30, 2000 and the implementation completion mission was carried out in May 8 - 19, 2000.
In case it is determined that a follow-up operation is not needed, the finance unit of the PWEP
would become an integral part of the FBiH PIU upon the final completion of the PWEP.
Staff ing
Each Entity would have at the least one full time position for an accountant with sound
credentials and experience in accounting (acceptable to the World Bank) to make good
judgements on the maintenance of the books of accounts and on the production of financial
information.
The Finance Manager and the accountant in the ETF of RS are considered acceptable to the Bank.
The Finance Manager of the PWEP is considered acceptable to the World Bank. However, as the
new Project is likely to increase the workload for the PWEP's Finance Manager, it would be
necessary for the PWEP to hire an additional accountant/bookkeeper to assist day-to-day
management of an increased portfolio, by 15 May 2000.
59



Accounting and Internal Controls
The Project accounting will comply with the International Accounting Standards. The local
accounting standards, which are based closely on International Accounting Standards, have been
adopted by the RS from January 1, 2000. Donor agencies are currently providing training to local
accountants to familiarize them with the new standards.
The ETF and PWEP have extensive experience with World Bank's financed projects. Both ETF
and PWEP have implemented several World Bank-financed projects. They have established key
internal control mechanisms on the application and use of funds. There will be segregation of
duties in the ETF and PWEP/PIU.
Project Accounting System
PIU/ETF would be responsible for overall project financial management and accounting.
PIU/ETF would maintain books of accounts for the Project, prepare and disseminate financial
statements and financial management reports, and ensure timely audit of the financial statements.
The overall principles for Project accounting are outlined below:
(i) Books of accounts for the Project would be maintained by PIU/ETF on double-entry
bookkeeping principles. Project accounts would be maintained using the computerized
accounting system.
(ii) Project accounting would cover all sources of Project funds (including donors
contributions), and all utilization of Project funds. All Project-related transactions
(whether involving cash or not) would be accounted in the books of accounts. This
would include contributions made by donors. Disbursements made by the World Bank
and the Special Account maintained by BiH would also be included in the project
accounting system. Funds received from different sources would be identified separately
and reflected in the Project accounts and financial statements
(iii)Project-related transactions and activities would be distinguished from other activities of
the Project. This distinction would be effected at the data-capture stage. An identifiable
Trial Balance for the Project capturing all Project receipts, expenditures, and other
payments under the Project would be prepared. A Chart of Accounts for the Project will
be prepared. The Chart of Accounts conforms to the classification of expenditures and
sources of funds indicated in the Project documents (Project Implementation Plan, Project
Appraisal Document, COSTAB model). The Chart of Accounts enables data to be
captured in a manner as to facilitate financial reporting of Project expenditures by:
(i) Project components; (ii) expenditure categories; (iii) disbursement categories; and
(iv) funding donors.
(iv) Project Financial Statements and financial reports would be fully based on the Project
books of accounts, and substantially generated from the financial accounting system.
(v) Physical information on key performance indicators which can be readily linked to
financial costs would be maintained as part of the Project financial management system.
Initially this would be maintained for some high cost items, which account for a
significant portion of Project cost, and for items for which data on physical activities can
be easily captured. These items have been identified and indicated in the Financial
Manual. This list would be gradually expanded during implementation.
As the financial management of the FBi- PIU is to be contracted out, the accounting system of
PWEP has been evaluated and assessed. The PWEP uses an in-house designed financial
management system, which is specifically designed for the World Bank's project and reporting
under non-LACI requirements. This accounting software system, which is based on Visual Basic
60



Database, appears to be well developed by an external consultant a few years ago and
subsequently enhanced by PWEP's MIS staff. It has the following modules - financial and
procurement. The financial modules include 4 sub-modules - Payments 1 a, Reports I a, Other
Categories, and Reports by Other Categories. It appears that the payments are entered into the
system based on the disbursement categories. The reports sub-modules currently allows the
PWEP to print detail reports but not the financial statements. These financial statements are
prepared on Excel, based on the various reports generated under Reports 1 a and Report By Other
categories. The procurement module enables the PWEP to enter all necessary information on
procurement matters. Presently PWEP also maintain a separate database for local reporting
requirements, hence all transactions are being recorded twice. Based on the initial assessment,
this accounting system will meet the Bank's minimum reporting requirement. However it
currently does not have planning and budgeting module and cannot produce PMRs. By June 30,
2000, the PWEP/PIU should decide whether to improve and enhance the existing system to
enable them to meet PMRs requirements or to select and purchase an accounting system which
would meet the PMRs requirements. By September 30,2000, the PWEP/PIU will need to
complete implementation of an accounting system enabling them to prepare quarterly PMRs.
The ETF in the RS has implemented computerized accounting software (Scala) for the Local
Development Project and it will need to purchase another software license for this computerized
accounting software for this Project. The ETF is to purchase an additional license for its existing
computerized Project accounting system (Scala), by July 31, 2000
By September 30, 2000, the PWEP/ETF will need to complete implementation of an accounting
system enabling them to prepare quarterly PMRs. The system will be designed keeping in mind,
inter alia, an accounting and internal control system with the capacity to record and retrieve in a
timely manner, all financial transactions under the Project. The accounting system will comply
with internationally accepted standards and will (i) reliably record and report all assets, liabilities,
and financial transactions of the Project; (ii) provide reliable financial information for managing
and monitoring Project activities, and (iii) provide quarterly PMRs on a timely basis. The
accounting system will be classified by component; it will reflect the sources of funds and will be
broken down into different types of expenditures for the Project. Further, it will provide
information on the receipt and use of funds and will be able to produce financial reports
comparing budget with actual expenditures at any given time. The system will be capable of
providing financial data to measure performance when linked to the outputs of the Project. This is
an important element of the financial management system.
Accounting and Financial Flows
Draft accounting and financial flow for the PELRP is described in detail in the attached Annex II.
PIU/ETF would generate and maintain vouchers and supporting documentation for expenditures
on all activities of the Project. The financial flows for all activities in the PELRP including future
sponsored programs will be: (a) PIU/ETF to Service providers via service contracts between
PIU/ETF and organizations/firms/institutions, (b) service providers to final clients (ex-soldiers),
and (c) in some cases, from PIU/ETF to ex-soldiers directly. Those providers who have been
verified as reliable would be added to a list of service providers. Ex-soldiers interested in a
particular service would choose among these service providers the one who meets their needs
best. The provider would sign a contract with the PIU/ETF to provide training to a number of
ex-soldiers. The service provider would be paid on the basis of the completed work.
The PIU/ETF will need to document the accounting transaction information flow for accounting
purposes, in particular the Counseling, Employment and Training Component
i)    CET -for the Counseling, Business Advisory Services (Employment), Testingfor
Professional Skills (Training and Education), and Skill Enhancement - institutional-
61



based training and business management training (Training and Education). These
activities will be contracted to successful service providers, who may be awarded on
the basis of national shopping, provided at least three eligible suppliers are invited to
bid. The service delivery would be based on agreed schedule of events and payments
to the providers will be based on agreed payment schedule and agreed performance
criteria, e.g. 50 percent at the start of the contract and 50 percent on the delivery of
agreed monitored report. The extension agents will verify the reports prior to
recommending payments to the providers. Furthermore, on a sample basis, the ex-
soldiers (who receive the services) would be asked to confirm the services provided
to them.
ii)    CET- Incentives Program for Employers (Employment). The component would
provide financial incentives to employers on a sliding scale (sharing of gross wages
of ex-soldiers) if the employer is willing to affirm his/her commitment to enter into
regular employment contracts with ex-soldiers after the probation period is over,
while at the same time not substituting ex-soldiers for other staff. The PIU/ETF
through the extension agents would contact reliable prospective providers (companies
/firm / employers) to identify job openings. This information would be passed on to
interested ex-soldiers who would contact the provider directly. If the provider
accepts the ex-soldier (the principle of non-discrimination would apply), payments
would be effected directly from the PIU/ETF to the provider on the basis of the
agreed monthly monitoring report and agreed sliding scale. As this is considered one
of the high risk areas, there will be regular supervision by the extension agents,
intensive supervision of the Bank's staff on a regular basis, the ex-soldiers would be
asked to confirm the services provided to them (on a sample basis), and a committee
of ex-soldiers who will monitor the services provided.
iii)    CET- Skills Enhancement - on-the-job training/apprenticeships (Training and
Education). The PIU/ETF will keep a database of all service providers, including
potential employers. The PIU/ETF through the extension agents would contact
reliable prospective providers (companies/firm/employers) to identify
job/apprenticeship openings. This information would be passed on to interested ex-
soldiers who would contact the provider directly. If the provider accepts the ex-
soldier (the principle of non-discrimination would apply), payments would be
effected directly from the PIU/ETF to the provider on the basis of the agreed monthly
monitored report. For the on-the-job training/apprenticeship, the employers would be
reimbursed for reasonable costs (lump sum for changes to workplace) and fees for the
provision of training to ex-soldiers, which will be paid in arrears. The extension
agents will verify the monthly prior to recommending payments to the providers. As
this is considered one of the high risk areas, there will be regular supervision by the
extension agents, intensive supervision of the Bank's staff on a regular basis, the ex-
soldiers would be asked to confirm the services provided to them (on a sample basis),
and a committee of ex-soldiers who will monitor the services provided.
iv)    CET- Higher Education. The Project will finance scholarship to ex-soldiers to
pursue or complete university or higher technical education. The scholarship will
include fees and a limited stipend during the further education period. The fees will
be paid to the education providers directly, based on approved invoices (verified by
the extension agents). The stipend will be paid to the ex-soldiers directly, based on
the acceptable quarterly academic reports from the education providers. The
extension agents will verify the quarterly academic reports prior to recommending
payments to the education provider and to the ex-soldiers.
v)     CET- Future Sponsored Programs. A portion of the Credit will be allocated to
the future sponsored programs. This component will fund activities in Counseling,
Employment and Training as they demonstrate success and demand, by the end of the
62



first year of the Project. Decision to allocate funds will be based on the results of
close monitoring and evaluation of each activity under the CET, by the PIU/ETF as
well as the IDA supervision missions. One of the possible new activities would be
the introduction of a loan guarantee fund for the ex-soldiers as facility for them to
borrow against from existing financial institutions. This activity would be managed
by the LIPII, which will be become effective 12 months after the PELRP. The
PELRP together with the preparation team for the LIPII will develop Project micro-
financial services that would fit the needs of clients such as ex-soldiers. During the
preparation stage, the financial flow and risk management of this new activity would
be carefully assessed.
vi)   Project Implementation. The Project will support all operating costs of the
PIU/ETF in both Entities, including the network of extension agents (staff) in the
cantons, already established under the Bank's earlier Project. The financial flow for
this component is very straightforward, including payments of salaries and associated
costs to employees and appropriate authorities, and operational costs of the PIU/ETF
payable to external suppliers.
Financial Reporting
Both Entities will independently maintain accounts for their part of the Project and will ensure
appropriate accounting of the funds provided. Each Entity will be responsible for designing
appropriate PMRs and preparing PMR on a quarterly basis, and will furnish the PMRs for such
period to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter, which:
(a) (i) sets forth actual sources and application of funds for the Project, both cumulatively and
for the period covered by said report, and projected sources and applications of funds for
the Project for the six-month period following the period covered by said report; and (ii)
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during the
period covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period following the period covered by said
report;
(b) (i) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both cumulatively and for the
period covered by said report; and (ii) explains variances between the actual and
previously forecast implementation targets; and
(c) sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures under contracts
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said
report.
A thorough presentation of the PMR requirements has been provided to the Project staff. LACI
Implementation Handbook and Draft Project Financial Management Manual were provided to the
PIU in the RS and the Ministry of Education in the FBiH. By May 15,2001, the PIU/ETF will
submit the first PMRs to the Bank for the quarter ended 3 1 March 2001.
Financial Manual
The ETF in the RS and the PWEP in the FBiH have financial manuals for their respective
different projects and would require minor modification in order to meet the requirement. The
financial manuals will cover: (a) the financial management system proposed under the Project,
with special emphasis on accounting and auditing poJicies, standards and internal controls; (b) the
role of the financial management systems in Project management and implementation; (c) the
accounting arrangements required for Project management, the format for and content of Project
financial reporting; (d) the auditing arrangements that will be used during Project
63



implementation, and (e) budgeting and planning. The completion of the financial manual in each
Entity will be carried out prior to effectiveness of the Project. The PIU/ETF will complete draft
financial manual acceptable to the Bank, by May 31, 2000.
Risks
From the financial management perspective, the PELRP is considered as a high-risk Project. The
main reasons include large number of transactions with small payments, many service providers,
large number of ex-soldiers whom the PIU/ETF might need to make payment directly, and the
roles of the Project's extension agents, especially their relationship with services providers/ex-
soldiers. The potential financial management risks include: (i) inadequate internal controls
mechanism in PIU/ETF; (ii) delays in preparation of Project management reports; (iii) poor
accounting environment and few qualified accountants in BiH, (iv) misuse of counseling,
employment and training activities (CET); (v) the roles of the Project's staff, especially the
extension agents and their relationship with the service providers and/or ex-soldiers; (vi)
unsatisfactory working relationship between PIU and PWEP in the FBiH leading to poor financial
management services; and (vii) public perceptions of corruption. These risks are considered as
manageable due to the various risk-mitigation measures taken. Nonetheless, these are highlighted
here in view of their potential for adversely affecting Project performance. These aspects will be
monitored closely as part of Project supervision.
Internal control mechanisms by PIU/ETF are not yet established and documented and could
require proper implementation. This risk is mitigated by insisting on the completion of the
financial manual prior to effectiveness. Financial manual will include the establishment of
financial policies and procedures, the proper delegation and segregation of financial authorities,
the implementation of proper internal control procedures, and installing proper budgeting and
planning process.
There is a risk that preparation of the Project management reports would be delayed and that the
quality of the reports may be of variable or unsatisfactory quality, especially given that the
PIU/ETF have not previously prepared Project financial statements or PMRs. Timely preparation
and use of the Project management reports, and satisfactory quality of these reports, are essential
to facilitate effective Project management. The risk-mitigation factors are the substantial upfront
actions which are being taken on: (i) design of a comprehensive financial management system;
(ii) computerization of the financial management system; and (iii) recruitment of key financial
staff to augment financial management capabilities. When there is a scarcity of appropriate
software in BiH, we can advise the borrower to look elsewhere for proven software.
Disbursements from the IDA Credit will not be made on the basis of Project Management
Reports (PMRs), but will rather be made on the traditional reimbursement basis in the first year.
Disbursements will be converted to the PMR-based method, after the financial management
system is satisfactorily operated.
The Bank would stipulate the terms of referenice for the financial management staff including the
accoLuntant and would have the no-objection authority in the recruitment of the accountant.
l inancial management capacity in Ille Project would be built up through Bank supervised and
stipulated detailed financial mianagement arrangements and procedures and tlhrotugh the creation
of a project implementation unit closely monitored by the Bank.
Concerning counseling, education and training activities, the risk of misuse or fraud will be
minimized in the following ways: (a) the contract to be signed between with PIU/ETF and the
winning service providers will contain a clause to assure the utilization of funds according to
agreed objectives, as well as a remedies section, which will include the possibility of black-listing
a provider which does not comply with agreed procedures and/or funds utilization; (b) Payments
linked to performance: Payments to service delivery providers to be based on verified
64



deliverables as agreed and stipulated in contracts; (c) payments for the on-job-training and
incentive program for employers will be based on additional independent documents, including
original copy of employment with the pension fund and paper from the Employment Institute
indicating a change of employment status; (d) Contracts with service providers to be based on
appraised capacity; (e) Contracts (above a specified threshold of $25,000) will require no
objection of the WB; (f) A committee comprised of beneficiaries will evaluate the quality of
service every six months and the committee will be on a rotational basis; (g) close monitoring and
supervision by PIU/ETF and their extension agents - periodic quality supervision will be carried
out by the PIU/ETF; (h) supervision of financial flows will be carried out by the PIU/ETF on a
sample basis and by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank on a yearly basis; (i) regular
performance audit of the service providers will be carried out by local independent
auditors/groups; () third party quality supervision will be undertaken on a sample basis with
technical assistance to be hired specifically for this purpose; (k) intensive supervision by the
World Bank - overall supervision, including procurement supervision, will be undertaken on a
periodic basis by Bank staff; and (1) a third component called "Future Sponsored Programs"
which will read "Funds will be allocated to the activities in Counseling, Employment and
Training as they demonstrate success and demand, by the end of the first year of the Project.
Decision to allocate funds will be based on the results of close monitoring and evaluation by the
PIU/ETF as well as the IDA supervision missions."
The roles of the Project's staff, especially the extension agents and their relationship with the
service providers/ex-soldiers, could be compromised and increase the potential risk to the Project.
This risk can be mitigated by the following actions: (a) employing independent and competent
agents i.e. no ex-soldiers; (b) the operational manual would have appropriate policies and
procedures on the operation of the agents; (c) the MIS would produce exceptional reports
indicating unusual approval by specific agent for the PIU/ETF directors; (d) approval beyond a
certain $ amount or % should be verified by the PIU/ETF director; (e) regular monitoring and
supervision of the agents by the PIU/ETF directors; and (f) very effective vetting process of all
service providers.
The working relationship between the PIU and PWEP in the FBiH could become unsatisfactory,
leading to poor financial management services. This risk is mitigated by the following actions: (a)
proper contractual agreement specifying the scope, the types and costs of services to be provided,
(b) establishing proper communication channel between the PIU and PWEP, (c) the PELRP will
be suspended in case that any of the parties (PELRP and PWEP PIU) breaks the contract before
its expiration or integration of the finance unit under the PELRP PIU, and (d) the Bank has to
agreed with any new or altemative financial management arrangement, if this materializes.
During 1999 and subsequently, serious concerns had been raised concerning fraud, waste and
abuse of donor funds in Bosnia. The anti-fraud unit of the Office of the High Representative had
raised this issue. Media reports alleged losses of over $1 billion of donor funds. It has been
recognized that there has been an absence of a functioning legal framework and institutions of
law. Enforcement of law is recognized to be weak. In the 1999 Corruption Perception Index, BiH
was not included in the indices. However, we can extrapolate the likely ranking for BiH based on
its neighboring countries - Croatia was ranked #74 with the score of 2.7, Albania was ranked #84
with the score of 2.3, and Yugoslavia was ranked #90 with the score of 2.0. Therefore we can
reasonably estimate the ranking for BiH of around #80s and a score of low to mid 2.0s. This
index relates to perceptions of corruption as seen by business people, risk analysts and the general
public and ranges between 10 (highly clean) and 0 (highly corrupt). Perceived corruption as
reported in the press is principally in the area of procurement. Even though the Project is to be
implemented in a business environment with a high rate of perceived corruption, the risk that
Bank's funds will not used as intended for financing the defined investment program is judged as
acceptable by "ring-fence" the Project through the establishment of PIU/ETF and the recruitment
65



of suitably qualified accounting and procurement staff. Furthermore the Project has identified
several steps indicated above, to minimize the risk of misuse or fraud of the Bank's funds.
Cost and Financial Performance
The Project's financing plan, which includes credits from the bank, and the Project's planned
expenditures have been realistically estimated and that the Project is financially sustainable. In
order to facilitate the implementation of PMRs, the Project's cost tables include an appropriate
cost matrix, which adequately shows the relationship between the loan agreement categories and
Project components.
Auditing Arrangements
Both PIU and ETF will be responsible for ensuring that the financial statements, special account,
and Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) or Project Management Reports (PMRs) are audited by an
independent international auditor, a member of a professional body that is a member of the
Intemational Federation of Accountants (IFAC) and acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with
standards on auditing that are acceptable to the Bank.
The annual audit will be carried out in accordance with the Guidelines for Financial Reporting
and Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank (March 1982). The audit report shall be in
a format in accordance with the International Standards on Auditing promulgated by the
International Federation of Accountants (IFAC). The audit report will include a separate opinion
for SOEs or PMRs against which disbursements have been made or are due to be made from the
Credit and SOEs or PMRs, which will be included in the audit report accompanying the financial
statements.
The audited financial statements of the special accounts, and SOEs or PMRs of the preceding
fiscal year, including a separate opinion by the auditor on disbursements made against certified
statement of expenditures, will be sent to the Bank within six (6) months of the end of the
Government's fiscal year.
The audit of the financial statement will include: (a) an assessment of the adequacy of accounting
and internal control systems to monitor expenditures and other financial transactions and ensure
safe custody of Project-financed assets; (b) a determination as to whether the Project
implementing entities have maintained adequate documentation on all relevant transactions; and
(c) verification that expenditures submitted to the Bank are eligible for financing, and
identification of any ineligible expenditures.
Presently the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations (MFTER) signed a 3-year
contract (1998-2000, renewal yearly) with PriceWaterhouseCoopers Netherlands for the audit of
all Bank's financed projects (excluding revenue-earning entities) in BiH. The summary of 1998
project audits include:
* 12 audit certificates were received by 30 June 1999 and 6 projects which did not meet the
audit covenant deadline were all received by mid-July 1999.
* No qualification on any audit project financial statements
* No significant financial risks were identified during the audit of the Bank's financed projects
* No major weaknesses but some internal control weaknesses were reported in the management
letters. The weaknesses reported include:
- Reconciliation of disbursement summaries with Project Financial Statements
- Internet Information about disbursements by the World Bank not accessible by PIUs
- Reconciliation of SOEs to the Project Financial Statements
- Transfer of money to local bank account
- Current financial position of local banks
66



- Only one ZPP account per PIU
- Amendments to contracts and reallocation of budgets by the World Bank
- Loans in SDR and grants in currencies other than US Dollars
- Financial Reporting not complying with the World Bank's prescribed format
In January 2000, the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations signed an annex to the
original contract with the same auditing firm for the 1999 audits, which will commence in
February 2000. It is expected that all audited Project financial statements for the year ended
December 31, 1999 would be received before June 30, 2000. This arrangement would be
acceptable to the World Bank.
By April 30, 2000, the PIUs will need to submit a written notification to the Bank from the
Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH that the Pilot Emergency Labor
Redeployment Project will be included in the global auditing contract. It is expected that the cost
of audit will be financed from the credit.
Disbursements
It is expected that the proceeds of the Credit will be disbursed over a period of three years, which
includes six months for completion of accounts and submission of withdrawal applications. As
there is no standard disbursement profile for Bosnia and Herzegovina, the disbursement forecast
is based on the Bank's experience in financing similar projects in other ECA countries, and other
projects in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Project's Closing Date is estimated to be September 30,
2003.
Disbursements from the IDA Credit would initially be made on the traditional system
(reimbursements with full documentation and against Statements of Expenditure (SOE), and
direct payments) and would be considered for conversion to the new disbursement procedures
(i.e., based on Project Management Reports - PMRs) after the FMS is operating satisfactory. The
target date for this conversion is 1 year after expected Project start date.
Special Account
To facilitate timely Project implementation, the Government will establish, maintain and operate,
under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, two separate overseas Special Accounts, A
and B, denominated in US$ for the FBiH-PIU and the RS-ETF, respectively. The authorized
allocation for Special Account A (for FBiH-PIU) will be US$1,000,000, limit to US$400,00
until withdrawal reaches US$1.6 million and for Special Account B (RS-ETF) will be
US$450,000, limit to US$150,000 until withdrawal reaches US$600,000. The minimum
amount of each application should be 20 percent of the authorized allocation. Replenishment
applications should be submitted at least every three months, and must include reconciled bank
statements as well as other appropriate supporting documents. For PMR-based disbursement, the
authorized allocated for Special Account A (for FBiH PIU) will be US$2.1 million and for
Special Account B (RS-ETF) will be US$0.9 million.
The Government will be responsible for the appropriate accounting of the funds provided by IDA
under the Credit, for reporting on the use of these funds, and for ensuring that audits of the
financial statements or reports are submitted to the Bank. A computerized accounting system is
envisaged to be established by both PIU/ETF. Independently, the accountants at the PIU/ETF
would maintain accounts (for their part of the Project) each preparing quarterly financial reports
as part of Project Management Reports.
67



Currently no local banks in the country could be considered totally reliable and financially sound.
It is therefore recommended that banks outside BiH should be used until local banking system is
improved.
Conclusion
It is concluded that the Project does not currently satisfy the Bank's minimum financial
management requirements. An Action Plan was discussed with the ETF in RS and the PIU in the
FBiH during appraisal. It will require the PIU/ETF to design and implement satisfactory
financial management systems to address the above issues. Once this time-bound Action Plan is
carried out successfully, it is believed that the Project will have developed an accounting system
that will be able to produce the required level of financial management reports in a timely
fashion.
AgreedAction Plan for the PIU/ETF
In order to ensure that the Project will have a sound financial management system in place, the
following time-bound Action Plan is presented:
777777 d,tiL7
I    The PIU in FBiH is to finalize institutional arrangement for  May 3, 2000
contracting out financial management to PWEP and initially  (contract received on
sign the contract stating the types and scope which will be  May 3)
provided by the PWEP
2     The ETF is to nominate key financial officers           April 30, 2000
(nomination received in
April)
3     The PIU/PWEP in the FBiH is to nominate and recruit key  May 15, 2000
financial officers, including the PWEP to hire an accountant/
bookkeeper who would assist in day-to-day management of an
increased portfolio
4     Submit a written notification to the Bank by the Ministry of  May 31, 2000
Foreign Trade and Economic Relations (MFTER) of BiH that
the Pilot Emergency Labor Redeployment Project has been
included among other projects to be audited by the Auditor
acceptable to the Bank.
5     Complete draft financial manuals by ETF/PIU. This will  May 31, 2000
include:
*  Accounting Policies and Procedures
*  Designing accounting flows and controls;
*  Flow of information/documents;
*  Flow of money;
*  Internal controls; and
*  Frequency of transaction and controls
*  Budgeting and Planning                                   .-
6     Design reporting requirements for review by Financial   May 31, 2000
Management Specialist. This will include
* PMRs and other World Bank requirements;
*  Local accounting requirements;
*  Local tax requirements;
*  Other donor requirements;                                .-
68



*  Trust fund requirements;
* Reporting currencies
7     Visit by Financial Management Specialist to confirm adequacy   May 30, 2000
of Project financial management arrangements.
8     The PWEP/PIU is to decide whether to improve and enhance    June 30, 2000
its existing accounting system to include planning and
budgeting module and PMRs, or to purchase a new accounting
system which will meet the PMR requirements. This will
include defining the requirements of an accounting software,
e.g.,
*  Multi-currency capability (transactions and reporting);
*  Language capability (e.g., Bosnian, English);
*  Accounting policies;
*  Reports required;
*  Contract monitoring and control; and
*  Compatibility with other project hardware and software
9     The ETF in the RS is to purchase an additional license for its  July 31, 2000
existing computerized project accounting system (Scala)
10   Implementation of the computerized accounting system which    September 30, 2000
will enable ETF/PIU to produce PMRs
11    First quarterly PMRs submitted to the bank, for quarter ended    May 15, 2001
31 March 2001
12    Assessment of financial management system and PMRs for  August 31, 2001
readiness and capacity to migrate to PMR-based disbursements
69






MAP SECTION



IBRD 28578R
CROATIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CRAIT Vnoc
( ~~~~~~~~EOSO(   ~     BOOToBigat
40  00
    NAllONAL CAPITAL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ia0  )r
.Skender V ny elkuf
CROATIA                   on                                                                                    70~~~~ o~de
160 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7o~~~~~Snbei                                               4
AA'  Kni                                                                            Zepa ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OToBR99



