Report No. PID8865
Project Name                     Bosnia-Herzegovina-Pilot Emergency Labor (@)
Redeployment Project
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Labor Markets & Employment
Project ID                       BAPE70146
Implementing Agency
Address
Project Implementation Units of Federation
of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Republika Srpska
Address: c/o The World Bank Country Office
Hamdije Kresevljakovica 19/5
7100 Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina
Contact Person: Goran Tinjic
Tel: (387-71) 440-293
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                March 29, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         April 24, 2000
Projected Board Date             June 20, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
A common theme emerging from the Bank's Social Assessment (1999) is that
people in Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH) see employment as the key to
rebuilding lives. At the same time, unemployment estimates range from
one-third to over one-half of the economically active population. The
high level of unemployment in the country coupled with low wages is a
major concern to all and poses a particular challenge to authorities for
facilitating the reintegration of ex-soldiers into civilian life. The
authorities in both Entities are keen on providing ex-soldiers with a
comprehensive program of support which would contain three components.
The Government's program for the Reintegration assistance to ex-soldiers
includes providing demand-driven and multi-sectoral reintegration
assistance to ex-combatants. This component of the Government's program
is supported by the PELRP.
2. Objectives
1. Background In the Madrid Agreement of 1998, the two Entities, the
Federation of Bosnia-Herzegovina (Federation) and Republika Srpska (RS),
committed themselves for a further reduction in force of 30 percent in two
phases of 15 percent each in 1999 and 2000.    The first 159   reduction in
force of the three armies was accomplished by December 31, 1999.     Another
15% will be discharged at the end of 2000.   2. Project development
objective Targeted assistance to ex-soldiers is justified because: (i)
ex-soldiers are a specially vulnerable group, and their economic problems
need to be addressed before they turn into social problems; and (ii) their
successful reintegration into peaceful civilian life would be an important
contribution to enhancing security in the region.      The primary Project
development objective would be to provide ex-soldiers with the means for
self-reliant existence. The Project would focus on supporting the
ex-soldiers in their ability to find employment and to create sustainable



jobs and businesses, re-deploying as it were, ex-soldiers within the
economically active population. The secondary Project development
objective would be to test different active labor market measures to
encourage employment generation and small business creation for the
benefit of ex-soldiers. If successful, these measures could be applied on
a broader scale for other downsizing programs (closing of coal mines,
privatization, etc.).
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Several donors are interested in assisting in the reintegration process,
however their experiences and capacities in this area are limited. They
have asked the Bank to play the lead role and have indicated financial
assistance through Bank-managed trust funds. Other donors, even though
their bilateral programs may not include direct assistance to ex-soldiers,
endorse the Bank's lead role and follow the overall program closely. In
particular the Stabilization Force (SFOR), the Office of the High
Representative (OHR), and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in
Europe (OSCE) as the three major international players fully support the
Project and the Bank's lead role. T he Bank is collaborating closely with
these institutions to ensure that the Project fits well within the overall
policy and security framework. SFOR views the Project as the crucial
civilian component for improving the regional security situation,
complementing the military component of reduction in force.
4. Description
The Project would contain three components: (i) a Counseling, Employment
and Training Fund (ii) Future sponsored programs and (iii) support to
Project implementation.i. Counseling Employment and Training fund. The
Project would finance demand-driven reintegration activities through a
counseling, employment and trianing fund. These activities include
support for employment, micro-enterprises, farming, skills enhancement,
and higher education. Comprehensive information and counseling services
would be offered to all ex-soldiers in areas such as pre-discharge
orientation, professional orientation, (self-) employment opportunities,
and "as needed" post-traumatic stress disorder. Business advisory
services would be available for ex-soldiers who choose to go into
small-scale business or farming. Each activity would have a maximum
amount allocated per beneficiary which would correspond to
market-determined prices and costs. Those ex-soldiers opting for
self-employment could form groups in order to increase the total credit
amount.The project is focused on being client oriented and providing those
services and support to the ex-soldiers as are demanded by them. The
project will therefore hold a substantial amount of the credit in a
subcomponent called future sponsored programs. These funds will be
committed to those services under the project which show success and
demand.   The component will rely on a strong monitoring and evaluation
system within the PIUs in order for the funds to be committed to high
demand services. iii. Project implementation. The Project would support
Project implementation through providing necessary equipment, financing
operating costs, financing technical assistance, and carrying out a staff
development program. This assistance would be offered not only to the
Project implementation units (PIUs) in both Entities but also to local
executing agencies and parent ministries. The Project would also finance
the carrying out of market assessments, beneficiary assessments and impact
evaluations.
-2-



5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Government               0
IBRD
IDA                      25
Total Project Cost       25
Co-financing arrangements. Several donors and UN agencies have expressed
their interest in providing assistance to the reintegration of
ex-soldiers. Some donors indicated their interest in channeling funds
through existing Bank trust funds (the Netherlands, Italy) whereas others
(including other Bank projects) may absorb ex-soldiers in their respective
target groups. In the former case, all provisions of the PIM would
apply. In the latter case, the procedures of the individual projects
would apply. It is not possible to plan beforehand how many ex-soldiers
may be absorbed by these projects. It would, therefore, be of critical
importance that the MIS include information on conditions of access of the
other projects in order to facilitate cross-referral.
6. Implementation
Two Project implementation units will be responsible for project
implementation, transparent financial management, monitoring and
evaluation, counseling on Project activities, supervision of executing
agencies and consultants, and cooperation across Entities. The PIUs would
build on the capacities of the Bank's EDRP with the organizational setup
adjusted according to the lessons of other Bank projects. The PIUs would
also be responsible for coordination with other projects (Bank, donors, UN
agencies) so as to augment the redeployment options for ex-soldiers.The
PIUs would be staffed appropriately with special emphasis given to the
network of extension agents already established under the Bank's earlier
project. The extension agents would be responsible for counseling and
providing information to ex-soldiers, the verification of reliability of
prospective providers (see below), follow-up with local providers, and
day-to-day contact with local authorities and local organizations. Staff
qualification being a key element to success; a staff development program
will be carried out regularly.Existing agencies, local and international,
private and public, would be responsible for the execution of individual
activities through service contracts.    Monitoring and evaluation are
among the key responsibilities of the PIUs and will be central to the
Projects activities. The PIUs would not only maintain a database on
ex-soldiers and providers but also on their performance and progress. In
addition, as a pilot operation, the appropriateness and
cost-effectiveness of activities need to be monitored closely. To this
end, a computerized MIS would be established in each PIU. Reporting would
be undertaken by the extension agents and the service providers. Simple
standard reporting formats would be developed. Furthermore,
socio-economic data of ex-soldiers, which corresponds to the baseline data
collected prior to effectiveness, would be updated during implementation
so as to trace their reintegration over time. T
7. Sustainability
There are three critical factors for the sustainability of Project
benefits: (i) stability; (ii) transition; and (iii) growth. Stability.
The strength of each of the three armed forces even after this reduction
in force of 30 percent will be higher than what would be required for a
-3 -



country the size of BiH. Furthermore, a unified command structure, one of
the long-term goals of SFOR, will take time to achieve. ii. Transition.
BiH is at the very beginning of the transition from a centrally planned to
a market economy. At a time when unemployment is already at critical
levels, major transition programs are under consideration, including
privatization and the closure of coal mines. These programs are likely to
lead to the retrenchment of far higher numbers of employees and workers.
Given this acute state of affairs, the situation of ex-soldiers entering
the labor market might well be described as precarious. Broader-based
government efforts are therefore required to advance the transition
process while offering a safety net to the most vulnerable. The Project
provides such a safety net for ex-soldiers that aims at addressing the
structural causes of the problem and not just its frictional symptoms.
Growth. Evidence from transition economies as well as from OECD countries
clearly suggests that the effectiveness of any active labor market measure
depends on the economic environment within which it is applied. In
particular, the higher the growth rate, the more dynamic the labor market
and the faster the absorption of the unemployed in rapidly expanding
businesses. The authorities are thus challenged to provide a more
conducive environment for private initiative that would help to improve
the situation not only of ex-soldiers but of the unemployed in general.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Though unique in its approach of facilitating the reintegration of
ex-soldiers into civilian life in a post-war transition economy, the
Project builds on the lessons from diverse fields, including: (i) post-war
reconstruction in the country; (ii) the Bank's EDRP;(iii) the Bank
supported Local Initiatives Project (iv) demobilization and reintegration
projects in other countries; and (v) active labor market policies in
transition economies.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  None of the activities financed by the Project are
expected to have an environmental impact. Nevertheless, appropriate
environmental aspects would be considered when assessing credit-financed
business or farming proposals. Specific environmental evaluation criteria
would be included in the PIM.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Maniza B. Naqvi
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202 458 1938
Fax: 202 477 0574
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
-4-



Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID processed by the InfoShop week ending April 7, 2000.
- 5 -



