Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3385 BOS
Project Agreement
(Pilot Emergency Labor Redeployment Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
FEDERATION OF BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
Dated as of August 29, 2000 
CREDIT NUMBER 3385 BOS 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated as of August 29, 2000, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and FEDERATION OF BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA (the 
Federation). 
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Bosnia and Herzegovina (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed 
to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to eleven 
million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 11,400,000), on the terms 
and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition 
that the Federation agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are 
set forth in this Agreement; 
(B)
by a subsidiary credit agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and the Federation, the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the Development 
Credit Agreement will be made available to the Federation on the terms and conditions 
set forth in said Subsidiary Credit Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Federation, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Page  2
Definitions 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II 
Description of Part A of the Project 
Section 2.01. (a) The Federation declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to 
this end, shall carry out Part A of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and 
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, and technical practices, and 
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and the Federation shall otherwise agree, the Federation 
shall carry out Part A of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program 
set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Section 2.02. Except as the Association 
shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods and consultants’ services required for 
Part A of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) The Federation shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of Part A of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Federation shall: (i) prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the 
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Association and the Federation a plan for the future operation of Part A of the 
Project; (ii) afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Federation on said plan; and (iii) thereafter, carry out said plan with due 
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking into 
account the Association’s comments thereon. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Federation shall, at the request of the Association, 
exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of Part A of the 
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and other matters 
relating to the purposes of the Credit. 
(b)
The Federation shall promptly inform the Association of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part A of the Project, 
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by the Federation 
of its obligations under this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Federation shall establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, 
in a format acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, 
resources and expenditures and in connection with the carrying out of Part A of the 
Project.
(b)
The Federation shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section and the records and accounts for the Federation Special 
Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
Page  3
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
Section 3.02 (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Federation shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in 
paragraph (a) of said Section 3.01 in order to enable the Federation, not later than 
August 15, 2001, or such later date as the Association, shall agree, to prepare 
Project Management Reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which: 
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for Part A 
of the Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by 
said report, and projected sources and applications of funds for 
Part A of the Project for the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report, and (B) shows separately 
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during the 
period covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during the six-month 
period following the period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Part A of the Project 
implementation, both cumulatively and for the period covered by 
said report, and (B) explains variances between the actual and 
previously forecast implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under Part A of the Project 
and expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Federation shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable 
to the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than forty five (45) days 
after the end of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period. 
ARTICLE IV 
Effective Date; Termination 
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
the Federation thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate; or
(ii)
a date thirty five (35) years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates before the date specified 
in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify the 
Federation of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE V 
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
Page  4
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For the Federation:
Ministry of Finance of the Federation 
Mehmeda Spahe 5
71000 Sarajevo
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Facsimile:
(71) 663-977 
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of the Federation  
or by the Federation on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, 
may be taken or executed by its Minister of Finance, or by such other person or 
persons as he/she shall designate in writing, and he/she shall furnish to the 
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen 
signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the City of Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Christiaan Poortman 
Authorized Representative
FEDERATION OF BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
By /s/ Ejup Ganic 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Implementation Schedule 
1.
The Federation shall maintain the Federation PIU, which shall be responsible for 
the overall implementation and coordination of Part A of the Project, with adequate 
staff, funds, facilities and other resources required for this purpose in a manner 
satisfactory to the Association. 
2.
The Federation shall maintain the Operational Manual in form and content 
satisfactory to the Association, shall duly perform its obligations under the 
Operational Manual and shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Operational 
Manual without the prior approval of the Association.
Page  5
3.
The Federation shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators agreed upon between 
the Borrower and the Association, the carrying out of Part A of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about November 30, 2001, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of Part A of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of such report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of Part A of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by December 31, 2001, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this 
paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of Part A of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, 
based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s 
views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 2 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General 
1.
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country."
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures  
1.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.  
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1. 
Page  6
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract procured under Parts B and C.2 of this Schedule, 
and the first five contracts procured under Part C.1. of this Schedule, the procedures 
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule. 
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country."
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants  
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for 
services estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 
5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
Page  7
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
