ISDS
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                                AWorUI fre ol Privorty !7
InfoShop
Report No AC21
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)
Date ISDS Prepared/Jpdated. 04/08/2003
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country. CHILE                                   Project ID. P077282
Project Science for the Knowledge Economy        Task Team Leader. Lauritz B. Holm-Nielsen
Authorized to Appraise Date February 19, 2003    IBRD Amount ($m): 25.26
Bank Approval. May 20, 2003                      IDA Amoulit ($m):
Managing Unit. LCSHE                             Sector. Tertiary education (100%)
Lending Instrumenit: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)  Theme: Educationi for the knowledge economy (P)
Status Lendinig
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The project seeks two developmenit objectives, wlhiclh, in agreement with the Government's strategy, are
expected to place Chile on the path to a knowledge-based economiiy:
First, and foremost, the project will support the development of an effective iiinovation system It will do
so by establishing a strong and coherent policy framework, promoting higih-quality and relevant science
and technology activities and by supportinlg key interfaces in the innovation system, especially between
the public and private sector as well as interinationial linkages.
Second, and subordiniate to the first goal, the project will improve the stock of human capital in Chile, a
development objective which is highily complementary to the establishment of an effective innovation
system and per se a critical preconditioni for establishinig a competitive knowledge-based economy.
I A.3. Project Description:
To address the key development objectives, this proposed project includes the following three
components: (i)hnproving Chile's Scince, Technology and Innovation Syst,eii)Strengthening of
Chile's Science Base, and (iii) Enhancement of Public-Private Linkages.
(i) Improving Chile's Science, Technology and Innovation SystemThis componienlt is designed to help
Chile develop a coherenit policy framework and an enabling environmenit for innovationi. It will
consolidate and modernize the coulitry's existing instruments and programs in science and technology to
achieve highier levels of internal and external efficiency among researcilers and their organizations and to
nurture a more collaborative research culture among Chileani scientists. The componient consists of three
sub-componenits (a) establishmenit of an independent Advisory Board and support for project
managemiienit and implementation; (b) developmenit of a coherent strategy, conducive polices and S&T



2
ISDS
awareness, and (c) development of a monitoring and evaluatioll capacity
(ii) Strengthening Chile's Science Base Chile's science base comprises its scientific and technological
research personnel, its research infrastructure, and its capacity to access in a timely fashionl the
knowledge generated In other countries. This component will increase the capacity of the science base
and accordingly contribute to Chile's social and economic development as the country moves toward a
knowledge economly The objectives will be achieved through three competitive programs for (a)
excellence in science, (b) advanced hulimani capital, and (c) improvement the research infrastructure.
(iti) Enhancing Plublic-Private Linkages This third componient will support activities that strengthienl
linkages between the Chileani scientific communiity, industry and public sector users of research findiligs
and build private sector research capacity. This will be achieved througlh the establishment of three
coimipetitive programs for: (a) cooperative research consortia; (b) researchers in industry, and (c)
internationial cooperation 1in research.
Components:
1. Improving Chile's Science, Technology and Innovation System
(a) Establishmenlt of an independent Advisory Board and support for project
management and implementation
(b) Development of a coherent strategy, conducive polices and S&T awareness
(c) Development of a monitorinig and evaluation capacity
2. Strengthening Chile's Science Base
(a) Exccllence in science
(b) Advanced humani capital
(c) Improvement the research infrastructure
3. Enhanicinig Public-Private Linkages
(a) Cooperative researchl consortia
(b) Researchers in industry
(c) International cooperation in research
Given the long-term vision necessary to consolidate institutionial and behavioral changes In the S&T
sector, a program approach is proposed using the Adaptable Program Lendinig (APL) instrument. The
program will comprise two phases. The first phase will cover a 31/2 year period (2003 - 2007) and will
support the establishment of a coherent policy strategy and a strong policy framework. It will also
provide for the continuation of the Millennium Science Initiative and a furtlher strengthenling of the
science base by scaling up fundinig for researclh, develop public-private linkages in Chile's nationlal
innovative system and enhance the R&D capacity of companies Based on a positive evaluation and the
attainment of predefined triggers, the second phase (2007-2010) will continue activities to strengthen
Chile's science base and scale up funding for initiatives launched in the first phase, especially with a view
to enhancing private sector R&D activities
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas )
The Project Implementation Team will be located in the offices of CONICYT in Santiago de Chile, Chile
The project will finanice research taking place of research centers around the country



3
ISDS
B. Clheck Environmental ClGassification: C (Not Required)
Coinun7enis.
C. Safe,nard Policies Triggered
Policy                                 Applicability
Enviroiinmenital Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4 01)                     Yes * No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP/GP 4 04)                             0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                        0 Yes * No
Pest Managemiienit (OP 4 09)                                 0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11 03)                                0 Yes * No
Ilndigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                C, Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlemenit (OP/BP 4.12)                       0 Yes * No
Safety of DamiOs (OP/BP 4.37)                                   Yes * No
Projects in Interinationial Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7 50)        0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                  C Yes * No
*By suipportling the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to pre-judice the final determination of the parties' clainms
on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issutes Please fill in all relevant questions If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data
Il.D Ia. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts
Support will only be provided to programs that are considered to be environmenitally sound with respect
to their societal purpose and operation. National guidelinies for laboratory safety, disposal of
environmental hlazardous material, bio-ethics and bio-safety have been submitted by CONICYT to the
Bank and have been foulid to be in accordance with international best practice Accordingly, the project
is expected to have a neutral or positive environimenltal impact.
II.D.1b Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component
N/A
Il.D.Ic Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
N/A
II D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if requi-ed)
Environimental guidelines or hanidbooks to ensure sound laboratory environmenital and safety practices,
including soulid disposal of reagents and other hazardous materials Safeguard measures will be reviewed
durinig implementationi by CONICYT to ensure effectiveness.
Il.D 3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
Il.D 4 Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultationi and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people
The main stakeholders of the Chilean S&T sector are involved and consulted at all stages of the project.
First, the Millennium Science lnitiative has been thoroughly evaluated, involving feedback from the



4
ISDS
government, the private sector, grants recipients and the scientific communIity at large. Second, many site
visits to funded research centers has been conducted, wlichi has provided importanit inputs to the project
design from Chilean scientists. Third, a seminar is scheduled for 2003, where major stakeholders
(scientists, rectors, and private sector representatives) will participate. The purpose of the seminar is to
forge a sector wide consensus, wvhicih will subsequenitly allow CONICYT to establish a coherent sector
strategy with broad support in the science and innovation community. Finally, along vithi project
implementation, annLial science surveys will be conducted, which will provide valuable evaluative
feedback from key stakeholders of the S&T sector
E. Safeguar(ds Classification Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy Or on basis of
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the
provisions of that policy apply.
SI. - Significant, cuLImulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significanit technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
] S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionially manageable
[X] S3. - No safeguard Issues
[ 3 SF. - Financial interimiediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects whichi require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requiremenets
Environme)7tal Assessment/A nalysis/Managem7ent Plan        Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Date of distributing tihe Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For calegory A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framlewvork.                       Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenouts Peoples Development Plan/Fralnewvork:           EApected       Actoutl
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-countr-y" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan                                        Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoSlhop
Dam Safety MAanagem/ent Plan:                               Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosiire
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documenits is not expected, please explain why.



5
ISDS
Signed and submitted by        Name                                         Date
Task Team Leader               Lauritz B. HolIn-Nielsen                     December 4, 2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3
Approved by:                   Name                                         Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Juani D. Quintero                          December 4, 2002
Sector Manager/Director:       Ana-Maria Arriagada                          December 4, 2002
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
: .EARCH  , __  FEEDBACK _     IT 4 SE MAP  _  LoWcA     _



