PID
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                                    AWCoid rref i'overt 
lInfoShop
Report No AB8
Updated Project Information Document (PID)
Project Name                CHILE-Science for the Knowledge Economy
Region                      Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                      Tertiary education (I 00%)
Project ID                  P077282
Supplemental Project
Borrower(s)                 REPUBLIC OF CHILE
Implementing Agency         NATIONAL COMMISSION FOR SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
Address                     (CONICYT)
Dr Eric Goles, President
Address Canada 308, Providencia - Santiago de Chile, Chile
Contact Person
Tel (56-2) 6551389    Fax (56-2) 6551395     Email
secrepriv@conicyt cl
Environment Category        C
Date PID Prepared           April 9, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date         February 19, 2003
Bank Approval Date          May 20, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
The Knowledge Economy
Far-reaching trade liberalization, structural reforms to attract foreign capital and privatization of
state-owned companies have brought about considerable economic growtl in Chile in recent decades
Taken together with regulatory transparency, political stability and high levels of humani capital, Chile
today stands out as one of the region's most dynamiiic and promising markets. Chile is in many respects
well prepared to take full advantage of the emerging knowledge economiy.
The main competitive weakness of the Chilean economy is the country's relative lack of ability to
innovate and adopt technological chanige. Thus, despite economic achievements in Chile, challeniges
remain for developing science, techinology and innovation
Current situation
Unlike most developed economies, the Chilean economy is to a high degree based on natural resources,
notably mining, fishing, forestry and agriculture. Copper constitute more than 10% of GDP and more
than 40% of export earnings. Likewise, exports from the fruit sector grew at a rate of 20% annually in the
period 1974-1994. Chile has boosted productivity and output of these sectors by adapting and imiprovinlg
foreign technologies.
Notwithstanidinig strenigthis of the economiiy, Chile's policy framework and economic incenitives for
innovationi and human capital formation are still in need of substantial imiprovement



2
PID
Government strategy
The governmient strategy focuses on securinig sustainable and equitable growth throughi the provisioii of a
strong macroeconomilic framework, strong public institutionis, investmenits in humani capital and social
protection. As a core elemenit, the Government of Chile (GoC) has committed itself to improving the
quality and relevance of education.
The government is also emphasizing the need to stimulate innovationl and technological development.
Chile's investments in S&T doubled durinig the ninieties, and the governmienit has expressed its intention
to double the coulitry's S&T investmenits from 0.5% of GDP to 1.2% by the year 2006
It is against this background that the current project has been proposed. It is of critical importance to
support the current initiatives of the GoC by securinig continuous and adequate flows of investmenit to the
Chilean science base and strengthieninig the stock of human capital and stimulating the critical interfaces
in the innovation system.
2. Objectives
The project will support Chile's transition to a knowledge-based economy by investing in the innovation
system and the stock of humani capital The overarching goals are to contribute to a diversification of the
Chilean economy, reduce its vulnerability to external shocks, and, in the long rull, provide the basis for
sustainable growth These goals will be pursued througil two project development objectives, whicih, in
agreement withi the Government's strategy, are expected to place Chile on the path to a knowledge-based
economy.
First, and foremost, the project will support the developmenit of an effective innovation system. It will do
so by establishing a strong and coherenit policy framework, promoting higih-quality and relevant science
and techilology activities and by supportilig key interfaces in the innovation system, especially between
the public and private sector as well as interinationial linkages.
Second, and subordinate to the first goal, the project will improve the stock of advanced humani capital in
Chile, a development objective wilich is highly complemilenitary to the establishmilenit of an effective
innovation system and per se a critical precondition for establishing a competitive knowledge-based
economy.
The project development objectives will be pursued througil the implemenitationi of three componenits: (i)
Improving Chile's Scince, Technology and Innovation System, (ii) Strenigthening of Chile's Science Base,
and (iii) Enhancement of Public-Private Linkages.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The World Bank has had a long and positive cooperation witil Chile in various sectors. One of the core
intervenition areas has been, and still is, human capital and education. Hence, the project follows on
previous Bank operations in Chile and capitalizes, on the many lessons, wlicih the bank has accrued over
time. As a consequence of this long and fruitful eilgagemilenit in Chile, the Bank has established a valuable
network and has made contacts with most stakeholders in the Chilean education and research sector. At a
more general level, the Bank benefits from  its extensive experience in supporting human capital
development and S&T in various coulitries. Thus, the Bank is able to draw on a vast reservoir of
experience and consequently put the most effective solutions in place.
4. Description
To address the key development objectives, the project includes the followinig three components:
(i) Improving Chile 's Science, Technology and Innovation SystemnThis component is designed to help
Chile develop a coherenit policy framework and an enablinig environimenit for innovationl It will



3
PID
consolidate and modernize the coulitry's existing instruments and programs in science and techinology to
achieve highier levels of interilal aiid external efFiciency amonig researchers and their organizationls and to
nurture a more collaborative research culture among Chilean scientists.
(ii) Strengthening Chile's Science Base Chile's science base comprises its scientific and techinological
research personnel, its research infrastructure, and its capacity to access in a timely fashion the
knowledge generated in other coulitries. This component will increase the capacity of the science base
and accordingly contribute to Chile's social and economic developmenit as the couLitry moves toward a
knowledge economy
(iii) Enhancing Pblihic-Private Linkages This third component will support activities that strengthen
linkages between the Chileani scientific commuLnity, indLustry and public sector users of research findinigs
and buIld private sector research capacity.
Given the lon1g-term visio1 iiecessary to consolidate institutionial and behavioral chaniges in the S&T
sector, a program approach is proposed using the Adaptable Program Lendinlg (APL) instrumenit. The
program will comprise two phases The first phase will cover a 3V2 year period (2003 - 2007) and will
support the establishmenit of a coherent policy strategy and a strong policy framework It will also
provide for the contiLuation of the Millennium Science Initiative and a further strengthening of the
science base by scaling up fundilng for research, develop public-private linkages in Chile's national
innovative system and enihanice the R&D capacity of companiies. Based on a positive evaluation and the
attainment of predefined triggers, the second phase (2007-2010) will continue activities to strengthen
Chile's science base and scale up funding for initiatives launciled in the first phase, especially with a view
to enihanicinig private sector R&D activities.
5. Financing
Total (US$m)
BORROWER                   $25.00
IBRD                       $25 26
IDA                 0
Total Project Cost         $50 26
6. Implementation
An independenit Advisory Board at the govermiienlt level will be established by Presidential decree. It
will be chaired by the Minister of Education and include three other ministers (Economy, Agriculture and
Mining), three high level representatives from the private sector, and three high representatives from the
scientific community. The Advisory Board will (i) have oversight functions for the entire operation, (ii)
advise on public-private interfaces in order to bring out the innovative potential of the private sector; (imi)
and in particular provide guidanice for the implementation of componelnt I
CONICYT has been designated by the governmeit as the project implementing agency A project
coordination team will be established within CONICYT to oversee the daily implemenitationi of the
project.
7. Sustainability
The project's sListainability is closely linked to government ownership and project success. As indicated
above, the goverinimlenit of Chile has a strong ownership of the project. In regard to project success,
components have been carefully designed and critical risks have been taken into accounlt.



4
PID
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The project takes a holistic approach to the knowvledge economy. The project design reflects lessons
learnt from various Bank projects in Chile, notably the Milleniium Science Initiative (MSI) and the
higher education project, MECESUP. Lessons have also been included from a recent review by the
Operations Evaluation Department (OED) of World Bank operations in Chile in the period 1985-1999
and from the Bank's portfolio of projects in post-secondary education and S&T in the region, particularly
in Brazil and Mexico.
Drawing on lessons leariied, this project would boost private sector R&D demanid and absorption
capacity by supporting industry R&D, encouraging outreach activities, promotinig cross-sectoral
researcher mobility and fostering a culture of partnerslhip between the public and private sector.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues: N/A
10. List of factual technical documents:
Agapitova, Natalia & Lauritz HolIm-Nielseni, 2002. Science, Technology and Innovation in Chile,
LCSHD Paper Series No. 78, World Bank, Washinigtoni, DC.
Brunner, Jos6 Joaquin, 2003 Hacia una estrategia de desarrollo basada en capacidades tecnol6gicas, in
Tomas Moulian (eds), Construir el futuro - aproximiacionies a proyectos de pais, Vol. 1, Santiago de
Chile. LOM.
Dahliman, Carl et al, 2003. Chile: New Economy Study, FPSI, Forthcoming, World Bank, Washinigton,
DC
Hansen, Thomas, Lauritz Holoim-Nielsen and Patricia Garcia Zuniga, 2002. Chile - Human Resources for
the Knowledge Economy, LCSHD Paper Series No 79, World Bank, Washington, DC
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Lauritz B HoInm-Nielsei
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone 202 473 6712
Fax: 202 522 0050
12 For information on other project related documents contact
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D C 20433
Telephone (202) 458-5454
Fax    (202) 522-1500
Web http /1 www worldbank org/linfoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily
included in the final project.
Tables, Charts, Graphs:



5
PID
Processed by the InfoShop week ending   04/14/2003
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
I,-'--- - ------, ;   FF.DHAr-c   ,  ITE MAP   I  rSOFIcASm J   _



