                                    Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                           Report No: ICR0000491




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                   (IBRD-71720)




                                      ON A

                                      LOAN

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$25.26 MILLION

                                      TO THE

                               REPUBLIC OF CHILE

                                     FOR THE

            SCIENCE FOR THE KNOWLEDGE ECONOMY PROJECT




                                 September 26, 2007




Human Development Sector
Argentina, Chile, Paraguay, Uruguay Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region




                                                                               i

                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                   (Exchange Rate Effective 05/25/2007)

                    Currency Unit = Chilean Peso (CLP)
                           1.00 CLP = US$0.0019
                           US$ 1.00 = 523.4 CLP

                               FISCAL YEAR
                               July 1 ­ June 30

                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CONICYT  National Scientific and Technological Investigation Commission
        (Comisión Nacional de Investigación Científica y Tecnológica)
CORFO    Production Promotion Corporation (Corporación de Fomento de la
        Producción)
DIVESUP  Higher Education Division (División de Educación Superior)
TFP     Total Factor Productivity
FONDAP   Advanced Investigation Fund for Priority Areas (Fondo de Investigación
        Avanzada en Áreas Prioritarias)
FONDECYT National Scientific and Technological Development Fund (Fondo
        Nacional de Desarrollo Científico y Tecnológico)
FONDEF  Scientific and Technological Development Promotion Fund (Fondo de
        Fomento a1 Desarrollo Científico y Tecnológico)
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GoC     Government of Chile
IADB     Inter-American Development Bank
IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
MECESUP  Higher Education Improvement Project (Proyecto de Mejoramiento de
        Calidad de Educación Superior)
MIDEPLAN Planning and Cooperation Ministry (Ministerio de Planificación y
        Cooperación)
MSI     Millennium Science Initiative
NIS      National Innovation System
OECD     Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PhD     Doctor of Philosophy
R&D      Research and Development
S&T     Science and Technology
SME      Small and Medium Enterprise
SOFOFA   Manufacturing Promotion Society (Sociedad de Fomento Fabril)
STI     Science, Technology and Innovation




                                                                               ii

     Vice President: Pamela Cox
   Country Director: Pedro Alba
    Sector Manager: Eduardo Velez Bustillo
Project Team Leader: Kristian Thorn
  ICR Main Author: Daniela Marotta




                                              iii

                                   REPUBLIC OF CHILE
                     Science for the Knowledge Economy Project




                                             CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 6
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................ 10
 3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 13
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 37
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 37
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 39
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 41
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 42
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 44
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 61
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 65
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 66
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 67
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 68
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 69
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 70
 Annex 10. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix......................................... 71
 Annex 11. Performance Triggers.................................................................................. 72
 MAP




                                                                                                                            iv

A. Basic Information

                                                                     CL: Science for the
Country:                Chile                 Project Name:          Knowledge Economy
                                                                     Project
Project ID:             P077282               L/C/TF Number(s):      IBRD-71720
ICR Date:               09/26/2007            ICR Type:              Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     APL                   Borrower:              REPUBLIC OF CHILE
Original Total
                        USD 25.3M             Disbursed Amount:      USD 25.3M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
CONICYT
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process          Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        11/19/2002    Effectiveness:         11/03/2003        11/03/2003
Appraisal:             03/10/2003    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              05/22/2003    Mid-term Review:       01/16/2006        03/13/2006
                                     Closing:               03/31/2007        03/31/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower                Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:            Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:       Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:           Satisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                              QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators             (if any)              Rating

Potential Problem Project No                  Quality at Entry      None


                                              i

at any time (Yes/No):                          (QEA):
Problem Project at any                         Quality of
                          No                                       None
time (Yes/No):                                 Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                             Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                             10                  10
Tertiary education                                            90                  90


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Education for the knowledge economy                          Primary            Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:           Pamela Cox                       David de Ferranti
Country Director:         Pedro Alba                       Axel van Trotsenburg
Sector Manager:           Eduardo Velez Bustillo           Marito H. Garcia
Project Team Leader:      Kristian Thorn                   Lauritz B. Holm-Nielsen
ICR Team Leader:          Daniela Marotta
ICR Primary Author:       Daniela Marotta



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project seeks two development objectives, which, in agreement with the
Government's strategy, are expected to place Chile on the path to a knowledge-based
economy:

  First, and foremost, the project will support the development of an effective innovation
system. It will do so by establishing a strong and coherent policy framework, promoting
high-quality and relevant science and technology activities and by supporting key
interfaces in the innovation system, especially between the public and private sector as
well as international linkages.

  Second, and subordinate to the first goal, the project will improve the stock of human
capital in the Chilean science and technology sector, a development objective which is
highly complementary to the establishment of an effective innovation system and per se a
critical precondition for establishing a


                                              ii

  competitive knowledge-based economy.

  The project development objectives will be pursued through the implementation of
three components: (i) Improving Chile's Science, Technology and Innovation System; (ii)
Strengthening Chile's Science Base, and (iii) Enhancing Public-Private Linkages.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target  Formally      Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from     Revised       Achieved at
                                               approval        Target      Completion or
                                               documents)      Values       Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Annual PhD graduates
Value
quantitative or 144                        230                            222
Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/03/2003                   03/31/2007                     07/01/2005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :   Private sector share of total R&D expenditure
Value
quantitative or 34.4%                      38%                            48.1%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/01/2003                   03/31/2007                     12/31/2004
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 :   Chilean USPTO patent applications
Value
quantitative or 33                         60                             48
Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/03/2003                   03/31/2007                     12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target  Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from                   Achieved at
                                               approval        Revised     Completion or
                                               documents)    Target Values  Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Number of researchers inserted in industry


                                                iii

Value
(quantitative  0                       60                           55
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/03/2003               03/31/2007                   03/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :  Number of research consortias
Value
(quantitative  0                       5                            8
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/03/2003               03/31/2007                   03/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 :  Number of PhD scholarships awarded
Value
(quantitative  0                       600                          575
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/03/2003               03/31/2007                   03/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                        Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived             DO                      IP            Disbursements
                                                                    (USD millions)
  1     06/13/2003         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                 0.00
  2     07/29/2003         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                 0.00
  3     02/03/2004         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                 0.25
  4     05/19/2004         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                 0.25
  5     11/05/2004         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                 2.55
  6     03/17/2005    Highly Satisfactory      Highly Satisfactory            4.02
  7     04/29/2005         Satisfactory        Highly Satisfactory             5.02
  8     08/02/2005         Satisfactory        Highly Satisfactory             6.01
  9     01/27/2006         Satisfactory        Highly Satisfactory            11.28
  10    05/18/2006         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                13.75
  11    07/31/2006         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                16.15
  12    02/01/2007         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                25.26



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                            iv

I. Disbursement Profile




                           v

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
In the decades preceding the design of the Project, Chile witnessed considerable economic growth,
mostly due to far-reaching trade liberalization, structural reforms to attract foreign capital and
privatization of state-owned companies. Furthermore, regulatory transparency, political stability
and high levels of human capital, contributed to make Chile one of Latin America's most
dynamic and promising economies.

However, the Chilean economy, unlike most developed economies, was relying heavily on
natural resources, notably mining, fishing, forestry and agriculture. Copper constituted more than
10 per cent of GDP and more than 40 per cent of export earnings. Similarly, exports from the fruit
sector grew at a rate of 20 per cent annually in the period 1974-1994. In spite of succeeding in
boosting productivity and output of these sectors by adapting and improving foreign technologies,
Chile's economy was still in need of further diversification. Chile's manufacturing value added
per capita, for example, although higher than the regional average, was much lower than that of
developed countries.

Chile's economy presented a key competitive weakness, which was its relative lack of ability to
innovate and adopt technical change. Chile's policy framework and economic incentives for
innovation and human capital formation were still in need of substantial improvement. There was
a need for the country to invest in building advanced human capital, particularly in science and
technology, in order to take full advantage of the emerging knowledge economy and achieve a
high sustainable growth path.

The strategy of the government of President Lagos (2001-2006) focused on securing sustainable
and equitable growth through the adherence to a sound macroeconomic framework, strong public
institutions, investments in human capital and social protection. As a core element, the
Government of Chile (GoC) committed itself to improving the quality and relevance of education.
The Government also emphasized the need to stimulate innovation and technological
development. Chile's investments in S&T doubled during the nineties, and the Government
expressed its intention to double the country's S&T investments from 0.5 per cent of GDP to 1.2
per cent by the year 2006.

It is against this background that the Project, "Science for the Knowledge Economy", was
proposed. It was deemed of critical importance to support the GoC initiatives by securing
continuous and adequate flows of investment to the Chilean science base, strengthening the stock
of human capital and stimulating the critical interfaces in the innovation system.

According to the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), the Project was designed to contribute to
the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal of sustaining overall economic growth and social
progress in Chile. In addition, the Project aimed to support the ongoing modernization of the state
by (i) supporting core capacities such as strategic policy formulation and monitoring and
evaluation, and (ii) identifying main obstacles to innovation and human capital formation, and
(iii) providing capacity building to key government institutions. Finally, the Project was designed
to contribute to the formation of a coherent set of intervention policies and investments that
would improve Chile's competitiveness.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators
The Project was designed to provide for the continuation of the Millennium Science Initiative
(MSI), a preceding Bank's pilot operation that aimed at helping to revitalize Chile's Science and
Technology system by supporting advanced training of human capital by world class scientists



                                                                                                 6

engaged in cutting edge research. The Project would build on MSI and further strengthen Chile's
science base by scaling up funds for research, developing public-private linkages in the national
innovative system and enhancing the R&D capacity of companies.

The Project was originally designed as part of a six and a half year Program, which consisted of
two phases, and was intended to support Chile's transition to a knowledge-based economy by
investing in the innovation system and the stock of human capital. The instrument chosen for the
Program was Adaptable Program Lending. This Project represents the first phase of the Program
(APL1), and was implemented from year 2003 to 2007. The second phase (APL2), whose
implementation was planned for years 2007-2010, was supposed to continue activities to
strengthen Chile's science base and scale-up funding for initiatives launched in the first phase.
The APL2 implementation had to follow a positive evaluation of the first phase and the
attainment of predefined triggers.

The Project sought to achieve two development objectives, which, in agreement with the
Government's strategy, were expected to place Chile on the path to become a knowledge-based
economy:

First, and foremost, the Project was to support the development of an effective innovation system.
It was to do so by establishing a strong and coherent policy framework, promoting high-quality
and relevant science and technology activities and by supporting key interfaces in the innovation
system, especially between the public and private sectors, as well as international linkages.

Second, and subordinate to the first goal, the Project aimed to improve the stock of human capital
in the Chilean science and technology sector, a development objective which was highly
complementary to the establishment of an effective innovation system and per se a critical
precondition for establishing a competitive knowledge-based economy.

While targets were not clearly identified in the PAD (at that time it was not required to do so), a
number of indicators to assess the long-term impact of the Project were discussed at the time of
project design. These indicators were not expected to fully materialize within the Project
implementation, but considerable changes were nevertheless expected at the end of the Project
implementation period. Moreover, a framework based on a causality tree1 was used for selecting
indicators at the sub-component, component, sector and national level. The relationships between
these different levels were made in this way explicit so they could be monitored and managed,
even though only subsequently defined indicators were identified.

The long-term key performance indicators, as reported in the PAD were:

         Total Factor Productivity will increase
         Level of embedded technology and knowledge in current and future products will rise

The following key indicators were identified to measure performance:
         Number of domestic patents will increase
         Private sector research and development will increase
         Coordination between different parts of the innovation system will increase
         Public-private S&T co-financing will increase
         Number of researchers relative to the size of population will increase



1 The causality tree approach was inspired by Kaplan and Norton's work on the Balanced Scorecard and
strategy focused organizations (2001).




                                                                                                    7

The PAD provided in its Annex 1 and Annex 2(B) a more exhaustive list of possible indicators,
while the final baselines and targets for indicators were established subsequently. Please refer to
Annex 10 for more details on baselines and final key outcome/performance indicators and Annex
11 for details on performance triggers.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
The Project Development Objectives were not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,
The Project sought to have a number of tangible, immediate as well as long-term benefits.

Conducive innovation policies and increased investment in R&D and human capital were
expected to facilitate Chile's transition to a knowledge-based economy. The improved innovative
environment and the resulting economic growth would benefit the Chilean society at large,
primarily through income and employment generation.

More specifically the immediate beneficiaries were:

    · Private companies benefiting from the improved innovation system and the increase in
         the stock of advanced human capital.
    · Private companies participating in cooperative research consortia and the researchers in
         industry program, enhancing their research capacity and getting access to cutting edge
         knowledge at a modest cost.
    · Researchers working together in teams to address large-scale problems.
    · PhD-scholars and post-doctoral fellows benefiting from the industry insertion program.
    · Researchers receiving funding for increased interaction with international colleagues.


1.5 Original Components
To address the key development objectives, this Project included the following three components:
(i) Improving Chile's Science, Technology and Innovation System; (ii) Strengthening Chile's
Science Base; and (iii) Enhancing Public-Private Linkages. The total cost of the Project was
US$ 50.26 million while the total amount of the loan was US$ 25.26 million (the rest was
financed by the Borrower).

Component 1: Improving Chile's Science, Technology and Innovation System (US$ 6.40 million).
This component was designed to help Chile develop a coherent policy framework and an enabling
environment for innovation. It was to consolidate and modernize the country's existing
instruments and programs in science and technology to achieve higher levels of internal and
external efficiency among researchers and their organizations and to nurture a more collaborative
research culture among Chilean scientists. The component consisted of three sub-components: (i)
establishment of an independent Advisory Board and support for project management and
implementation; (ii) development of a coherent strategy, conducive policies and S&T awareness;
and (iii) development of a monitoring and evaluation capacity.

Component 2: Strengthening Chile's Science Base (US$ 19.50 million). This component was
designed to strengthen Chile's ability to generate new knowledge by increasing the stock of
scientific and technological research personnel, improving the research infrastructure, and
enhancing the capacity to access knowledge generated in other countries. The objectives were to
be achieved through three competitive programs: (i) the excellence in science program ­ in line
with key activities of the preceding operation supported by the Bank: the Millennium Science


                                                                                                 8

Initiative (1999-2002) ­ was designed to offer economic support to group-based research in Chile
in order to improve the quality of scientific research and training; (ii) the advanced human capital
sub-component supported scholarships to PhD candidates in priority scientific fields; and (iii) the
State-of-the-art Equipment for Science and Technology sub-component was designed to support
the establishment of a database of major research equipment in Chile and provide competitive
grants for acquisition of major equipment.

Component 3: Enhancing Public-Private Linkages (US$ 22.60 million). This component was
designed to support activities that would strengthen linkages between the Chilean scientific
community, industry and public sector users of research findings and build private sector research
capacity. This was to be achieved through three subcomponents. Subcomponent 1 was designed
to support groups of researchers from universities, government laboratories and private industry
or regional development agencies undertaking collaborative research and development, and
research training, in areas of importance to industry and the regions of Chile. The private industry
or public sector agencies involved in the consortia were required to support the cooperative
activities by making substantial in-kind or cash commitments. Subcomponent 2 was designed to
expand the stock of high-quality research personnel in Chilean industry by awarding scholarships
to doctoral students that would undertake a substantial part of their thesis work in industry. The
scholarships were awarded on a competitive basis, were temporary and declining over time, with
the company taking an increasing share of the researchers salary. Finally, subcomponent 3 sought
to increase Chile's access to knowledge produced overseas by financing the participation of
Chilean researchers in international research projects.

1.6 Revised Components
The components were not revised

1.7 Other significant changes
During implementation of the Project a number of minor adjustments were introduced.

Amendment to the Loan Agreement: In November 2005, the Bank agreed to increase the
Special Account from US $0.5 to US$2.5 million. This was done to enhance flexibility in
managing the Project's cash flow requirements, notably the need to timely manage a number of
large disbursements for advanced research teams, insertion of post-doctorates in academia and
scholarships to doctoral students.

Reallocation of loan proceeds. There were two re-allocations of the loan proceeds. The first re-
allocation ­ approved by the Bank in August 2005 ­ referred to a transfer of US$1.46 million
from unallocated to Consultants' Services and Training. The reallocation reflected the need to use
the unallocated amount to finance incurred project expenditures. The second reallocation was
requested by the Borrower in a letter dated January 24, 2007 and approved by the Bank on
February 6, 2007. It reallocated US$0.91 million from Operational Cost to the expenditure
category `Grants'. This change reflected lower than expected operational costs for the Project and
a decision by CONICYT to use the funds available to award additional Grants.

Piloting of instruments. During implementation decisions were made to pilot a number of
instruments that were consistent with the PDOs and activities supported by Components 2 and 3
of the Project.

Insertion of advanced human capital in academia. This activity was piloted under Component 2
of the Project. It supported the insertion of young researchers into academic institutions by
financing part of their salary for a 3 year period. Funding was restricted to institutions that had a



                                                                                                   9

strategic plan, which included: (a) the field of research to be developed and (b) the needed type
and number of post-doctorates. In addition, the selection criteria included the preparation of
assessment of the impact of the proposed research on Chile's economic and social development,
the national and international standing of the institution in the field of research, and the quality of
the senior researcher in charge of coordinating the research. The decision to pilot this new activity
was motivated by the need to enhance the quality of university research and education by
increasing the share of staff with an advanced degree. In addition to the need of upgrading the
level of academic staff, it was considered necessary to help create a career path for young
researchers, whose employment opportunities were hindered by a low turnover of staff in
academic institutions and few opportunities in industry. Hence, the piloted activity was directly
complementary to the Project's support of the insertion of young researchers into industry under
Component 3 of the Project.

Support for Patenting. Under Component 3, the Project launched a new initiative to help provide
technical and legal advice, and financial support for patenting inventions with high commercial
potential. Support for the commercialization of research was considered important given the very
low number of resident patent applications in Chile and abroad and consequently the below
optimum economic return to investment in R&D. This activity was designed to award
competitive grants to intermediaries with documented expertise in patenting and related support
services. The intermediaries would subsequently select a number of concrete projects for support
and provide advice and financial support throughout the patenting process.

Implementation arrangements. In the Project's initial design, it was agreed that the sub-
component "Team Grants for Research", under Component 2, would be implemented by
CONICYT, building on the lessons learned from similar programs, in particular the Millennium
Science Initiative (MSI) in the Ministry of Planning. Subsequently, in 2004, it was decided to
implement 6 team grants for research through MSI and to transfer funds accordingly, in order to
expedite the start of operations financed by the Grants and to assure coherence and continuity.




2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
The project's quality at entry is rated satisfactory. The Project Development Objectives were
closely linked to the Government strategy of enhancing Chile's competitiveness and boosting
growth through investments in research and innovation. Further, the Project was closely aligned
with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal of sustaining overall economic growth and
social progress in Chile.

The Project was innovative in its strong focus on fostering public-private research linkages and
had an adequate balance between support for the Chilean science base (Component 2) and
instruments targeted at boosting the private sector's capacity to innovate (Component 3). The
Project was rightly designed to have a policy impact beyond the implementing agency CONICYT
(Component 1). For instance, the decision to fund an observatory for STI was an important
addition to Chile's governance structure for Science, Technology and Innovation (STI). However,
complexities in enhancing coordination between various implementing agencies ­ notably
through the envisaged independent advisory board for STI ­ were underestimated. The decision
to prepare the Project as an APL with two phases was well founded given the long-term
commitment needed to strengthen a national innovation system. However, the planned duration of



                                                                                                    10

the first phase (only 3 years) was too short to fully launch all planned activities and show initial
results prior to making decisions concerning the second phase.

Lessons learnt from Bank projects in Chile, notably the Millennium Science Initiative (MSI)
(1999-2002) and the Higher Education Improvement Project (MECESUP) (1998-2005) were
incorporated into the Project's design. The MSI illustrated the benefits of investing in high-
quality research teams selected through transparent and merit-based processes. These lessons
were reflected in the support for competitively selected, advanced research teams under
Component 2 of the Project. Moreover, the MSI highlighted the need to support the
commercialization of research and R&D of direct relevance to the productive sector. These
lessons were incorporated into the design of Component 3, notably the decision to provide
support for cooperative research consortia. The MECESUP Project displayed the need to scale up
the production of young researchers in Chile in parallel with increased support for STI. The
MECESUP Project supported the strengthening of doctoral programs, e.g. by financing staff
development and curricula design. The Project built on these efforts by significantly scaling up
the provision of PhD scholarships in Chile. The Project design also reflected several policy
recommendations from the World Bank (2002) flagship report: "Closing the Gaps in Education
and Technology" such as: (i) the high complementarity between human skills and technological
development and (ii) the need to increase knowledge diffusion between the public research
providers and private enterprises in order to boost private sector R&D.

The critical assumption of a strong and stable macroeconomic environment was justified by the
country's strong economic fundamentals and macro economic track record. Similarly, the
assumption of political stability was based on Chile's political performance since the return to
democracy. The main risk was represented by the private sector side, in terms of lack of
participation and commitment, and of unarticulated demand for public-private collaboration. As a
mitigating factor, a consultation process with the private sector had been designed. In particular,
consultations were especially instrumental in the design of the Project component that financed
consortia. A two-stage process was followed, with a pre-proposal stage that preceded the
formulation of full proposals, in order to facilitate a dialogue with private sector representatives
during the process. In addition, there was a close collaboration with SOFOFA (the Chilean
private sector chamber of commerce) in all stages of preparation and design of the Project.
Moreover, several seminars on the topic of public-private research partnerships were held to raise
awareness and disseminate information on the instruments designed and implemented under the
Project.

2.2 Implementation
The implementation of the Project was satisfactory. A Mid-Term review carried out in March
2006 found that the Project was being implemented in a satisfactory manner and showing a
number of positive preliminary results. Most indicators of Project progress or "trigger" indicators
­ defined as a requisite for a second-phase APL ­ were already achieved at the time, and Project
outcome and impact indicators showed positive trends. Nonetheless, the MTR also identified
some challenges. Most of the recommendations had to do with the need to maintain coordination
with other implementing agencies, better integrate the project unit within CONICYT and
consolidate some of the instruments (e.g., the STI observatory) at the national level. In addition,
the activity included in the PAD, "Doctoral Thesis in Industry", was not launched on time and,
consequently, it did not start within the time span of the Project. Together with delays in the
transfer of funds for selected cooperative research consortia, this caused a shift in the relative
weight between components. Consequently, the activities launched under Component 2 were
financed relatively more with respect to the activities under Component 3.




                                                                                                 11

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
Significant efforts went into detailing the Project's results framework during preparation.
Indicators were identified on the basis of a causality tree approach that articulated how Project
activities were expected to translate into overall development outcomes. In order to highlight the
importance of M&E, the preparation team invited a representative from the OECD Directorate for
Science, Technology and Industry to interact with key counterparts in CONICYT and provide
input to the results framework. The objective was to facilitate benchmarking of Chile's STI
performance with countries that successfully had made the transition into high value-added
economies.

Following Project effectiveness, the Bank team organized a two-day M&E workshop in Chile in
order to build counterpart capacity to implement the agreed results framework. The workshop
was lead by the Bank's Operations Evaluation Department (now IEG) and provided training to
about 40 stakeholders in Chile's STI system.

The implementation of the M&E framework was supported by the establishment of the STI
observatory under Component 1 of the Project. The collection of data was satisfactory in regard
to national statistics. For instance, the observatory was instrumental in improving the quality of
information on university research spending and private sector R&D. However, the project unit
was less successful in establishing an information system for tracking results in supported
subprojects. This was due to capacity issues tied to the high number of activities that needed to be
launched during the first year of Project implementation. The importance of complying with the
agreed M&E framework was flagged during Bank supervision missions.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
No safeguard policies were triggered by the Project. Support was provided only to proposals that
were considered to be environmentally sound with respect to their societal purpose and operation.
National guidelines for laboratory safety, disposal of environmentally hazardous material, bio-
ethics and bio-safety were submitted by CONICYT to the Bank during preparation and were
found to be in accordance with international best practice. The Project is considered to have had a
neutral or positive environmental impact.

A Financial Management Assessment (FMA) was prepared before loan effectiveness to assess the
capacity within the implementing agency. It was noted in the assessment that during project
preparation and at appraisal "staff assigned to the financial management area of the Project
quickly grasped the essentials on the subject, thus anticipating an effective and efficient operation
in this regard during project implementation". Audit reports were issued every year by the
Contraloría General de la República. All reports rated the Project's financial management
performance satisfactory. Moreover, an independent audit by Ernst Young conducted in March
2005 found the management of the Special Account to be fully satisfactory.

A Procurement Capacity Assessment was prepared in 2003, analyzing the procurement unit
within CONICYT. The unit was found to be "adequately staffed, very competent on procurement
in accordance to local procedures and well organized". Procurement under component 1 of the
Project was managed directly by CONICYT, but procurement in awarded subprojects was the
responsibility of each beneficiary institution. Procurement ex-post reviews were carried out
annually and included a review of: (i) the appropriateness of the institutional arrangements; (ii)
the procurement plan for the Project, including a timetable for procurement actions anticipated
during the subsequent 12 months; (iii) the monitoring system; and (iv) the complete review of
records for one in every ten contracts. All reviews rated the Project's performance in regard to
procurement to be satisfactory.


                                                                                                  12

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
The Project contributed to building support for investments in STI in Chile and raising awareness
on the topic. Among other things this was reflected in the establishment of a National Innovation
Council for Competitiveness in 2006 tasked with developing a national strategy for STI. The
Council presented a first volume of a National Innovation Strategy in January 2007, which was
endorsed by President Bachelet shortly thereafter. The strategy underscores that becoming a
knowledge economy means adding value to sectors where Chile has demonstrated comparative
advantages while supporting key emerging sectors. The Project also highlighted the need to
increase coordination among implementing agencies supporting STI in Chile. For this reason,it is
expected that activities launched under Component 1 of the Project will be elevated to the
Ministry of Economy which is better positioned to ensure coherence and provide orientation to
Chile's support system for innovation.

The Project, as previously mentioned, was conceived as a two-stage APL. Instead of proceeding
with APL 2, the Government requested the Bank to support its new, more ambitions policy vision
(as described above) under a new stand-alone operation. The Government continues to implement
all of the components of the APL program, either with funding from the new stand-alone
operation or with its own resources. The new operation would support key elements of the
national innovation and competitiveness strategies with a strong emphasis on building robust
institutional foundations. In particular, it would: (i) strengthen the Ministry of Economy's
capacity to oversee the implementation of STI policies in Chile; (ii) sustain and consolidate
investments in group-based research and public-private linkages in CONICYT; and (iii) support
technology transfer and technology-based startups through Chile's private sector development
agency CORFO (Corporación de Fomento de la Producción).

The Government regards the Bank as a strategic partner with expertise in the innovation and
competitiveness areas, knowledge of a wide range of international experiences such as OECD and
Asia, and the capacity to help adapt international practices and instruments to Chile's reality and
needs. Evidence of this partnership is reflected in the Government's request to the Bank for a
study (a fee-for service task) on the institutional and governance structure of Chile's support
system for STI that would help better understand the country's institutional foundations in the
sector. Drawing on international evidence, the study will develop options for enhancing the
effectiveness and coherence of Chile's institutional arrangements for decision making, policy
implementation and evaluation in regard to STI.




3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
At design stage, the Project had, and continues to have today, highly relevant objectives. The
Project continues to be fully aligned with the current priorities of the Chilean Government, and is
consistent with the goals set by the joint IBRD-IFC Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for Chile.
The objective of the CPS, for the period 2007-2010, is to support the Government in its
development program and in particular to help realize Chile's long-standing goal of convergence
with OECD income levels and living standards by (i) accelerating growth and (ii) increasing
equality of opportunity. The Project is still very current in its objectives, which contributed to
Chile's development by supporting technological innovation, a key source of income and
employment growth.

The Government of Chile has identified innovation as one of the key areas for its development


                                                                                                13

vision. As mentioned earlier, in January 2007, the National Innovation Council delivered the first
volume of its strategy for enhancing Chile's competitiveness. Some of the main objectives and
lines of action included in the strategy reflect the original objectives of the Project, which was
designed to support Chile's transition to a knowledge-based economy by investing in the
innovation system and the stock of human capital. In particular, the lines of action presented by
the Council of (i) supporting research applied to technological development or more focused on
the needs of the production sectors and (ii) developing innovation activity within firms by
promoting linkages between scientific and technological research and the firms were already
reflected in the Project through the public-private partnership included in Component 3 and the
instruments of research consortia and collaboration between researchers and firms.

Finally, the Project contributed to generating a pro-active culture of innovation, helping
innovation to become a key factor for the country's development, as recognized by the innovation
strategy.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
The Project began implementation in 2004 and closed in March 2007. The overall assessment of
the Project's achievement of the PDOs is satisfactory.

The Project helped strengthen Chile's policy framework and environment for innovation by
consolidating and modernizing existing instruments and programs in science and technology.
Further, it improved Chile's Science Base through its contribution to the creation of a critical
mass of STI researchers and qualified university personnel, financing doctoral scholarships and
the university insertion program. Finally, by providing funding to public-private research
partnerships, the Project contributed to the creation of a culture of innovation in private
enterprises and the provision of a substantial transfer of knowledge through the mobility of highly
skilled labor.

However, some limitations arise from the fact that establishing a clear causal connection between
the activities implemented under the Project and the achievement of the development objectives
requires a longer time frame than the three years of implementation. Consequently, most of the
effects of the Project are likely to reveal themselves well beyond its time span. This was indeed a
reason for part of the difficulties that occurred in identifying indicators in the project design phase
and, subsequently in clearly assessing some of the impacts of the Project. Furthermore, the
decision of the team to scale-up the implementation of some of the activities under the
components, in particular component 3, contributed to the difficulty of fully evaluating the impact
of the Project at the time of the ICR. For instance, some of the activities are still under
implementation (please refer to Table 1 below) and the collection of data and indicators on
outcomes is still on going.

In this section, the Project will be assessed against the achievement of the PDOs. However, for
the reasons exposed before, the complexity of this type of projects and the difficulty of
establishing a clear causal connection between the activities implemented and the achievement of
the objectives in the short/medium run, it was necessary to closely link the successful
implementation of the activities to the achievement of the objective per se, otherwise we would
have lost an important part of the explanation for the Project's impact.

Table 1 Status of project implementation

                                                            Amount of the  Transferred    Proportion of

                        Type of Subprojects                 Agreements     Resources        resources

                                                              (USD)          (USD)         transferred
                                                                                              (%)
 Component 1: Improving Chile's National Innovation System

 Studies for Politics & Management in STI                       1,706,314     1,706,314       100%




                                                                                                       14

 Courses for the STI Management Skills                                            944,792             944,792          100%

 Awareness Activities & Seminars in STI                                         2,007,402           1,973,351           98%

 Technological Awareness Camps                                                    317,399             298,880           94%

 Component 2: Strengthening Chile's Science Base

 National Doctorate Scholarships                                              17,614,626            8,544,921           49%

 Abroad Doctorate Scholarships                                                  1,955,398           1,261,816           65%

 Team Grants in Sciences                                                      27,193,271           13,034,393           48%

 Millennium Nuclei                                                              6,526,168           3,161,682           48%

 Insertion of Postdoctoral Investigators in the Academy                       10,833,196            4,319,252           40%

 Component 3: Enhancing Public-Private Linkages

 Regional Consortia of Cooperative Investigation                                5,532,710           1,906,908           34%

 Enterprise Consortia of Technological Investigation                          19,783,410            3,433,815           17%

 International Support to Interchange of Centers of Excellence                    252,010             252,010          100%

 Technological & Science Joint Seminars                                           402,873             402,873          100%

 Networks of Collaboration with the European Union                              1,089,342             949,490           87%

 Development of Inter. Cooperation for Investigation of Excellence                714,987                    0          0%

 Projects of Mobility in Sciences of the Materials                                 15,140              12,547           83%

 Insertion of High Human Capital Personnel in the Industry                      2,563,394           1,142,535           45%

 Instruments and Incentives Around the Intellectual Property                    3,768,224           2,148,561           57%

 Total Resources Committed and Transferred                                   101,661,539           45,695,122           45%
Source: CONICYT (2007).
Note: 45 per cent of the total resources committed were transferred in the following manner: (i) 25.3 million USD were disbursed
through the Project loan; (ii) 20.3 million USD were transferred by the Chilean government in its regular budget. The rest of the
resources (56 million USD) will be transferred by the Chilean government in its regular budget in the next three years.


Nevertheless, the main achievements of the Project were identified and attributed. The main
Project Development Outcomes are reported below.

3.2.1 The objective of Improving Chile's science, technology and innovation system was
achieved.

The Project achieved the above mentioned objective by: (a) contributing to strategy, policies and
awareness activities for innovation; and (b) improving the basis for evidence-based decision
making on STI.

The Project strengthened the capacity to formulate policy and design STI strategies through the
financing of several analytical studies, helped the identification of best practices by launching
courses and seminars directed at the scientific and business community, increased STI awareness
among high school and university students via technological awareness camps, and helped create
knowledge relevant to decision makers in topics directly related to the National Innovation
System through studies of STI Policy and Management. A summary of the initiatives launched
under Component 1 is provided in the graph below (Graph 1). These activities were
supplemented by STI information-gathering activities launched by the Chilean STI Observatory
(also known as KAWAX). Further details and examples of these activities are provided in Annex
2.

Graph 1 Activities under Component 1




                                                                                                                             15

   60

   50

   40

   30

   20

   10

    0
           Technological      Courses for STI  Studies for Politics and Aw areness Activities
         Aw areness camps    Management Skills   Management in STI      and Seminars in STI


                                       2004   2005  2006

Source: CONICYT


3.2.1a Contributed to Strategy, Policies and Awareness Activities for Innovation

Contributed to the development of policies on STI. The Project supported policy formulation
processes through the implementation of nineteen analytical studies which analyzed bottlenecks
in the innovation system, investigated the use of technology in natural resource sectors and
helped identify best practices in STI management.

The analytical studies contributed to: (i) benchmark science and technology activities in the
country; (ii) identify best practice to aid decision-making of different actors in the NIS; and (iii)
support the development of STI instruments and national policies and strategies. For instance, one
of the studies identifies and evaluates the economic and social impact of successful projects
supported by the Fund for the Promotion of S&T Development (Fondo de Fomento al Desarrollo
Científico y Tecnológico ­FONDEF). Moreover, the project team worked in collaboration with
the Sub-Secretariat of Regional Development and Administration (SUBDERE) to strengthen
institutional capacity of regional STI councils (Consejos Regionales de Ciencia y Tecnología ­
CORECYT) to better define, design and implement regional STI initiatives (in 2004 the studies
"Diagnosis and Strategy for Region I" and "Diagnosis and Strategy for Region IX" were
financed). Box 1 below summarizes the field of the studies and their topic.




                                                                                                 16

    BOX 1
    Completed Studies and Studies in Execution

    Technological Maps
          · Technological Maps for the Mining Sector (2004)
          · Technological Maps for the Aquaculture Sector (2004)
    Benchmarking, lessons learned
          · Benchmarking University ­ Private Enterprise Innovation Processes (2004)
          · Definition of strategies, policies, and procedures for legal protection and technology
              transfer of research results (2005)
          · FONDEF case studies (2005)
    National and regional STI policy
          · Diagnosis and Strategy for Region I (2004)
          · Diagnosis and Strategy for Region IX (2004)
          · Directory of Researchers and Perspective on Chilean Science (2005)
          · Baseline study for Insertion of Researchers in Industry (2005)
          · Antarctic Strategy (2005)
          · Technology States of the Art (2005)
          · Support to Regions IV and VIII on STI policy strategy (2005-2006 ­ in execution)
          · Diagnosis of scientific and technological infrastructure at the national level (2005-2006
              in execution)
          · Regional STI diagnosis (2005-2006 in execution)
    Monitoring and Evaluation
          · Study on Researchers and Businessmen Perceptions on STI (2005)
          · Comparative study of STI Disciplines in Fondecyt (2005)
          · Support to SICTI on appropriation model (2006 - in execution)
          · Design of Monitoring & Evaluation model for the National Innovation System (2006 ­
              in execution)
          · Design of surveys for collecting data on Human Resources in research, for higher
              education institutions, government and private no-profit institutions



Improved skill-set of STI managers: Through Awareness Activities and Seminars in STI and
Courses for STI Management Skills directed at the scientific and the business community the
Project began a process of improving the skill-set of STI managers, bringing together knowledge
of science and technology and of management, a combination of skills still scarce in Chile. They
helped transfer STI methodologies, instruments, best practice, and other STI management know-
how, such as on intellectual property rights and on STI monitoring and evaluation.

Thirty-five seminars were performed in 2006 and 20 were selected to be carried out during 2007.
All seminars were characterized by interdisciplinary participation and ample diffusion. A
summary of the diffusion, networking activities and seminar outputs (CDs, books, websites) is
reported below in Table 2 for 2006 (data for 2007 seminars not yet available). More details are
provided in Annex 2 (Table 18).




                                                                                                     17

Table 2 Awareness Seminars in STI
             Amount                               Total     National  International  Other
 Seminars   Granted   Networking    Diffusion   Attendees                                     Seminars
             by the    Activities   Activities    to the    Academia   Academia      Sectors   Outputs
             Project                            Seminars    Attendees  Attendees    Attendees

   (N°)      (USD)        (N°)        (N°)         (N°)       (N°)        (N°)        (N°)      (N°)

    35      2,007,402      79          388        5,261       201          92         375        22
Source: CONICYT (2007)


Eighteen STI Management Courses were selected and carried out in 2005 (see Table 3 below and
Table 19 in Annex 2 for details). The STI management courses have progressively increased the
level of self-sustainability. In fact, 4 of the courses in 2006 evolved into one-year long programs
(diplomados) on their own.

The Diploma on Innovation and Technology Management of the University Alberto Hurtado
provides a good example of the type of courses that were financed under the Project. The course
combined both conceptual fundamentals with practical applications through seminars, project
developments and case studies, allowing students to apply all learned knowledge in actual
business situations. Executives and business men were trained in order to: (i) understand some
central aspects of the knowledge society and business competition based on innovation and
technology; (ii) lead the creation of companies' technological strategies and align them with
competitive strategies; (iii) participate in the creation of culture of innovation within
organizations; (iv) understand the technological development processes and then apply their main
methodologies and tools; and (v) develop an applied project of technological business. Using this
diploma as a starting point, the university aims to develop a masters program in 2008 and
eventually obtain a double degree with one of the foreign universities which demonstrated their
interest in supporting the Project.

Table 3 STI Management Courses
             Amount    Total
            Granted   Attendees   National    International   Other

 Courses     by the    to the     Academia     Academia      Sectors

             Project  Courses     Attendees    Attendees    Attendees

    (N°)     (USD)      (N°)        (N°)          (N°)         (N°)

     18      944,792   1,847         34            30          131
Source: CONICYT (2007)


Raised STI awareness among Secondary and University Students. Through "technological
camps" (jointly with CONICYT's Explora program), the Project contributed to raising awareness
of STI among secondary and university students. The camps (28 in total) created spaces of
interaction between scientists, researchers, entrepreneurs, and students, so that the latter could
begin thinking of technological innovative solutions in diverse areas and be encouraged to
explore science as a career opportunity. Participation overall was high and the innovative impact
was considerable (please refer to Table 20 in Annex 2 for details).

Eleven Technological Camps (see Table 4) were conducted during 2005 (after the first and
second calls for proposals) and were attended by over 400 secondary schools and universities.
Seventeen new camps in 2007 were financed under the Project. These were the last camps
financed under the Project since it was decided to finance this activity directly through
CONICYT's Explora program. This is a positive outcome, since it will give sustainability to the
initiative, by incorporating it in the national STI system.



                                                                                                    18

An example of a Technological Camp is the camp from Universidad de La Frontera in Computer
Science and Cybernetics. The outcome of the project was a prototype that allows the safe
movement of disabled people, adapted to regional conditions. The main achievements of the
Camp were to develop scientific, technological, management and entrepreneurship skills in every
member of the working group, especially in students. The students were not only exposed to a
high level of technology, but also to management techniques that would help familiarize them
with the diffusion of the results of technology.

Table 4 Technological Awareness Camps
          Amount     Diffusion     Total
          Granted    Activities  Attendees   Mass Media
 Camps     by the   for Camps      to the   Appearances
          Project   Preparation   Camps
  (N°)     (USD)       (N°)        (N°)        (N°)

   11     317,399       154        4.685        92
Source: CONICYT (2007)



3.2.1b Improved Basis for Evidence-Based Decision Making on STI.

The Project strengthened national statistics on university research and improved information on
private sector innovation in collaboration with the Ministry of Economy. This was achieved
through the establishment of an Observatory for Science, Technology and Innovation (KAWAX)
in CONICYT.

KAWAX designed, integrated, and disseminated relevant information, indicators and studies
using international standards and methodologies. The Project's conceptual framework was
instrumental in encouraging the GoC to increase the scale of the Project's M&E activities to
include the strengthening of information systems pertaining to the entire S&T sector. The
Government improved capacity for oversight of the S&T sector led to an increased focus on
enhancing public-private research linkages and facilitated Chile's participation in OECD's
Committee for Scientific and Technological Policy, which is per se a significant achievement and
positions Chile next to the most advanced countries in terms of policy in the Science and
Technology sector.

Within the Observatory, a fund for "Studies of Science, Technology and Innovation Policy and
Management" was launched in 2006 to select, through an open competition, studies that would
help to create knowledge relevant for decision makers and firms in topics directly related to STI.
The fund financed 37 studies out of 72 proposals (see Table 5 below for a list of subjects of the
studies). An example of study financed through this fund is a survey, conducted at a national and
international level, of possible use of agricultural species that can be grown in Latin America,
with the purpose of generating bioenergy. The study evaluates the possibility of developing
programs of genetic improvement using biotechnology, contributing to position Chile as a
potential provider of improved genetic seeds for those countries that could potentially produce
total or partial substitutes for fossil fuels.




                                                                                               19

Table 5 Studies for Policies and Management in STI (2006)

              Subject               Total Cost   Studies     % Financed by the
                                                                  Project
           (ISI Thomson)             (USD)        (Nº)             (%)

Agricultural Economics and Policy   131,688        2               66,4

Astronomy and Astrophysics           62,237        1               70,4

Business                            727,039        10              67,1

Economics                            91,402        1               61,3

Educational Research                276,170        4               58,6

Energy and Fuels                     82,178        1               53,6

Fisheries                            35,402        1               62,8

Forestry                            164,959        2               62,3

Geography                           103,536        1               54,1
Information Science and Library
Science                              85,084        1               64,5

Management                           63,049        1               59,3
Operations Research and
Management Science                  517,398        8               66,0

Physics, Multidisciplinary           80,747        1               64,8

Public Administration                67,217        1               68,0

Social Sciences                      86,262        1               64,9

Urban Studies                        86,542        1               64,6

             TOTALS                 2,660,910      37              64,1
Source: CONICYT (2007)

This component of the Project contributed effectively to build momentum for S&T in Chile,
create a culture of innovation and raise awareness around this topic, as well as to change the
political vision at an institutional level. In January 2007, part of the operations under KAWAX
were incorporated in the Department of Studies in CONICYT, to connect the observatory to the
tasks of the institution in terms of generating indicators and studies. Other functions of the
observatory moved to the Ministry of Economy, where data collection from the private sector will
be conducted and analyzed for policy making decisions. These changes reflect the importance
instruments for decision making in the field of STI have reached in the country and the acquired
awareness that this type of instrument needs to be anchored in an institution able to provide
oversight of Chile's support system for innovation in its entirety.

3.2.2 The objective of Strengthening Chile's Science base was achieved.
One of the most important barriers to innovation in Chile has been the insufficient level of
advanced human capital, the lack of a critical mass of scientific and technological research
personnel and a low capacity to generate new knowledge through applied research.

The Project tackled these barriers by: (a) helping to increase the production of advanced human
capital; and (b) improving the quality of basic and applied research in Chile by consolidating a
new culture of research. It did so by building on earlier human resource achievements of
CONICYT, the Millennium Science Initiative (MSI), and the Higher Education Improvement
Projects (MECESUP I).

3.2.2a Increased the production of advanced human capital in Chile.

The Project helped to create a critical mass of STI researchers and renew qualified university
personnel through the financing of doctoral scholarships and the university insertion program.


                                                                                             20

The Project financed an additional 517 doctoral scholarships in accredited domestic graduate
programs and awarded 58 scholarships for PhD studies abroad in Britain, France, the United
States and New Zealand. These scholarships were awarded specifically in scientific disciplines
(see Graph 5 and Tables 23a and 23b in Annex 2 for details of areas of study). This is particularly
relevant since Chile had awarded a low number of science and engineering post-graduate degrees
in the years prior to the Project(see Graph 6 in Annex 2), which consequently led to a small pool
of researchers in these fields.

Chile has a very low number of PhD graduates compared to industrialized countries but also to
other countries in Latin America (please refer to Table 6). While it is not possible to show actual
data comparisons on the number of PhD graduates in the most recent years, it is plausible to
assert that the increase in the number of scholarships awarded, due to the Project's contribution,
is likely to raise the number of doctoral graduates in Chile. The number of hard sciences doctoral
graduates in the country increased by 30 per cent after the first two years of the Project's
implementation (as shown in Graph 6 in Annex 2).

Table 6 Number of PhD per Million Inhabitants. Chile and Other Countries
         Country/Year          1998       1999       2000    2001      2002      2003    2004*

              Brazil            23         28          30     34        38        44      48

             Mexico              7          9          11     11        14        17      19

              Chile              6          5          6      6         9         9       15

            Australia           175       186         193    196       199       217      237

             Finland            331       334         365    346       346       336      356

             Ireland            121       126         131    148       132       167      168

          New Zealand           107       124         120    125       129       132      153
Source: OECD, Ricyt, World Bank
*latest year available


Graph 2 shows data for all PhD scholarships, national and international, awarded by CONICYT:
the Project awarded roughly 47 per cent of these scholarships since its creation in 2003 reaching
up to 68 per cent of total scholarships in 2006, contributing significantly to the overall investment
in post graduate qualifications.

Graph 2 Increase of PhD scholarships in Chile financed by CONICYT and by the Project.

    450
    400
    350
    300
    250
    200
    150
    100
     50
        0
            1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006


                           PhD Scholarships by the project  PhD Scholarships by CONICYT

Source: CONICYT




                                                                                                  21

3.2.2b Improved quality of basic and applied research in Chile.
Chile's science base comprises its scientific and technological research personnel, its research
infrastructure, and its capacity to access in a timely fashion the knowledge generated in other
countries. The Project helped to strengthen Chile's science base and to consolidate a culture of
high quality research through the formation of research teams and the introduction of built-in
incentives to conduct research in priority areas.

Cooperative Research Teams. The Project contributed to the consolidation of group-based
research in Chile, shifting from a system that provided small grants to individuals to one that
provides larger grants to research groups working in priority areas. A total of 34 multidisciplinary
research teams were established with support from the Project (Table 7).

The Research Rings complemented the Millennium Science Initiative (also supported by the
Project) and FONDAP initiatives, and expanded the experience gained from these initiatives to
other research groups. Research Rings have been provided with significant funding:
approximately US$300,000 per year for three-year projects, which is comparable to the
Millennium Nuclei.

Table 7 STI Research Rings (in the first year of execution)
                                                 Research     Total Cost of  Cost Financed by
                    Subject                       Rings       the Projects     the Project
                                                   (N)          (USD)             (USD)
                                        Science and Technology

   Agriculture, multidisciplinary                    1         1,205,000         860,000

   Biotechnology and applied microbiology            1         1,554,385         860,000

   Cell biology                                      2         3,089,360        1,720,000

   Chemistry, applied                                1         1,973,480         860,000

   Ecology                                           1         1,614,170         860,000

   Engineering, electric and electronic              3         2,916,340        2,580,000

   Environmental sciences                            1         1,500,285         860,000

   Genetics and heredity                             1         4,119,045         860,000

   Geosciences, multidisciplinary                    1            n/a            860,000

   Mathematics                                       3         3,488,085        2,580,000

   Medicine, general and internal                    2         3,228,340        1,720,000

   Medicine, research and experimental               1         1,312,000         860,000

   Neurosciences                                     4         5,234,385        3,440,000

   Pharmacology and pharmacy                         1          966,855          860,000

   Physics                                           6         9,369,390        5,160,000

   Psychiatry                                        1         1,851,430         860,000

   Statistics and probability                        1         1,458,170         860,000

                                            Social Sciences

   Urban studies                                     1          341,240          213,300

   Geriatrics and gerontology                        1          385,830          213,315

                                           Antarctic Science

   Geosciences, multidisciplinary                    1         1,077,240         106,655
Source: CONICYT (2007)




                                                                                                 22

The Project helped foster the creation of multidisciplinary teams to work on specific projects
within three broad thematic areas of research: Science and Technology, Antarctic Sciences, and
Social Sciences. The creation of networks of scientists from different institutions and disciplines
was encouraged, reducing isolation of scientists outside the capital city, and offsetting some of
the disadvantages of the low number of STI researchers and geographic dispersion.

According to researchers who benefited from these initiatives2, their participation in Research
Rings allowed them "to set more ambitious scientific objectives," "to tackle more challenging
scientific problems", to perform research "closer to international standards, carrying out better
quality experiments" and "to qualitatively improve their relationship with research teams in the
North." Also noteworthy is that Research Rings allowed scientists to pay a salary to doctoral
students and hire research assistants to bolster their research teams. As a result, an important
impact was registered in terms of advanced human capital formation, with several PhD students
involved in the research teams and post-doctorate researchers collaborating (see Table 8).

With the implementation of Research Rings, not only did the level and quality of research
improve, but networking, dissemination of research results and outreach to society also increased
(please refer to Box 2 for selected examples). As part of the scientific production, several
presentations, at national and international level were performed and articles published in
scientific journals (see Table 8 below and Table 22(a) in Annex 2). It is worth noting that the
results of research teams in terms of publications are more likely to show after the first few years
of establishment of the group, since one can expect a time lag between the discovery of a
scientific finding and the publication of an article in scientific journals, due to revision and
publication procedures. For more details on indicators for Research Rings please refer to Tables
22(a) and 22(b) in Annex 2.

Table 8 Selected indicators on Scientific Activity and Human Capital Formation for Research Rings
(first year of execution).

                                                                                            ISI          PhD     Post-
                                  Research Group Title                                   Publications  students  Doc
                                                                                            (N°)         (N°)    (N°)

Equations related to lattices                                                                 6          n/a     n/a

Networks in Mathematics and Engineering Sciences                                             n/a         n/a     n/a

Analysis, modelling and optimization in the application of wireless Technologies.            10           5       2

Dynamics, singularities and geometry of matter out of equilibrium.                           n/a         n/a     n/a
Tectonomagmatic control of giant ore deposits in the subduction factory of the high
Chilean Andes between 32º-36ºS: a multidisciplinary approach.                                 0           3       1

Climate variability in Chile: assessment, interpretation and projections.                     4           0       3
Electrochemical sensor design for sulphite detection and electrochemical measurements
of the phenols antioxidant capacity in wines.                                                 0           3       3

Vitamin C and oxidative stress resistance: Basic studies and biomedical applications in
cancer and prevention of cardiovascular diseases.                                             0           5       2

Chagas disease: control of virulence and infectivity of Tripanosoma cruzi with products
of natural, synthetic and immunologic origin                                                  3           7       1

Scientific ring in microevolution of phytophagous insects: an ecological, physiological
and genomic approach.                                                                        12           9       1

Advance studies in cell signalling and gene regulation.                                       5           4       1




2 Source: World Bank (2006), "Science for Knowledge Economy" Mid-Term Review.




                                                                                                                   23

Centre for sensory neurosciences from signal transduction to the neural code.    0      11      0

Interaction surfaces in folding and oligomerization of ion channel proteins.     n/a    n/a     n/a

Centre for the analysis of gene function in neural development                   0      8       3
Source: CONICYT


An example of successful impact of the support for research groups and its contribution to
stimulate investment in research is given by the Instituto Antartico Chileno (Chilean Antarctic
Institute-INACH). The Project contributed to financing a Research Ring in Antarctic Science and
brought cohesion in the scientific community by helping to define the Institute through funding of
this initiative. INACH has traditionally been managed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as part
of the territorial claim to Antarctica. In order to improve the quality of research and the
integration with the scientific community, the director of the institute requested to be part of the
anillos initiative. Today, the investment in scientific projects in the Antarctic has tripled (being
around US$ 2 million) and the Institute has become one of the main institutes that practice and
promote science in Chile. For the first time, in 2007, a multidisciplinary and multi-institutional
Antarctic project will have, through various external sources of finance, enough resources on its
own to carry on its activities for the whole year, including the salaries for researchers and the
expenses for laboratory analysis. Furthermore, an agreement has been signed between INACH
and FONDECYT (the main provider or resources for basic research in Chile) to collaborate on
Antarctic research.




                                                                                                 24

   BOX 2
   Team Grants in Sciences

   Two projects from Universidad de Valparaíso: the "Interaction Surfaces in Folding and
   Oligomerization of Ion Channel Proteins" and the "Center for the Analysis of Gene Function in
   Neural Development" developed a new joint laboratory which attracted around 50 under and
   postgraduate students from regional universities, which would not have been the case if they had
   been organized as individual projects.

   Analysis, Modeling and Optimization in the Application of Wireless Technologies is a project
   carried out by Universidad Técnica Federico Santa María in Valparaíso in combination with
   researchers from the Industrial Engineering Department of Universidad de Santiago. This project
   has established an ample network at an international level (Universidad Carlos III-Madrid,
   Technical University of Varna, Bulgaria, Universidad Politécnica de Cataluña, Spain,
   Universidad Nacional de Mar del Plata, Argentina, and University of Newcastle, United
   Kingdom, among others). The main outcomes of this project are a patent application and 10 ISI
   publications in its first year.

   The project Climate Variability in Chile: Assessment, Interpretation and Projections has attained
   major advances in the analysis of the variability of the regional climate regimes. The collection
   of data has allowed a comparison between the main events of global climatic changes versus
   regional changes in Chile leading to conclusions indicating no parallels in some cases. A
   reasonable explanation for a number of the variability patterns have been found in oceanographic
   phenomena: the El Niño Southern oscillation, the Antarctic oscillation and the Interdecade
   Pacific oscillation (changes in the temperature and salinity characteristics of the South Pacific).
   This project has made a large effort in disseminating these results to the community, in particular
   through talks especially designed for journalists.

   Electrochemical Sensor Design for Sulphite Detection and Electrochemical Measurements of the
   Phenols Antioxidant Capacity in Wines, is a project whose main aim is to develop an
   electrochemical sensor able to determine the sulphite concentration in white and red wines, easy
   to operate and with instant response. In addition to the determination of sulphite that has an anti
   microbial effect, the idea is to determine individually all antioxidants. This project includes
   Universidad de Santiago as main institution and Universidad de Chile and Viña Tarapacá ex
   Zavala as associated institutions.


Finally, a key contribution of the Project is the establishment of a fair, open and merit-based
selection process for proposals as practice that has been accepted and acknowledged by the
research community. This process is extremely relevant as research funding in Chile has
traditionally been allocated based on considerations other than quality and impact. The selection
and evaluation of project proposals under the Project was conducted by a peer review mechanism
in conjunction with an international panel of experts. The last stage in the selection process was
performed by an Evaluation Committee, which supplied a final list of selected projects. In
addition to quality, a main criterion for selecting research projects was their potential for
contributing to Chilean production processes. However, it is important to mention that the Project,
while contributing to the development of cooperative research teams in the country, did not
envisage in its original design an element of long term strategy development as to how to
combine support to group research, which is certainly needed in order to gradually integrate into a
holistic framework all current initiatives which include, besides the Research Rings, the MSI
nuclei and the FONDAP advanced research centers.

Insertion of advanced human capital into universities. The Project strengthened the research
capacity of universities by subsidizing the hiring of young PhD graduates into research



                                                                                                       25

institutions to create or strengthen specific research areas. The Project co-financed the first three
years of the researchers' salary, and the research institute subsequently committed to maintaining
and financing the researcher as staff for a further three years. This activity built on the
contribution of previous projects financed by the World Bank, including the Higher Education
Improvement Projects (MECESUP I and II), and provided continuity. In total, 148 researchers
were funded under the Project in three separate rounds (see Table 9 below and Table 24 in Annex
2 for details). This is an important contribution considering that at the time the Project started less
than 17 percent of university professors in Chile held a PhD, and only about 24 percent of
lecturers conducted research (DESUP 2005). In this sense, the Project helped both to upgrade the
level of academic staff and to create a career path for young researchers, whose employment
opportunities were hindered by a low turnover of academic staff.

Table 9 Insertion of Researchers into Universities: PhD Graduates Funded by the Project
                              First Round       Second Round      Third Round
                                 2004               2005             2006             Total

  PhD Graduates inserted           27                52               69              148
Source: CONICYT (2007)

For the first round of funding there are some indicators available (see Table 10 below). The data
show that numerous scientific publications were produced, several national and international
presentations were delivered and collaborations were initiated, helping diffusion of knowledge
with other institutions, both in Chile and abroad. This process is very important for improving the
quality of research and therefore strengthening the broad capacity to generate new knowledge
within the country.

Table 10 Output Indicators for Insertion in Academy (first contest)

            General                             Scientific Production                  Human Capital
                                                                                          Formation                  Diffusion

                                                                                   Thesis
                                                                                    and      Participation Participation   Participation
                                                                                                                                in
    Subject         Researchers       Scientific   International      National     other          in       in National     International
(ISI Thomson)          Inserted     Publications   Presentations    Presentations training   Postgraduate  Collaboration
                        (Nº)            (Nº)            (Nº)            (Nº)                                               Collaboration
                                                                                  activities  Programs       Projects        Projects
                                                                                    (Nº)         (Nº)          (Nº)            (Nº)
Biochemistry
and molecular             3               0               6              2            3           19            8               0
biology
Business                  2               0               0              0            0            2            0               0
Chemistry,
multidisciplinary         5               8               7              10           7            7            2               3

Environmental
sciences                  2               1               2              2            0            7            6               2

Environmental
studies                   3               3               1              6            4            4            4               1

Neurosciences             6               2               8              12           2           16            3               5

Plant sciences            3               5               3              9           12           16            5               5

Spectrometry              3               0               4              5            1            9            9               0
Source: CONICYT


3.2.3 The objective of Enhancing Public-Private and International Research Linkages was
achieved.

Although too early to assess the full Project's impact, it can be argued that it had a significant role
in strengthening cross-sectoral research collaboration and reducing fragmentation in the NIS.
Most of the progress to date can be attributed to the Cooperative Research Consortia jointly
funded by CORFO, FIA and CONICYT. Evidence suggests that this component strengthened the



                                                                                                                     26

culture of interaction between industry and research institutes, providing opportunities for
technology-based companies to gain access to research capability for production purposes.
Finally, the Project contributed to strengthening the insertion of Chilean STI institutions and
companies into domestic and international STI networks.

3.2.3a Extensive use of Public-Public and Public-Private Partnerships
Chile's public R&D system has been successful, in the sense that Chile scores higher than other
Latin American countries in terms of scientific publications per resident. Still, the added value of
this research remains questionable and has been of limited use to the private sector, directly or
indirectly. Collaborative research consortia piloted under the Science for the Knowledge
Economy Project are an example of successful public-private research partnerships that emerged
in Chile.

International experience suggests that public-private partnerships are an effective approach to
stimulate private R&D, put in place a competitive selection of high quality scientific research,
and promote the concentration of resources in research fields of strategic importance for the
economy and society. Furthermore, evidence from a forthcoming study3 of firms' ability to
innovate in Chile shows that collaboration between firms and universities has an important
impact on outcomes of innovation, such as patenting and product innovation. In particular, this
collaboration appears to increase the probability of patent activity in the firm by 37 per cent and
the probability of introducing a new product by 29 per cent (see Table 26 in Annex 3).

The Consortia are structured into formal joint venture partnerships with clear agreements on the
management of intellectual property. All participants are required to make cash and in-kind
contributions. Firms supplied infrastructure, financial resources, personnel and expertise. This
reveals a new form of interaction between academia and the private sector, as well as a change in
research culture among researchers. The subsidy provided by the Project may reach up to US$ 1
million per year, and the private counterpart is required to cover 37 percent of project costs.

A strategic partnership with the Corporation for the Promotion of Production (CORFO) and the
Foundation for Agricultural Innovation (FIA) helped implement the consortia initiative on a
larger scale than planned at appraisal. The Project furthered collaboration among the three
agencies (CONICYT, CORFO and FIA), which decided to launch this new instrument through a
mutual agreement of collaboration. In this way, the impact of the Project went beyond what was
originally envisaged and nineteen consortia were launched in two different calls, with six of them
financed under the Project (Table 12) and the rest financed by the other agencies (Table 11 for
details).

Table 11 Total Consortia Approved and Financed
 Selected Proposals        CONICYT            FIA       CORFO      TOTAL

 First call- 2004               4              2          4          9*

 Second call- 2005              2              3          5          10
Source: CONICYT (2007)
*= one consortium was co-financed by CONICYT and CORFO


The collaboration among CONICYT, CORFO and FIA was valuable and it was an important
achievement of the Project. However, this collaboration weakened with time, because of the lack
of a plan that would guarantee its continuation. Given the importance of this agreement among



3 Marotta, Mark, Blom and Thorn (2007)




                                                                                                 27

the institutions and its demonstrated positive impact in strengthening and enlarging the program,
an initiative is currently under way that aims to resume this collaboration in order to take full
advantage of the complementarities and synergies among these agencies. Moreover, the need to
strengthen collaboration among agencies is one of the main issues addressed by the Chilean
national innovation strategy, which recognizes the importance of enhancing cooperation in order
to build a more effective innovation system.

Table 12 Consortia Approved and Financed by the Project
                                                                          Amount
                                                Total cost   Amount                              Associated
                                                             Granted     transferred   Main        Firm
  Call for                        Disciplines       of        by the       by the    Researchers Average
 proposals        Subject             (ISI      Consortium                Project at
                                   Thomson)                  Project      30/03/07                 Size

                                                  (USD)       (USD)        (USD)        (Nº)       Type
              Biotechnological
              innovation in the   Biotechnology
   2004      production of new
              varieties in table  and applied    5,555,350   3,113,450     771,600       4        Small

              grapes and stone    microbiology

                    fruit
               Technological       Medicine,
   2004        health research
             consortium. CITES    research and   8,717,910   5,712,380    1.504.760      3        Small

                    Chile         experimental

              Development of
               innovative and
                competitive
              technologies for
             manufacturing of
   2004      highly value added   Engineering,   9,930,630   4,646,895       0           5        Large
            products from waste     chemical

             products of Chilean
             forest, fishing and
                winemaking
                 industries
                Aeronautic
   2004        technological       Aeronautic    8,361,905  5,449,520*        0          4         Large
                Consortium
               Technological

   2005        Consortium for
                  Offshore          Fisheries    2,552,380   1,459,045        0          9         Small

            Aquaculture in Chile
               Technological
               Consortium on       Medicine,
   2005      applied molecular    research and   7,232,380   4,133,335       0           13       Medium
                and clinical      experimental
                biomedicine.
Source: CONICYT (2007)                                    *=amount co-financed by CONICYT and CORFO


The consortia instrument is particularly important in Chile, where one barrier to innovation is the
poor functioning of interfaces between science systems among universities and between
universities, public research centers and firms. Universities in Chile tend to be inward-oriented
organizations and not geared to solving problems within a business timescale.

Through the consortia, the Project helped to increase the demand for R&D by industry through
forging linkages between knowledge producers (i.e. university and research institutes) and STI
users (i.e. firms), as well as providing incentives to build science and technology absorptive
capacity within firms. Particularly noteworthy is the Project's achievement in supporting the




                                                                                                       28

creation of strategic alliances that helped to create applied research and marketable products (an
example is given in Box 3).


    BOX 3
    Collaborative Research Consortia
    CTE06. Technological Health Research Consortium. CITES Chile

    An interesting case is represented by the consortium CTI Salud (CTI-Health). The aim of this
    program was to position Chile at the cutting edge of biotechnology, in the belief that investment in
    this area might provide the basis for breaking technological barriers that separate Chile from
    developed countries.

    This consortium is constituted of three universities (Universidad de Concepción, Universidad de La
    Frontera and Universidad Austral), a research institute (Fundación Leloir) and three firms
    (pharmaceutical, technological and IT). They created a research group that aimed to produce,
    through "transnational research" (i.e. collaboration in research across countries), marketable
    services for the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of cancer. This consortium, which was
    constituted as a private company in 2006, represents a successful example of private-public
    linkages that has already originated one spin-off.


In addition, the Project established four Regional Cooperative Research Consortia, which helped
supporting advanced research linked to regional development, contributing to the competitiveness
of the regions, and fostering the creation of small and medium technological enterprises by
supporting technological transfer. For more details on regional consortia, please refer to Box 6
and Tables 25a and 25b in Annex 2.

The public-private partnership in the form of the consortia broke new legal ground in the country
and created new and important opportunities. However, as is the case with new initiatives, they
need time to be tuned to the legal and financial framework and this caused delays in the launch of
the initiative. In particular, the formation of corporations, on one hand, requires professional,
legal and economic capabilities and associated resources while requiring, on the other hand, time
commitment from the consortium representatives to meet the necessary agreements.

For this reason, CONICYT, jointly with CORFO and FIA, organized a workshop in early May
2007 to discuss with the actors involved in the consortia the best management practices, starting
from the experience of countries that are more developed in this regard (such as Australia, EU
countries, USA, etc). The workshop provided support for the start up of the first 19 projects
participating in the Technological Consortia Initiative by identifying the best and most successful
practices for putting together, starting up and managing international consortia and transfers these
practices to Chilean consortia. In addition, the workshop helped identify coordination and follow-
up mechanisms between consortia and agencies to improve their performance and results.

3.2.3b Piloted new approaches to increasing company in-house R&D capacity
The Project supported the introduction of highly qualified young scientists and researchers to
work in private enterprises that were interested in generating new innovative processes. In this
manner, university-industry linkages were strengthened, enabling the introduction of cutting-edge
scientific and technological knowledge by young scientists. The long term impact of this effort
remains to be seen, but evidence from a forthcoming study by the World Bank shows that a high
level of skills within the firms significantly influences technology absorption and consequently
the ability of Chilean firms to innovate.




                                                                                                        29

The program selected and supported 55 researchers in total, mostly in small enterprises (for
details see Graph 8 in Annex 2). To date, anecdotal evidence from the completed projects4 shows
that 80 per cent of the inserted researchers had been hired by the firm (see Table 13 below for
details). Although too early to assess the full impact, this result is extremely important and is an
important indicator of the relevance of the Project's impact on facilitating the insertion of
advanced human capital in companies, enhancing their capacity to use and absorb knowledge.

A specific example of the relevance of this program is represented by the company Roche Chile
LTD, which applied in 2004 for the insertion of a researcher with a doctoral degree in
Microbiology. The researcher was inserted to contribute to the development of quantitative and
multiplex kits to determine viral agents that affect Chilean salmon production and associated
activities. According to the company, the generated impact of the Project was significant since 35
per cent of 2006 sales were a result of the developed protocols. Furthermore, it has been
estimated that during 2007 the contribution of these results will represent 40 per cent of the sales,
which is roughly US$ 1 million per year.

Table 13 Insertion of researchers into industry

     Year                        Firm                      Researcher          Contract with the firm at the    Closing date for
                                                            inserted                  end of the Project           the Project

     2004                JRI Ingeniería S.A.               Tecnólogo*                        yes                   12/28/2006

     2004                    Franmar Ltda.                 Tecnólogo                          no                   10/01/2006

     2004              Soluciones Integrales de
                   Reducción de Vibraciones S.A.           Tecnólogo                         yes                   01/31/2007

     2004               Productos Roche Ltda.                  Phd                           yes                   12/28/2006

     2004              Industrias Boetsch Ltda.            Tecnólogo                         yes                   12/30/2005

     2005               Klempau y Zilic Ltda.              Tecnólogo                         yes                   01/31/2007

Source: CONICYT *Definition Tecnólogo: University professionals who have experience of at least 3 years in investigation projects,
development and innovation, led by an academic, technological or private organization.


Chilean universities have had a limited tradition of stimulating entrepreneurship or linkages with
industry. Most of the researchers have had few incentives to orient their career towards broad-
based objectives, which could include training in disciplines such as business and technology
management. The Project had a significant impact, by not only contributing to increase firms'
capacity to absorb knowledge but also by creating new career paths for young researchers.

Until recently researchers have traditionally been oriented towards a career in academia or in
public research institutions (see Graph 7 in Annex 2). However SME development represents the
main channel to enhance the country's innovative potential and ability to assimilate and exploit
existing knowledge. Encouraging SME's absorption of advanced human capital is a critical factor
to enhance such firms' capacity since Chilean SMEs have had traditionally low capacity in this
matter. The importance of these linkages motivated dialogue between the project team and the
other actors involved. CONICYT has announced its commitment to scale up this initiative
through collaboration with SOFOFA, which represents the private sector side.

3.2.3c Supported commercialization of knowledge.




4To date, only 6 projects have closed.




                                                                                                                             30

The Project launched a new initiative to help provide technical and legal advice, and financial
support for patenting inventions that have high commercial potential. Financial resources have
been provided through the Project to technology management agencies in charge of identifying
the most promising proposals.

This approach has been a way to stimulate commercialization of research in Chile, and raise
awareness about the value of intellectual property rights. This is particularly relevant since in the
country even in 2005 only 16 per cent of patent requests were made by an organization or person
of Chilean nationality and only seven per cent of the granted patents were granted to a national
organization or Chilean person (see Graph 3 for patent applications and patents awarded in Chile
and Table 14 for more details).

Graph 3 Patents in Chile

   4000

   3500

   3000

   2500

   2000

   1500

   1000

    500

       0
              2000         2001          2002         2003         2004        2005


                            Total patent applications   Total patents granted

Source: CONICYT


The Project supported the entry of one of the innovation proposals in the World's Best
Technologies in the US (2006), a contest of world prestige. The Chilean subproject was awarded
the World's Best Technologies 2005 prize for the innovative biological technology applied to the
fruit sector. It was the first time that an agency outside the US had been awarded such a prize. To
date, this initiative is proceeding with patent applications in Chile, Argentina, Peru and the United
States.




                                                                                                  31

Table 14 Patents Applied for and Granted to Chilean Firms and Residents
      Source        Total Patent Applications Total Patents Granted

                                   2003

    USPTO (1)                   27                     16

     EPO (2)                    12                      0

     JPO (3)                     1                      0

 CHILE DPI (4)                 2787                    309

                                   2004

     USPTO                      42                     17

       EPO                       9                      2

       JPO                    No data                No data

      CHILE                    3353                    607

                                   2005

     USPTO                      48                     15

       EPO                      11                      5

       JPO                    No data                No data

      CHILE                    3497                    637

     Others(5)
(1) United States Patent and Trademark Office
(2) European Patent Office
(3) Japan Patent Office
(4) Department of Industrial Property
(5) Other international


3.2.3d Enhanced Chile's access to international knowledge networks
The Project contributed to strengthening international research linkages and the insertion of
Chilean STI institutions and companies into international networks. It achieved this objective
through: (i) supporting the Diaspora program, which helped to create a network of successful
Chilean businessmen abroad; (ii) contributing to finance STI workshops, which generated
interaction between researchers and firms around a particular scientific or technological topic of
common interest; and (iii) supporting Chilean participation in the 6th European Framework
Research Program, which promotes research through trans-national research networks.

Supported the `Diaspora Program' (ChileGlobal) In partnership with Fundación Chile, the
Project facilitated the creation of a network of successful Chilean businessmen abroad to promote
knowledge-intensive businesses and partnerships, enhance technological transfer, and increase
the supply of investment projects.

Some of the main achievements for the activities implemented under Chile Global included: (i)
top level professionals from Chile Global participated as project evaluators in the areas of
Information and Communication Technology (ICT) (i.e. the Innova Program) at CORFO5.
ChileGlobal members also acted as evaluators for CONICYT projects during 2006; (ii) a
subsidiary of one of the most important international software producers, Synopsys, was



5 During 2005 seven members participated as evaluators in CORFO.




                                                                                               32

established in Chile in June 2006 (the Chief Technology Officer of the company is a member of
ChileGlobal); and (iii) an Internship Program was developed jointly with CONICYT. Members of
the network already offered to invite PhD and Masters Degree students in Engineering from
Chilean Universities to work in their firms for a period between three months to a year.

So far, about eighty influential Chileans abroad are actively engaged in the network. In addition
to supporting trade missions, they are increasingly participating in activities related to mentoring,
social responsibility and public policies.

Generated dialogue and interaction between researchers and firms. The Project carried out
workshops to articulate linkages between the scientific research community in Chile and the
international research community in thematic areas such as: nanotechnology, biomedicine,
biotechnology, energy, information technologies applied to mining and technologies applied to
aquaculture.

A total of 15 workshops in STI were funded through the Project, which financed 63 per cent of
the total cost of the initiatives. Further to promoting the creation of interdisciplinary teams in the
area of research and development, the workshops also created incentives for technology transfer
by helping defining opportunities for transfer technologies to the industries. A summary of the
main outreach activities is provided in Table 15 while a list of the main topics for the workshops
is presented below in Graph 4.

Data are available for the first two requests for proposals (concursos). An example of activities
implemented under the workshops is provided by a project in nanotechnology by the Pontificia
Universidad Católica de Chile. This project helped to identify the economic sectors and
industries with potential to incorporate products and processes based on the application of
nanotechnology. In addition, it contributed to the establishment of the necessary fundaments for
fostering in a sustainable way the application of nanotechnology to industrial processes, which is
considered relevant for long term development of the country.




                                                                                                   33

Graph 4 STI Workshops




                                    Nano sciences
                                          13%                        Biotechnology

                                  Medicine                                19%

                                     7%

                          Env ironmental
                             sciences
                                7%                                           Energy and fuel

                               Chemistry                                            20%

                                  7%

                          Telecommunications         Mining        Food Science and
                                  7%                  13%             Technology
                                                                           7%




Source: CONICYT


These events were successful in providing incentives and generating interaction among
researchers. However, the Project did not provide funds for subsequent activities that would
follow on and build on these events. The Project did not envisage a more comprehensive
approach, which would have added more long term benefits by, for instance, encouraging a
mutual exchange of ideas and a joint formulation of proposals among the different actors
involved. In this way the submission of joint proposals for further funding would have been
facilitated.

Table 15 Workshops Overview of Indicators*
                    Amount                                                                                                    Other
 Workshops        Granted by      % Funds from        Mass Media          Total          Chilean       International      Sectors than
                   the Project      the Project      Appearances      Attendance        Academia         Academia          Academia
     (N°)             (USD)             ( %)              (N°)            (N°)             (N°)              (N°)              (N°)

       15           402,873              63                25             1109             226                66               370
Source: CONICYT (2007)
*Data are available only up to 2006. Totals do not take into account the results of workshops held in 2007, that are instead included in
the total cost and in the percentage financed by the Project.


Supported Chilean participation in the 6th European Framework Research Program. The Project
helped create linkages between Chilean STI institutions and their global counterparts with a small
amount of financing. The Project provided complementary support to 16 Chilean projects
selected by the 6th European Framework Program for Research, Technological Development and
Demonstration, which funds and promotes research and fosters the creation of trans-national
research networks.

It contributed mainly to: (i) training and contracting of young researchers through financing
internships in fields related to the 16 projects; (ii) improving the international relations through an
increase in the mobility of the researchers; (iii) financing the Chilean participation in the



                                                                                                                                    34

information system; and (iv) sustaining the diffusion of results in particular in the productive
sector.

Each Chilean project has an average time span of three years. With the Project's support, it has
been possible to finance activities that strengthen international linkages and the contribution of
research to create new best practices in productive sectors. Table 16 below reports the main areas
of the projects in which Chile participated and the contribution of the Science for the Knowledge
Economy Project.

Table 16 Subprojects Financed by the Project participating in the European 6thFramework
Program

                                                                Total cost of    Project

                                         Total Cost    EU         Chilean      Contribution   Institutions
              Project subjects                      Financing   Participation  to Chilean      involved
                                                                               Participation
                                          (USD)      (USD)        (USD)            (%)            (N)

 Sustainable surface transport           53,093,930  28,675,530     1,025,290      11,6            79

 Rational use of Natural Resources       11,484,340   8,691,125     3,150,510       5,9            23

 Biodiversity and Ecosystems             18,056,815   3,308,085       687,950       7,8            51

 Quality and security of food            34,816,560  24,118,510     1,770,065       8,8            72
 Genomic and Biotechnologies applied to
 health                                   7,929,215   2,686,635       253,380       3,8            21

 Information Technology                  16,750,000  13,400,000     1,608,000       8,8            23
 New Emerging Science and Technology
 (NEST)                                   3,778,891   2,143,985       214,470      21,2            7

 Science and Society                      1,975,790   1,634,800       172,860      18,8            18
Source: CONICYT (2007)


Finally, the Project contributed to designing various instruments to organize and facilitate joint
research projects. This line of activities includes twinning programs between universities,
collaboration between research centers, and networks of institutions from developing and
developed countries. These initiatives hold significant promise in providing Chilean scientists
with access to a large pool of cutting-edge knowledge at a relative low cost to the project.

3.3 Efficiency
Cost effectiveness
The Project was cost effective. In particular, the Project made use of a very light administrative
structure. The percentage of operating and administrative costs was 6.8 per cent of the total cost
of the first phase. This represents a small amount for a project like this, which has a substantial
institutional element that normally involves higher costs.

Economic analysis
All of the Project's components encouraged innovative activities either directly or indirectly. The
Project provided the basis for researchers and firms to carry out knowledge-generating activities
that likely would not have been undertaken at a socially optimal level in the absence of the
Project.

By providing financial support to research teams (Subcomponent 2.1), the Project created the
conditions for researchers to pursue opportunities too risky, long-term or uncertain for private
financing.




                                                                                                        35

Moreover, the Project increased the stock of advanced human capital for innovation
(Subcomponent 2.2) and facilitated its insertion in private companies (Subcomponent 3.2).
Analysis of data from the third Chilean National Survey of Technology Innovation in Firms
shows that a high level of skills significantly influences technology absorption and consequently
the ability of Chilean firms to innovate in products and processes (see Annex 3 for further detail).

The Project distinguished itself from past World Bank financing of STI in Chile in that it invested
in the strengthening of public-private linkages in the innovation system (Subcomponent 3.1).
Data from the aforementioned innovation survey suggest that considerable benefits are associated
with increased university-industry collaboration in Chile. For instance, firm collaboration with
universities is estimated to increase the propensity of a private enterprise being involved in
patenting by 37 percent.

Finally, government policy in Chile on innovation evolved considerably during the
implementation of the Project (subcomponent 1.2). Public investments have increased, there is a
stronger focus on strengthening public-private interaction in research and efforts are on-going to
improve innovation governance, e.g. through the creation of a National Innovation Council for
Competitiveness. Evidence suggests that the Project ­ in conjunction with other Government
policies ­ contributed to creating favorable conditions for innovation-driven growth in Chile. This
is indicated by an increase in total factor productivity in Chile of three percent during Project
implementation.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: The Project's overall outcome, taking into account the considerations presented in
sections 3.2 and 3.3 above, is satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
An additional achievement of the Project in terms of social development outcome is that it
succeeded in creating a cultural change in the collaboration between public and private sector in
research. It has stimulated a high level policy debate by introducing for the first time in the
country instruments such as consortia that allowed collaboration between research centers and
industry, fostering a culture of collaboration and a more open public research environment which
places higher priority on the needs of the private sector.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening.
Consolidation of competitive selection process. The Project has contributed to consolidate in
the mainstream the process of competitive allocation of resources. For the selection and
evaluation of the proposals the Project designed a peer review mechanism in conjunction with the
evaluation of an international panel of experts. Quality has become the main conventional criteria
to allocate funds, in addition to the relevance of the projects, which in this specific case is
considered their potential contribution to the Chilean productive process.

Support to group research. The establishment of Cooperative Research Consortia represents an
institutional change in the support to research. Bringing together researchers from universities,
government laboratories and private industry or public-sector agencies, in collaborative
arrangements has contributed to create a new culture of collaboration and this has had an impact
on the long term view of innovation policy.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
No unintended outcomes or impacts of the Project were recorded.


                                                                                                 36

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
There is no specific Beneficiary Survey for this Project. However, a client survey for Chile was
conducted in 2006, which interviewed 132 stakeholders of the Bank in the country, representing
national and local government, bilateral or multilateral agencies, private sector organizations,
NGOs, the media, members of academia or research institutes, etc.
From the survey, it appeared that the effectiveness ratings for the Bank's role in key development
areas such as education are relatively high.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Low

This risk to development outcome is considered low.

Activities supported under component 1 of the Project will be sustained under the new
institutional structure for innovation governance in Chile. Notably, the National Innovation
Council is expected to be a key driver for the formulation and updating of STI policies. Also, the
decision to institutionalize the national observatory for STI (KAWAX) in the Ministry of
Economy will provide continuity and potentially enhance the policy impact of the initiative.

Activities launched under component 2 of the Project will be sustained and scaled up by
CONICYT. Efforts are currently ongoing to integrate all support for team-based research (e.g. the
research rings and the FONDAP centers) is a single department in CONICYT. This effort is
expected to be supported by the follow-on World Bank project currently under preparation.
Moreover, a decision has been made to scale up investments in team-based research through the
`basic financing' initiative (financiamiento basal) supported by the Fund for Innovation and
Competitiveness (FIC) administrated by the Ministry of Economy. The National Innovation
Council has highlighted investments in advanced human capital as a key pillar of its strategy.
Hence, support for PhD scholarships is likely to be scaled up in the coming years. Currently being
discussed is an idea to focus the tertiary education competitive fund on the strengthening of
graduate programs and leave it entirely to CONICYT to finance PhD scholarships using merit-
based selection processes.

In regard to component 3, the Project was successful in highlighting the importance of supporting
not only each element of the national innovation system but also the linkages between them.
Support for collaborative research is highly likely to be sustained as CONICYT, CORFO and FIA
are committed to continue funding technological research consortia. These agencies recently held
a joint meeting to plan for future calls for proposals and discuss ways to enhance collaboration. In
regard to the mobility of advanced human capital, CONICYT is committed to continuing the
insertion of young researchers in industry in collaboration with SOFOFA. An idea to scale up this
initiative through the Bank's follow-on project is currently being discussed.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry.
The Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry is considered satisfactory. The design of the
Project assured that the development objectives were clearly presented and the components
adequately supported the objectives. However, even though it is necessary to take into account
the difficulty of dealing with a Project of such high complexity, the Bank performance could have
been stronger in clearly linking PDOs and outputs from the design phase, in particular



                                                                                                 37

differentiating among the Project's impact and the Program's objectives: this was not envisaged
in the original Project Appraisal Document, even though efforts were made in this sense during
the subsequent phases.
The Project was closely aligned with the goal of the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of
sustaining overall economic growth and social progress in Chile. The Project was innovative in
its content as was among the first Bank operations seeking to strengthen public-private research
linkages and stimulate the insertion of advanced human capital in industry. The project team
placed strong emphasis on M&E in the design phase, e.g. by developing a project tailored
analytical framework and providing targeted training to key government officials. Project
preparation included extensive consultations and careful attention to lessons learned from the
Millennium Science Initiative (1999-2002) supported by the Bank and reforms carried out in
other countries. The result was a project that closely mirrored the Government's strategy of using
STI to enhance Chile's global competitiveness and create new market opportunities. The skill mix
and continuity of the team assigned to the preparatory phase were adequate. Substantial
conceptual and technical assistance was provided to the Borrower in designing the Project and
ensuring readiness for implementation. Most importantly, the preparation team included seasoned
innovation experts with experience from similar initiatives in Europe and Australia.

(b) Quality of Supervision.
The Bank's performance during supervision is considered satisfactory. Throughout the Project's
implementation, the Bank responded quickly to requests from the Government and collaborated
closely with counterparts and key stakeholders. Supervision missions were carried out every 6
months, including a Mid-Term review in March 2006 and an ICR mission in January 2007. Each
supervision mission discussed progress made with a wide set of stakeholders, assisted CONICYT
in addressing key issues and provided technical advice. All conclusions were recorded in Aide
Memoires with clearly formulated next steps. The Aide Memoires were subsequently used as a
monitoring and follow-up mechanism. The supervision team was composed of a stable mix of
Bank specialists and international experts. The only change in the composition of the team was a
change of the task manager in December 2005 as the Task Team Leader (TTL) retired from the
Bank. The new task manager was a member of the preparation and supervision team and hence
continuity was ensured on the Bank's part. During the launch mission of the Project, the Bank
team provided training in procurement and financial management to project staff in CONICYT
and key beneficiaries. Moreover, ex-post reviews were carried out annually and an independent
procurement review was undertaken in June 2006. The conclusions from these reviews were
communicated to key officials in CONICYT and follow-up actions were supervised by the TTL.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
The Bank's overall performance is considered satisfactory. The Project Development Objectives
were well aligned with key sector issues and the developed components were innovative. The
Bank performance could have been stronger in the initial phase in adequately linking the PDOs to
identified objectives from the design phase, but this was dictated by the necessity to investigate
further how to measure complex interactions, such as the ones that determine the impact of some
of Project's activities, that go beyond a simple causal relation and that can take a long time to
materialize.
Supervision missions were carried out every six months and included an appropriate mix of
technical and fiduciary management experts. Finally, the management of the Project ensured a
high level of dialogue and cooperation between the Bank and the Borrower, and reached out to a
wider set of agents in Chile's national innovation system.




                                                                                               38

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
The Government's performance is rated satisfactory. The Ministries of Finance and Education
were committed to key reforms throughout implementation. The dialogue with the Government
was excellent and agreed changes were implemented in a timely manner. Moreover, the
Government gave momentum to the Project, generating wide support for the Project by
consulting and involving key stakeholders. Lastly, the Project was sustained by the new
government that was elected in 2006, which confirmed Chile's commitment to enhance its
scientific and innovative capacity. However, uncertainties within the implementing agency
emerged when the newly elected Government rethought its innovation strategy, wanting to
further the integrated approach across innovation institutions.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
The performance of the implementing agency is rated satisfactory. The Project was well
managed. The project's team was led by a general director and coordinators­ with in-dept
technical knowledge ­ were appointed for each sub-component. Moreover, the team comprised an
experienced fiduciary coordinator familiar with Bank procedures. The professional standards and
appropriate skill-mix of project staff were key in ensuring a successful project implementation.
The implementation of the Project was only slightly affected by the change of Government in
2006 and a change of leadership in CONICYT in March 2006, which involved the appointment of
a new general director of the Project. The project team was highly effective in launching activities
and managing complex selection processes at international standards. However, the envisaged
balance in spending between component 2 and 3 of the Project was not fully achieved. This
reflected stronger initial experience with support for basic research as well as unexpected delays
in the launch of cooperative research consortia and thesis work in industry. During each
supervision mission, the project unit in CONICYT prepared and delivered to the Bank well-
documented project implementation progress reports. Moreover, the unit provided adequate
technical assistance and support to subprojects under implementation. Nonetheless, more
emphasis could have been placed on monitoring results achieved in supported sub-projects in
accordance with the developed results framework. The project team undertook a wide range of
activities to increase awareness of the Project and build momentum for change. For instance, the
team used innovative communication methods such as radio spots and prepared a complete
section with information on the Project which was distributed nationally by the daily newspaper
Mercurio in July 2005.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: satisfactory
On balance, the borrower performance is rated satisfactory. The Government was highly
committed and added momentum to the Project and the management of the Project was effective.

6. Lessons Learned

The following lessons learned have been identified:

Need to outline the results framework clearly from project design stage
The Project was originally designed as part of a wider Program, which consisted of two phases
and used an Adaptable Program Lending approach. The Project represents the first phase of the
Program (APL1), while a second phase (APL2) was supposed to follow, given a positive



                                                                                                 39

evaluation of the first phase and the attainment of predefined triggers. A number of indicators to
assess the long-term impact of the Project were discussed at the time of project design but only
subsequently, when it was clearer which data could be realistically collected and monitored, a list
of the main indicators was agreed. In this way, the result framework was not sufficiently outlined
from the initial phase, linking clearly the Project Development Objectives, for the APL1, to
specific indicators. This has made difficult in some cases to clearly identify the full impact of the
project at the time of the ICR since a clear causal connection between indicators, activities and
PDOs was not always straightforward. The lesson learned from this Project is to clearly identify
from the design stage, whenever possible, a direct link between PDOs and specific indicators, and
assure that the PDOs for every stage of the project are separate yet connected to the ultimate
objectives of the Program.

Need to strengthen collaboration among agencies
For an innovation system to be effective, horizontal integration and collaboration between
different institutions within the wider system is essential. The most effective innovation systems
in the world are not characterized by a hierarchical institutional design but by the strength of
linkages across various players in the system. During the early stages of the APL1, CONICYT,
CORFO and FIA collaborated in the design and launch of the public-private consortia program ­
a program that contained elements which fell within the mandate of all of these agencies. Over
time, however, this coordination weakened. CONICYT and CORFO have now developed
independent and competing consortia programs, although the core objectives remain largely the
same. Given the complexity of stimulating public-private collaboration and overcoming cultural
barriers between research centers and the private sector, it would be more effective if both
institutions worked jointly in the development of a shared model for promoting collaborative
research between the public and private sector and overseeing its successful implementation.
Having a single "window" in government with a single set of procedures would also avoid
confusion to beneficiaries. There are other areas where collaboration among agencies would be
beneficial, e.g. insertion of researchers in industry and start up of knowledge-based companies,
since both institutions have some knowledge and experience to contribute to this process.

Monitoring and evaluation
For a large and decentralized innovation system, M&E is a core activity. The Project has
improved the basis for informed policy making through the establishment of KAWAX, a system
for tracking national indicators for science, technology and innovation using international
standards and methodologies. Equally important to the above is building capacity within
implementing agencies to monitor and evaluate the impact of their programs in order to
continuously improve their design, inform national policies, and promote an efficient allocation
of public resources.

Institutionalization of the Project
The Project acted as a dynamic innovation center, identifying gaps, incubating new instruments
and programs, forging strategic alliances, and spinning-off activities. This is partly due to its
relative operational autonomy from CONICYT, and partly to the ability of the team to create
opportunity and experiment with new instruments. It is important however ­ to ensure
sustainability of these efforts ­ to institutionalize some elements of the Project within CONICYT.
Notably, efforts to consolidate research in high-quality research teams and increase Chile's stock
of advanced human capital should be closely integrated with FONDECYT, FONDAP and
CONICYT's scholarship programs.




                                                                                                  40

Integrating and harmonizing group-based research.
The Millennium Science Initiative in the Ministry of Planning, the FONDAP research centers
administered by FONDECYT, and the Research Rings launched under the program have all
contributed to the development of group-based research in Chile, shifting from a system that
provided small grants to individuals to one that provides larger grants to research groups working
in priority areas. The establishment of these separate programs, however, has led to fragmentation
and some overlap in the funding of basic research in Chile raising the need for development of
common guidelines and integration of these programs under a single window and administration.

Learning curve
The launch of new instruments to promote innovation- particularly programs targeted at the
private sector- requires a process of learning and trust building in Chile. For example, the lengthy
time involved in establishing the Collaborative Research Consortia reflects the difficulty of
forming a formal partnership between universities and industry. Also, the program for inserting
researchers in industry took time to reach a sufficient scale due to initial skepticism and hesitation
on part of the private sector. After building trust and awareness, there is currently great potential
and scope for expansion.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
The comments sent by the implementing agency raise two important issues, which have also been
discussed in this ICR. The first issue regards the need to strengthen collaboration between
agencies, in order to have the greatest benefit from successful initiatives such as the public-
private consortia program, and avoid duplications and dispersion in the implementation. This
point has been also presented in this ICR in section 6 (Lesson Learned), which identifies the
needs of strengthening collaboration among agencies and having a single set of procedures in
order to avoid confusion among the beneficiaries as extremely relevant for an innovation system
to be effective. The second issue regards the need to plan and execute in a timely manner the
M&E procedures, to avoid problems in managing resources and a consequent accumulation of
tasks toward the end of the Project, when it is most important to gather data and information. This
issues has been discussed in this report in Section 2.3 (M&E Design, Implementation and
Utilization), where the difficulty faced by the project unit in establishing an information system
for tracking results in supported sub-projects has been recognized. However, this was not as much
due to a lack of a proper M&E design as to capacity issues tied to the implementation of activities
early in the Project implementation stage. In Section 6 of this report (Lessons Learned), the
importance of building capacity within implementing agencies to monitor and evaluate the impact
of their programs in order to continuously improve their design and promote an efficient
allocation of public resources is highlighted.

(b) Cofinanciers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                                                                                   41

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                  Appraisal Estimate Actual/Latest
          Components                                                Percentage of
                                   (USD millions)    Estimate (USD
                                                       millions)     Appraisal

1. IMPROVING CHILE'S
SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY
AND INNOVATION SYSTEM
(A) Strategy, Policies and
Awareness for Innovation and               6.39           10.81        169%

Human Capital
(B) Increasing the Monitoring and
Evaluation Capacity
2. STRENGTHENING CHILE'S
SCIENCE BASE
(A) Excellence in Science
(B) Advanced Human Capital               19.51            32.36        165%

(C) State of the Art Equipment for
Science and Technology
3. ENHANCING PUBLIC-
PRIVATE LINKAGES
(A) Cooperative Research
Program                                  22.65              8.76        39%
(B) Researchers in Industry
(C) International Cooperative
Research
4. UNALLOCATED                             1.43             0.00        0%


             Total Baseline Cost         50.01            51.93        104%

Physical Contingencies                     0.00             0.00        0.00

Price Contingencies                        0.00             0.00        0.00
              Total Project Costs        50.01            51.93
Project Preparation Fund                   0.00             0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                         0.25             0.25
      Total Financing Required           50.26            52.18        104%




                                                                                 42

(b) Financing
                                                 Appraisal Actual/Latest

          Source of Funds             Type of    Estimate   Estimate    Percentage of
                                     Cofinancing  (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                 millions)  millions)
Borrower                                          25.00       26.92        108%
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development                                   25.26       25.26        100%




                                                                                  43

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

This Annex presents a detailed analysis of the main activities implemented in the time span of the
Project. A glance at the main policy instruments produced in the three years of implementation is
presented below in Box 4.


  BOX 4
  A Glance at PBCT Instruments 2004-2006

  Component 1. Improving Chile's National Innovation System
         · STI Observatory
         · STI Policy Studies
         · STI Management and Policy Courses
         · STI Statistics and Information Systems
         · Diaspora Program: Chile Global
         · STTI Awareness Seminars
         · Technological Camps for Youth

  Component 2. Strengthening Chile's Science Base
         · Collaborative Research Rings: Science and Technology, Antarctic and Social Sciences
         · Scholarships for PhD studies in Chile and Abroad
         · Insertion into the Academia

  Component 3. Enhancing Public-Private Linkages
         · Collaborative Research Consortia
         · Regional Consortia
         · Insertion of Young Researchers in Industry
         · Support for patenting
         · Complementary Support to Chilean and European Union STI Cooperation
         · International Cooperation in STI


Component 1 - Improving Chile's National Innovation System

A summary of the initiatives launched under component 1 is provided in the table below
(Table17).

Table 17 Summary Initiatives Component 1
                                                   Year of Contest
                     INSTRUMENT
                                              2004      2005       2006      TOTAL

Technological Awareness camps                  8          3         17         28

Courses for STI Management Skills              18         5          7         30

Studies for Politics and Management in STI                          37         37

Awareness Activities and Seminars in STI                            55         55

Total                                          29        15         121       165
Source: CONICYT

Sub-component 1.1 - Oversight, Management and Implementation
Establishment of an Independent Advisory Board. The Project supported the creation of an
Independent Advisory Board at the government level. The Board had, among others, the function



                                                                                                44

of advising on public-private interfaces in order to bring out the innovative potential of the
private sector. The Board was set up in 2003 and included the Ministers of Education, Economy,
Agriculture and Mining, three high level representatives of the private sector and three high-level
representatives of the scientific community. The Advisory Board played a useful role in sharing
information between Ministries and helped highlight the need to work across sectors on
innovation-related initiatives. However, it did not work properly as a decision-making body.

Sub-component 1.2 - Strategy, Policies and Awareness for Innovation and Human Capital
Formation.

Studies: Nineteen analytical studies were produced on STI-related areas that: (i) benchmark
science and technology activities in the country; (ii) identify best practice to aide decision-making
of different actors in the NIS; and (iii) support the development of STI instruments and national
policies and strategies.

Seminars: There were 35 activities in 2006 and 20 that have been selected for 2007. A detailed
description of the diffusion and networking activity is reported below (Table 18) for 2006 (data
for 2007 not yet available).

Table 18 Awareness Activities and Seminars in STI
                                  Total     Representatives Representatives Representatives
      Subject       Initiatives attendees                                                    Mass media
                                  to the       national      international   other sectors  appearances
                                initiatives   academia        academia      than academia

   (ISI Thomson)       (N°)        (N°)          (N°)            (N°)            (N°)          (N°)
 Agricultural
 engineering             1          85            3               0               10            10

 Biochemical
 research                1          52            2               0                5             6
 methods
 Business,
 finance                 2         203            1               2               13            41

 Chemistry,
 multidisciplinary       1          n/a           2               0                5            n/a

 Education and
 educational             2         738            25              26              25            13
 research
 Education,
 scientific              4         285            31              5               26             0
 disciplines
 Energy and fuels        8         300            3               2                1            31

 Fisheries               1          n/a           2               0               13             0

 Food science
 and technology          4         147            1               1               19            10

 Forestry                1          n/a           3               1               19             7

 Geochemistry
 and geophysics          4         161            0               4               21             5

 Health care
 sciences and            1          35            0               5                3            22
 services
 Information
 systems                 1          98            2               1               14            29

 Management             32        2,323           49              18             147            185

 Medical ethics          6         490            7               2                5            10
 Mining and
 mineral                 6         295            9               1               37            14
 processing




                                                                                                          45

 Multidisciplinary
 sciences               3         49             55            16           6             5

 Urban studies          1         n/a             6            8            6             0

 Total                 79        5,261           201           92          375          388
Source: CONICYT (2007)


Courses: Eighteen STI Management Courses were selected and carried out in 2005. The second
call for proposals took place at the end of 2005, where 5 courses were selected, while in 2006
there were 7 projects selected out of 16 proposals. Table 19 reports a list of courses that have
been completed.

Table 19 STI Management Courses

                                                                        GENERAL

                                                   Amount      Total    National   International   Other
                                                 Granted by  Attendees  Academia    Academia      Sectors
 Call       Institution        COURSE            the Project   to the   Attendees   Attendees     Attendees
                                                    (USD)     Courses




                         Strengthening of
 1°      Universidad de
         La Frontera     regional technology       11,429       42          2           1            10
                         managers

 1°      Universidad de  Management of
         Santiago        innovation projects        9,524       78          0           2             0

         Universidad     Seminars for STI
 1°      Católica del    management and            13,333       20          0           1             1
         Norte           entrepreneurship

 1°      Universidad     Industrial
         Diego Portales  biotechnology             14,286       n/a        n/a          n/a          n/a

         Universidad     Capacities for
 1°      Católica de     innovation research       19,048       54          2           0            13
         Temuco          and management
                         Biotechnology,
 1°      Universidad de
         Talca           entrepreneurship and      19,048       41         11           2            11
                         product development
         Universidad     Innovation: a key
 1°      Austral de      factor for                22,857       210         1           6            16
         Chile           competitiveness
                         Knowledge

 1°      Universidad de  management and
         Concepción      technological             22,857       14          0           2             1

                         oversight
                         Angel investment,

 1°      Universidad     innovative projects
         Adolfo Ibañez   and business              23,810       n/a         3           2             0

                         technology plans

 1°      Universidad de  Cross-border
         Concepción      technology transfer       23,810       93          1           1             3

         Neos            NEOS international
 1°      Harnecker       seminar                   28,571       216         0           3             7
         Ltda
                         Management and

 1°      Universidad de  impact of university-
         Concepción      industry linkages in      31,429       70          0           5             2

                         research

 1°      Dictuc S.A.     Innovation Engine         38,095       175         3           1            14

                         Management and
 1°      Universidad de
         Talca           innovation in R&D         40,000       n/a        n/a          n/a          n/a
                         for agricultural sector




                                                                                                        46

                             Industry innovation
 1°     Universidad
        Adolfo Ibañez        and technology             47,619          355             4                1            9
                             management
        Universidad          First national

 1°     Técnica              conference regarding
        Federico Santa       technology and             47,619           n/a            n/a             n/a          n/a

        María                business
        Pontificia           STI management

 1°     Universidad
        Católica de                                     52,381          350             4                0            12

        Chile
                             Technology and
 1°     Universidad de
        Santiago             Innovation: future         52,381          129             3                3            32
                             milestones for Chile
                             New Business
 2°     Universidad
        Adolfo Ibañez        Workshops: Science-        19,048          165             3                2            2
                             Business Track
        Universidad          Degree in STI
 2°     Alberto              management                 56,084           22             2                2            11
        Hurtado

 2°     Universidad de       Degree in market-
        Santiago             oriented innovation        56,800           n/a            n/a             n/a          n/a

                             Degree in technology
 2°     Universidad de
        Talca                management                 28,762           12             7                1            1
                             (Santiago)

 2°     Universidad de       Degree in technology
        Talca                management (Talca)         28,762           11             7                1            1

Source: CONICYT

Technological camps: A total of 28 technological camps were financed under the Project: 17
were conducted during 2005. Table 20 shows some indicators regarding these events.

Table 20 Indicators Technological Camps
                                                                               Amount
                                                 Total cost    Cash or in    transferred   Initiatives
                        Subject                   of the          kind         by the           of        Total    Mass media
 Call                                             project     contributions   Project at   diffusion   attendance appearances

                                                                              30/12/06
                     (ISI Thomson)                (USD)           (%)           (%)           (N°)        (N°)       (N°)

   1°     Engineering, mechanical                 13,745          0%            65%            17          645         2

   1°     Education, scientific disciplines       17,695          0%            64%            13          51          5

   1°     Ecology                                 29,130          0%            44%             8          52          4

   1°     Oceanography                            27,851          6%            48%             9          60          6

   1°     Ecology                                 20,495            0           65%            30         2,340       17

   1°     Agriculture, soil science               28,130          35%           47%            32          146         8

   1°     Astronomy and astrophysics              27,740          0%            48%            10          71          5

   1°     Agriculture, soil science               20,570          7%            65%            13         1,240       17

   2°     Robotics                                13,540          0%            62%            10          61          4

   2°     Biotechnology and applied
          microbiology                            27,620          6%            48%             4          na          2

   2°     Computer science, cybernetics           28,940          0%            46%             8          19         22

Source: CONICYT (2007)




                                                                                                                         47

Sub-component 1.3 Monitoring and Evaluation Capacity

Established KAWAX, the STI observatory. The Project supported STI analysis through
strengthening and expanding information systems that will help policymakers improve decision-
making and M&E capability for STI. Box 5 lists a number of M&E activities conducted under the
auspices of the program.

BOX 5
M&E Activities under the Project

Strengthening STI information systems
     · Acquisition of license for ISI (International Science Indicators)
     · Information system for Fondecyt's Management Improvement Program (PMG) in 2004 and 2005
     · Information system to support the Academy of Sciences
     · Information system for the Project
     · Stanalist project (in collaboration with France)
     · Atlas of Science project (in collaboration with Spain)
     · Collexis project (in collaboration with The Netherlands)
     · Fondecyt's and FONTEC's evaluation systems
STI M&E Workshops
     · International M&E workshop (January 2004)
     · Villarica Workshop: International seminar on STI (January 2004)
     · Workshop on indicators and basic design of the STI Observatory (September 2004)
     · Workshop on patenting and support to the patenting contest (March 2005)
     · Second workshop on STI indicators and detailed design of the STI Observatory (January 2006)
Design activities
     ·    Design of surveys for collecting data on human resources in research for Higher Education
          institutions, Government and private institutions

Within the Observatory, a fund for "Studies of Science, Technology and Innovation Policy and
Management" was launched in 2006. The fund financed 37 studies out of 72 proposals (see Table
21 below for a list of subjects of the studies).

Table 21 Studies for Policies and Managements in STI (2006)

               Subject                Studies

            (ISI Thomson)               (Nº)

 Agricultural Economics and Policy       2

 Astronomy and Astrophysics              1

 Business                                10

 Economics                               1

 Educational Research                    4

 Energy and Fuels                        1

 Fisheries                               1

 Forestry                                2

 Geography                               1
 Information Science and Library
 Science                                 1

 Management                              1
 Operations Research and
 Management Science                      8




                                                                                                    48

 Physics, Multidisciplinary           1

 Public Administration                1

 Social Sciences                      1

 Urban Studies                        1

              TOTALS                 37
Source: CONICYT (2007)


Information Technology for M&E. The Project contributed to strengthening the operational
capacity of the agency. Under the Project one of the main deficiencies in the NIS was addressed,
which is the lack of mechanisms to incorporate information that allow a national registry of the
STI activities to be kept. Starting from different experiences during implementation, it was
decided that this gap would be filled by designing a platform to collect and process data from the
different instruments in support of STI. A sustainable software platform to maintain the 4 main
units of information (people, institutions, projects and results) has been developed through the
establishment of a mechanism that ensures gathering digital information from the beginning of
the process. Hence, an online submission platform and a lightweight management tool were built.
The management system is not operating yet but all projects were already digitalized (PDF files
of projects sections) and indicator's data are currently being generated for the M&E group. At the
same time, a Website that allows users to query this entities information (as well as main
indicators) is in phase of development (together with a new institutional website,
http://www.conicyt.cl/nuevositio/). Each entity's key information will be available. The platform
is already installed and operating (http://newtenberg.conicyt.cl/) and data entry and automatic
procedures will be built during June. Full data shall be available by the end of July.

Component 2 Strengthening Chile's Science Base.

Sub-component 2.1 - Excellence in Science
Supported the creation of Research Rings (Cooperative Research Teams). With support from the
Project a total of 34 multidisciplinary research teams were established, in the areas of: (i) Science
and Technology; (ii) Antarctic Science and (iii) Social Science.

Within the Science and Technology thematic area, the Project financed 14 research projects
(selected from a total of 27 proposals), which have completed their first year of execution. More
research projects (17 in total) are due to start by June 2007. Within the Antarctic Science thematic
area, the Project is financing one Research Ring, from a total of 10 proposals submitted. The
objective of the financing is to support top-quality scientific research projects aligned with the
strategic priorities of the Chilean Antarctic Institute (INACH), which the Project helped to define.
Finally, within the Social Science thematic area, two projects were selected out of 16 proposals.
Both projects selected contribute to the design of public policies in Chile.

Tables 22a and 22b below report some indicators for scientific production and human capital
formation for the Research Rings financed under the Project, after their first year of execution.




                                                                                                  49

Table 22(a) Indicators on Scientific Production in the first year of execution for S&T Research Rings
                                                                                                                      Scientific production

                                                                      Subject                        Publications co-   Publications co-
   Institution                 Research Ring Title                                        ISI                                               International    National
                                                                                       Publications  authored with      authored within
                                                                                                      other centers       same center       presentations  presentations


                                                                  (ISI Thomson)           (N°)            (%)                  (%)              (N°)           (N°)
 Universidad de
      Talca       Equations related to lattices                    Mathematics              6             33%                 100%               15             6

 Universidad de   Networks in Mathematics and Engineering
      Chile       Sciences                                         Mathematics             n/a             n/a                  n/a              n/a           n/a

  Universidad
 Técnica Federico Analysis, modelling and optimization in the    Engineering, electric     10            100%                  90%               32             8
  Santa María     application of wireless Technologies.            and electronic

 Universidad de   Dynamics, singularities and geometry of             Physics,
      Chile       matter out of equilibrium.                      multidisciplinary        n/a             n/a                  n/a              n/a           n/a

                  Tectonomagmatic control of giant ore deposits
 Universidad de   in the subduction factory of the high Chilean    Geosciences,
      Chile       Andes between 32º-36ºS: a multidisciplinary     multidisciplinary         0              0%                  0%                6              3

                  approach.
 Universidad de   Climate variability in Chile: assessment,        Environmental
      Chile       interpretation and projections.                     sciences              4             25%                  50%               7              1

 Universidad de   Electrochemical sensor design for sulphite

    Santiago      detection and electrochemical measurements     Chemistry, applied         0              0%                  0%                6              15
                  of the phenols antioxidant capacity in wines.
                  Vitamin C and oxidative stress resistance:
 Universidad de   Basic studies and biomedical applications in   Medicine, research
   Concepción     cancer and prevention of cardiovascular         and experimental          0              0%                  0%                4              4

                  diseases.

 Universidad de   Chagas disease: control of virulence and       Pharmacology and
      Chile       infectivity of Tripanosoma cruzi with products                            3            100%                  0%                4              3
                  of natural, synthetic and immunologic origin       pharmacy

  Universidad     Scientific ring in microevolution of             Genetics and
 Austral de Chile phytophagous insects: an ecological,                                     12             33%                 100%               11             6
                  physiological and genomic approach.                 heredity

 Universidad de   Advance studies in cell signalling and gene
   Concepción     regulation.                                       Cell biology            5             60%                 100%               0              0

 Universidad de   Centre for sensory neurosciences from signal
   Valparaíso     transduction to the neural code.                 Neurosciences            0              0%                  0%                6              3

 Universidad de   Interaction surfaces in folding and
   Valparaíso     oligomerization of ion channel proteins.         Neurosciences           n/a             n/a                  n/a              n/a           n/a

 Universidad de   Centre for the analysis of gene function in
      Chile       neural development                               Neurosciences            0              0%                  0%                2              4




                                                                                                                                                                     50

Table 22(b) Indicators on Human Capital Formation in the first year of execution for S&T Research Rings
                                                                                                                                     Human Capital

                                                                                                Subject
      Institution                              Research Ring Title                                                 PhD    Post-  PhD     Visiting students Visiting students
                                                                                                                 students  Doc   Thesis    from other
                                                                                                                                              centers      to other centers


                                                                                            (ISI Thomson)          (N°)    (N°)  (N°)          (N°)              (N°)

 Universidad de Talca   Equations related to lattices                                        Mathematics           n/a     n/a    n/a           15                5

 Universidad de Chile   Networks in Mathematics and Engineering Sciences                     Mathematics           n/a     n/a    n/a           n/a               n/a

  Universidad Técnica   Analysis, modelling and optimization in the application of        Engineering, electric
 Federico Santa María   wireless Technologies.                                               and electronic         5       2     0             0                 6


 Universidad de Chile   Dynamics, singularities and geometry of matter out of                   Physics,
                        equilibrium.                                                       multidisciplinary       n/a     n/a    n/a           n/a               n/a

                        Tectonomagmatic control of giant ore deposits in the subduction
 Universidad de Chile   factory of the high Chilean Andes between 32º-36ºS: a                Geosciences,           3       1     0             0                 0
                        multidisciplinary approach.                                        multidisciplinary

 Universidad de Chile   Climate variability in Chile: assessment, interpretation and
                        projections.                                                     Environmental sciences     0       3     0              1                 0

    Universidad de      Electrochemical sensor design for sulphite detection and

        Santiago        electrochemical measurements of the phenols antioxidant           Chemistry, applied        3       3     0             2                 2
                        capacity in wines.

    Universidad de      Vitamin C and oxidative stress resistance: Basic studies and     Medicine, research and
      Concepción        biomedical applications in cancer and prevention of                                         5       2     0             1                 0
                        cardiovascular diseases.                                             experimental

                        Chagas disease: control of virulence and infectivity of
 Universidad de Chile   Tripanosoma cruzi with products of natural, synthetic and         Pharmacology and          7       1     1             0                 0
                        immunologic origin                                                     pharmacy

 Universidad Austral de Scientific ring in microevolution of phytophagous insects: an
         Chile          ecological, physiological and genomic approach.                   Genetics and heredity     9       1     0              5                4

    Universidad de
      Concepción        Advance studies in cell signalling and gene regulation.               Cell biology          4       1     4              3                0

    Universidad de      Centre for sensory neurosciences from signal transduction to the
       Valparaíso       neural code.                                                        Neurosciences           11      0     0              3                0

    Universidad de      Interaction surfaces in folding and oligomerization of ion
       Valparaíso       channel proteins.                                                   Neurosciences          n/a     n/a    n/a           n/a               n/a

 Universidad de Chile   Centre for the analysis of gene function in neural development      Neurosciences           8       3     0              0                 4
Source: CONICYT (2007)




                                                                                                                                                                        51

Sub-component 2.2-Advanced Human Capital.
Financed doctoral studies in STI related disciplines. The Project financed 517 national doctoral
scholarships, and 58 scholarships for PhD studies abroad in Britain, France, the United States and
New Zealand. These scholarships were awarded specifically in scientific disciplines (see Graph
5) where the number of post graduates in Chile has been historically low (see Graph 6).

Graph 5 Number of PhD students financed by the Project in Chilean universities (by area of study)

   140
   120
   100
    80
    60
    40
    20
      0
               Agricultural       Medicine    Natural sciences Engineering and
                 sciences                                         technology


                                    2004   2005    2006

Source: CONICYT


Graph 6 PhD in hard sciences in Chile

   180
   160
   140
   120

   100
    80
    60
    40
    20
      0
            1997       1998   1999 2000   2001    2002    2003    2004    2005


Source: Ministry of Education


With this contribution, CONICYT was able to almost double the number of scholarships
supported per year, in particular in engineering and other S&T related fields (see Tables 23a and
23b below).




                                                                                                52

Table 23(a) Number of PhD students financed by the Project in Chilean Universities
                                                  Scholarships per year
                     Subject                                            TOTAL
                                                  2004   2005     2006

 Agriculture multidisciplinary                     4      12        8    24

 Agronomy                                          2       3        1     6

 Astronomy and astrophysics                        1                3     4

 Biochemistry and molecular biology                31     28       20    79

 Biology                                           9       8       10    27

 Biotechnology and applied microbiology                    1        3     4

 Business                                                  1              1

 Chemistry, multidisciplinary                      14     15       22    51

 Computer science, interdisciplinary applications  1       2        7    10

 Ecology                                           12     13       23    48

 Engineering, chemical                             4       4        8    16

 Engineering, civil                                1       1              2

 Engineering, electrical and electronic            4       6       17    27

 Engineering, multidisciplinary                    3       3        3     9

 Environmental sciences                                             9     9

 Food science and technology                       1       3              4

 Forestry                                          10      6        5    21

 Genetics and heredity                             4       1        7    12

 Geology                                           6       3        3    12

 Materials science, multidisciplinary              2                2     4

 Mathematics                                       3       2        3     8

 Mathematics, applied                              3       2        5    10

 Medicine, general and internal                    11     15       15    41

 Microbiology                                      5       4        4    13

 Neurosciences                                     2                5     7

 Oceanography                                      4       6        1    11

 Pharmacology and pharmacy                         2       5        3    10

 Physics, multidisciplinary                        7      14       10    31

 Social sciences, interdisciplinary                2                      2

 Statistics and probability                        2       3        1     6

 Veterinary sciences                               2       4        2     8

 TOTAL                                            152     165      200   517
Source: CONICYT 2007



Table 23(b) Number of PhD students financed by the Project in International Universities
                                                  Scholarships per year
                     Subject                                            TOTAL
                                                  2004   2005     2006

 Agronomy                                          1                      1

 Astronomy and astrophysics                        1                      1

 Biology                                                   1              1

 Computer science, artificial intelligence                 2              2

 Computer science, interdisciplinary applications  1       5        1     7

 Engineering, civil                                5                      5




                                                                                           53

 Engineering, multidisciplinary                     2       2    11    15

 Environmental sciences                             1                  1

 Geosciences, multidisciplinary                             1          1

 Law                                                        1          1

 Mathematics, applied                               1                  1

 Mathematics, interdisciplinary applications                1          1

 Medicine, research and experimental                              1    1

 Multidisciplinary sciences                         2            11    13

 Physics, condensed matter                                  1          1

 Physics, multidisciplinary                         1       3          4

 Social sciences, interdisciplinary                               2    2

 TOTAL                                              15     17    26    58
Source: CONICYT 2007


Inserted postdoctoral researchers in universities. The Project contributed to enhance the
qualifications of researchers working in Chilean universities by providing time-limited support
for the insertion of 148 doctoral graduates in academia. Out of 31 proposals put forward by 12
institutions, 10 were selected in the first selection round, resulting in 27 researchers being inserted
into the winning institutions. In the second round, out of 35 proposals, 21 proposals were selected,
inserting 52 additional researchers in academia while in the 2006 round additional 69 researchers
were inserted through 26 winning proposals out of 45. Table 24 presents details of the scientific
areas for approved proposals and research institutes that hired the young researchers.

Table 24 Insertion of Advanced Human Capital in Academia
 Discipline                         PhDs    Discipline             PhDs Discipline                              PhDs

 First Round - 2004                   27    Second Round - 2005     52  Third Round - 2006                       69

 Natural Resource Cluster             2     Bioinformatics          8   Chemistry, multidisciplinary             9

 Computational Chemistry              5     Genetics                2   Medicine, research and experimental      2

 Microscopic Spectrometry             3     Agriculture             3   Nanoscience and nanotechnology           3

 Plant Biotechnology                  3     Physics                 5   Optics                                   3

 Neurochemistry                       3     Audio Technologies      2   Education                                8

 Climate Sciences                     2     Medicine and Health     7   Genetics and heredity                    2

 Neurosciences                        3     Natural Resources       5   Veterinary sciences                      3

 Clinical Biochemistry                3     Chemistry               3   Public administration                    2
 Sustainable use of Aquatic
 Resources                            3     Biotechnology           5   Polymer science                          2

                                            Estocastic Modeling     3   Biology                                  11

                                            Sciences                2   Ecology                                  5

                                            Productive Processes    2   Neurosciences                            2

                                            Nanosciences            3   Physics                                  6
                                            Mineralogy &
                                            Geometallurgy           2   Economics                                3

                                                                        Computer science, interdisciplinary
                                                                        applications                             2

                                                                        Urban studies                            3

                                                                        Engineering, electrical and electronic   3
Source: CONICYT 2007




                                                                                                                 54

Sub-component 2.3 Improvement of Research Infrastructure.
Prepared diagnosis of STI infrastructure. An inventory of sophisticated S&T equipment was
conducted to identify priority needs and finance equipment to be shared among research
institutions and newly formed research teams. Equipment would be further leveraged by
interconnecting it to internet II, which is ubiquitous in Chilean universities, allowing for virtual
collaborative analyses and experiments in real time. Delays in the preparation of the database for
the acquisition of major equipment meant that it was not possible to undertake the investment in
heavy equipment as originally envisaged.


Component 3 Enhancing Public-Private Linkages

The Project created opportunities through the research consortia and the insertion of researchers
into industry for the participation of private enterprises in the study, design and execution of some
of the proposals, increasing in this way their potential for industrial applicability.

Sub component 3.1 Cooperative Research
Cooperative Research Consortia. In partnership with CORFO and FIA, the Project pioneered the
concept of research consortia in Latin America.

Table 25 Cooperative Research Consortia financed by CORFO and FIA.

 Call                     Discipline
              CORFO                     FIA

 2004        Agriculture         Biotechnology and
           multidisciplinary    applied microbiology

 2004        Agriculture          Agriculture, dairy
           multidisciplinary     and animal science
 2004          Forestry

 2005        Engineering,         Agriculture, dairy
              geological         and animal science

 2005         Robotics              Agriculture
                                  multidisciplinary

 2005         Fisheries             Agriculture
                                  multidisciplinary

 2005     Computer sciences,
         information systems
 2005     Veterinary sciences
Source: CONICYT


The first call for proposals was conducted in 2004. Nine out of 61 proposals were selected in
total: 4 by CONICYT, 2 by FIA and 4 by CORFO (one jointly with CONICYT). In the second
call for consortia, there were 2 proposals selected by CONICYT, 3 by FIA, and 5 by CORFO. A
summary of the consortia financed by CORFO and FIA is reported in Table 25.




                                                                                                   55

Table 25a Regional Cooperative Research Consortia: overview

                                    Total        Total
                                                amount         Cash or in                              Financing
             Subject                cost of                                  Diffusion      Spin-off               Type of
                                   the sub-    granted by        kind        Initiatives   companies     from        firm
                                   project         the       contributions                               firms
                                                Project*
                                                  USD
         (ISI Thomson)              USD                                                                            In terms
                                   millions     millions          (%)           (N°)         (N°)         (%)      of sales

   Food science and technology       4.6           1.3           25%              2            1         25%       Medium


   Food science and technology       5.1           1.0           28%              5            0         16%        Large


   Mining and mineral processing     5.4           1.7           41%              0            0          0%          n/a


   Environmental studies             7.6           1.7           19%             13            0          0%         n/a

Source:CONICYT
* The difference between the total cost of the sub-project and the amount financed by the Project is financed by Regional
Governments.


The Project also financed four Regional Cooperative Research Consortia, whose main
achievements and characteristics are presented in Tables 25a and 25b. Please refer to Box 6 for an
overview of the main objectives of the consortia.

Table 25b Regional Cooperative Research Consortia indicators
                         Main         Associate       Scientific   Publications co-     International     National          PhD
      Subject         researchers    researchers    Publications    authored with       presentations   presentations     students
                                                                     other centers

   (ISI Thomson)          (N°)           (N°)           (N°)             (%)                (N°)            (N°)            (N°)


   Food science
 and technology            12             12              0               n/a                n/a            n/a              1


   Food science
 and technology            4              27              9              100                 6               5               1


   Mining and
 mineral processing        17              8              3                0                 5               6               4


   Environmental
 studies                   6               1              9               n/a                n/a            n/a              2

Source: CONICYT




                                                                                                                      56

 Box 6 Regional Cooperative Research Consortia

 Los Lagos Region (2005-2010)
 The main objective of the Research consortia in Nutrition, Food Technology and Sustainability (Centro
 de Investigación en Nutrición, Tecnología de Alimentos y Sustentabilidad) is to create state-of-the-art
 knowledge and cutting-edge technologies to support the sustainable development of animal production
 at regional and national level. In its first stage, the Center focuses in the Aquiculture, aiming to become
 a reference of international prestige.

 Aysén Region (2005-2010)
 Located in the region of Aysén, the geographic scope of the study of the Research center for the
 Patagonia Ecosystems (Centro de Investigación en Ecosistemas de la Patagonia) will be concentrated
 preferably in the south of Chile, between Puerto Montt and the south border of Aysén. The objective of
 the Center is to develop scientific research of excellence to identify the structure, processes and
 interactions between fluvial and marine river basins systems (inner sea and the adjacent ocean). The
 analysis will include a study of socioeconomic effects of these processes, including local effects
 associated to regional productive development and global effects associated to the climatic change.

 Antofagasta Region (2006-2011)
 The Technological Scientific Research Center for Mining (Centro de Investigación Científico
 Tecnológico para la Minería), based in the II region of Antofagasta, aims to contribute to the project of
 regional mining cluster by creating a center of technological and scientific research in mining and to
 sustain the development of the Region of Antofagasta. Its specific objective is: (i) to create the
 Center's legal-administrative regulatory framework and to consolidate it with multidisciplinary research
 groups that aim to be a national reference in areas linked to the mining sector; (ii) to promote the active
 participation of companies in the technological and scientific development, (iii) to foment university-
 firm linkages and (iv) to contribute to the formation and incorporation of human resources for Science
 and Technology development. Finally, the center aims to support technological transfer to develop and
 to create micro, small and medium technological enterprises, complementary companies to the mining
 sector, contributing to the generation of employment in the Region

 Araucania Region (2005-2010)
 The Nutritional Genomic Center (Centro de Genomica Nutricional Agroacuicola) allowed for the
 generation of a high level research platform to improve the competitiveness of agriculture in the IX
 region and national aquiculture. The platform in nutritional physiology will allow investigating
 nutritional quality of vegetal raw material. In this way, it will produce cultures of greater added value,
 able to meet the requirements of the market demand, where innovation in science and technology plays
 a central role.


Sub-component 3.2-Insertion of Researchers in Industry
The Project provided incentives for the intake of doctoral graduates in industry, a process that
otherwise occurs very slowly or not occur at all. Researchers in Chile have been traditionally
oriented towards a career in academia or public research institutions until recent years (see Graph
7).




                                                                                                           57

Graph 7 Researchers in Chile by sectors.

      100%

        80%

        60%

        40%

        20%

         0%
                 1999        2000        2001        2002         2003        2004


                   Government                       Private Firms

                   Higher Education institutions    Non profit private organizations

Source: RICYT

Thirteen researchers were selected for insertion into industry in the first call for proposals in 2004.
In the second call for proposals in 2005, 19 researchers were selected out of a total of 43
candidates, which shows increased demand for this instrument.
At the end of 2006, a total of 55 researchers were selected and supported under the program,
mostly in small firms (see Graph 8).
Today, only 6 projects have closed and 5 out of the 6 researchers had been contracted by the firm.

Graph 8 Insertion of researchers into industry by firms' size



                                 4%

                                             16%



                                                            Large

                                                            Medium

                                                            Small




                    80%



Source: CONICYT

In the Project design there was another instrument, which is the provision of grants for selected
STI thesis in industry, as part of this sub-component (see point (i) above). The design of this
instrument envisaged a subsidy to the enterprise that would cover operation costs and a doctoral
student's salary for two years. The grant would have also covered university tuition for the
student. However, there has been a delay in starting this part of the Project and the design for the
first call of applicants was only finalized at the end of 2006 and has not been launched yet.




                                                                                                   58

Sub-component 3.3 - International Cooperative Research
Increased Chile's access to international knowledge networks. The Project strengthened linkages
between Chilean STI institutions and global counterparts. For instance, through the Project, it was
providing support for Chile's collaboration in the European 6th framework program. The Project
supported 16 out of 30 projects (10 projects were financed in the first two calls) in which Chile
participated in the European program. The projects have an average time span of three years.

Moreover, the Project helped incubate the international diaspora network ChileGlobal which
connects successful Chilean entrepreneurs abroad with domestic businesses. At today, about
eighty influential Chilean abroad are actively engaged in the network, mainly from the USA and
Canada, followed by Europe and Latin America.

Finally, 15 workshops in STI were funded through the Project, which financed 63 per cent of the
total cost of the initiatives. They helped to articulate linkages between the scientific research
community in Chile and the international research community in thematic areas such as:
nanotechnology, biomedicine, biotechnology, energy, information technologies applied to mining
and technologies applied to aquaculture.

Sub-component 3.4 ­Instruments and Incentives around Intellectual Property.

Two contests were held under this initiative. The first contest provided the total sum of USD
608,740 with a contribution of 75 per cent from the Project and 25 per cent from the executing
agencies. Eight patenting contests were opened with the goal of supporting the patenting process
in Chile and to begin procedures abroad: 24 inventions were selected to be supported, in several
economic sectors.

The second contest provided the total sum of USD 3,159,485 (78 per cent contribution from the
Project and 22 per cent from counterpart of executing agencies). This second initiative planned
seven (7) patenting contests, each one of them in two phases, to support the patenting process in
Chile and abroad for 69 inventions in several economic sectors.




                                                                                                59

Graph 9 Patents applications by discipline

                          Patent applications by discipline
                      Biotechnology
                           6%

                          ITC              Aquaculture
                          5%                   8%

            Manufacturing                               Agriculture and
                 6%                                          Food
                                                             17%




               Health
                20%

                                                         Mining
                                                         16%



                              Engineering
                                  22%


Source: CONICYT

In total, there are 93 new inventions that will benefit of the project's support and it is envisaged
that by 2010 a high percentage of these can register a patent in Chile and foreign countries. At
today, 70 requests of patents have been submitted (see Graph 9 above for details of the
disciplines), of which 26 in Chile (equal to 38 per cent of the total, see Graph 10).

Graph 10 Patents applications by country

                          Patent applications by country


                                    India
                South America       1%
                      14%



                                                         Chile
                 Asia                                    38%
                 10%



             Australia
               4%



                   Europe
                                                    Central America
                     14%
                                                          3%
                                       North America
                                           16%


Source: CONICYT




                                                                                                 60

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
It was not possible to conduct a full economic analysis of the Project given that benefits will only
materialize over time. This annex focuses on the economic rationale behind the project's support
for STI in Chile. It considers the value of STI for economic growth and analyses the prospective
impact of the Project on firm-level innovation. The analysis draws on data from the third Chilean
National Survey of Technology Innovation in Firms.

1. Value of science, technology and innovation for economic growth
Economic theory emphasizes knowledge ­ as measured by innovation and technological progress
­ as a key driver for increases in Total Factor Productivity (TFP) and economic growth. Unlike
traditional factors of production, knowledge is not subject to diminishing returns. Hence, the
increased creation, use, adoption and flow of knowledge in various forms promise to significantly
improve the prospects of sustainable long-term economic growth for developed as well as
developing countries.

Since the landmark article by Solow in 1956, the idea that technological progress is the main
factor affecting growth ­ more than classical inputs such as labor and capital ­ has become
widely accepted. Solow presented the argument that cross country differences in technology is the
main cause of difference in per capita income. Several empirical studies6 have subsequently
tested the importance of TFP in explaining growth gaps between countries. According to the
literature, roughly half of all differences in income and growth is attributable to differences in
TFP, generally associated with technological development.

More recently, endogenous models (Romer 1990 and Aghion and Howitt 1992) have shed light
on the determinants of TFP growth, linking the TFP growth rate to innovation. According to this
view, individual firms produce technological knowledge which, initially, is private to the firm.
However, knowledge subsequently spills over to the rest of the economy as it can be copied at
almost no cost by any number of firms, becoming social knowledge. With this spillover effect, an
aggregate production function which would otherwise have either constant or decreasing returns
to scale may exhibit increasing returns to scale allowing sustained long-term growth.

However, as suggested by Cohen and Levinthal (1989 and 1990), utilizing public domain
knowledge fruitfully is not without a cost and this cost is minimal only for firms that have
accumulated sufficient technological capability (or absorptive capacity) to absorb external
knowledge. A firm's absorptive capacity is determined ­ together with traditional indicators such
as R&D or patents ­ by its human capital, defined as the stock of knowledge inside the
organization. This is supported by evidence suggesting that technologies not only increase the
demand for human capital skills but also are adopted more extensively in companies with a high
share of skilled workers. In other words, advanced human capital not only improves the
possibility of companies engaging in innovation and R&D activities, but the skills of the workers
also increase the firms' ability to absorb new knowledge and technologies (De Ferranti 2003).




6 See, among others, Hall and Jones (1999), Dollar and Wolf (1997) and Klenow and Rodriguez-Clare (1997).




                                                                                                          61

Finally, Cohen and Levinthal (1994) recognize the importance of external relationships in the
development of absorptive capacity. Development of close relationships and partnership
between firms and knowledge institutions enhances a firm's absorption capacity as such
relationships create and strengthen information channels and "thicken" the knowledge flow, e.g.
by increasing the transfer of tacit knowledge.

2. Economic analysis of the Project's interventions at the micro level
All components of the Project encouraged innovative activities either directly or indirectly. The
Project provided the basis for researchers and firms to carry out knowledge-generating activities
that likely would not have been undertaken at a socially optimal level in the absence of the
Project. This is the case as the generation, commercialization and diffusion of knowledge and
technology comes with a number of market failures7. For instance, given that knowledge is not
appropriable, entrepreneurs only have weak incentives to undertake investments that have a small
private but a large social return. In other words, individual investors do not sufficiently reap the
benefits of knowledge that spills over to the rest of society. The Project dealt with these market
failures by reducing the costs and risks associated with innovation and collaboration, thereby
increasing private returns. In particular, the Project helped to:

Promote excellence in science and technology research. By providing financial support to
research teams (subcomponent 2.1), the Project created the conditions for researchers to pursue
opportunities too risky, long-term or uncertain for private financing. Researchers could also attain
economies of scale not possible without Project support.

Table 26 Marginal effect of human capital and research collaboration on innovation

                                                           Patents                  Product                     Process
                                                                                  innovation                 innovation
     Firm Characteristics
     Export active                                              0.05                      0.01                      0.16
     Firm age (ln age)                                          0.05                      0.04                      0.00
     Firm size (ln size)                                        0.00                     -0.03                      0.05
 Collaboration with
     Universities                                               0.37                      0.29                      0.19
     Consultants                                              -0.02                       0.12                      0.16
     Suppliers                                                  0.09                      0.31                      0.35
     Other firms                                                0.01                     -0.01                      0.09
 Absorptive capacity
     Internal R&D department                                    0.08                      0.19                      0.12
 Human capital
     Level of workers' knowledge                                0.07                      0.20                      0.16
 Observations                                                4,570                      4,570                     4,570
 Pseudo-R-square                                                0.25                      0.33                      0.37
      Note: Bold is denoting significance in a 5 per cent level. Bold + Italic denotes significance in a 10 per cent level.
            Source: Marotta et al (2007)


Increase the stock of advanced human capital for innovation. The Project contributed to creating
a critical mass of researchers and renewing qualified university personnel through the financing



7 Market failures in the market for knowledge and technology suggest that there is significant scope for public
interventions to align social and private returns. These market failures include:(i) knowledge is not appropriable; (ii)
knowledge and innovation generate significant positive externalities and spillovers; (iii) there are indivisibilities in
innovation expenditures; (iv) investments in R&D are long term and risky; (v) the need for collaboration among
institutions and firms for innovation diffusion and application; and (vi) tacit knowledge.



                                                                                                                              62

of doctoral scholarships (subcomponent 2.2). Moreover, the Project facilitated the insertion of
advanced human capital in companies in order to enhance their capacity to use and absorb
knowledge (subcomponent 3.2). Analysis of data from the third Chilean National Survey of
Technology Innovation in Firms shows that a high level of skills significantly influences
technology absorption and consequently the ability of Chilean firms to innovate in products and
processes. The stock of advanced human capital working in industry is associated with increased
firm patenting activity and product innovation (see Table 26) 8.

Strengthen university-industry research collaboration. The Project distinguished itself from past
World Bank financing of STI in Chile in that it invested in the strengthening public-private
linkages in the innovation system. Notably, cooperative research consortia (subcomponent 3.1)
were designed to enhance the relevance of pre-competitive university research, facilitate the flow
of tacit knowledge between universities and firms, and support the commercialization of research.
Data from the aforementioned innovation survey suggest that considerable benefits are associated
with increased university-industry collaboration in Chile. Firm collaboration with universities is
estimated to increase the propensity of a private enterprise being involved in patenting by 37
percent, keeping all other explanatory variables in the model constant. Collaboration also
increases the likelihood of company involvement in product innovation by 29 percent and process
innovation by 19 percent (see Table 26).

Graph 11 Growth in Chilean TFP

   135

   130

   125

   120

   115

   110
          2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011


                                             real data and projections

Source: Ministry of Finance (Hacienda), Chile


Improve the policy framework for innovation in Chile. In a wider perspective, innovation reflects
the interconnectivity and capacity of all players in Chile's national innovation system and the
policy framework within which they operate (subcomponent 1.2). Government policy in Chile on
innovation evolved considerably during the implementation of the Project. Public investments
have increased, there is a stronger focus on strengthening public-private interaction in research
and efforts are on-going to improve innovation governance, e.g. through the creation of a
National Innovation Council for Competitiveness. Evidence suggests that the Project ­ in
conjunction with other government policies ­ contributed to creating favorable conditions for



8 "These results are discussed in a forthcoming 2007 World Bank paper titled "The importance of Human Capital and
knowledge sharing in fostering firms' innovation: an empirical study of Chile and Colombia." by Marotta, Mark, Blom
and Thorn.



                                                                                                                 63

innovation-driven growth in Chile. As shown in Graph 11, total factor productivity in Chile
increased by 3 percent during Project implementation.




                                                                                       64

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members

           Names                        Title                Unit     Responsibility/
                                                                        Specialty
Lending

Supervision/ICR
Enric Banda              Consultant                         LCSFR
Max Brennan              Consultant                        LCSHE
Maria Lucy Giraldo       Sr Procurement Spec.               LCSPT
Esperanza Lasagabaster   Sr Financial Economist             LCSPF
Daniela Marotta          Young Professional                  YPP
Kristian Thorn           Education Spec.                   LCSHE
Martha P. Vargas         Program Assistant                 LCSLU



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                       Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                    No. of staff weeks     USD Thousands (including
                                                           travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY02                                                                  0.00
  FY03                                      15                        214.02
  FY04                                                                  0.64
  FY05                                                                  0.00
  FY06                                                                  0.00
  FY07                                                                  0.00
                        Total:              15                        214.66
Supervision/ICR
  FY02                                                                  0.00
  FY03                                                                  0.00
  FY04                                       7                         68.49
  FY05                                      16                         94.77
  FY06                                      17                        104.41
  FY07                                      13                         57.30
                        Total:              53                        324.97




                                                                                    65

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Not applicable.




                                       66

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not applicable




                                                    67

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Comments from implementing agency.

Regarding the bi-annual missions of the World Bank, the monitoring of the goals planned for
each period and the fruitful discussions related to each instrument and procedure was
extraordinary helpful. On one hand the missions and the expert members that visit every time,
force the Chilean team to get back in track whenever deviations from the original objectives
occur. On the other hand, information transfer and suggestions from worldwide experiences allow
the Program to generate their own initiatives but using as much lessons learned from similar
attempts in other countries. The close evaluation of what has been done every six months by a
group of foreign experts is something not usually experienced in the Chilean public agencies and
it certainly helps to keep good practices.

Unfortunately, the official spokesman for the World Bank in Chile was to much dispersed, in
particular during 2006. Partially because of the change in government (national and local),
partially due to the unclear reorganization of the STI system, the path to the second phase of the
Program has been hard. What we consider as a success in the linkage between academic research
and industry, through the Consortia and other innovative instruments such as Insertion of
researchers in industry, has stirred the National STI system. This should be considered a success
indeed, since the target public made the terms and concepts their own and other entities will be
probably in charge of similar initiatives. What is unfortunate is that there has not been enough
time to transfer the procedures and expertise to those entities (except to a certain extent when
transferring a team member). We hope that collaboration will endure among entities as CORFO
and CONICYT.

Interestingly the closeness of a working team, and the good understanding with the staff in charge
of the Program from the Bank, has translated into a network of relationships among the "clients"
of the Program. The initiatives are well-known by now and, researchers, entrepreneurs, other
public agencies and programs interact within the projects of the program ­ for example Consortia
participants are able to come up with a project of researchers in academy or industry at the same
time, or participants from the "Anillos" are able to participate in patenting contests-. This idea has
become systematized in time with the "coaching" of projects and researchers that has been
implemented informally in the case of the "Anillos" and formally in the case of Consortia (by
opening exclusive channels of aid to Consortia needs) and of Research in Industry (by having an
open window for proposals instead of programmed contests).

There have been interesting lessons learned, in particular referring to coordination with other
programs and in financial and technical monitoring. These certainly should have been tackled
with more energy and promptitude to avoid critical duplication and poorly managed resources
that could have been pooled in order to obtain more out of them. M&E procedures should have
been planned and executed earlier in the Program so we would not have to be overwhelmed with
the data gathering at the end of the first phase.




                                                                                                   68

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not Applicable




                                                                    69

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


World Bank (2003), Chile Science for Knowledge Economy Project. Project Appraisal Document,
No 25324.

World Bank (2006), Uruguay Promoting Innovation to Enhance Competitiveness Project, Project
Appraisal Document, No 36600

World Bank (1998), Higher Education Improvement Project. Project Appraisal Document, No
17887.

World Bank (2005), Higher Education Improvement Project. Implementation Completion Report,
No 34617.

World Bank (2002), Country Assistance Strategy for Chile, report No 23329-CH

World Bank (2006), Science for Knowledge Economy, Mid-Term Review

World Bank (2004), Chile-New Economy Study, report No 25666

CONICYT, Chile Global Final Report for Fundación Chile, April 2007.

CONICYT (2007), Consorcios Tecnológicos en Chile

CONICYT (2007), Programa de Apoyo a la Cooperación Internacional con la Unión Europea

El Mercurio (2005), CONICYT Programa Bicentenario de Ciencia y Tecnología

Implementation Status Reports (ISRs)

Aide Memoires for Chile Science for Knowledge Economy Project

Back to the Office Reports for Chile Science for Knowledge Economy Project

Relevant project documents and reports

IBRD-IFC, Country Partnership Strategy for Chile (2007-2010)

Marotta, Mark, Blom and Thorn (2007), "Human capital and University-Industry Linkages' role
in Fostering Firm Innovation: an empirical study of Chile and Colombia". Forthcoming

Holm-Nielsem, Agapitova (2002) "Chile- Science, Technology and Innovation." LCSHD Paper
Series, the World Bank

Fuentes, Larrain, Schmidt-Hebbel (2006) "Sources of Growth and Behaviour of TFP in Chile",
Cuadernos de Economía vol. 43, Central Bank of Chile




                                                                                          70

Annex 10. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix.

In this Annex, the main indicators for the Project and the Program, as identified during the
Project's life, are presented. The latest data available are reported in each table as actual
data/latest estimates.

Program Objectives-Outcome/Impact Indicators:
          Indicator/Matrix                       Baseline                  Actual/Latest Estimate
 Publications in ISI per 100,000      Baseline (2002): 16.9            18.2 publications (2005)
 population                           publications

 Number of full-time equivalent       Baseline (2002): 1.44            2.96 (2004)
 researchers per 1,000 people in
 the workforce
 Total R&D expenditures as            Baseline (2002): 0.68%           0.68% (2004)
 percentage of GDP by year
 Perceived importance and extent      Baseline (2001): 3.7             3.6 (2006)
 of university/industry research
 collaboration (1=minimal or non-
 existent, 7=intensive and ongoing)
 Share of researchers employed by     Baseline (2002): 14.2%           50.1% (2004)
 the private sector
 Total Factor Productivity growth     Baseline (2002): Index 100       Index 105 (2007)

Project Objectives

PDO Indicators
    Indicator/Matrix             Baseline                Target           Actual/Latest Estimate
 Annual number of PhD       Baseline (2003):     Target (2007): 230      222 (2005)
 graduates                  144

 Annual no. of Chilean      Baseline (2003): 33  Target (2007):60        48 applications (2005)
 USPTO patent               applications
 applications
 Private sector share of    Baseline (2003):     Target (2007):38%       48.1% (2004)
 R&D expenditures           34.4%



Intermediate Outcome Indicators
     Indicator/Matrix                Baseline               Target         Actual/Latest Estimate
 Number of PhD and post-      Baseline (2003): 0      Target (2007): 60     (2007):55
 doctorates inserted into
 industry
 Number of research           Baseline (2003): 0      Target (2007): 5     (2007): 8
 consortia established
 Number of PhD                Baseline (2003): 0      Target (2007): 600   (2007): 575
 scholarships awarded




                                                                                                 71

Annex 11. Performance Triggers

The table below provides a status of the APL2 performance triggers as they were presented in the
APL1 Project Appraisal Document. The table shows that all targets have been achieved or
surpassed. The only exception is the insertion of researchers in industry for which the project
supported the insertion of 55 rather than the expected 60 researchers.

Performance triggers between Phase I and II
                      Implementation                       Impact                        Results
 1)Improving Science, Technology and Innovation System
                                                                                         Creation      of     Inter-agency
                                                                                         Advisory Board on Innovation
                                                                                         in      2004.     Responsibilities
                                                           Speedy application            assumed by National Innovation
                      Establishment of independent         processing.                   in March 2006.
 a) Project           Advisory Board.                      Low administrative costs      Establishment of a small unit in
 Management           Setup of light administrative        Transparent, competitive      CONICYT                 managing
                      structure in CONICYT                 funding with international    competitive selection processes,
                                                           peer review.                  e.g. with participation of experts
                                                                                         from the US National Science
                                                                                         Foundation and the National
                                                                                         Institute of Health.
 b) Strategy,
 policies and
 awareness for
 Innovation and
 human capital
 formation
                                                                                         Support for 19 analytical studies
                                                                                         on STI-related areas, e.g. the
 ·    Development                                                                        development of STI strategies
      of coherent     Government strategy reviewed.        Improved government           for regions I and IX.
      strategy                                             strategy proposed.            Design      of     new     policy
 ·                    S&T policy instruments reviewed      Proposal for new innovation
      Conducive                                            policies.                     instruments related to patenting.
      policies                                                                           Review      of    existing    STI
                                                                                         programs, e.g. FONDEF under
                                                                                         CONICYT.
                                                                                         Establishment of Observatory in
                                                                                         CONICYT which has improved
 c) Development of                                         Regular collection and        national statistics on STI in
 monitoring and       Government personnel trained in      publication of S&T            particular in regard to private
 evaluation capacity  M&E according to OECD manuals.       indicators of OECD
                                                           standards.                    sector R&D.
                                                                                         Inclusion of Chile as an observer
                                                                                         in   OECD's      Committee     on
                                                                                         Science and Technology Policy.
 2. Strengthening Chile's Science Base
 a)   Excellence in
      Science
                                                           Cutting-edge research         Establishment of 4 centers of

 ·    Institutions of Selected institutions of excellence  performed by world-class      excellence in regions II, IX, X

      excellence      awarded grants.                      scientists in at least 2 new  and XI.

 ·                    Selected research teams awarded      institutions of excellence.   Support for 6 research nuclei
      Research        grants.                              At least 5 new highly         through the Millennium Science
      teams                                                skilled research teams        Initiative and support for 34
                                                           established                   research teams.

 b)   Advanced        Selected Ph.D. students awarded      At least 120 awarded Ph.D.    517 national and 58

      human capital   scholarship.                         scholarships in high quality  international Ph.D. scholarships
                                                           programs.                     awarded.
 c)   Improving the   Setup of competitive fund and        Instrumentation database as   Study on major research



                                                                                                               72

    research        disbursement of grants               well as equipment updating    equipment completed and
    infrastructure  Development of guidelines for        and maintenance program       database established.
                    sharing equipment                    established.
3. Enhancing Public-Private linkages
a)  Cooperate
    research
                   Setup and funding of cooperative
·   Cooperative    research consortia and teams with co- At least 3 research consortia Establishment of the following
    consortia      financing from private and public     established                   consortia and research teams: 5
·   Cooperative    companies and/or regional co-         At least 5 research teams     in CONICYT; 9 in CORFO and
    teams          financing                             established                   5 in FIA.

                                                         At least 60 researchers
b)  Researcher     Setup of competitive fund and         supported under this          55 highly qualified researchers
    in industry    including start-up companies          program                       inserted into industry.

                                                                                       Establishment of 17 research
                                                                                       partnerships.

c)   International                                       At least 8 successful         Matching support for 16

research           Setup of competitive fund and         international research        European 6th framework STI

cooperation        disbursement of grants                partnerships established.     projects.
                                                                                       Carrying out of 15 management
                                                                                       / awareness workshops for
                                                                                       international cooperation.




                                                                                                            73

