Document of
The World Bank
FOR OmCLAL USE ONLY
Repot No. 6410-GU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
GUATEMALA
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 1, 1988
Country Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a esticted distibution and may be used by recipiens only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contens may not otherise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00 - Q 2.50
Q 1.00 - US$0.40
MEASURES
I km     2 kilometer -   0.62 miles
1 1       =  litre      -   0.26 gallons
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BANVI       - National Housing Bank
CACM        - Central American Common Market
CBD         - Central Business District
CRN         - National Committee for Reconstruction
DAHVI       - Division of Human Settlements and Housing
of the NPtional Committee for Reconstrucion
DICABI      - National Cadastre Directorate, Ministry of Finance
EMPAGUA     - Municipal Water Company
HABITAT     - United Nations Center for Human Settlements
HODE        - Housing and Development NCO
INFOM       - National Municipal Development Institute
SEGEPLAN    - National Pla,ring Secretariat
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31.



FOR OFmCIAL USE ONLY
GUATEMALA
MUNT.CIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
'9
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY                                          i - iii
I.    THE URBAN SECTOR            .....      .     . .......         1
Recent Urban Trendsr. ....    .      .... .. .....             1
Sector Organization and Support.                  .     .      1
Municipal Finance and Management Constraints  .......          1
Bank Experience in the Setor...........................    2
Government Strategy in the Sector and Rationale
for Sank Involvement ..      .. ................. .            3
II.   THE PROJECT ..... .......              .................    4
Background and Project Origin ...................... .....    4
Objectives and Description ........................ . .....    4
Project Costs and Financing Plan ....... .................    6
Procurement Arrangements and  llsbursements ........ ......    7
Project Organization and Management .....................    8
Status of Project Preparation ................... ........   10
Accounts, Audits and Reports ........... ..................   11
Financial Impact and Action Program .....................   11
Project JustifiLation and Risks ..................   . .....  12
Project Benefits ................. ............... ......  12
Economic Analysis ..... .............................  13
Risks and Safeguards      .... ..... ................  14
III.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ...............  ...   14
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Guatemala in Tune/July, 1986. The mission comprised Mr. S. Whitehead and
Mr. J. Medrano, Consultant Architect/Planner. During a preappraisal
mission in April, 1986, the project was assisted by Messrs. M. Duran, H.
Garzon, J. Rizo-Pombo, and J. Medrano, Consultants. The report was
updated in April 1988 by a mission led by Mr. Carl-Heinz Mumme, and
comprising Messrs. H. Garzon and I. Matallana (Consultant). Mmes. M. Leal,
T. Carbonell and N. Arancibia assisted in the production of this report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (continued)
-ii -
Page No.
LIST OF ANNEXES
i.    Detailed Cost Estimates . .............................        16
2.    Procurement Method ............        ..........     17
3.    Implementation Schedule .....................                  18
4.    Disbursement  Schedule ......................................... .  19
5.    KRy Implementation Indicators          .........................  20
6.    Municipality of Guatemala - Financial Projections  ....    21
7.    Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project
File . ...................................                     26
MAPs  IBRD No. 20328R



GUATEMALA
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                  Republic of Guatemala.
Implementing Agencies:    Municipality of Guatemala and National Committee
for Reconstruction (CRN).
Amount:                    US$29 million equivalent.
Terms:                     Repayment in 17 years, including five years of
grace, with interest at the Bank's standard
variable rate.
Relending Terms:           The Borrower would onlend US$14.1 million
equivalent in Quetzales to the Municipality of
Guatemala with the same grace period, repayment
terms and interest rate as the Bank Loan. The
foreign exchange risk would be borne by the
Municipality.
Project Objectives
and Description:           The project seeks to achieve two major objectives.
Through stronger revenue administration and
improved road maintenance, the project seeks to
strengthen municipal management and finances. In
addition, the project addresses social needs
through the provision or rehabilitation of
essential urban infrastructure to low income
groups in the Capital.
The project comprises: (a) updating a multi-
purpose cadastret (b) implementation of an Action
Program for the Improvement of Municipal
Administration and Finance; (c) a pilot program to
provide basic municipal services and secure tenure
in five low-income squatter communities, and
rehabilitation and reconstruction of basic utility
infrastructure in low-income residential
communities throughout the metropolitan area; (d)
a program of works and management improvements for
road maintenance and improvements; and (e) a study
of medium-term development priorities including
improvements to the public passenger transit in
the metropolitan area.
Benefits:                  A broad range of benefits would accrue from tie
project. Through the cadastre, the project would
help increase municipal revenues and provide the
basis for improved management of municipal
services and planning of new investments.



- ii -
Improved financial management and other
institutional measures would improve
administrative control in the management of
resources and the productivity of municipal staff.
The project is also designed to alleviate pererty
by demonstrating approaches to providing essential
infrastructure and secure tenure at costs which
could be recovered from the low-income squatter
communities involved. In addition, rehabilitation
and reconstruction of infrastructure in BANVI
housing sites would enable maintenance
arrangements and mortgage payments to be
regularized and property tax obligations to be
instituted for some 21,000 properties. Road
maintenance and improvements would reduce vehicle
operating costs, thereby saving scarce foreign
exchange on importation of spare parts and fuel,
and would reduce congestion thereby maximizing the
use of the existing road network.
Risks and Safeguards:      Timely implementation of the project hinges on the
ability of the Municipality to provide the
counterpart funds. This risk has been
substantially reduced through the recently
approved participation of the municipalities in
the Central Government revenues. To further
minimize the risk of delays. the Municipality has
adopted a financial strategy centered around early
updating of the cadastre which, within four to
five years, would generate additional municipal
revenues at a level not only sufficient to meet
the nepds of the project, but also to finance an
increasing proportion of future investments. In
addition, interest during construction would be
capitalized.
A second risk reiates to the squatter upgrading
component. To minimize the risk stemming from
little in-country experience with this approach to
improving shelter, the project component has been
restricted to a "pilot" scale effort. The risk of
implementation delays resulting from the
multiplicity of activities under the project would
be minimized by yearly *ssessments and possible
revisions of the operational program.



- iii -
Estimated Project Costs                     Local      Foreign        Total
--------(US$ million)-
A.   Project Preparation Facility             0.6          0.9          1.5
B.   Institutional Development                0.8          1.3          2.1
i)  Cadastre                             0.5          0.7         1.2
ii) Administration and
Finance Improvement Program          0.3         0.6          0.9
C.   Urban Services                          17.2         '0.3         27.6
i)   Squatter Upgrading                  6.7          2.3         9.0
ii)  Infrastructure Rehabilitation       6.0          4.3        10.4
iii) Road Improvements                   4.5          3.7         8.2
D.   Metropolitan Planning
i)  Urban Development Study              0.2          0.6         0.8
Base Cost                           18.8        13.2         32.0
Physical Contingencies                   2.0          1.7         3.7
Price Contingencies                      1.9          1.3         3.2
Total Project Cost a/                   22.7         16.2..      38.9
Interest During Construction             -.-          5.9         5.9
Total Financing Required                22.7         22.1        44.8
Financing Plan
Municipality of Guatemala                     3.5          1.0          4.5
National Committee for Reconstruction        10.3          1.0         11.3
World Bank                                    8.9         20.1         29.0
22.7        22.1         44.8
Estimated Bank
Disbursements:                           Bank Fiscal Year
1989   1990   1991   1992    1993   1994   1995
------------------(US$ million)-
Annual                       4.8*   5.3    6.2    5.6       3.6   2.5    1.0
Cumulative                   4.8*  10.1   16.3   21.9    25.5  28.0   29.0
Rate of return:  from about 15Z for rehabilitation of infrastructure to
above 45% for road maintenance and improvement.
a/   No taxes or other duties are included since the executing agencies are
exempt from taxes.
*l   Includes refinancing of PPF for an amount equivalent to US$1.5 million
and retroactive financing of US$1.5 million.



I. THE URBAN SECTOR
Recent Urban Trends
1.01     The urban population of Guatemala has grown twice as fast as the
rural population and, with 2.8 million people, now constitutes about 402 of
the country total, compared to 25Z in 1950. If current population growth
trends continue, as seems likely, about 80% of the country's future
population growth will take place in, or move to the nation's towns and
cities.
1.02     The largest population growth has taken place in the metropolitan
area of Guatemala City which is the center of Government, culture, industry
and services. In 1981, an estimated 802 of installed industrial capacity
was located in the metropolitan area. With 1.4 millien people, the
metropolitan Area then accounted for nearly half the total urban population
and was 20 times larger than either of the two largest secondary cities of
Esquintla, the center of the large southern industrialized cotton and sugar
plantations, and Quetzaltenango, the center of the populous western region.
By 1990 and the year 2000, it is esti%ated that the metropolitan population
will reach 1.8 million and 2.7 million, respectively.
Sector Organization and Support
1.03     Under the existing Municipal Code, which dates from 1957,
municipalities are mandated to provide essential services including water
supply, sewerage, markets, slaughterhouses and street cleaning.
Discretionary powers also enable municipalities to provide transportation,
electricity, public lighting and community facilities, or to promote their
provision through concessions. However, for lack of technical and
financial resources, few municipalities have initiated investment programs
to develop local services. The major technical and financial intermediary
for the development of urban and water supply services is the Instituto de
Fomento Municipal (INFOM). INFOM prepares town plans, carries out project
feasibility studies and provides low interest financing for water supply,
sewerage, markets, slaughterhouses, street paving and similar works in all
cities except the Municipality of Guatemala. In the metropolitan area of
Guatemala City, water supply and drainage is the responsibility of a semi-
autonomous utility agency (EMPAGUA). Solid waste collection is undertaken
primarily by the private sector, with the Municipality providing a low
level of residual service in low income areas. Road maintenance and
improvement programs are carried out by the Engineering Directorate of the
Municipality. Operating in coordination with the National Committee for
Reconstruction (CRN), the National Housing Bank (BANVI) provides financing
for low and middle income housing.
Municipal Finance and Management Constraints
1.04     The administrative environment in the Municipality of Guatemala is
dominated by methods incompatible with the size of the city and its
importance in the nation. For lack of adequate financial resources,
investment planning has not teen undertaken by the Municipality on any



systematic basis since a master plan was prepared for the metropolitan area
in the mid 1970's. This plan was not implemented and is now largely out of
date. The present municipal organization is characterized by a lack of
coordination between administrative units; poor definition of functiens;
duplication of activity; and confusion in lines of authority. Systems
currently in use lack routine controls. Operation manuals to guide
personnel in the performance of their duties are lacking. This reduces the
productivity of municipal employees and impairs the quality of public
services.
1.05     Financial constraints severely limit municipal autonomy.
Municipal revenues in Guatemala are very low relative to those in other
countries in the region. Current revenues of US$16 per capita/year for
Guatemala City are low for cities of comparable size. Overall, revenue
growth has been far below the levels required to ulpgrade service provision
and keep up with rapid population growth. As a result, deficits have been
incurred each year since 1981, with 1987 as the only exception due to
Central Government transfers. The financial per,'ormance of the
Municipality has been compromised by a marked d terioration in the
effectiveness of its tax management systems. Though much of the population
growth in Guatemala City took place after the 1976 earthquake, property tax
maps have not been updated since 1972 and contain only about 35Z of
existing real estate. Fees for municipal services do not cover service
c-ts and result in poor service planning decisions.  In addition,
important centrally administered taxes on vehicles and or. consumption of
cigarettes, beer and liquor which represent about 372 of local tax
receipts, have actually fallen, in real terms, since 1981. Despite recent
Central Government transfers, annual capital investments in Guatemala City
have been limited to only about US$5 per capita equivalent in the past
years and almost exclusively for EMPAGUA's water supply improvements
leaving most municipal service needs unattended. As a result of this low
level of investment, and poor operational efficiency, deterioration of
services has reached crisis levels. With annual expenditures on road
maintenance and improvement running at only about US$0.5 million per year
on average for a total road network of 1,100 kms, the status of the road
network has beer, seriously impaired by almost two decades of neglect.
Bank Experience in the Sector
1.06     To date the Bank has lent US$26.5 million in an Earthquake
Reconstruction Project (Loan 1314/5-T-GU, completed in 1983). A loan of
US$23 million for a project to improve water supply operations in the
capital was approved on October 16, 1986, but has not yet been signed
pending approval by legislature, which is now expected soon. As indicated
in the Project Performance Audit Report,1 the Earthquake Reconstruction
Project was only partially successful in achieving long-term sectoral
development in al' emergency situation. Implementation experienced
significant delays 4       aftermath of the national crisis resulting from
the earthquake. Mox3over, BANVI which is the principal institution
involved in housing did not mature operationally as expected. Also, the
issue of maintenance of housing related infrastructure assets created under
1/ Report No. 6284 dated June 19, 1986.



-3-
the project was left unresolved. Nevertheless, a large scale site and
services construction program and a credit program for small businesses
through a non-governmertal orgarization (NGO) were satisfactorily
completed.
Government Strategy in the Sector and Rationale for Bank Involvement
1.07     The Government's strategy in the sector involves a dual approach
of improving the management of services in the Capital together with a
medium term policy of decentralization whereby assistance would be
increasingly concentrated in secondary cities rather than in Guatemala
City. The Government is already establishing the institutional framework
for its regionalization program by creating a new Ministry of Development
and by setting up regional, departmental and local councils to strengthen
the participatory nature of the development process. The problems of the
Capital, where much of the urban poor already live, are considered by the
Government to be particularly urgent.
1.08     The Bank's lending strategy in the urban sector is oriented toward
assistirng the Government to increase the resources devoted to basic
services and strengthening the responsible public institutions to enable
them to provide services efficiently, plan and execute investment programs
economically, and generate an adequate share of their financing
requirements. Specifically, the Bank's sector assistance program would
focus on: (a) development of a more efficient urban management framework,
both for the capital city and the other municipalities; (b) provision of
low-cost housing to reduce largely unsatisfied dwelling needs in the
capital; (c) development of infrastructure in smaller towns to support the
expansion of production and employment, and thereby help check migratory
movements towards the capital city; (d) formulation of a national housing
policy, particularly in respect to the low-income population; and (e) a
broader institutional basis for Bank assistance, with the participation of
non-government organizations.
1.09      In view of the pre-eminence of Guatemala City, and its importance
to the economy, improvement of its management and services represents a
priority. The project seeks to improve property tax mobilization and to
strengthen municipal finances and administration in the capital. This
would be done through the updating of the cadastre and the implementation
of action programs to introduce modern management and financial systems.
In addition, the project would (i) address social needs through the
rehabilitation of infrastructure and services and provision of land titles
in low income and squatter communities at costs which can be recovered;
(ii) involve non-government organizations in community action and
infrastructure rehabilitation; and (iii) help arrest the deterioration in
BANVI's financial performance by providing the basis for recovery of
arrears through the above mentioned rehabilitation of services and
community action. A subsequent project, under preparation, would address
the development of infrastructure and institutions in the main secondary
cities.



-4-
II. THE PROJECT
Background and Project Origin
2.01     Following the Earthquake Reconstruction Project (Loan 1314/5-GU),
the Bank reviewed with Government the opportunities to assist in the
implementation of housing programs. In discussions with Government, it
became clear that the priority focus of Bank assistance in the sector
should be to help address weaknesses in the financing and maintenance of
urbar infrastructure and utility services. Although no up-to-date overall
investment plan exists, as a first step the Municipality of Guatemala
identified the most urgent priority service improvements, together with
measures to strengthen organizational efficiency and revenue administra-
tion. In addition, in early 1986, the Government completed (with
assistance from HABITAT) a review of regional development priorities in an
attempt to balance the investment needs of Guatemala City with those
required in regional urban centers. However, pending definition of the
institutional responsibilities and relationships of the principal agencies
involved in regional development, the Government requested that this
project concentrate cn seeking to remedy the past neglect of priority
services and weaknesses of urban management in the Capital.
Objectives and Description
2.02     The project seeks to achieve objectives in two priority arean.
Firstly, the project seeks to revitalize municipal administration and
finance in the nation's Capital. Through the project, an action program
centered around an updated cadastre would be implemented not only as a
basis for increasing municipal revenues, but also to provide basic
information for planning and maintaining urban infrastructure and utility
services more effectively. Modern management systems would be introduced
for road maintenance, and the scale of maintenance operations would be
expanded significantly in line with the scale of the road network and
appropriate maintenance cycles. The administrative improvement program
would lay the foundation for institutional and administrative modernization
of the Municipality of Guatemala. If successful, the program would change
the City government into a more effective promoter of community well-being
and would help re-establish public confidence in municipal administration.
2.03     Secondly, the project would address social needs through the
provision or rehabilitation of basic urban infrastructure and community
services to low income and squatter communities, in part through community
action. Rehabilitation of basic infrastructure services under the project
in 32 housing sites developed by BANVI and affecting some 140,00_. to
160,000 people may also have the effect of improving the willingness to
repay outstanding substantial loans for housing investments, thereby
helping to stem the worsening financial performance of BANVI. The
rehabilitation program would also enable infrastructure maintenance in
these areas to be transferred to municipal and public utility agencies.
Since the financial burden of maintenance would also be transferred, this



- 5 -
would also eliminate a significant financial liabi'lity for BANVI, and would
clear the way for municipal taxes to be levied on this large proportion of
the population. In addition, approaches to providing basic services and
secure land tenure on a cost recoverable basis to low income squatter
communities would be tested in a pilot program covering about 36,000 people
in five sites. In this context, the project would also support the
Government's desire to promote the role of the non-governmental sector in
development by utilizing their established expertise in community
development.
2.04     The project would include the following components:
A. Institutional Development in the Municipality of Guatemala
(a)   Multi-purpose Cadastre.  (US$1.8 million).  Updating the cadastre
of the Municipality of Guatemala for: (i) increasing revenues
from taxes on property; and (ii) improved development planning and
management of urban public services. This woulrl involve
professional services to update aerial photography for the
metropolitan area; equipment for the generation and maintenance of
digitized cadastral data for the production of base maps as
required; and the physical survey of properties in the
Municipality of Guatemala to update registration and valuation of
propertietu; and
(b) Municipal Administration and Finance Improvement Program. (US$1.1
million). Consultant services for the implementation of systems
to improve the functional organization in the Municipality;
personnel management and career development; revenue
administration; and budgetary management and financial and
investment planning. In addition, the project would provide data
management and office equipment to improve the productivity of the
municipal staff.
B. Urban Services
(a)   Urban Upgradip.  (US$23.5 willion) (i) a pilot program in five
low-income communities benefitting 6,500 families, it would
include secure tenure and provision of water supply, drainage,
road paving, and community facilities, as well as home
improvements and small business credit (US$10.6 million); and (ii)
rehabilitation and reconstruction of water supply, drainage and
other essentie.l infrastructure, and provision of community
facilities in 32 residential communities developed by BANVI for
about 140,000 to 160,000 people (US$12.9 million). Technical
assistance would be provided to assess shelter deficiencies
nationwide and to formulate an operational program; and
(b)   Road Maintenance and Improvement.  (US$11.6 million).
Installation of a maintenance management system (US$0.2 million)
including organizational measures and program planning procedures
to upgrade and expand the P-nagement capacity of the Municipality
of Guatemala for road maintenance, together with a program of
maintenance and improvement works (US$11.4 million) covering 186



-6
kms in the principal transportation corridors and the central
business district (CBD) to maximize the economic efficiency of the
existing city road network by improving traffic flows, and by
reducing vehicle operating costs.
C. Metropolitan Planning (US$0.9 million).
A study to identify a medium term program of priority urban
service investment together with measures to improve the operational
efficiency of the public passenger transit systems for the metropolitan
area of Guatemala City.
Proiect Costs and Financina Plan
2.05     Project costs are detailed in Annex 1.  The total project cost is
estimated at about UIS$38.9 million equivalent (including contingencies), of
which about US$16.2 million, or 42X represents foreign exchange. There are
no applicable taxes or duties. Costs are based on April 1988 prices.
Equipment costs are based on current international prices. Construction
costs are based on unit costs for similar civil works. Technical
assistance and professional services are based on Bank experience with
similar internationally and locally recruited experts in the region.
Physical contingencies are included at 152 for the road maintenance and
improvement program and the urban upgrading works (excluding housing and
small business credit). Price contingencies, for both local and foreign
costs, were estimated over the project implementation period, based on
expected increases of international prices of 32 for 1988 to 1990, and 42
thereafter.
2.06     The Bank loan of US$29.0 million equivalent, would finance 68Z of
total financing required (net of land costs), including 912 of foreign
costs, interest during construction of US$3.9 million and 39? of local
costs. Local cost financing is justified in view of the high social
content of the project, and because of local budgetary constraints.
Financing of interest during construction is justified to hedge against
possible cash flow constraints of the Municipality of Guatemala which would
be responsible for providing counterpart financing and discharging debt
service obligations without assistance from the Government, and for the
Government financed upgrading works through the CRN during the current
severe budgetary constraints.  The Loan would be made to the Government of
Guatemala at the standard variable interest rate for 17 years including 5
years of grace. Of the proceeds of the Bank loan, US$14.1 million
equivalent would be onlent to the Municipality of Guatemala on the same
terms as the loan to the Government. The Municipality would take the full
exchange and interest risk on the Bank Loan. The balance of the proceeds
of the Bank Loan of US$14.9 million equivalent would be made available as
budgetary appropriations to CRN.
2.07     For components to be implemented by the Municipality,-counterpart
funds would be provided from internally generated resources projected to be
available principally from additional property taxes following
implementation of the new cadastre.   Agreement was reached at negotiations



- 7 -
that the Municipality would produce from internal sources, funds for the
annual investment requirements including those under the project (para.
3.02 (a)) equivalent to not less than 15? in 1989, 25? in 1990, 35? in
1991, and 40% thereafter. For urban upgrading works, including squatter
upgrading and community credit programs to be administered by NGO's,
counterpart funding would be provided by the Government to CRN. Agreement
was reached at negotiations that annual allocations would be made by the
Government at levels sufficient to provide counterpart funds and to
discharge debt service obligations on the Bank loan for urban upgrading
works (para. 3.02 (b)).
Procurement Arrangements and Disbursements
2.08     Procurement arrangements proposed are outlined in Annex 2.
Equipment and vehicles totalling US$2.9 million (for institutional
development in the Municipality including the cadastre and road
maintenance, and for logistical support for urban upgrading) in packages
larger than US$50,000 would be procured under international competitive
bidding procedures (in accordance with the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"). Packages below US$50,000 would be
procured through local competitive bidding in accordance with procedures
which are acceptable to the Bank. At the Government's request,
manufacturers of equipment and materials in member countries of the Central
American Common Market (CACM) would receive a margin of preference in bid
evaluation of 15? of the C.I.F. bid price or half the applicable import
duty, whichever is the lower. Works for the road maintenance and
improvement program would be packaged into five contracts for local
competitive bidding b) pre-qualified contractors, following procedures
satisfactory to the Bank. Bidding would be open to interested foreign
contractors, but since these works would be scattered throughout the area,
they are unlikely to be of interest to foreign bidders. The balance
(amounting to US$3.5 million equivalent) of the civil works for road
maintenance and improvement program would be implemented by force account.
The urban upgrading works proposed would involve a large number of low
value works which would require close coordination so as to minimize
disruption to affected residential communities and would be unattractive to
foreign bidders.  Indeed, to maximize community commitment to and
participation in implementation, the program seeks to involve extensive use
of community labor available. As a result, rehabilitation i.orks, amounting
*         to about US$7.9 million equivalent, would be implemented through labor-only
contracts under the direct supervision of CRN engineers. Project
expenditures for these works would be based on unit prices for measured
output. All bid packages over US$50,000 for equipment and US$200,000 for
civil works would be subject to the Bank's prior review of procurement
documentation. Terms of reference for consultant studies and
implementation assistance would be satisfactory to the Bank. Consultant
services would be procured in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
2.09     Disbursements.  Agreement was reached at negotiatiems that line
item budgetary allocations would be made by the Municipality and the
Government to meet the project financing requirements and that the Bank
would review the adequacy of these appropriations prior to the year to



- 8 -
which they would relate (para. 3.02 (c)). Retroactive financing in an
amount not exceeding US$1.0 million equivalent should be provided for
expenditures by the municipality on civil works on road maintenance and
improvement and training incurred on or after July 1, 1986 and not
exceeding US$0.5 million equivalent for expenditures by CRN on urban
upgrading work involved on or after July 1, 1987.
Disbursement arrangements would be as follows:
(a)   for expenditures on goods and equipment procured through
international competitive bidding, 100? of foreign expenditures
and 1002 of the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured goods;
(b)   100% of expenditures for consultants services and training, and
for the cost of registration teams for the property cadastre;
'c)   72X of the cost of civil works on road maintenance and
improvement;
(d)   622 of the cost of civil works in urban upgrading sites;
(e)   502 of loans made for home improvement and to small businesses
under the urban upgrading component; and
(f)   the amount due for interest during construction on the Bank's
loan, up to a maximum of US$3.9 million.
2.10     For contracts valued at US$50,000 or less, the Bank would disburse
against certified statements of expenditures. All other disbursements
would be made against full documentation. The Municipality of Guatemala
and the CRN would retain detailed documentation for expenditures and make
it available for purposes of audits and review by the Bank during
supervision.
2.11     Both the Municipality of Guatemala and the CRN have budgeted for
the 1989 investments. An implementation period of six and one half years
(see Annex 3) has been used, and a disbursement profile of seven years
which is in line with experience in the region (see Annex 4). Based on
this profile, disbursements would be completed by the closing date of
December 31, 1994.
Proiect Organization and Management
2.12     The Municipality of Guatemala would be responsible for
implementing, with consultant assistance, the institutional development
component, including the updated cadastre and the municipal administration
and finance improvement program, together with the road maintenance and
improvement program and the urban development study. Implementation of
project components would be integrated into the mainstream operations of
the Municipality, consistent with the institutional development objectives
of the project. However, since a number of City Directorates would be
involved, the office of the Vice-Mayor will have direct responsibility for
coordinating and monitoring project implementation with technical support
from an able project coordinator who has already been designated.



2.13     A new organizational structure has been approved for the Cadastre
Office which has a highly motivated team of technical and supervisory
personnel under a new and dynamic director appointed to this office by the
new Mayor. Moreover, the Cadastre Office is to be transferred from the
Municipal Works Department to the Urban Planning Department. Since the
cadastre was last revised in 1972, and the existing staff lacks oper%tional
experience, training assistance will be provided under the project in the
methodological aspects of land valuation. In addition, the Municipality
would retain and train teams of university students to undertake property
registration through supervised field surveys. Agieement has been reached
at negotiations that the Bank would be informed prior to any future
appointments for the director of this office during project implementation
(para. 3.02 (d)).
2.14     The road maintenance and improvement program would be integrated
into the operations of the Maintenance Department of the i:ngineering
Directorate. To minimize unit costs and increase the scale of annual
maintenance operations, whilst at the same time increasing the productivity
of the existing municipal labor force and achieving an efficient mix
between implementation by force account and contracted works, the program
would be undertaken substantially by contract with private firms rather
than entirely through force account as in the past. The Maintenance
Department has a well qualified core staff of supervising engineers.
However, to meet the peak supervision load and help ensure quality control,
local consultant engineers would be retained to provide additional
oversight. Technical assistance and training would be provided under the
project to establish tlhe management system needed for road maintenance and
to help strengthen the contract management skilis of municipal staff.
2.15     The urban upgrading component would be implemented by the National
Committee for Reconstruction (CRN), which was set up following the 1976
earthquake to coordinate the national reconstruction effort. Operating
directly under the Office of the President, CRN is sufficiently influential
to coordinate the participation of a number of agencies for these
improvements. The primary orientation of its other existing programs is on
alleviation of poverty and it has been active in promoting community
development and small infrastructure works in urban and rural areas in
recent years. Through its involvement in the Earthquake Reconstrilction
Project, and its recruitment of the core BANVI staff, it has put together a
team with considerable expertise in low-cost shelter development.
2.16     To implement project components, the CRN has created a new Human
Settlements and Housing Division (DAHVI), with responsibility for design
and supervision of construction of works. A satisfactory organization and
staffing structure has been defined for this unit, an adequate operating
budget has already been allocated and most of the staffing required for
design and supervision of works is already in place under a well qualified
and experienced director. This staff includes engineers, architects,
social workers and economists/financial analysts many of whom were
recruited from BANVI. Additional consultant sups-rvision engineers would be
recruited to meet peak supervision loads and to help ensure quality
control. Contracting, materials procurement and accounting would be
undertaken by the CRN centralized administrative and procurement divisions.



- 10 -
Agreement has been reached at negotiations that the Bank would be informed
prior to any changes in the appointment of the key position of the Director
of DAHVI (para. 3.02 (d)). To expand the institutional framework for
upgrading of squatter communities, community organization, implementation
of physical works and administration of credit for home improvement and
small businesses on a cost recoverable basis in two of the five sites under
the project would be contracted to "Hogar y Desarrollo" (HODE), a non-
governmental organization with considerable experience in low-income
shelter programs. CRN is also finalizing arrangements with financial
institutions, satisfactory to the Bank, to administer credit programs for
home improvement and micro-industries at BANVI housing sites also on a cost
recoverable basis. The land for four squatter sites is to be transferred
by the Municipality to the CRN and negotiations are being finalized for
acquisition of the fifth in order for secure tenure to ''e provided to the
residents of those communities on completion of the works. Agreement has
been reached at negotiations that implementation agreements with all
participating NGO's would be signed prior to loan effectiveness, (para.
3.01 (a)). Agreement has also been reached that transfer to or acquisition
by CRN of land in squatter sites to be upgraded under the project during
the first year of implementation would be completed prior to loan
effectiveness (para. 3.01 (b)).
2.17     A satisfactory draft inter-institutional agreement including CRN,
the Municipality of Guatemala and EMPAGUA (the water utility) has been
drawn up to define arrangements for adoption of appropriate planning and
construction standards, review of engineering designs and supervision of
works, and transfer for subsequent maintenance. Assurances were received
at negotiations that this agreement would be signed prior to loan
effectiveness on urban upgrading works under the project (para. 3.01 (c)).
Satisfactory draft agreements have also been drawn up between CRN and
individual communities in both BANVI projects and in squatter sites to
define works to be undertaken. For BANVI housing project sites, these
agreements define community participation in the execution of physical
works and monitoring of project implementation, and a program for each
community to meet their financial obligations of reduction of arrears to
BANVI thereby significantly improving its financial position, and payment
of municipal taxes etc. For squatter communities, they define community
participation in the formulation of appropriate and affordable standards,
and also prescribe the arrangements for security of tenure and for recovery
of investments in land and infrastructure under the project including a
community guarantee of payment obligations by individual families.
Agreement has been reached at negotiations that individual community
associations woulds(i) sign implementation agreements with CRN; and (ii) be
registered by Government, and for squatter communities establish legal
personality as a condition of disbu-sement on improvement works benefitting
them (para. 3.02 (e)).  Agreement was also reached at negotiations that a
clear title would be nrovided to beneficiary families under the urban
upgrading componen.s kpaLa. 3.02 (f)).
Status of Project Preparation
2.18     Project preparation is well advanced.  Procurement of cadastre
equipment and design of a maintenance management system together with an
initial program of road improvement and maintenance works are being



- 11 -
financed under a Project Preparation Facility (PPF). Property registration
is ongoing, and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank have been
prepared for the institutional development study in the Municipality for
which proposals should be invited shortly. Detailed planning and
engineering designs have teen prepared for infrastructure rehabilitation
and reconstruction works in 16 out of thirty-two BANVI housing sites and
for upgrading works in three of the five squatter communities representing
about the first two years of implementation.
Accounts, Audits and Reports
2.19     Separate accounts for the project would be maintained by the
Municipality.  A new computerized project accounting system is to be
developed for CRN prior to investments in the urban upgrading components.
2.20     Confirmation was obtained at negotiations that the Municipality of
Guatemala and the CRN would have the project accounts and the statements of
expenditures audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and
that the auditors' reports would be furnished to the Bank no later than
four months after the close of each financial year (para. 3.02 (g)).
Confinmation was also received at negotiations that for the Municipality
the auditors would review performance on implementation of measures to
increase the revenues of the Municipality (para. 3.02 (g)).
2.21     Project monitoring would be consolidated in the office of the
Vice-Mayor for components to be implemented by the Municipality, and in
DAHVI for upgrading works and community credit programs including NG0
operations under the project. Starting in 1989, both the Municipality and
the CRN would submit semi-annual reports (due end July and end January)
summarizing progress in achieving physical and financial performance
targets (see Annex 5) during the previous semesters through end June and
end December respectively, and defining the program for the upcoming period
together with any issues which would affect the ovprall implementation
schedule and/or financing arrangements etc., for the project. In addition,
the Municipality would prepare and submit to the Bank in September each
year, a three year financial plan for its overall operations with targets
for: physical performance under the project; overall financial
performance; specific revenue measures including property taxes in
particular, and, investment plans, borrowings, debt service and personnel
costs.
Financial Impact and Action Program
2.22     Under the project, direct beneficiary charges would be levied to
recover land and infrastucture costs in squatter sites and for community
credit programs. However, for investments at BANVI sites, the original
plot sales prices included the cost of functioning infrastructure. As a
result, no additional cost recovery will be imposed for these
rehabilitation works, except for new markets.



- 12 -
2.23     The major financial objective of the project, is to strengthen the
financial capacity of the Municipality of Guatemala for its operations
overall. The deteriorating financial trend in recent years is discussed in
para. 1.05. With such a low municipal budget, the potential impact of cost
cutting measures is limited. The Municipality's financial strategy must
therefore be directed towards producing significant early increases in
municipal revenues.
2.24     The Municipality has adopted a financial strategy based mainly on
improved administration of existing revenue sources. This strategy would
involve the following action program of resource mobilization and
management measures, including: (i) implementation of a new cadastre to
expand property registration and update property values;.and (ii)
implementation of administrative reforms including financial planning and
budgetary control systems to monitor fiscal performance more effectively.
2.25     Cadastre.  Studies indicate that the property tax is capable of
yielding considerable additional revenues quickly and of improving the
equity of local taxes. Implementing a new cadastre for the city would
therefore be the centerpiece of the Municipality's financial strategy. Of
an estimated 400,000 units of property in the Municipality, only about
140,000, or 352 are registered in the existing cadastre. For these
properties, taxes are levied on values assessed in 1972. Implementation of
a new cadastre would be phased starting in 1989, so as to concentrate first
on bringing high value property into the register and on revaluing
commercial properties in the central area. Through the project, property
tax revenues are expected to increase by at least 60? within two years, and
by at least 100 to 120? within the five-year implementation period of the
cadastre (see Annex 6). Annual financial targets for the property tax and
for revenues overall in the Municipality are summarized in Annex 5.
Agreement was reached at negotiations that the Municipality would prepare
each year a three-year financial plan including satisfactory annual targets
for overall revenues, and for property taxes in particular together with
investment plans, borrowings, debt service and personnel costs (para. 3.02
(h)).
Project Justification and Risks
Project Benefits
2.26     A broad range of benefits would result from this proposed project.
The road improvements would address the deficiencies resulting from two
decades of neglect, which results in the use of scarce foreign exchange for
the importation of spare parts and fuel, and translates directly into
higher costs particularly for passenger transport operators and the
business community at large. Focussing on the main traffic corridors and
the central business district, would help reduce an important constraint to
increasing economic output in the metropolitan area. Without increased
local revenues, however, service improvements at the level required would
be impractical. The project therefore addresses the need to up-grade tax
administration, and financial projections indicate that overall revenues to
the Municipality can be increased by one third within the first three years
of the project from property tax improvements alone. This would have the



- 13 -
additional benefit of improving the equity of the local tax systte,.s since
these additional revenues would be generated from areas of high property
value. For the first time this would provide an 'Jpportunity for the
Municipality to plan investments on the realist.c understanding that they
could be implemented, and increasingly from internal revenues, thereby
reducing future borrowing requirements. The Urban Development Study would
help define investment priorities thereby maximizing the efficienty use of
these additional resources. Implementation of the program of institutional
improvements for the Municipality would help achieve improved prodtuctivity
in municipal admiinistration and thereby also ensure that the additional
revenues are maximized and utilized efficiently. In addition, it would
assist movement toward coordinated metropolitan management by strengthening
the organizational and technical capability of the Municipality of
Guatemala, which is the only municipal authority in the metropolitan area
which could provide leadership in the sector.
2.27     Investments by the CRN would initiate a new era in Government
support for the urban poor and is targetted at families below the relative
poverty level. The pilot program in squatter upgrading would demonstrate
approaches to providing basic services and secure tenure at costs which can
be recovered on an affordable basis from communities involved, the vast
majority of which have incomes well below the 25th percentile, thereby
providing a basis for addressing this large and rapidly increasing problem
at a meaningful scale. Rehabilitation of infrastructure at BANVI housing
projects would affect about 140,000 to 160,000 people, and would help
improve the willingness to pay mortgage payments thereby reducing the
outstanding arrears in these projects which already currently amount to
around Q 25 million and which would continue to increase rapidly without
action along the lines proposed in the project. It would also enabe the
Municipality of Guatemala to levy property taxes and take over from BANVI
the responsibility for infrastructure maintenance at these sites, thereby
relievinig BANVI of a costly obligation for which it is not operationally
fitted.
Economic Analysis
2.28     It is not possible to quantify an ERR for all the benefits
resulting from the project. The cadastre will generate considerable
additional revenues, and the program of institutional improvements in the
Municipality would help achieve improved productivity of local
administration through more efficient management of resources. The
financial impact of the new cadastre has been estimated (Annex 6) but the
economic benefits cannot be quantified. For squatter upgrading, the
estimated increase in property values has been taken as a surrogate for
economic benefits. The average ERR for squatter upgrading is expected to
be in the range of 352 based on a review of two of the five project sites.
Rehabilitation of infrastructure in BANVI sites would include a large
number of small works, many of which are related to environmental
sanitation, benefits from which are difficult to quantify. However, using
expected increases in property values as a measure of benefits, an ERR of
about 15X is expected. This would be lower than for squatter upgrading
because beneficiary families already have security of tenure. For the road
maintenance and improvement program, the significant reduction in vehicle



- 14 -
operating costs has been taken as a measure of the benefits and a high ERR
is expected for the component. The rate of return for the project as a
whole would be well in excess of the opportunity cost of capital, which for
Guatemala is estimated at 10-12X.
Risks and Safeguards
2.29     Timely implementation of the project hing6s on the ability of the
Municipality to generate the additional revenues to provide the counterpart
finances. This risk has been substantially reduced through the recently
approved participation of the municipalities in the Central Government
revenues. To further minimize the risk of delays, the Municipality has
adopted an implementation vtrategy which would stert to update property
registration in high value areas first. The Central Government has
strongly endorsed this effort, has the political will to carry it through
and DICABI (Direccion de Catastro y Avaluo de Bienes Inmuebles) in the
Ministry of Finance is already supporting the Municipality in the property
registration program invo'ved. Financial projections of the additional
property tax receipts indicate that, if this strategy is successful, the
Municipality's revenues would be fully adequate to meet the needs of
project implementation, and in addition, would generate a level of cash
flow more in line with the service responsibilities in the capital.
2.30     A second risk involves the urban upgrading works in illegal
settlements. This would be the first time that the Government has sought
to regularize land tenure as well as providing services 'in situ' to
existing squatter communities.   The implementing agency is therefore not
able to draw on a repository of experience in this type of development. To
minimize the risks involved, this project component has been limited to a
'pilot" scale effort in five sites rather than the 12 sites originally
proposed.
III. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
3.01      The following actions would be required prior to effectiveness:
(a)   implementation agreements to be signed with all NGO's in upgrading
works (para. 2.16);
(b)   transfer or acquisition of land in project squatter sites required
for first year of implementation (para. 2.16); and
(c)   inter-institutional agreement including CRN, the MHnicipality of
Guatemala and EMPAGUA for upgrading works to be signed (para.
2.17);
3.02      At negotiations, agreement was reached on the following:
(a)   the Municipality would produce from internally generated sources,
funds for the annual investment requirements including those under
the project equivalent to not less than 152 in 1989, 25? in 1990,
35? in 1991, and 40? thereafter (para. 2.07);



- 15 -
(b)   annual allocations by the Government at levels sufficient for
investments and debt service on urban upgrading works (lara.
2.07);
(c)   the Municipality and the Government respectively would establish
line item budgets to provide for funding requirements and Bank
would review adequacy of financial allocations prior to year to
which they relate (para. 2.09);
(d)   Bank to be informed prior to any changes in appointment of
Director of Cadastre office and of the Director of DAHVI in CRN
(para. 2.13 and 2.16);
(e)   individual community associations to (i) sign implementation
agreements with CRN; and (ii) be registered by Government and for
squatter communities establish 'legal personality" as a condition
of disbursement on urban upgrading works benefitting them (para.
2.17);
(f)   clear title to be provided to beneficiary families in CRN1
components (para. 2.17);
(g)   thatt (i) the Municipality of Guatemala and CRN would have project
accounts and the statements of expenditures audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) the auditors' reports would
be furnished to the Bank no later than four months after the close
of the financial year; and (iii) for the Municipality of
Guatemala, the auditors would review performance on implementation
of measures to increase revenues (para. 2.20);
(h)   preparation each year by the municipality of a three year
financial plan including satisfactory targets for overall
revenues, and for property taxes in particular together with
investment plans, borrowings, debt service and personnel costs
(para. 2.25).
*          3.03      Subject to the above conditions, the project is suitable for a
Bank loan of US$29.0 million to the Government of Guatemala for a period of
17 years, including a grace period of 5 years, at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate and charges.
June 1, 1988



- 16 -
4UATIMA                                         1111 1
I16ICIPIL DIVILOPMINT PIOJICT
Detailed Coat Istimates
(in USS 000'S)
Use                   Costiagtecies             Total
Cost           Physicul    Price               Costs
COIIORIT                        .......            .......  .......
*    1. UUIICIPUIT 0of OUTIUL     12664               1533      1130              15387
CADASTII                           1176                 150       o8               1414
.......s... ..........          .......            .......... ..............    .......
Aerial Photography                  590                  I        28                707
hta lot lquiPmst                      I                 61         5 I5
tlitratlon o/Tlutioa                350                   0       35                385
Iuiateuaaet                         119                  0        13                133
TraliUg                             108                  0         7                124
Hil A lIUNCI PH06ll                 944                 71        63               1078
... ...... ,  ............... .... .. .....;.....    . ... ......  .......  .......
Consitaut Senricet                  471                  0        28                489
Eipmeat                             413                 71        35                578
0o10 IIPJOYlilTs                  8229               1372       924              10524
==,. .............  ....... .      ..       ..... _......  .. ...............
3ouulte1a- ierv.ces                 182                  0        12                194
-Iuagseut  stuy                     108                  0         6                112
-Training                            76                  0         6                 83
Imtopro t tProsl                   8046               1372       912              10330
-Civil Works                       6810               1171       751               8732
-Eq1ipment                          407                 61        45                513
-Supereislon                        630                139       118               1085
. Ui D 1  . STmDu                   816                  0        56                871
PIOJIT PEPIEUIOI T    I0lCILI      1SH                   0         0               1500
IL. CI                            19349               2118      2078              23545
SQUttUD IYPSUDIJO                  8163                818       662              10644
.. ...... . .................-
Lad Acquisitioa                    2023                  0        20               2043
Civil  ortks                       5456                818       682               6957
Eoesing Credits                     434                  0        51                485
smafll Buiesm Lmnt                  391                  0        47                438
ProMram hit, Study                  223                  0        14                237
Desip & Superisiom                  436                  0        47                484
3111I/II1  PBOJICSS              11386               1300      1216              12901
.   ..... . ........           . _ ..........     ...  ........  _
Ciil Works                         7160               1074       902               9138
quipmet                            1504                226       118               1847
,lg.1 bineus Credit                1085                  0       129               1214
technical imaitance                  865                 0         4                 I9
heip I Sperision                   572                  0        63                635
tOTIL COST                    32013               3711     3209              38932
:::::--:::                   ::------:::: .:::-::..:::::



- 17 -
ANNEX 2
GUATEMALA
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Procurement Method and Disbursements
Procurement Method
Project Element                ICB       LCB     OTHER       TOTAL
COSTS
------------(US$ Million)----------
Civil Works                              15.1       11.7 a/   26.9
(10.7)     (5.4)    (16.1)
Equipment                       2.9       0.2                  3.1
(2.9)     (0.2)                (3.1)
Consultants Services                                 5.3 b/    5.3
(3.3)     (3.3)
Housing and Small
Business Loans                                    2.1        2.1
(1.1)     (1.1)
Total                           2.9      15.3       19.2      37.4
(2.9)    (10.9)     (9.8)    (23.6)
NOTE:      Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by
the Bank (excluling the project preparation facility and
interest during construction financed by the Bank).
a/   Includes force account and labor-only contracts.
b/   To be procured in accordance with Bank Guidelines.



- 18 -
6UATENALA                                       ANNFX  3
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
COMPONENT                                  1991      1989     1990     1991      1992     1993      1994
CADAS7ER
Arial Photography                                      902      20X
Data Ngot Eqpt.                             1002
Registn/Valuation                             02       202      25Z      252       15Z      152
Maintenante                                                     30Z      402       15Z      152
Training                                               402      402      202
INSTITUTIONAL EV.
Consultant Services                           52       402      302      252
Equipsent                                     52       302      40Z      25S
SLUM UPGRADING
Land Mobilization                            1002
Civil Works                                   82       122      202      252       152      102       102
Housing Credits                               02       152      202      252       152      152      102
Sail Business Las                             0;       152      202      252       152      152      102
Prongran Devt. Study                          52       302      402      252
Design & Supervision                          82       122      20:      252       152      102      10l
BANVI PROJECTS
Civil Works                                   52       15X      20%      252       152      102      102
Equipment                                     02       302      402      301
Hsg.& hsness.Credit                           02       152      202      252       152      13X      102
Technical Aestce                              02       302      402      302
Design I Supervision                          52       152      202      252       152      102      102     
ROAD IMPROVEMENTS
Consultant Services
-Management Study                            102       402      402      102
-Training                                     02       202      402      202       202
Isprovweent Program
-Civil Works                                 272       152      152      152       132      102       52
-Equipment                                    Ox       15      252      402       152       5Z
-Supervision                                 89        122      202      252       152      102      102
URBAN 9EVT. STUDY                             0%       302      402      30X



- 19 -
GUATEALA                               ANNE1 4
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Lon Disburnemunt Schedule 1I
___ -__-------- - ---- - ---- - ------------ - ------------ - -- ---------- -- -------- --r------
hank Fiscal Year                         Quarterly                      Cuaulative Disberemnt
and Quarter Ending                       Disbursement                 ---------------------------
USN  eillion                 US6 *illion        2 of Total
FY 1989
December 31 ,19B0 1/                          2.7                          2.7                   9?
March 31, 1m                                  0.9                          3.6                  122
June 30, 19m                                  1.2                          4.0                  162
FY 199O
September 30, 1909                            1.4                          6.2                  212
December 31 ,1989                             1.2                          7.4                  26X
artch 31, 1990                                1.2                          8.6                  30X
June 30, 1990                                 1.5                         10.1                  35S
FY 1991
September 30, 1990                            1.8                         11.9                  412
December 31 ,1990                             1.5                         13.4                 462
March 31, 1I91                                1.3                         14.7                  51I
June 30, 1991                                 1.6                         16.3                  562
FY 1992
September 30, 1991                            2.0                         18.3                  63t
December 31 ,191                              1.6                         19.9                 692
March 31, 1992                                0.9                         20.8                  722
June 30, 1992                                 1.1                         21.9                  762
FY 1993
September 30, 1992                            1.4                         23.3                 802
December 3i ,19W2                             1.1                         24.4                 842
March 31, 1993                                0.5                         24.9                 862
June 30, 1993                                 0.6                         25.5                 882
FY 1994
September 30, 1993                            0.7                         26.2                 912
December 31 ,1993                             0.6                         26.8                 932
March 31, 1994                                0.7                         27.5                 952
June 30, 1  4                                 0.5                         28.0                 97%
FY 1995
Septeeber 30, 1994                            0.5                         28.5                 982.
December 31 ,1994                             0.5                         29.0                 100%
1/ Includes refinancirg cf PPF and retroactive financing.



- 20 -
SUATELA                               ANKEI 5
NIJICIPAL DEVELPHtEIT PROJECT
Key loplmenntation Indicators
. ..... ........... ........
1991     1989      1990     1991      19n2     1993      1994
INPLENENTATION
, .........
C*aastre - Properties Rg'd & Valued                       0000   1C00   260000   340000   4000W
Road Naintennsce - Kas loproved                            37        74      120       140      175       In
Squatter Upgrading - Lots luproved                       1300     2400      4200      5200     4200      4500
BANVI Sites - Sits Transterrod                              7        14       22        27       30        32
OPERATIONAL
lank Disbursemnts (IUS)  illion)                2.7       7.4     13.4      19.9     24.4    2U.0        29.0
RUNICIPAL FINANC
Annual Increae in Current Revenuen               189       132      141       13         91       92        a
Total Current Raeeues to millior)              43.1      48.8     55.5      62.5     48.3      74.5      79.0
Annual Increase  n Property Tam Pv                42       452      382       282       141     * 122       11
Property Tax Revnues (l eillion)                7.2      10.4     14.4      19.3     20.9      23.4      23.8
Ratio of Current RevsnCurrent Exp.              1.2       1.3      1.3       1.4       1.5      1.5       1.4
(including debt service)
Debt Service as 2 of CMrrent Revs.                52        52       5X        52        51       42       OX
Personnel Costs as % of Current Revs.            451       412      3n        362       352      342       342



- 21 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 3
GUATEMALA
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
-                        MUNICIPALITY OF GUATEMALA - FINANCIAL PROJEuTwiONS
A. Introduction
1.       The major financial objective of the rroject is to strengthen the
financial capacity of the Municipality of Guatemala. The deteriorating
financial trend in recent years is discussed in para. 1.05 of this report
and is reflected in very low investment levels. If service levels are not
to deteriorate further, real per capita current revenues would have to
increase substantially to allow for new investments. Though the recently
approved participation of the municipalities in Central Government revenues
(para. 1.05) will substantially improve the financial situation of the
Municipality, it is not sufficient to provide the levels of funding
required. The principal objectives of the municipality's financial
strategy must therefore be directed towards producing significant increases
Ln municipal revenues.
2.       The Municipality has adopted a financial strategy based mainly on
improved administration of existing revenue sources. This strategy would
involve: (a) implementation of a new cadastre to expand property
registration and update property values; and (b) implementation of
administrative reforms including financial planning and budgetary control
systems to monitor fiscal performance more effectively.
B. Projected Financial Performance
3.       The financial projections outlined in Table 1 of this Annex have
been structured so as to assess the prospective financial performance of
the Municipality on the basis of: a) existing operations without the
project and b) the financial impact of the project on the Municipality in
terms of: (i) capital financing requirements; (ii) resulting debt service
obligations; and (iii) additional revenues generated by project related
measures. The following note summarizes the assumptions on which the
financial projections are based. Key financial indicators are indicated in
Table 2 of this Annex.
Existing Operations
(a)      Expenditures
(i)    Personnel cost include payments to regular, part-time, and
contract staff and, taking into account the increased
responsibilities of the Municipality, are expected to grow faster
than the projected annual inflation rate of 8 percent.
Consistently with the estimated future growth of investments,
personnel cost are projected to iAcrease by 12 percent per year
(in nominal terms).  Government  ontributions to wages and
salaries of municipal employees are based on a fixed amount per
employee as of 1986.



- 22 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 3
(ii)    Other current expenditures include rent payments, advertisement,
services and maintenance and are estimated to grow at 9 percent
per year, taking into account the estimated increased investments.
(iii)    Supplies and services for the operations of the Municipality are
expected to increase at 10 percent per year and are consistent
with the estimated increased investments.
(iv)    Transfers include payments to the Guatemala Social Security,
pensions to retirees and indemnifications and other transfers.
Since the Municipality intends to substantially reduce other
transfers, a growth rate of 7 percent per year is used to project
these expenditures.
(v)    Capital outlays are investments carried out by the Municipality
and financed by both own generated resources and capital grants
from the Central government. A growth rate of 12 percent per year
is used to project these expenditures.
(vi)    Debt service reflects scheduled payments on outstanding debt
except for loans contracted for improvements to the Metropolitan
Water Supply System which have been transferred to EMPAGUA.
(b)      Revenues
(i)    The projections of the property tax, regarding existing
operations, are based on the historical trend of property already
registered (35?). A growth rate of 4 percent per year is used.
(ii)    The personal tax and the indirect taxes are expected to grow
slightly less than the projected inflation rate at, 7 percent per
year.
(iii)    Tariffs and other current revenues are expected to grow at a rate
of 12 percent per year.
(c)      Capital Grants and Borrowings
Capital grants of the 8 percent from the Central Government to the
Municipality are based on the Central Government ordinary annual
revenues, for which a growth rate of 11 percent per year is
predicted. The same rate is therefore applied to estimate the
capital grants. No long-term borrowing, other than the World Bank
financing, is assumed in the projections.
Project Impact
(a)    Debt Service Cost
Proceeds of the Bank loan would be passed on to the Municipality
on the same terms as the loan to the Borrower, i.e. 17 years
including five years of grace at the standard variable interest
rate. Interest during construction, up to an amount of US$2.2
million, would be capitalized.



- 23 -
ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 3
(b)    Projected Revenues
The projections of property tax revenues due to the project cover
65 percent of the properties not yet registered. In order to
project these revenues, an average yield per property, based on
1987 property revenues, is used. To provide a conservative
estimate no adjustments for increases in property values are made
for the following reasons: (a) the average tax yield used to
project property tax revenues is based on the 35 percent of
properties already registered, which correspond mostly to high
value properties; (b) some of the property values have been
automatically adjusted based on reports from public notaries of
real estate transfers; and (c) a system of self-valuation and
self-reporting of properties has been introduced in January 1988.
For the same reason, no increase in the tax rate is contemplated.



- 24 -
SUATENALA                                     AINEI 6
NUNICIPAL DEvELOPMENT PROJECT                           Table I
IWNICIPALItY OF GUATEAllU
Finascial Projections
lin I 0000s1
I87      1989     119      1990     1991     1992      1993     199
1. EIISTINS OPERATIONS
Rocurrent Enpenditurts
Personnel Costs
- Municipality                   7323     8202      9186    1029    11523    12906    14455    16139
0overnent                     10OOO    11O0      1I1O0    11000    11000    11000    10I0O   ltOO1
r ir Curont Expn.                 4472     4874      5313     5791     6312     630      749       8174
SUpplies I Servicts               255M     2111      3092     3401    3741      4116     4527      4990
Transf rs                         6348     6792      7267    m7         920     B93      9526    10193
Capital Outlays                    10708    11993    13432    15044    1649    1971    21136    23672
Debt Service                        2268      1696     163      1612     1011      961      733       624
TOtAL ElPENDITURES                 44675    473S6     50923    54913   59751    63137    68876    7932
FINANCED BYa
Direct laxe
Property Tax                      6985     7160     7446      7744      054     8376     9711     9060
Personal Tax                      1690      IM       1924     2059     2203     2357     2522      2698
Indirect Taxes                      1109     9676     9293      9933    10628    13M      12169    13020
Tuiffs I Other
Current Revnues                     8B55    14444    16177    18119    20293    22721    25453    29510
Capital Grants                     13491     4955      5500     6105     6M       7522     9349     926
govt. Salary Support               1100*    11000    11000    15000    11000    11000 I   11000    1100
lorrowings                             0         0        0        0        0        0        0         0
TOTAL REVENUES                     50019    49033    51330    54960    58955    63555    69204    73556
SURfLUS/DEFICIT                     5344       665      407       47     I19      -182     -612   -1276
11. PROJECT IMPACT
Project lftovestnts I/
Cadaster                             0     1197      1779      965      N4       239      259        0
Organization I
Finance Program                      0       121      953     1051      7S9        0        0         0
laintenance Ingt.Systes              0       27       156      214       82       52        0        0
Road Isprovew ts                     0     6339      494      4917     5676     4757      779     2194
Urban Devt. tudy                     0        0       664      956      771        0        0         0
Debt Service Costs 1121                0      310       914     1336     144      2273     2592     5968
Sub-total                           0     80t61    361       9359     9665     7321     6V0      8152
FINANCED BY:
Borrowings- IIRD 11                    0     5452      7574     B059     7842     5663     2596     1922
Project Revenues
Property Taies                                0      2939     6611    10293     2487    14690    14690
Prcie:t Surolusl/Wicit                 0    -2609      1951     5351     9460    10828    10646      W60
FUTTiFE CAPITAL D;tLAYS             544    -1944       2358     5359     9659    10646     9974     71l4
11 Incorporats annual conversion 4actors.
21 Includes capitalized intterest during construction.



- 25 -
SIATENLA                              ANNEM . 6
MUNMICIPN  DEVELOPIENT PROJECT
UNICIPALITV Of 9MTEMLA                          Table 2
Key Financial Indicators                       -
1997     199       199      190       1991      1m        1m       1M
Nosinal Annual Increase in
Current Revnues-?                            19n      13Z       141       131       9t       9n         i?
Current Revenuus per Capita-B
-  "ounal                40        45        49       54        59        62       tA        67
Nosinal Annual Increase in                         41       45t      3M?       2BS       141      12Z        It
Property Tax Row-?
Property TJa Remenues per Capita-f
- Nominal                 7         a        11       14        17        19       21        20
Nominal Annual Increase in
Current Expend.-?                               5?       n         c         a        n         n        141
Current Expenditurwes Per Capita-B
-Nominal                 37        37       39         0        41       43        44 
Personnel Costs as ?
Of Current Revenues                  50?       451      411       39t       362      35Z       34?       342
Debt Service as ?
of Current Revenues                   6?        5?       5S        5?        5?      5         4?        et
Ratio of Current Revs/Current Exp.
linc. debt wervice)                 1.09     1.20      1.27      1.35     1.43      1.46      1.49     1.38



- 26 -
ANNEX 7
GUATEMALA
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILE
Project Related Reports and documentation
-    Guatemala - Municipal Development Project, Supplementary Volume
(April 15, 1986)
-    Annual Report, 1985 - Pederacion Nacional de Cooperativas de
Ahorro, ',redito y Servicios Varios de Guatemala, (FENACOAC) March,
1986.
-    Codigo Municipal y sue Reformas - Ministerio de Gobernacion, 1981
-    Constitucion Politica de la kepublica de Guatemala - Asamblea
Nacional Constituyente, May, 1985.
-    El Quintanal, Socio-economic Survey and Project Proposal for
Rehabilitation of Infrastructure at BANVI Housing Site - DAHVI,
1986.
-    Estudio de Mejoramiento de Asentamientos Urbanos no Controlados -
Municipality of Guatemala, April, 1986.
-    Estudio de Factibilidad 'Programa Memoramiento de Asentamientos
Urbanos no Controlados' - Hogar y Desarrollo, April, 1986.
-    Ley del Patrimonio Familiar, borrador.
-    Proyecto para la Actualizacion y Desarrollo del Catastro de la
Ciudad de Guatemala - Municipality of Guatemala, April 1986.
-    Programa de Reconstruccion Mejoramiento y Mantenimiento de Vias
Urbanas de la Ciudad de Guatemala - Municipality of Guatemala,
April 1986.
-    Rehabilitacion de la Red Vial Urbana, Analysis Tecnico, Economico,
Financiero - Estudio Efectuado por Grupo Multisectoral Camara
Guatemalteca de la Construccion, Nov. 1985.
Sector Report and Studies
-    Distrito Central Propuesta para su creacion - Municipality of
Guatemala, 1981.
-    Plan Nacional de Desarrollo 1984-1986, Plan Regional de Desarrollo
- SEGEPLAN, 1983.



IBRD 20328R
R0eat   B         \ f" DoPwn           [GUATEMALA
14140/- f      MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
GUATEMALA CITY
URBAN UPGRADING                    *  N*Hn Capktl
PILOT PROJECT SQUATTER AREAS                            -o8dG
o9tU @  ' -^         gGUATEMALA
P. GT,ai.    ST,   we ft  - F. a                       Et SAtVADOR
e4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a \rJ      Oa 00110 55 SSF foTOoSF.aCVSO1W55
P S  i c TehnoEL SALVADOR
URBAN UPGRADING                                   W
Q~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O BANV HOUSING SITES
1M1AY 149



