Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 17394
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GUATEMALA
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
[Loan 2972-GU]
February 19, 1998
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure
Country Management Unit 2
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perforrnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Quetzal (Q)
EXCHANGE RATE
(as of October 24, 1997)
US$1.00 = Q6.03
Q1.00 = US$0.17
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CBO -              Community-based organization
CRN-               ComitW  Nacional para la Reconstrucci6n (National Committee for
Reconstruction)
DAHVI -            Direcci6n de Asentamientos Humanosy Vivienda (Human Settlements and
Housing Directorate of the Executive Secretariat of the Presidency)
NGO -              Non-governmental organization
TNICEF -           United Nations Children's Fund
Vice President                   .     Mr. Shahid Javed Burki
Country Management Unit Director       Ms. Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Management Unit Director        Mr. Sri-Ram Aiyer
Task Manager                     :     Mr. M. Vitor Serra



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GUATEMALA
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
[Loan 2972-GU]
PREFACE
This is the Tmplementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Municipal Development Project in
Guatemala for which Loan 2972-GU in the amount of US$29.0 million equivalent was approved on June
23, 1L988, and made effective on February 15, 1990. By December 17, 1993, a total Loan amount of
US$19.1 million had been canceled. The Loan was closed on June 30, 1997, three years beyond the
original closing date. Final disbursement took place on November 5, 1997, after which time there remained
US$20,636 undisbursed, bringing the total Loan amount disbursed to US$9,879,364.
The ICR was prepared by Roy Gilbert, consultant, under the supervision of M. Vitor Serra (Task
Manager) and Peter W. Loach, with secretarial assistance from Claudia Kandel, from the Finance, Private
Sector and infrastructure Management Unit (LCSFP) of the Latin America and the Caribbean Region; and
reviewed by Juergen Franz, Sector Leader, Country Management Unit 2.
The ICR is based upon project progress and audit reports, project files and interviews with those
responsible for the project. These included Bank staff and consultants in Washington D.C., government
officials, staff of UNICEF, community representatives and local residents in the target areas improved in
Guatemala.
Translations of summaries of the evaluation report on this project prepared by the DAHVI and the
Ministry of Public Finance are included as appendices to the ICR.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GUATEMALA
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
[Loan 2972-GUI
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PAGE NUMBER
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY                                                  i
PART1 I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT                          1
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES -----     ----- ---------- 1
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES --------------------------------- 2
C. IAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT  ----------------------- 5
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY---------------- ------------ ------------------ 8
E. BANK PERFORMANCE ------- ----------------------- -----------------------   8
F. 'BORROWER PERFORMANCE------------------------------------------------------------------- 9
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME ---------------------------------------------------------------------10
H. FUTURE OPERATION       - - _    -   _ -   ---------------- -----10
1.  KEY LESSONS LEARNED-------------------------- ---     --------------10
PART IL STATISTICAL ANNEXES                                        12
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS ------------------- ------------------------12
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS-------------------------------------------------------13
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE------------ ----------- ----------------------------- 13
TABLE 4: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND
ACTUAL (USS Million) ------------------------------------------------14
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND OPERATION
A. rNDICATORS OF BASIC URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE (EL MESQUITAL SITES) ---------14
B. INDICATORS OF PARTICIPATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
(EL MEZQUrrAL SITES)------------------------------- --- ------------ 15
C. INDICATORS OF SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPROVEMENT
(EL MEZQUITAL SITES)--------        ------------------------------------15
D. PROJECT BASIC URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE (OTHER PROJECT SITES) -----------------15
TABLE 6: PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
TABLE 6A: PROJECT COSTS-------------------------------------------16
TABLE 6B: PROJECT FINANCING-----------                    -------------17
TABLE 7: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS --------------------------------------------------17
TABLE 8: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS ----------------------------------------------------- 17
TABLE 9: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS--      ------21
TABLE 10: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS---------- -   -     ------------21
TABLE 11: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS------------------------------------- ---------------21



APPENDIXEE                                                   23
A. COMPLETION MISSION'S AIDE MO OItE--                    323
B. PROJECT ASSESSMENT FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIE -30



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GUATEMALA
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
[Loan 2972-GUI
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1. The Guatemala Municipal Development Project, originally conceived as a program of municipal
reform at the level of the capital city, underwent major transfornations. The project becane a
successful urban upgrading operation, marking important achievements in stimulating participatory
developments that involved beneficiary low-income communities in managing the provision of their
own urban services.
Project Objectives
2. As originally conceived at appraisal, the objectives of the project were to: (i) revitalize municipal
imance and administration in Guatemala City; and (ii) provide and rehabilitate basic infrastructure and
services for low-income and squatter inhabitants.
3. To achieve these objectives, the project originally had three components: (i) Part A - Institutional
Development at Guatemala City, including cadastre work and management improvement, to be
implemented by the Municipality of Guatemala City; (ii) Part B - Urban Services for low-income areas
(in the capital's metropolitan region) to be implemeted by the National Committee for Reconstruction
(CRN); and (iii) Part C - Road Maintenance and Inprovement Program for Guatemala City, to be
implemented by the Municipality of Guatemala City.
4. This ICR focuses primarily upon Part B, the only component within the original scope of the project
that was fully implemented. Parts A and C, to have been implemented by the Municipality of
Guatemala City, were canceled at the request of the Government due to counterpart financing
problems, delays in implementation associated with a change in municipal government, and the Bank's
suspension of disbursements to Guatemala from 1989 to 1992.
Impllementation Experience and Results
5. Project start-up was considerably delayed. The Loan finally became effective on February 15, 1990,
over 19 months following its approval by the Bank Board on June 23, 1988, and over 43 months after
the appraisal date of June 19, 1986. These delays were induced by the government's lack of credit-
worthiness during the period 1986-1988, the government's serious constraints in financing project
counterpart funds, and the suspension of all Bank disbursements to the country during the period 1989-
1992. Moreover, the new municipal administration in Guatemala City was not keen to participate in
the project. By 1993, the Bank recommended that the government request cancellation of the Loan so
that Bank funds could be reassigned to other projects then seen to have a better chance of success.
This led to the cancelling of the undisbursed amount (US$19.1 million) of Parts A and C, which related
1t the municipal administration of Guatemala City, and the re-focusing of the project entirely on Part
]B, leading to its eventually successful outcome; namely the stimulation of participatory development in
the provision of urban services to low-income families.
6. Despite implementation delays, the project's objectives for Part B were achieved as follows:



ii
o  Intense participatory development involving beneficiary communities, The project's most
outstanding achievement was to stimulate final beneficiaries to participate in planning,
executing and financing improvements to their areas on a large scale. Community-based
organizations (CBOs) were institutionalized, thanks to the project.
O Overcoming policy reticence toward participatory development in Guatemala. The project
helped win over skeptics by demonstrating that participatory development, involving
beneficiary communities themselves, could successfully provide urban services with little
financial onus upon the government.
O  Imnproved living conditions for low-income populations Benefits, including street paving,
water supply, sewage collection and treatment, led to a substantially improved urban
environment that was reflected in increased land values in project sites. Low-cost sewage
treatment plants-difficult to develop in many other countries-were particularly innovative.
a Cost recovery. At the initiative of the communities themselves, cost recovery mechanisms are
in place and actual collections already begun.
o  Municipal reform. Even though Parts A and C were largely not implemented, the project
planted ideas picked up later when a reform-minded administration returned to Guatemala City
Hall. At its own initiative and expense, the municipality has increased tax revenues, cut its
staff and is planning a major overhaul of its cadastre
7. Factors beyond the control of the government that affected the project included:
ca Weak governance at local level especially. The project suffered from a number of problems
related to weak governance: uneven government commitment over time, lack of counterpart
funding, and few sectoral support programs. On the other hand, the project's participatory
approach thrived in the administrative vacuum at the local level.
n UNICEF and NGOs with track records tofill the gap. UNICEF's excellent work in direct
and constant contact with local communities-itself based upon earlier NGO experiences-
was crucial to the success of the project.
a  Community participation. High demand by communities for land tenure security and urban
services fueled a strong participatory response from beneficiaries that became a key factor in
the project's success.
o3 Unrelenting dedication and enthusiasm of key individuals Qualified individuals, with an
almost missionary zeal for working directly with local communities, contributed to the success
of the project.
8. Factors under the control of the government that affected project performance included:
o3 Sector policy shift in favor of participation. Government policy favoring participatory
development and accepting UNICEF and some NGOs as partners helped lay a new and
successful foundation for the project.
El Weak government finances and financial management. Government arrears with the Bank
and lack of counterpart funding almost led to project cancellation.
9. Bank performance on the whole is rated moderately satisfactory. Project identification and preparation
assistance to the borrower was expeditious and the appraisal mission was sensitive to new political
opportunities in Guatemala in 1986. On the other hand, the Bank missed an opportnity to thoroughly
re-appraise the project in 1988 and perhaps retain Guatemala municipality as a key participant.
Supervision was generally satisfactory, especially in re-focusing the project in 1993 and helping to



iii
guide the participatory experience to its ultimate success. In 1993 though, the project should have been
iformally re-structured. This could have allowed it a better rating as an urban upgrading project.
10. ]Borrower performance is rated satisfactory during preparation. Enthusiastic teams at the CRN and the
Municipality of Guatemala keenly supported the reform agenda. Lack of political and administrative
continuity however, soon dissipated these groups. Lack of government commitment to the project
between 1989 and 1993, plus financial reporting and auditing difficulties thereafter, lead to an
unsatisfactory rating of government performance during implementation. As a caveat to this rating,
however, credit should be given to the government for its shift of policy in favor of participatory
development with NGOs and CBOs from 1993 onwards.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
11. 'For direct achievements in stimulating participatory development while still planting seeds of municipal
ireform, the project outcome as a whole is rated satisfactory. Project sustainability is rated as likely in
view of the continued active involvement of CBOs with government support. CBOs are also likely to
ensure the future operation of the project facilities, but more has to be done to manage solid waste
collection and disposal in the improved areas.
12. 'Lessons for future projects in Guatemala and elsewhere include:
Participatory development should be given a chance, especially where governance is weak at
the local leveL Guatemala's experience in participatory development has proved successful and
might be applicable to one of more of the following conditions in other countries too: (i) post-
conflict situations; (ii) volatile political and institutional environment; and (iii) local-level
government undermined or even non-existent because of excessive centralism.
a  Participatory development requires intensive supervision on the ground of the kind that
UNICEF provided efficiently. In addition to the Bank's own regular supervision, participatory
development operations require intensive day-to-day management of the kind that UNICEF
provided so effectively under this project.
l Participatory development is not necessarily a final solution, but is an important way station
on the route to more solid local institutional development. Participatory development should not
allow local government to relinquish responsibilities toward its poorer constituents. Thus,
participatory development should be complementary to the long-term pursuit of municipal reform
of the kind originally envisioned by this project.
c  Low-cost sewage treatment provedfeasible: The project demonstrated the feasibility of providing
low-cost sewage treatment for poor communities. Project solutions, which minimize operational
costs, can be adapted for use in other countries whose authorities find it difficult to lower the cost
of sewage treatment. Low-cost project solutions for other urban infrastructure-notably paving
and drainage-also proved feasible.
O  Projects should be formally restructured and even sometimes renamed following major
changes in project scope and nature: To adjust an operation to rapidly evolving country
circumstances, restructuring should nullify project objectives and components which are no longer
part of a project and for which loan amounts have been canceled. Accurately denominated project
objectives, descriptions and titles not only help constitute a factual database of Bank project
experience, and they also help ensure fair project assessments in the future.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GUATEMALA
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
[Loan 2972-GUi
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1. As originally conceived at appraisal, this project pursued a twin-track agenda: namely municipal
reform on the one hand and improving urban living conditions for the poor on the other. Its formal
objectives were:
o To revitalize municipal administration and finance in the Municipality of Guatemala City by
improving management and revenue generation; and
o To provide and rehabilitate basic urban infrastructure and community services to low income and
squatter communities. (SAR 2.02-2.03).
2. The original project design included three components to achieve these objectives:
(  Part A: Institutional Development in Guatemala City Municipality: updating the cadastre to
increase revenues from property taxes, and improving development planning and management of
urban services;
u  Part B: Urban Services: upgrading five low-income areas, rehabilitating basic urban infrastructure
in 32 residential areas and providing technical assistance for assessing shelter needs and
formulating an operational program;
1 Part C: Road Maintenance and Improvement and Urban Development Planning: installing a road
maintenance management system and carrying out a study of urban development in metropolitan
Guatemala City. (SAR 2.04)
3. 1n spite of considerable changes subsequently made in the scope of the project, neither the objectives
nor project description were formally amended.
4. At the outset, the project incorporated a standard municipal development project design-sharp and
umpopular reform measures (Part A) packaged together with more attractive physical investments
(Parts B and C). But implementation was far from being a standard experience. By completion, the
project had been transformed into an innovative participatory squatter upgrading operation based
upon the original Part B.  Achievements in participatory development involving beneficiary
communities far exceeded appraisal expectations. By mid-term, municipal reform had slipped from the
project altogether as Guatemala City's new administration did not share its predecessor's enthusiasm
ifor the reform program and endorsed the almost full cancellation of loan amounts for Parts A and C.
]Even so, the Guatemala City municipality did modernize somewhat, albeit outside the formal scope of
the project itself.
5. This ICR therefore focuses upon the participatory upgrading operations supported by Part B of the
project. Through this component, the project was a catalyst in stimulating intensive participation by
low-income communities in planning, financing and implementing their own neighborhood
improvements. The participatory development experience initiated under the project offers the richest



2
source of lessons applicable to future efforts at improving the living conditions of the urban poor.
6. The ICR also briefly addresses results under the original municipal reform agenda of the project.
While the project helped plant the seeds of such reform, actual outcomes were beyond the formal scope
of the project itself. Guatemala Municipality pursued them at its own behest and cost. Municipal
reform achievements in this way, it should be emphasized, were nevertheless realized much later than
had been intended under the project.
7. The project's attempt to enhance local government in Guatemala City-in a country wracked by
decades of civil strife-was bound to be an ambitious undertaking. In 1986, however, the Bank
appraisal team identified new factors that helped justify supporting a risky project such as this one at
that time: (i) election of Guatemala's first civilian president-Vinicio Cerezo; (ii) a lull in the civil war;
(iii) good macroeconomic prospects with the recovery of world prices of Guatemala's export staple,
coffee; (iv) election of a new mayor of Guatemala City-Alvaro Arzfi, a private sector businessman
and now the President of the Republic-who embraced the reform agenda proposed by the project.
Project achievements at completion suggest that the decision to support this project and doggedly
pursue its implementation were, in hindsight, correct.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
Intense participatory development involving beneficiary communities
8. The project's most outstanding achievement was to successfully stimulate final beneficiaries'
participation in planning, executing and financing improvements to their own low-income
neighborhoods. More than 37,600 low-income people benefited, covering ten communities instead of
the five originally planned. At appraisal, the project design did foresee local community-based
organizations (CBOs) interacting with the government's executing agency the National Committee for
Reconstruction (CRN), but the degree of formal CBO management and responsibility finally achieved
far exceeded appraisal expectations. CBOs themselves expanded. At the main project site at El
Mezquital, some 1,200 residents were active members of these local organizations, four times as many
as at project start-up.
9. CBO development was bottom-up. Community members themselves set up their own organization to
be an institutional interlocutor of government and its representatives in the urban improvement process
laid down by the project. CBO consolidation was bottom-up in another sense. It expressed the
community's own demand for improvements. Technocratic solutions were not handed down to local
residents from some remote government office.
10. There were nevertheless external-maybe top-down-stimuli upon the community to organize itself
and act. For each area, both government and the Bank required a legally recognizable organization at
the community level to be able to formally accept the community as a partner, especially since this
partnership involved the community's handling of financial transactions. This project requirement
directly stimulated CBO fornation in the Carolingia neighborhood, for instance.  Community
organizations such as this were not created out of nothing, however. Many existed before in a
rudimentary form, having received support and technical assistance from local and foreign NGOs, and
even from UNICEF itself.
11. CBOs typicaly developed solid and intricate organizational arrangements, with a few topically oriented
sub-committees structured around a central committee or cooperative. Through UNICEF in particular,
the project advised communities on how to get organized. Particularly important was the control
subcommittee, which tracked and checked all CBO financial dealings. Every transaction and
deliberation was accounted for and formally recorded in wrting. The availability of these records for



3
public inspection instilled confidence in the CBO not only by local residents, but also other project
players, notably the Bank itself Although the government still expresses some reservations about
allowing communities to handle project funds directly (see Part II of this ICR), the project experience
in this regard can be considered a success.
Overcoming policy reticence toward urban participatory development in Guatemala
12. By helping government to shift sectoral policy in favor of improving low-income areas in Guatemala's
cities through a participatory approach, the project had a greater policy impact than expected. The
project showed that low-income beneficiaries, through CBOs, could collaborate in planning, executing
and financing important improvements with little financial onus upon government, and that this process
deserved government support. Before the project, many government officials feared that involving
urban communities might unleash extravagant demands that could also constitute a dangerous first step
in undermining the due legal process in urban land settlement. Residents of low-income areas
themselves feared participation too. They remembered reprisals suffered in earlier days for speaking
out during the country's civil strife when human rights were not respected as they are today.
Improved living conditions for low-income urban populations
13. By introducing basic urban infrastructure to previously unserviced areas, the project made conditions
for 37,600 low-income people more livable. Street paving made the areas more accessible. In some
cases new street networks brought spatial order to a neighborhood for the first time, as in some parts of
El Mezquital. Footpaths provided access to remoter parts of neighborhoods. For the first time, low-
income families benefited from regular water supplies. This was tianks to new networks-with
metered connections to individual houses-that were built in part through their own efforts. Heavy
capital-intensive tasks beyond self-help efforts, such as drilling deep wells for instance, were usually
undertaken through the help of NGOs. CBOs were nevertheless active in the administration of the
water networks, including levying and collecting charges from local users.
14. Low-cost sewage treatmnent plants-again implemented with a considerable degree of self-help through
the community-brought substantial environmental improvements to the neighborhoods immediately
served and to areas beyond. Taking advantage of uneven topography, these plants are built on the
sides of some of the many steep canyons or ravines that cut through the site of Guatemala City. The
plants use gravity to filter sewage and collect sediment for later removal, and thereby keep operational
costs to a minimum. On the other hand, the lack of collection and disposal of solid waste in these areas
remains a serious problem. Garbage discarded in ravines surrounding the sites poses not only a threat
to public health, but also destabilizes the slopes down which it is thrown. Homes perched along the
edges of these ravines areas are at risk. Clearly the community has to do more, with the support of the
authorities, to solve this problem. The prospects for solutions are good, however. After all, the CBOs
already have an organiztional framework within which to find them.
15. On balance, however, living conditions for the urban poor improved substantially as a result of the
project. Residents enjoy greater security of tenure and have begun to make improvements to their own
units. Crime rates have fallen in the largest area, El Mezquital. The incidence of some contagious
diseases too has fallen. Inproved conditions have translated into higher value real estate. Land values
in El Mezquital are currently some eleven times higher than before the project, at some US$41.46 per
square meter. Using increased land values as a proxy to measure project benefits, the economic rate of
return of project investments in upgrading is estimated at 13.4% at completion, near the 15.0% forecast
at appraisal, and demonstrating worthwhile investments from an econornic point of view.



4
Cost recovery
16. In both the Carolingia and El Mezquital sites, CBOs instigated mechanisms for cost recovery; listing
contributors, printing billings, opening accounts etc. For the community water supply, cost recovery is
already in practice, and consumers make affordable monthly payments to the CBO for the service. Of
course, water metering has been a key factor in cost recovery. Delinquency is practically non-existent.
The CBO uses this revenue for repairs to the system and to buy chemicals for treatment. All
transactions are recorded by the CBO's water subcommittee.
17. Payments for neighborhood improvements have only just begun in El Mezquital. Nevertheless, some
US$85,000 has already been collected from low-income residents to date and this amount is held in
trust by the CBO itself. The principal of cost recovery is thus well accepted by the community. More
financial programming still needs to be done to determine the scale and flow of future funding through
cost recovery. Questions, such as who should share the recovered costs and what funds should be
spent on, still await answers. Answers should be found soon, so that contributors can associated their
cost recovery payments with the improvements made. That such questions can be posed at all at this
time, however, is a reflection of the impact of the project.
Municipal reform
18. There is evidence that the project succeeded in planting seeds of municipality reform in Guatemala City
today, even though Parts A and C were not fully implemented due to their cancellation under the new
municipal administration as explained above. Since 1995, city property tax collections increased by
50%, thanks to a modernized collection system with four times as many collection posts as before. At
its own initiative and cost, the municipality is planning a major overhaul of Guatemala City's cadastre
next year on a grander scale than originally foreseen by the project. Already over the past five years,
the municipal payroll fell by half. Taken together, these actions represent a substantial program of
municipal reform, of the kind originally envisioned by the project, but undertaken at the city's own
expense. While officials of the municipality of Guatemala City must be credited for the achievements
that it has made, project blueprints for municipal reform left in 1986, were useful to them ten years
later when a reform-minded administration once again occupied City Hall.
Achieving project objectives in unexpected ways.
19. The project thus achieved most aspects of its two main objectives, and both were achieved in
unexpected ways; (i) the urban service objective through stimulating sustainable participatory
development on a scale and with intricacy that could not have been foreseen at the time of appraisal;
and (ii) its municipal reform objectives were achieved outside the formal scope of the project
altogether. This unique project experience is practical verification of the centrality of side effects
maxim first postulated by Albert Hirschman in his book Developed Projects Observed. Thus
unexpected project results (i.e. side effects) are ultimately more likely and more important (i.e.
central) among project results than are intended achievements. Hirschman argues that it is
unreasonable to expect project designers to foresee all the likely effects of a new project at appraisal.
This project is a case study of an operation that achieved much more than originally intended in quite
unexpected ways. That it transformed itself from a municipal development project into an innovative
urban upgrading operation makes it a valuable case study of flexible lending.



5
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Beyond Government Control
Peace, human rights and democracy
20. 'The project unexpectedly became an instrument for helping to consolidate peace in Guatemala. The
country's civil war ended with a cease-fire in March 1996, followed by a Peace Accord in December
1996. The project fits into a framework described by the Peace Investment Plan (PIP) coming out of
those accords. Among other things, the PIP proposed: (i) consolidating basic infrastructure-
especially water and sanitation for low-income people; (ii) human capital investment in the poor,
especially improving health and access to education; and (iii) public sector reform, including
community participation for poverty alleviation programs where direct state action in the past had
failed. This project contributed to all these ends. In a context of peace, its participatory approach to
urban service provision gain much greater political importance than the project designers could ever
have imagined.
21. Peace-after prolonged civil strife of 36 years-was preceded by a growing emphasis upon the
restoration of human rights in Guatemala. The project helped this process too. Ramiro de Le6n
Carpio, former human rights ombudsman, appointed interim president of Guatemala following an
attempted coup d'etat in May 1993, made direct use of the project's example. After personally
inaugurating the project site at El Mezquital, President Carpio cited the project experience to help
justify his extending the participatory approach to Guatemala's urban areas. Previously, participation
had been confined to remote mountainous regions of the country. According to the ex-president
lhimself, the project experience furthered the cause of participatory development and human rights in
other urban areas of the country.
Weak governance at the local level
22. ][ronically, the project both suffered from and also thrived upon a situation where formal mechanisms of
g3overnment were weak at the local level especially. Project suffering arose from: (i) protracted
decision-makinig and prolonged uncertainty about commitment to the project; (ii) inadequate
counterpart funds; and (iii) few sectoral support programs at the local level. Project thriving on the
other hand, came from participatory development prospering in the administrative vacuum left by weak
governance.
23. At first sight, such a context is not a promising one for successful project implementation that depends
upon borrower commitment and efficient executing capabilities and much more. Determined,
committed and stable agencies were not forthcoming to carry the project's municipal reform program,
for instance. The early withdrawal of the Municipality of Guatemala City itself was a severe blow to
the project. CRN, one of the key project executing agencies, was abolished and there was no effective
line ministry to take its place. CRN's former operational department, DAHVI, inherited the agency's
activities. DAHVI's direct link to the Office of the President indicates that upgrading programs are not
lthe responsibility of sectoral line ministries in Guatemala as they are in many other countries.
24. ]Notwithstanding unsettled institutional arrangements, human rights, peace and addressing the needs of
low-income urban residents remained government priorities. Without its own means deliver necessary
services either directly or through strong municipalities, the government had to rely upon NGOs and
ICBOs to help implement the project. A special opportunity thereby arose in which the experience of
NGOs and the motivation of CBOs could be brought to bear upon the project through bottom-up self-
lhelp solutions. Weak governance required that the project find an innovative participatory way to
impart its promised benefits to low-income target populations.



6
UNICEFand NGOs with track recordsfill the gap
25. UNICEF-which supervised project implementation on behalf of the Bank-deserves considerably
credit for project success in the participatory development of urban services. UNICEF had been active
in supporting self-help urban improvements in Guatemala since 1986. Thanks to the project, additional
funding meant that UNICEF's could considerably up-scale its proven approach to working with local
communities. As a multilateral agency with a considerable track record in Guatemala, UNICEF played
many crucial project roles. It engendered the trust of both government and the communities
themselves. In the eyes of the Bank too, UNICEF inspired confidence. The multilateral agency
carefully oversaw project execution according to its own and to Bank norms. Most importantly, it
controlled the flow of project funds to communities themselves. UNICEF was able to retail the
management of participatory development and give close personal attention to community leaders and
members. The Bank's supervisory role in wholesaling the project obviously did not permit the
necessary day-to-day community contact by Bank staff and consultants. Thus the roles of the Bank
and UNICEF were strictly complementary. The satisfactory project outcome points to successful
partnership between the two.
26. UNICEF's own activities were founded upon the experience of Guatemalan and foreign NGOs, whose
work proliferates throughout the country. Particularly important were Guatemalan church groups such
as Hogar y Desarrollo (HODE), as well as foreign entities such as the French Medicins sans
Fronteres and the U.S. Inter-American Foundation. The project and the NGOs helped sustain each
other. NGOs with experience in this kind of work helped make the project feasible. In return, the
project helped legitimize the work of many NGOs, some of which had been regarded with distrust,
especially during the recent history of civil strife.
Comnmunity participation in Guatemala: incentives and motivation
27. Urban communities needed to start to act on their own to help bring security of tenure and begin to
enjoy basic urban services. Local government-a target for lobbying in many countries-was unable
to provide the services needed by poor residents in Guatemala. Comrnunities saw little point in
approaching local government to try to get official programs started. Until recently, the official view of
communities who had illegally invaded urban land was, in any case, not sympathetic. Before the
project, many saw urban community participation in Guatemala as a break down of due legal process
and a recipe for conflict. UNICEF-through the actions of its dedicated staff-helped legitimize and
institutionalize community participation, something crucial to the success of the project. The project
required an institutionalized interlocutor at the community level to allow investment in a particular
area. What stronger incentive for a community to organize itself was there, than knowing that the
reward for becoming organized would be the inflow of project resources into its area?
28. Although access to project resources was an overriding incentive for communities to become
institutionalized, each particular group of beneficiaries had its own history and specific motivations for
seeking improvements to its neighborhood. Thus residents of Carolingia-victims of displacement
following the devastating 1976 earthquake-demanded the urban services they had been denied for
nearly two decades. On the other hand, residents of El Mezquital came from many different parts of
Guatemala and occupied their area over a period of years in a chaotic fashion. Many splinter groups-
sometimes conflictive-formed within the various communities embraced by the El Mezquital site
(Beteta June 1996). Nevertheless, they all shared the resolve of seeking secure tenure to legalize their
occupation. Since the project's participatory development formula required stable and unitary
institutional arrangements at the community level, local community leaders resolved differences among
themselves and formed a federated council (CJD) of local community-based organizations (CBOs).
The council's empowerment enabled the project to go ahead in that area. Of course, the actual process



7
of creating and institutionalizing effective CBOs is a very complex one that goes to the very heart of
community-based power relationships. There are many different local versions of how this happens.
One idea of what drives the community toward participation, nevertheless, can be gleaned from the
very name of the project's principal CBO partner in El Mezquital, the Integral Cooperative of
Hfousing, Effort and Hope- COIVIEES.
Unrelenting dedication and enthusiasm of key individuals
29. The project benefited from the dedication of qualified staff who were highly motivated to work with the
local communities. These staff carried out the work with a missionary zeal, and provided the essential
glue between the aspirations of the communities on the one hand and the requirements of the donors
and official agencies on the other. There can be no doubt that participatory development work that
involves close and constant personal interaction with community leaders, requires special dedication on
the part of the project staff involved.
TheLoan's troubledgraceperiod
30. The standard five-year repayment grace period of the Loan (1988-1993) coincided with events beyond
the government's control that nearly led to the cancellation of the project. Guatemala's Congress-a
parliament with detailed oversight responsibilities concerning foreign lending operations such as the
project's-required more than one year's deliberations to authorize the loan, after it had been approved
by the Bank's Board of Directors. Municipal elections in 1991 brought to power a new administration
in Guatemala City that did not share its predecessor's enthusiasm for the project's reform agenda. In
any case, a new law in 1988 had temporarily taken responsibility for property cadastres out of the
h ands of municipalities, thus disenfranchising Guatemala City as a project partner for that component.
One change was for the better, however. New CRN management in 1993 brought in a new team of
professionals who helped steer the project toward its final participatory development solution under the
successor agency DAHVI.
Subject to Government Control
Secor policy shift in favor ofparticipation
31. Guatemalan government policy from 1993 onwards provided favorable conditions for the project. The
government began to formally recognize legally constituted urban CBOs as legitimate interlocutors.
Government acceptance of UNICEF and some NGOs as partners in participatory development were
also imnportant steps forward. This approach had the direct and explicit support of the country's
president at that time. Even though such decisions may represent a withdrawal of government from the
business of directly providing urban services, their sector policy significance should not be under-
estimated. Without these policy changes, the field would not have been open for more innovative
solutions such as the participatory approach sponsored by the project. In return, the project experience
clemonstrated to some skeptical officials, that satisfying the basic needs with the collaboration of low-
income urban populations themselves, was not the expensive business that they had feared.
Weak governmentfinances andfinancial management
32. This undermined the project in significant ways. Firstly, Guatemala's lack of credit-worthiness during
the period 1986-1988 greatly hampered advancement of the then newly prepared municipal
clevelopment project, as the government faced serious constraints in financing project counterpart
finds. Secondly, the Bank suspended disbursements with the government from 1989 to 1992. By
1993, the Bank-in the spirit of the Wappenhans report-recommended that the government request
cancellation of the Loan so that Bank funds could be reassigned to other projects then seen to have a
better chance of success. The government did not take a clear position on this issue. Finally, financial
reporting by the government was found wanting. Record keeping, monitoring and auditing were not



8
entirely adequate and there was not full compliance with legal covenants in this respect.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
33. Likely. The long-term continuation of the project's achievements in improved urban services for the
poor is contingent upon the continuity of the participatory development approach itself The
government demonstrated its clear commitment to this approach. Low-income urban communities
continue to express their demand for tenure security and urban service improvements through their
clamor to participate-to the point of making financial contributions-in the improvements made.
Taken together, these conditions bode well for project sustainability. In the short and medium tenn, the
inheritance of weak governance in Guatemala precludes any other solution than participatory
development, to which thankfully, NGOs and other agencies are still strongly committed. As peace
takes hold in Guatemala, governance will consolidate and strengthened municipalities can eventually
make greater contributions to the long-term sustainability of urban improvements than they can today.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
34. Project Identification and Preparation Assistance - Satisfactory: In its original form, the project was
identified and prepared expeditiously over a twelve-month period during 1985-86. By targeting
municipal reform and assistance for the poor in urban areas, the project was consistent with the Bank's
country strategy at that time, which aimed at enhancing governance and tackling the needs of poor
groups, especially those who were still suffering from the effects of the devastating 1976 earthquake.
For this purpose, Bank missions helped design a municipal development operation that used a well-
tried format, and drew upon the experience of some nine such projects already prepared worldwide.
35. Project Appraisal - Moderately Satisfactory: The appraisal mission saw a window of opportunity to
establish policy-based urban lending in Guatemala in 1986. The appraisal team's assessment of
positive developments-notably the election of the first civilian president of the country and a dynamic
interlocutor as Guatemala City mayor-justified the risks taken in a country still in the throes of civil
war. Foreseeing the possible weakness of government executing agencies-a conclusion drawn from
the experience of the previous Earthquake Reconstruction Project (Loan 1314/5-GU), the project
design wisely allowed for the likely participation of NGOs and CBOs, although not the extent that
eventually transpired by completion. The SAR did not formally recognize as project risks the complete
withdrawal from the project or extinction of key executing agencies as in fact happened. To have done
so would have been tantamount to doubting the wisdom of lending to Guatemala at all. From the final
and positive project outcome, it is evident that that country risk was in hindsight, worth taking and
substantial achievements made, even after major disruption to the initial implementation arrangements.
36. Less satisfactory was the lack of reappraisal when the project was finally presented to the Board, two
years after the initial appraisal mission. An important opportunity was then lost to make adjustments
that might have helped keep Guatemala municipality as a project participant. The missed opportunity
was the direct result of the Bank's own intervening reorganization in 1987, and the resulting switch of
task managers and loss of continuity on the Bank's side. On the other hand, at the level of Bank
management, there was close coordination with IMF throughout, as Guatemala sought to re-establish
its creditworthiness in the early 1990s. Finally, the project appraisal took into account the earlier
Eartiquake Reconstruction Project (1314/5-GU) which demonstrated that project design should be kept
simple and that mechanisms of financial control be firmly in place. The focus of the new project upon
NGOs especially was encouraged by the experience of the previous operation.
37. Project Supervision -Moderately Satisfactory. Supervision experience on this project can be broken



9
down into three distinct periods, across which performance was mnixed, and thus moderately
satisfactory overall.
o  During the first period (1989-93), missions were infrequent, but supervision in any case was
difficult. The project was held ransom to government doubts about whether to continue or not.
Also within the Bank itself at that time, this relatively small project had to compete for
management attention more focused upon the Region's mega-issues, such as the enlargement of the
North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) to include Mexico, for instance.
o  The second period (1993-94) included the so-called  "restructuring" of the project. With
imagination and insight, Bank missions identified UNICEF and CBOs in El Mezquital as possible
partners in a participatory approach for completing Part B of the project. A loan agreement
amnendment fonnalized the new implementation arrangements, but left project (municipal)
obligations under Parts A and C intact, even though there was no longer funding for these
components. Restructuring was only informal, even though one of the two project objectives and
two of its three components were no longer operational and more than half the original loan amount
was canceled. Formal restructuring would have made the revised project's aims clear to the Board
among others, and moreover allowed a more positive evaluation of the project at completion. The
"failure" of the Bank to address the project's municipal reform agenda and the government's non-
compliance with many legal covenants related to municipal development, for instance, takes some
of the shine off the project's achievements under the successful Part B. Formal revision and
restructuring would also have meant accurately logging this operation into the Bank's database as
an upgrading operation, and not as a municipal development project.
O  The third period (1994-97) of supervision was the most successful and highly satisfactory, as
Bank staff and consultants, in close collaboration with UNICEF, were able to follow-up actual
implementation of the project under the new arrangements. The Bank fielded appropriate skills and
individuals with experience in project implementation and who took working with beneficiary
communities as a key challenge. The Bank fielded missions more frequently during this period
when more than two-thirds of the total loan amnount outstanding was disbursed. The partnership
with UNICEF was excellent and good relations with the borrower were sustained throughout.
F. BORROWER PERFOMANCE
38. Project Preparation - Satisfactory: Notwithstanding the difficult environment, in which they were
working, government teams performed well. A new team of professionals at the municipality of
Guatemala City was well qualified and enthusiastic to bring about reform. Staff at CRN showed
flexibility in seeking new ways of implementing the project's urban services component, taking into
account the lessons of the earlier Earthquake Reconstruction Project (Loan 1314/5-U) for which
CRN was also executing agency. At the outset, there was thus strong borrower commitment to the
operation. In Guatemala's volatile political conditions, however, project ownership by the borrower
soon fragmented as loss of administrative and political continuity dissipated the original stakeholders.
39. Implementation - Unsatisfactory: Performance was mixed both over time and also with respect to
different aspects of the project. Between 1989 and 1993, the borrower demonstrated uncertain
commitment, sending ambiguous signals to the Bank about whether it wanted to continue with the
operation or not. During this time, counterpart funding was not forthcomning. After 1993, the
government was a valid and valuable partner for the Bank. Moreover, govermment was willing to step
aside to allow NGOs and other agencies to implement projects in direct contact with local communities.
This sector policy shift in favor of participatory development was noteworthy and provided a new basis



10
for the successful completion of the project. Unfortunately, inadequate financial reporting, particularly
with respect to project audits and also proper project monitoring, undermined the quality of what
otherwise had been a successful phase of government action. Compliance with audit requirements was
uneven. As a result, the borrower's institutional progress through the project was only modest.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
40. Overall - Satisfactory: Although not exactly in the way originally foreseen, the project achieved most
of its objectives. The project's greatest single success was as a catalyst to institutionalize-starting
bottom-up from the community itself-a process of participatory development for improving the living
conditions of low-income urban communities. The project also helped give official recognition to the
participatory process as an instrument of government policy. Upgrading through the project led to a
substantial improvement in the urban environment of beneficiary communities as reflected in the
positive economic rate of return. In addition, the project succeeded in planting the idea of municipal
reform-central to the original project design-whose ideas were taken up, albeit much later, when a
reform-minded administration retumed to City Hall in the capital.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
41. With more to be done to consolidate local government outside Guatemala City, responsibility for the
future operation and maintenance of the low-income areas improved under the project rests largely with
the beneficiaries themselves. As of implementation completion, CBOs who were so effective in helping
to get the works done, can now turn their attention to organizing the operational aspects of their areas.
Of particular importance is the collection and disposal of solid waste, which if not addressed, can
undermine some of the achievements made thus far. Empowered and institutionally strengthened
through the project, CBOs can use their proven experience in the day-to-day management of water
supply, for instance, to address other issues affecting the operation and maintenance of their areas.
They do not yet have specific plans for doing this, but are nevertheless motivated and able to receive
additional support in the form of technical assistance from the follow-on project.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
42. Among the many and varied lessons from this unusual project experience, the following stand out:
o Participatory development should be given a chance, especially where governance is weak at
the local leveL The voluntary involvement of the community at some or all stages-from project
planning to implementation and operation-is feasible on a large scale. The project experience
demonstrates clearly that solid institutional arrangements can allow communities to participate
effectively in project financing and financial management too. Such community participation
might be applicable to one or more of the following conditions: (i) post-conflict situations; (ii)
volatile political and institutional environment; and (iii) where local level government is
undermined or even non-existent because of excessive centralism. Other countries with one or
more of these conditions might be important candidates for using participatory development to
improve living conditions in low-income areas based upon the model developed under this project
in Guatemala. While community participation is necessarily a bottom-up process, the experience
of the project shows that government commitment and support are crucial for participatory
development to succeed.
o Participatory development requires intensive supervision on the ground of the kind that



11
UNICEF efficiently provided. In addition to the Bank's own supervision, participatory
development operations require intensive day-to-day management that UNICEF provided so
effectively under this project. The job requires an agency that can be fully trusted by all parties to
a project, including the Bank, the government and most importantly, the community itself. A
multilateral agency or a local or foreign NGO enjoying this trust is needed. Experience from the
project also shows that success requires a core of dedicated and enthusiastic managers and staff
who are highly motivated by working directly with the communities themselves. UNICEF was able
to deploy such staff for this project.
o Participatory development is not necessarily a final solution, but is an important way station
on the route to more solid institutional development. Participatory development itself should
help local residents themselves-notably women-learn how to deal with, and channel demands to
their respective local governments, especially. Participatory development should not allow local
government to relinquish its responsibilities toward its poorer constituents. For this reason,
participatory development should be complementary to the persistent pursuit over the long term of
municipal reform of the kind originally envisioned by this project.
O Low-cost sewage treatment proved feasible: The project demonstrated the feasibility of providing
low-cost sewage treatment for poor communities. Project solutions, which minimize operational
costs, can be adapted for use in other countries whose authorities find it difficult to lower the cost
of sewage treatment. In addition, the project demonstrated that other low-cost technologies-
notably for paving and storm drainage-can be implemented successfully with the help of the
community itself.
O  Projects should be formally restructured and even sometimes renamed following major
changes in project scope and nature: To adjust an operation to rapidly evolving country
circumstances, restructuring should nullify project objectives and components that are no longer
part of a project and for which loan amounts have been canceled. Accurately denominated project
objectives, description and titles not only help constitute a meaningful database of Bank project
experience, they also help ensure a fair project assessments in the future. This project could have
received a higher assessment rating as the urban upgrading operation that it eventually became.



12
PART IL STATISTICAL ANNEXES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of objectives                  Substantial         Partial        Negligible    Not applicabl
Macro Policies                                    E                Lx]             E
Sector Policies                                    [                               E              El
Fnancial objectives                               [I               [J E 
Institutional Development                         E                []              E               J
Physical objectives                               []                 ]                l           E
Poverty reduction                                 [K               [               E              E
Gender issues                                     El                               E              E
Other social objectives                           [                El0                              El 
Environmental objectives                                           El              El             E
Public sector management                          [I               El             [               E
Private sector development                           l             E               El             [
B. Project sustainabitv                         Likely           Unlikeb        Uncertain
rx                              El
C. Bank performance                        Highly satisfactory    Satisfactory  Moderately         Deficient
Satisfactory
Identification                                    El               [K Ex                           El
Preparation assistance                            El                 l 
Appraisal                                           l                l            [               E
Supervision                                       El               E                              El
D. Borrower performance                    Highly satisfactory    Satisfactory   Deficient
Preparation                                       E                [               E
Implementation                                    EE                              [K
Covenant compliance                               E                E              [
Operation (if applicable)                         E                E               El



13
Hsghlv
E. Assessment of outcome                   Highly satisfactory    Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory  unsatisfactory
ED   '  [C
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
I Loan                     Purpose                            Amount        Year of    | Status
(USSm)       Approval
Preceding Operation
1. Earthquake              To provide reconstruction relief   26.5          1976         Completed
Reconstruction Project (Loan  through three sectors: housing,                            Project performance
1314/5-GU)                 education and transport.                                      audi Projet perfortmanc
Subsequent Operation
1. Greater Guatemala City    To improve infrastructure and service   30.0  Under         Draft Project
Low-income Barrios         conditions in low income settlements             preparation   Concept Document
lInprovernent Project      and improve urban managernent with                            10/05/97
respect to land policy and
environmental services.
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in Project Cycle       Date Planned                Actual Date/ or Duration    Planned: Actual
difference
Identification (Initial Executive  3/30/84               3/30/84                    0
project sumnmary)
Preparation                  36 months                   36 months                  0
Appraisal                    6/19/86                     6/19/86                    0
Negotiations                 3/23/87                     3/23/87                    0
Board Presentation           6/23/88                     6/23/88                    0
Loan Signing                 9/30/88                     11/15/89                   15 months
Loan Effectiveness           11/30/88                    2/15/90                    15 months
Loan Closing                 6/30/94                     6/30/97                    36 months



14
TABLE 4: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
(US$ Million)
FY89    FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96    FY97
Appraisal estimate      4.8     10.1    16.3    21.9    25.5    28.0    29.0    29.0    29.0
Actual                  0.0      0.0      2.5     2.7      3.0      3.5      5.1      7.5     9.8
Actual as % of estimate    0%    0%      15%      12%      12%     13%      18%      26%      34%
Date of final disbursement: November 5. 1997
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND
OPERATION
A. Indicators of Basic Urban Infrastructure (El Mezquital sites)
Indicator                          1993                 1995                 1997
Housing (units)                                    5                    80                   482
Housing Improvement Loans (units)                  0                    20                   550
Water Service (families)                         300                   700                 2,900
Electricity (families)                             0                  1,300                3,000
Drainage Connections (families)                    0                  1,000                2,900
Pluvial Drainage (lineal meter)                    0                 5,000               15,030
Curbs (lineal meter)                               0                 3,000               19,040
Sidewalks (m2)                                     0                 2,000               11,878
Pedestrian area (m2)                               0                 6,000               22,533
Roads (m2)                                         0                 4,000               11,600
Treatment Plants (units)                           0                      1                    5
Land owners (families)                             0                     0                3,000
Health Center (units)                               1                    2                     3
Legal Center (units)                               0                     0                     1
Day Care-Center (units)                            1                      1                   2
Recreation areas                                 .0                      3                    7
Reforestation areas                                0                     0                    8
Note: * Preliminary estimates



15
B. Indicators of Participation and Community Development (El Mezquital sites)
Indicator                          1993                 1995                 1997
Community Representatives                          43                 35                     27
Cooperative Associates                           250                  700                  1,200
Community Assemblies (per year)                     1                    1                     2
Cooperative Meetings, including sub-               12                  24                    100
committees (per year)
NGOs working in Mezquital                          18                  12                     10
The participation of women and children in implementing conmmunity works for the project was approximately 70% (1995-97). Previously, women
participated in community health work.
C. Indicators of Social and Environmental Improvement (El Mezquital sites)
Indicator                          1993                 1995                 1997
Crime rate (annual reported)                      35                    25                  20
Morbidity rate (percent)                          48                    20                   8
Diarrhea (children-percent)                       25                    18                   2
Skin Disease (percent)                            23                    16                   5
Infant Mortality rate (children 1-5 years per     80                    35                   2
1,000 living)
Space Standards per family (m2)                   40                    60                60 - 72
Street Children from Mezquital (percent)          15                    12                   4
Sources: El Mezquital health centers, Encuesta Nacional de Salud 1995, CHILDHOPE Fo-undation "Diagnostic of the
Situation of street children and adolescents" 1992 and 1997.
D. Project Basic Urban Infrastructure (other project sites)
Indicator                      Renacimiento          El Pinito         Colonia
Municipal                           Carolingia
Drainage:
main tunnels > 2 m. diameter (linear meters)         200
concrete tubing > 12 inch diameter (linear         2,500                306
imeters)
PVC piping > 4 inch diameter (linear meters)                                             9,102
septic tanks                                                          1 (70 m3)
deep absorption wells                                                    3
anaerobic sewage treatment plant with two                                                 1



16
sediment tanks, filters and a bio-digester
Water supply:
- Deep wels > 30 meters                                                                   2
- Water storage tank construction/restoration                                             3
- water pipes > 2 inch diameter (linear meters)     3,000
- PVC pipes > 0.5 inch diameter (linear meters)                                         12,279
Paving:
- streets and sidewalks (square meters)             14,000             1,913
- markets, squares etc. (square meters)              220
Source: DAHVI
6. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
TABLE 6A: PROJECT COSTS
Appraisal Estimate (US$m.)               Actual (US$m.)
Item                            Local      Foreign     Total      Local     Foreign       Total
Costs      Costs                 Costs      Costs
A. Project Preparation Facility  0.6        0.9         1.5        0.3       0.1          0.4
B. Institutional Development     0.8        1.3         2.1        0.1       0.2          0.3
i) Cadastre                     0.5        0.7         1.2       0.1        0.1          0.2
ii) Administration and Finance  0.3        0.6         0.9       0.0        0.1          0.1
hnprovement Program
C. Urban Services                17.2       10.3       27.6        4.9       7.8          12.7
i) Squatter upgrading           6.7        2.3         9.0        1.6       6.1          7.7
ii) hIfiatructure Rhabilitation  6.0       4.3        10.4       0.1        0.0          0.1
iii) Road Improvements          4.5        3.7         8.2        3.2       1.7          4.9
D. Metropolitan Planning         0.2        0.6         0.8        0.0       0.0          0.0
i) Urban Development Study      0.2        0.6        0.8        0.0        0.0          0.0
E. Interest during construction  0.0        5.9         5.9        0.0       0.6          0.6
F. Contingencies                 3.9        3.0         6.9        0.0       0.0          0.0
Total                22.7       22.1       44.8        5.3        8.7         14.0
Note: For the purpose of this table, the allocation of project expenditures upon 'municipal' components (Bi, Bii,
and Ciii in this table) is assumed to be US$0.3 million for institutional development and the remainder for road
improvements. Such an assumption is necessary in the absence of the detailed closing and auditing of the
municipality's project accounts.



17
TABLE 6B: PROJECT FINANCING
Appraisal Estimate (US$m.)              Actual (US$m.)
Source                           Local      Foreign     Total      Local     Foreign      Total
Costs      Costs                  Costs      Costs
World Bank                        8.9        20.1        29.0       2.4        7.4         9.8
Government of Guatemala           10.3        1.0        11.3       1.7        1.0         2.7
Municipality of Guatemala City    3.5         1.0        4.5        0.9        0.0         0.9
UNICEF                                         -          -         0.2        0.3         0.5
Final Beneficiaries                            -          -         0.1        0.0         0.1
Total                 22.7       22.1       44.8        5.3        8.7        14.0
TABLE 7: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
Indicators
Squatter Upgrading Component                Appraisal Estimate             Actual Estimate
Internal Economnic Rate of Return (%)         approx: 15.0%                     13.4%
Land value before upgrading (Q/m2)                  Na                            23
Land value after upgrading (Q/m2)                   Na                           250
Note: Actual estimate of internal rate of return is based upon actual project costs less taxes and an annual
stream of benefits derived from the capitalization of land value increase over a period of 15 years, with
annual interest of 12%.
Source: DAHVI project data (costs, physical dimensions, and land values)
TABLE 8: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Agreement  Section   Status  Type of    Description of Covenant                  Comments
Covenant
Loan        3.01 (a) I  RVS    5         The Borrower shall cause the Municipalidad  Municipality no longer
Agreement  and ii                        to perform, in accordance with the      participated in the
provisions of the Project Agreement, all the   project.
obligations set forth in Parts A and C of the
Project and shall take all action necessary
and appropriate to enable the Municipalidad
to perform such obligations.
3.01 (a)   OK     S          The Borrower shall carry out Part B of the    Done through the
iii                          Project, acting through the Comite     successor, DAHVI
3.01 (b)   RVS    2, 5       The Borrower shall re-lend $14,000,000 of   Municipality no longer
the proceeds of the Loan to the        participated in the
Municipalidad for carrying out Parts A and   project.
C of the Project.
3.01 (d)   OK     2, 5       The Borrower shall make available to the  Done
Comite an amount in Quetzales equivalent
to that portion of the proceeds of the Loan
l_______                    - allocated for the carrying out of Part B of the



18
Agreement  Section   Status  Type of    Description of Covenant                   Comments
Covenant
Project.
3.01 (f)   OK     5          The Borrower shall allocate funds necessary   Done
for the Project as a separate line in its
annual budget and shall fumish the Bank
with a certified copy of its official annual
budget before January 30 each year.
3.02      OK      5, 2       Procurement for Part B govemed by       Done
Schedule 4 of the Loan Agreement.
3.02 (ii)   OK    3          Procurement of goods, works and consulting   Done
services for Parts A and C financed out of
the Loan to be govemed by Schedule 1 of
the Loan Agreement.
3.04 (i)   RVS    5          The Borrower to cause the Municipalidad to  Municipality no longer
transfer to the Borrower in exchange for all   participated in the
compensation title to all land which is the    project.
site of any part of the Squatter Communities,
for administration by the Comite.
3.04 (iii)  OK    5          The Borrower, acting through the Comite,    Done
shall develop and carry out a program
satisfactory to the Bank for subdividing such
land and for transferring its title to residents
of the Squatter Communities and establish
Asociaciones de Vecinos in each of the
squatter communities.
3.06      OK      5          The Borrower, acting through the Comite  Done
shall enter into agreements satisfactory to
the Bank, with each of the Asociaciones de
Vecinos to ensure that the communities
cooperate and coordinate in the execution of
Part B.
3.07      RVS    5           The Borrower, through the Comite shall  Municipality no longer
make agreements satisfactory to the Bank  participated in the
with the Municipalidad to ensure its   project.
cooperation and coordination in the
execution of Part B.
3.08      OK      5          The Borrower, either directly or through the   Done
Comite shall make agreements satisfactory
to the Bank with NGOs so they can assist in
executing Part B in the Squatter
Communities.
3.09      OK      5          The Borrower, either directly or through the   Done through DAHVI
Comite shall enter into arrangements with
BANVI so that BAAN V can cooperate and
coordinate with the Comite in executing Part
B in BAN 7 Conjuntos.
3.10      OK      5,9        The Borrower, through the Comite to     Done
provide a progress report on Part B and
achievement of physical targets set out in
Schedule 5 and action plan for semester
imnmediately preceding Jan 1 or July 1 for



19
Agreement  Section   Status  Type of    Description of Covenant                   Comments
Covenant
implementing Part B.
3.11      OK      5          The Borrower, through the Comite to make   Done through DAHVI
an agreement with an organization(s) so they
can administer and extend small business
credit program under Part B.
3.12      OK      5          The Borrower, through the Comite shall  Done
staff the position of the chief of DAHV7 with
a person with satisfactory qualifications and
inform the Bank of changes.
4.01 (a)   OK     2          The Borrower, through the Comit to      Done
maintain separate accounts and records
related to Part B.
4.01 (b) i  OK    2          For all expenditures under Part B made on    Done
ii and iii                   basis of SOEs Borrower acting through the
Comite to: (i) maintain separate accounts;
(ii) keep records for at least one year after
Bank has kept audit report; (iii) enable
Bank's representative to examine records.
4.01 (c)   NC     2          The Borrower, through the Comite shall: (i)   Audit reports delayed
have accounts audited; (ii) furnish audit
reports to Bank vithin four months of year
end; (iii) furnish information related to such
accounts and audits as Bank shall reasonably
request.
Project     2.04      RVS    5            Municipalidad through the OCP to perforn    Municipality no longer
Agreement                                 obligations under Subsidiary Loan       participated in the
Agreement.                             project.
2.05 (b)   RVS    5          Municipalidad through the OCP to promptly  Municipality no longer
inform Bank of conditions that threaten to    participated in the
interfere Nvith project progress of    project.
achievement of objectives.
2.06      RVS    5           Municipalidad through the OCP and until    Municipality no longer
project completion to staff position of Chief   participated in the
of Cadastre Dept with qualified person and    project.
inform Bank of candidates for the job.
2.07      RVS    5           Municipalidad through the OCP to furnish    Municipality no longer
Bank with progress report and action plans    participated in the
for each semester of implementation of Parts  project.
A and C.
2.08      RVS    2           Municipalidad through the OCP to include a  Municipality no longer
line item in its annual budget for counterpart  participated in the
funds for Parts A and C and provide Bank  project.
with certified copy of budget.
3.01 (a)   RVS    5          Municipalidad through the OCP to maintain   Municipality no longer
separate accounts for Parts A and C.   participated in the
project.
3.01 (b)   RVS    5          Municipalidad through the OCP to have   Municipality no longer
I_________ _______ ___________  accounts audited and send auditors' report to  participated in the



20
Agreement  Section    Status  Type of    Description of Covenant                   Comments
Covenant
Bank within four months of year-end.    project.
3.02      RVS    2           Municipalidad to produce own funds       Municipality no longer
amnounts equivalent to the following    participated in the
percentages of previous year's capital  project.
expenditures: (i) 15% for 1991; (ii) 25% for
1992; (iii) 35% for 1993; and (iv) 40%
thereafter and Municipalidad to take all
necessary measures to meet these
requirements.
3.03      RVS    5           Municipalidad through the ouP to furnish    Municipality no longer
Bank with three year financial plan covering   participated in the
overall operations, revenues, and       project.
investments and financial performance
targets (inc. borrowings, debt service,
personnel costs, and measures for revenues
in general and property taxes in particular).
4.01      RVS    5            Project Agreement comes into effect at the    Municipality no longer
same time as Loan Agreement.            participated in the
project.
4.02      RVS    5            Obligations under the Project Agreement  Municipality no longer
shall terninate jointly with the Loan   participated in the
Agreement.                              project.
Schedule  RVS    9            (perfornance targets for Parts A and C)  Municipality no longer
2                                                                     participated in the
project.
Covenant types:
1 = Accounts/audits
2 = Financial covenant                                                     OK - compliance
3 = Flow and utilization of project funds
4 = counterpart funding
5 = Management covenant                                                   NC - non-compliance
6 = Environmental covenants
7 = Involuntary resettlement
8 = Indigenous people
9 = Monitoring, review, and reporting             RVS - revised
10 = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12 = Sectoral or cress-sectoral policy/regulatory/institutional action
13 = Other
Present Status:
C = covenant complied with
CD = complied with after delay
CP = complied with partially
NC = not complied with



21
TABLE 9: COMPLIANCE WiTH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
(Supervision missions did not report any cases of non-compliance)
TABLE 10: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Actual
Stage of project cycle
Weeks                US$(thousands)
Through Appraisal                            49.1                      68.8
Appraisal through Board Presentation                  52.7                     103.8
Supervision                              104.5                    303.5
Completion                                6.9                      20.1
L                    TOTALj                                   213.2                    496.2
TABLE 11: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Stage of      Month/year  Number  Days in    Specialized       Performance rating       Types of problems
Pn)ject Cycle              of        field      staff skills
persons              representedl/
Implementati  Development
on status   objectives
Through       June 1985    2         5          Econ, Econ
appraisal
November    2          7          Econ, Cons
1985
February     4         7          Econ, Eng, Fin
1986                              Anal, Cons
Appraisal     May 1986    5           15        Econ, Eng, Fin
through Board                                   Anal, Cons
approval
June 1986    2         10         Econ, Urb
April 25,    1         7          Div Chief
1988
September    1         2          Div Chief
1988
Supervision    December    2         5          Econ; Urb       1           1           No major problems
1988                                                                     reported
April 1990    3        7          Urb; S.Eng;    1           1           Limited government
H.Eng                                  counterpart funds. Bank
suspension of
disbursements to
Guatemala. Municipality
lacks a specific
__________             ________    ____________   _________   _________    departm ent for road



22
Stage of      Month/year  Number  Days in    Specialized        Performance rating       Types of problems
Project Cycle               of        field      staff skills
persons              representedl/
maintenance;
June 1991    1         5          H. Eng          na          Na
February     2         5          Econ;           no 590      No 590      Interruption of Bank
1992                                             form         form        disbursements to
Guatemala. Institution
building side of project
weak.
April 1993    2        5          Fin Anal; Eng   2           3           Need to restructure project
and implement action plan
in order to speed
disbursements
December    1          S          Fin Anal        2           3           Uncertainty owing to lack
1993                                                                      of borrower response on
whether they want to
continue with the project
or not
February     5         5          Fin Anal; Urb,  2           3           Project still needs
1994                              Fin Anal; Eng;                          government's agreement
Leg                                     and commitment to
redimensioning and
reformulation.
August 1994  4         3           Urb; Urb; Env   S          S           No major problems
Spec; Proc
Spec
May 1995    2          5          Urb; Urb        S           S           No major problems
December    2          5          Urb; Urb        S           S           No major problems
1995
November    2          7          Urb; Soc Spec   S           S           No major problems
1996
January      1         5          Urb             S           S           Lack of counterpart funds
1997                                                                      Delay in auditing
June 1997    2         5          Urb; Soc Spec   S           S           No major problems



23
Appendix A
GUATEMALA
WORLD BANK-PUBLIC FINANCE MINISTRY MISSION
PROJECT TO IMPROVE LOW-INCOME BARRIOS
IN THE GUATEMALA METROPOLITAN AREA
AIDE-ME MOIRE
OCTOBER 30,1997
1. A World Bank mission consisting of M. Vitor Serra, Peter Loach, Alexandra Ortiz (LCSFP) and
Charles MacDonald (consultant) visited Guatemala from October 17 to 30, 1997, to continue
preparations for the project to improve low-income barrios in the Guatemala metropolitan area. The
mission met with representatives from the Office of the President, the Ministry of Public Finance, the
Ministry of Communications, Public Works, Transportation and Housing, the Office of the Mayor of
Guatemala, the Economic Planning Secretariat (SEGEPLAN), UNICEF, and the private sector (see
Annex I). The mission also supervised the drafting of final documentation for the municipal
development project (Loan 2972-GU). The members of the mission wish to thank the Guatemalan
authorities for their assistance and hospitality. All of the agreements outlined herein are subject to
approval by the management of the World Bank.
2. In connection with the municipal development project, the mission reviewed final payment documents
and disbursement requests, as well as progress made on the final audit of Component B. The mission
was informed that the Government has initiated final procedures to recover payment of value-added tax
and counterpart funds.  The mission met with the Government to discuss preparation of the
implementation completion report (ICR). A copy of the mission aide-memoire prepared by the Bank
consultant who is preparing the ICR on behalf of the Bank is attached. The consultant will submit a
draft of the report to the Bank on November 12 of this year. The Executive Secretariat, through
DAHVI, has agreed to provide the Bank with a summary of the report from the government's side on
Component B by November 7, and the full report by December 5, 1997. Concerning Components A
and C of the project, the Ministry of Public Finance will be forwarding a report to the Bank by
November 7, 1997, summarizing action taken by the Municipality of Guatemala.
3. The mission informed the Executive Secretariat that the Bank's management had conducted an internal
review of the project and had approved continued preparation. Also, the Bank authorized the mission
to discuss with the Government the feasibility of designing the project as an adaptable program loan
(APL), i.e. a series of loans in support of a program to improve barrios in the Guatemala metropolitan
area over a period of 10 to 15 years. The mission and the Government agreed to study that possibility,
including the Bank's recommendation that the project components relating to land policy reforms and
environmental services management in the GMA be separated from the main urbanization component
and dealt with in a parallel technical assistance project.
4. The mission and the Government reviewed the studies currently being implemented in support of
project preparation. These studies include an analysis of water and sanitation services in metropolitan
Guatemala, an evaluation of the financial and institutional capacity of major municipalities within the
GMA and the Regional Council on Urban and Rural Development, development of a methodology for
economic appraisal of the project, a diagnostic assessment of current land policies in metropolitan



24
Guatemala, and a social evaluation of potential beneficiaries based on a survey of households and
focus groups in disadvantaged areas of metropolitan Guatemala. In particular, the mission thanked the
Mayor for the key support provided by EMPAGUA, the municipal water company, to consultants
involved in conducting the water and sanitation study.
5. The mission and the Government together recommended that certain basic principles should be built
into the project's design and execution. Those principles, derived from the experience with El
Mezquital and similar projects in other countries, have assured the technical, social and economic
sustainability of the investments concerned, and include, inter alia: (i) the need to select investments in
line with a long-term vision of urban development at the metropolitan level, focusing on low-income
areas; (ii) the need for close liaison between the investment program and the political and legal
framework governing housing and urban development; (iii) the need to decentralize physical execution
and maintenance of infrastructure improvements to the level of beneficiary communities; (iv) the need
to ensure participation at the metropolitan level by members of civil society, the private sector, relevant
NGOs, academic bodies, and community associations; these private-sector entities and NGOs will be
assigned activities and capacities by the Government; (v) the need to adopt appropriate technologies
and reduce marginal costs generally; and (vi) the need to emphasize long-term financial solutions,
including cost recovery by the Government, contributions by municipalities and the central government,
and continuity in external financing. Based on these principles, the Government and the mission agreed
to prepare, in the short term, a detailed proposal of the institutional and operational framework needed
for the project; (vii) the proceeds of this loan will be administered and audited by the Government of
Guatemala as the party responsible for repayment.
6. The mission also informed the Government that it had met with the Mayor of Guatemala, who voiced
support for the basic principles to govem the project as outlined above (see Annex II). The Mayor also
expressed deep concem for the welfare of families located along the railway line that is routed through
the municipality. These fimilies live under very straitened and hazardous conditions. The Mayor's
Office has developed a proposal to resettle the families in public housing and has asked for Bank
support in this initiative. The mission agreed to examine the situation and the proposal and to consider
a mechanism whereby this issue could be evaluated under the project.
7. The mission informed the Government of its meeting with the Ministry of Communications, Public
Works, Transportation and Housing. The Ministry confirmed its legal mandate relating to the housing
sector and its interest in coordinating its programs with the project (see Annex III). The project would
mnake a good complement to the Ministry's housing programs financed by the IDB. Also, the Ministry
should play an active role in developing new land policies in the Guatemala metropolitan area. The
mission informed the Minister that the Bank would consider several entry points for the Govermment in
the project.
8. The next stages in project preparation are to: (i) come up with a definition of the project's institutional
and operational framework; (ii) complete the social evaluation, which should be submitted to the Bank
by the end of November; (iii) conduct the study of municipal capacity by the end of December; (iv)
review the report on the water and sanitation study by the end of November; (v) begin the study on land
policy and current land use regulation patterns; (vi) develop eligibility criteria for communities
participating in the project and the works selection process, including technical, economic, social, and
environmental impact considerations; and (vii) analyze the Bank's recommendation that the project be
structured as an APL and that the land policy and envirownental services components be handled
through a parallel project.
Signed at Guatemala City on October 30, 1997



25
[stamp - Executive Secretariat of the Office of the President, Republic of Guatemala]
I[signed]
Emilio Saca Dabdoub
JExecutive Secretary
Dffice of the President of the Republic of Guatemala
I[signed]
Patricia Espinoza de Lemus
Acting Deputy Director
External Financing and Trust Funds
Ministry of Public Finance
J[signed]
M.I. Vitor Serra
Head of Mission
'World Bank



26
Annex I
LIST OF INTERVIEWEES
OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC
Emilio Saca Dabdoub, Executive Secretary, Office of the President
Carlos Quiffonez, Deputy Executive Secretary
MINISTRY OF PUBLIC FINANCE
Jose Fidencio Garcia Belteton, Chief, International Financial Organizations Department
Patricia de Lemus, Deputy Director, International Financial Organizations Department
DAHVI
Fernando Garcia Diaz, Director
Said Tapia, Deputy Director
Ileana Martinez, Disbursements Attorney
MINISTRY OF COMMUNICATIONS, PUBLIC WORKS, TRANSPORTATION AND HOUSING
Fritz Garcia Gallot, Minister
Ricardo Goubaud, Housing Advisor
Miguel Angel Santacruz
COlNAP/SEGEPLAN
Mario Alfonso Bravo
Elizabeth de Le6n
MUNICIPALITY OF GUATEMALA
Oscar Berger, Mayor
Jorge Solares
UNICEF
Lair Espinosa, Officer in charge of Basic Urban Services Program
Yoriko Yasukawa



27
ECOTEC
Marco Augusto Recinos
Byron Rosales
ESA CONSULTORES
Peter Nebel
Rafael Del Cid
ASSOCIATION OF POPULATIONS AT RISK
Hilda Castillo
GUATEMALA BUILDERS' ASSOCIATION
Rodolfo Sinibaldi Calzia, Vice President
GUATEMALA CHAMBER OF COMMERCE
Oscar Berger Widmann, President



28
Annexsl
AIDE MEMOIRE OF ICR MISSION
(Unofficial translation by R. Gilbert)
A World Bank mission consisting of Roy Gilbert and Claudia del Nolte visited Guatemala during
the period of October 12-17, 1997 to undertake project completion tasks necessary for the preparation of
tKiF project's Implementation Completion Report (ICR). The mission met with officials and representatives
of tha national and municipal governments, representatives of UNICEF and sector specialists and visited
low,incomn sites improved through the project. The mission appreciates the collaboration and support of
eyqrybody, especially the courtesies extended by DAHVI and the Ministry of Public Finance, and the
attention given by residents of the neighborhoods of Carolingia and El Mezquital, as final beneficiaries of
the Project.
This Aide Memoire presents the preliminary conclusions and agreements reached during the
mission, that are subject to confinnation by Bank management in Washington D.C. The Aide Memoire
mainly refers to Part B of the Project-urban services-that was fully implemented. The ICR itself will
dW  with the evaluation of the remaining components of the Project-for which the sectoral authorities
contacted by this mission were not responsible-which were not executed as planned and whose
corresponding loan amounts were canceled. On Parts A an C of the Project, the Ministry of Public
Finances will be sending a brief report on behalf of the Municipality of Guatemala City.
All the mission's interlocutors highlighted the successes of the Project in terns of improving the
living conditions in low-income neighborhoods improved under the Project. Works undertaken in water
supply systems, sewerage, drainage and paving-in many cases built with the labor of the residents
themselves-in the areas visited by the mission were of adequate quality for the local needs. Noteworthy
are the systems of sewage treatment completed, which have a favorable impact upon the environment. In
talking to residents of the areas visited, the mission could re-affirm local families' satisfaction with the
physical improvements achieved.
On the other hand, unfortunately, the lack of a system to organize and collect solid waste can have
negative environmental effects. The accumulation of large quantities of solid waste on steep slopes that
surround the neighborhoods represents a serious threat to slope stability, and thus to the safety of the
inhabitants who live there. It is important to emphasize, however, that the Project itself did not include a
solid waste component. Mission interlocutors emphasized that the solid waste problem is not restricted
solely to the neighborhoods improved under the project, but is generalized throughout the metropolitan area
of Guatemala City. That being the case, it would be evident that local authorities face a major challenge in
matters of the collection and final disposal of solid waste.
The aspect of the Project's upgrading components that most impressed the mission was the
participatory process that involved local communities in works and other interventions of urban
inftastructure. Members of community organizations in Carolingia and El Mezquital who met with the
mission, explained the form and procedures of their participatory development work. The mission was
impressed by the broad scope of their formal organizations, and especially their systems of control with
respept to decision making and the management of local finances. There is no doubt that elements of this
participatory experience can been incorporated into other projects of this type in Guatemala and other
countries.
The results achieved are the fruit of intense collaboration with the communities, some NGOs-
notably Catholic Church groups and the French M&dicins sans Frontheres-UNICEF and the government
of Guatemala. The mission recognizes the important contributions of all these players, and also the
dedication and enthusiasm of individuals to guarantee the success of the program. In this context, the
mission extends a special tianks for the attention given its work by Lic. Ramiro De Le6n Carpio, ex-



29
President of the Republic, whose support for the Project at a decisive moment, helped to make this project
approach feasible as part of a legitimate sectoral policy for low-income inhabitants in Guatemala.
During its stay in Guatemala, the mission and representatives of DAHVI worked upon the data
collection necessary for the implementation completion work. These included final cost data and
infDrmation about the economic evaluation of the Project to-date.
At the same time, the mission agreed with DAHVI the deadlines for the borrower completion
report, incorporated as Part It of the ICR. Thus, DAHVI utidertook to send a sumnmary of this report-of
approximately eight pages-to the World Bank by fax to Washington D.C. by November 7, 1997.
Afterwards, by December 5, 1997, DAHVI will send the complete report-of approximately 30-50 pages.
As a possible structure and content for this report, the mission suggested the following:
INTRODUCTION - the reasons for the report; who prepared it.
RESULTS OF THE PROJECT - physical, social, institutional, economic and financial.
ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES - details of achievements in terms of improving basic
urban infrastructure and community services, cost recovery, and the participation of NGOs in community
development.
EXTERNAL FACTORS THAT AFFECTED THE PROJECT - summary of factors beyond the control of
the government, that had positive and negative effects upon the project.
INTERNAL FACTORS THAT AFFECTED THE PROJECT - summary of the factors under governmnent
control that had positive and negative impacts on the project.
PERFORMANCE OF THE BANK - evaluation of each stage: preparation, appraisal and supervision,
including the support received from Washington and the Resident Mission in Guatemala.
PERFORMANCE OF THE BORROWER - evaluation of performance at each.stage: preparation,
appraisal, and supervision by the principal actors who participated in the project.
MAIN LESSONS OF THE EXPERIENCE - summary of the principal lessons that can help in the design
andl execution of new projects in Guatemala and elsewhere.
Guatemala City, October 17, 1997
Ministry of Public Finances              Directorate of Human Seftlements
Directorate of External Financing        and Housing
(original signed)                        (original signed)
........................................  .......................................................... ...................
Lic. Patricia de LUmus                   Lic. Fernando Garcia
Sub-Director                             Director
For the World Bank:
(original signed)
..................................
Roy Gilbert
CoIsultant



30
Appendix B
PROJECT ASSESSMENT FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
(Report submitted by the Directorate of Human Settlements and Housing - DAHVI)
(Unofficial translation by R. Gilbert)
A. INTRODUCTION
The present document contains information about the Municipal Development Project, Component B.,
which resulted from the Loan Agreement (2972-GU) between the Government of the Republic of
Guatemala and the World Bank. This report is presented by the Human Settlements and Housing
Directorate (DAHVI), executing agency of the Executive Secretariat of the Presidency of the Republic, in
compliance with its commitments to the World Bank.
This Report summarizes local information available about the implementation of the Project, highlighting
the results obtained, objectives achieved, factors that affected implementation, the performance of the
agencies involved and the principal lessons learned.
B. RESULTS OF THE PROJECT
B.1   PHYSICAL
The Project provided basic services and upgrading to ten communities: Renacimiento Municipal, El Pinito,
Carolingia, El Exodo, El Esfuerzo, La Esperanza, Tres Banderas, Monte de los Olivos, Ocho de Marzo y
Lomas de Villalobos.
In Renacimiento Municipal full upgrading works were undertaken:
*  Combined drainage: a main tunnel 2.1 meters in diameter and 200 meters long finished in concrete.
*  2,500 linear meters of concrete tubing 12, 16 and 22 inches in diameter.
X  3,000 linear meters of pipes of the main water network 2, 3, and 4 inches in diameter.
*  14,000 square meters of paving in concrete, 15-20 centimeters thick for sidewalks and streets.
*  Paving of 220 square meters for a mini-market.
In El Pinito, full upgrading works were undertaken:
*  A comprehensive system of drainage consisting of 306 linear meters of 16 inch diameter concrete
pipes.
* A septic tank with a capacity of 70 cubic meters, and three 30-meter deep absorption wells.
*  A water system consisting of 310 linear meters of 1.5-inch diameter PVC pipes.
*  1,430 square meters of paving in 15 centimeter thick concrete, and 483 square meters of paving in 10
centimeter thick concrete.
In Carolingia, the project covered drainage and drinking water supply:
* Drainage system included 9,102 linear meters of PVC piping, 4, 6, and 8 inches in diameter.
* Water system: installation of 12,279 linear meters of PVC pipes, 0.5, 0.75, 1.5, 2, 2.5, 3, 4 and 6
inches in diameter.



31
*  An anaerobic sewage treatment plant with two sediment tanks, two filters, one bio-digester, and one
drying area.
*  Drilling of two wells to 1,000 and 1,300 feet, each one with a capacity of 300 gallons per minute. One
storage tank of 250 cubic meters. Rehabilitation of two existing water storage tanks of 50 and 700
cubic meters respectively.
In the seven settlements making up El Mezquital, the following works were done:
*  9,846 linear meters of 2 meter-wide footpaths and 2,775 linear meters of vehicular streets with variable
widths between 4 and 7.5 meters.
*  402 housing units of 36 square meters each, together with services.
*  Award of 518 house improvement loans in neighbors' homes.
*  6,120 linear meters of PVC sewage pipes 4, 6 and 8 inches in diameter in El Exodo, Ocho de Marzo,
Lomas de Villalobos and Sector C.2 of la Esperanza. The Medicins sans Frontieres NGO undertook
similar work in the other settlements.
*  Five anaerobic sewage treatment plants: Those in Sector A.2 of La Esperanza ad Ocho de Marzo are
made up of preliminary treatment, an Inhoff tank, a drying area and four absorption wells. Those of
the Central and C. Sectors of La Esperanza, contain preliminary treatment, two sedimentary tanks, two
filters, bio-digesters and drying areas. The plant at Lomas de Villalobos, has preliminary treatment, an
Inhoff tank, an upward flowing anaerobic reactor (Rafa tank) and a drying area.
*  Nine storm-water drains, with 12 and 24 inch diameter concrete pipes.
-  Two 1,000 feet deep wells with capacities of 300 and 360 gallons per minute. Two water storage
tanks, each with a capacity of 175 cubic meters.
*  7,930 linear meters of PVC water pipes 0.75-6.0 inches in diameter, in El Exodo, Ocho de Marzo,
Lomas de Villalobos and Sector C.2 of La Esperanza. Other settlements in the community were
already served by works done by the residents themselves.
*  Works and facilities such as: Painting School, Integrated Family Service Clinic, Treatment of main
drains of Central Sector, and Traffic access to the Football Field.
*  Extension of electricity lines for 2,900 homes and street lighting in 80% of all lamp posts at 50-meter
intervals.
*  Two main divided vehicular streets: La Esperanza 800 meters long and 14 meters wide; and Lomas de
Villalobos 450 meters long and 10 meters wide, including their respective sidewalks.
B.2 SOCIAL
The implementation of the Project contemplated the legalizing land tenure, and had the following results:
*  Inproved the quality of life of the inhabitants, through providing them with dignified housing solution
with basic services included.
*  Encouraged community work, involving neighbors in its implementation.
* Provided an opportunity for teamwork (government, NGOs and the Community).
*  Created employment opportunities for members of the community, offering them jobs.
* Contributed to improving the housing conditions of the lowest income families in our country.



32
*  Generated a positive and constructive dialogue between the government and the community.
*  Improved intra-family relations, increasing (individuals') consciousness of being part of a family
group.
* Created the need to take physical development projects to the community, through the implementation
of projects that benefit the community as a whole.
*  Generated positive changes in the behavior of the residents, at both the individual and fhmily levels.
B. 3 INSTITUTIONAL
* The satisfaction of having regained, during the implementation of the project, institutional credibility
and trust on the part of local communities and intemational participants.
* The creation of an effective and efficient Implementation Unit, to solve problems of low-income
settlements.
B. 4 ECONOMIC
ESTIMATED COST OF THE PROJECT (2972-GU) PART B.
(millions of US dollars)
Local        Foreign        TOTAL
A. Preparation of the Project              0.3            0.1            0.4
B. Services
B.1 Upgrading                              1.6           6.1            7.7
B.2 Infrastructure rehabilitation         0.1            0.0            0.1
B.3 Access roads                          0.3            0.5            0.8
C. Contingencies
D. Final beneficiaries counterpart         0.2            0.0            0.2
E. UNICEF counterpart                      0.1            0.0            0.1
Total cost of Project                      2.6            6.7            9.3
Interest during construction               0.0            0.6            0.6



33
B.5 FINANCIAL
ORIGIN AND USES OF FUNDS: ACCUMULATED 30/06/97
(thousands of quetzales)
O]RIGIN OF FUNDS:
Imtial World Bank Loan Guatemala (revolving fund)                            2,000.0
Government counterpart                                                       2,488.8
World Bank                                                                  35,453.5
Community association (COIVIEES - water contribution)                         140.7
Other income                                                                    0.5
TOTAL:                       40,083.5
USE OF FUNDS
Housing Loans                                                                6,784.1
Home Improvement Loans                                                       1,262.0
Upgrading                                                                   11,430.5
Drinking water                                                                951.6
Installations                                                                 459.3
Civil Works                                                                  4,410.6
Access roads to El Mezquital                                                 1.356.9
Access roads to Lomas Villalobos                                              884.6
Septic Tanks                                                                   26.6
Materials and supplies                                                       4,365.1
Furniture and equipment                                                       219.0
Administrative costs                                                         6,021.6
E.xternal audit                                                                99.8
Engineering studies                                                            39.5
EEGSA deposit                                                  6X5
Up-front costs                                                                 28.9
Accounts receivable                                                           226.3
Accounts payable                                                                3.3
Payment of Bank Loan (revolving fund)                                        2,000.0
TOTAL:                       40,576.2
DEFICIT/SURPLUS                           -492.7



34
The data does not take into account government contributions to Project items that were not financed by the
World Bank, because the financing was only partial (62%). Moreover the data do not include the value of
the land contributed by the Government of Guatemala.
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
The project should meet social needs through the provision and rehabilitation of basic urban
infrastructure and community services to informal low-income communities, through the
participation of these communities themselves.
The Project fulfilled this objective, through urban upgrading with all basic services (water, drainage,
sewage treatment plants, paving, electrification, street lighting in the case of El Mezquital) in nine
communities: El Exodo, Tres Banderas, Monte de los Olivos, El Esfuerzo, La Esperanza, Ocho de Marzo,
Lomas de Villalobos, Renacimiento Municipal and El Pinito; and drinking water, drainage and a treatment
plant in Carolingia. All of these were low-income settlements, which found themselves in an informal
situation. The Project was implemented with direct community participation through formal community
organizations. In addition, the communities' standard of living and security increased significantly.
Through legalizing land tenure, the Project conveyed these communities from an informal and illegal
system into a formal one that gave them legal rights and confidence to be able to aspire to a better standard
of living for their children.
The provision of basic services and land tenure security should be based on cost recovery from
informal low-income communities.
The project succeeded in implementing basic service provision and land tenure security, with cost
recovery, with subsidized interest payments and installments over 15 years that the low-income resident
could pay. To ensure a return to the investment made, the Project delegated actual collections to. formal
community organizations and other entities.
The Project will be tested first by covering 36,000 people in five neighborhoods, to be extended later
to other communities.
The Project covered ten communities, benefiting some 37,600 people altogether.
The Project will support the desire of the government to promote the role of NGOs, utilizing their
experience in community development.
The Project used NGOs, such as UNICEF, Medicins sans Fronthres, formal community organizations and
other institutions that collaborated in the community development work and in providing services of benefit
to the community. In addition, it relied upon collaboration by municipalities to ensure the success of the
project. With this participation, the government makes clear its wish that communities become organized
and supported by other organizations, and work together with the government in a coordinated fashion, in
order to achieve their own integrated development.
D. EXTERNAL FACTORS THAT AFFECTED THE PROJECT
D. 1 NEGATIVE FACTORS
*  Closure of the World Bank's lending window to Guatemala during the 1989-92 period, which caused
the total suspension of the Project.



35
*  Divergence among community groups , who put personal or group interest above those of the
community as a whole. This wore down community leadership and led to attacks upon the Project, to
the detriment of groups involved in it.
* Municipal Resolutions and other legal decisions ordering the suspension of the works and the closure of
community association headquarters. These actions were the consequence of internal community
politics fostered by small groups who were against the community benefits of the Project.
* The extinction of the National Reconstruction Committee (Comite de Reconstruccion Nacional -
CRN) in September 1994, which was the original project executing agency. This led to institutional
instability and uncertainty about the continuation of the project. Furthermore, it provoked delays in
some activities that were the exclusive responsibility of the CRN.
D.2 POSITIVE FACTORS
* The existence and strengthening of formal organizational arrangements of the communities themselves,
which worked together for the successful outcome of the Project.
* The present government's continuity of previous administrations' commitments and programs
benefiting communities.
* The present government's greater interest in benefiting communities in need with social projects.
* Moderate inflation during project execution, allowing prices to remain relatively stable and making cost
control easier.
3 Transfer of the Loan 2972-GU executing unit from the CRN to the Executive Secretariat of the
Presidency, which gave a greater impulse to project execution through its desire to efficiently
implement projects aimed at the most needy social classes of the country.
- Signature of Peace Accords, which created an atmosphere of security and confidence among
communities and local and international organizations. This was especially true of the final signing of
December 29, 1996.
E. INTERNAL FACTORS THAT AFFECTED THE PROJECT
E.1 NEGATIVE FACTORS
* Lack of experience of local communities in the development and execution of projects of this type.
* Deficiencies of the monitoring and control systems of the physical implementation of the works.
* Management of economic resources by community organizations, giving rise to mistrust and
misgivings on the part of members of the community themselves.
E.2   POSITIVE FACTORS
* Government opening towards and support for direct community participation in the Project.
* Priority given by the Executive Secretariat of the Presidency of the Republic to a direct attack on
poverty, thereby speeding project processing during implementation.
* Adoption of professional procedures by the four project participants, especially in decision making in



36
the Projects Governing Council (Consejo de Direccfon de Proyectos - CDP).
F. PERFORMANCE OF THE BANK
The World Bank undertook project follow-up, helping to guide and speed implementation in the following
manner:
*  Identification, preparation and appraisal missions were well programmed and well timed.  The
contribution of the missions in preparing and starting up the Project were very important.
*  World Bank officials gave adequate attention to the problems of the Project, and provided speedy
solutions.
*  The Disbursement Division at World Bank headquarters provided excellent and. rapid answers to
doubts and inquiries made by Project managers about the transfer of resources and adequate
accounting of transactions. This Division helped adequately prepare project managers, through
organizing a disbursement seminar.
G. PERFORMANCE OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC
*  The government participated in project implementation throughout all phases of project
implementation.
* The govermment made the greatest effort to legalize land tenure, awarding ownership titles to project
beneficiaries.
*  The government facilitated and supported community organization for the implementation of the
Project.
*  The government fulfilled its commitments under the Loan Agreement 2972-GU.
*  The government directly implemented two main access roads, the electricity network and street lighting
in the communities of El Mezquital, and the full upgrading of the communities of El Pinito and
Renacimiento Municipal.
H. MAIN LESSONS OF THE EXPERIENCE
*  That economic resources should not be handled by the community, because internal rivalries among
members of the community can generate conflicts and destabilize a project, by making it the target of
community attacks.
*  The formation of a formal administrative system, as part of project management decision making, made
up of Governiing Council (Consejo Superior - DCP) representing all parties involved, together with
various inter-disciplinary working committees.
*  Implementation of a Arbitration Commission, where conflicts of land tenure, cohabitation would be
analyzed and limits would be set.
* The interaction of govemment and local communities in the search for sustainable development through
social projects th4t improve the latter's' own welfare.
*  Incorporation of beneficiaries within the formal judicial system, through possessing an ownership title,



37
which establishes them as legitimate owners of their fraction of the land.
* In the settlements where the community did not handle economic resources by itself, works were
implemented with less conflict.
* The administration of financial resources through NGOs came out being very burdensome for the
State, in view of its high administrative costs.
(Signed)
Lic, Fernando Garcia Diaz
Director, DAHVI
Executive Secretariat of the Presidency of the Republic






39
Annex I
PROJECT ASSESSMENT FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
(Unofficial translation by R. Gilbert)
FINAL REPORT
(submitted by the External Financing Directorate of the Ministry of Public Finance)
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMEENT PROJECT
LBRD 2972-GU
The accelerated growth of the Guatemala City metropolitan area after the earthquake of February
4, 1976 led to substantial changes in the layout of the city. It generated densely populated peripheral areas,
whose development did not relate to any ordered spatial arrangement.
As a result of this situation, and as a means toward fully solving this problem, the metropolitan
Municipality (of Guatemala City) elaborated a project named "Municipal Development", which was
presented to the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development with the aim of obtaining funding
for its execution.
On December 19, 1986, the Mayor of the Capital City presented to the General Secretariat of the
National Planning Council-(Secretaria General del Consejo Nacional de Planificaci6n SEGEPLAN-
together with the National Reconstruction Committee (Comitg de Reconstrucci6n Nacional) the document
entitled "Municipal Development" which formed the basis of the request for financing.
By Decree No. 47-89 of September 13, 1989, the Congress of the Republic, authorized the
Executing Agency, through the Ministry of Finance, to conclude the negotiations and undersign a Loan
Agreement aimed at financing the project in question.
On November 15, 1989, the Loan Agreement 2972-GU was signed by the govemment of
Guatemala and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development - IBRD, for the purpose of
partly financing the 'Municipal Development Project". On the same date, the Municipality of Guatemala
(City) and IBRD signed a Project Agreement.
The objectives of the Project Agreement were as follows: Invigorate the administration and
financing in the Municipality by improving the management and mobilization of revenues, as well as
providing additional urban infrastructure and basic community services or rehabilitating existing ones for
selected low-income communities without legal title to the land they occupied.
The project was made up of two components:
Part A: Institutional Strengthening in the Municipality
Updating the Municipality cadastre, with the aim of increasing the income of the Municipality and the
Borrower through property taxes and improved development planning and management of urban public
services, through measures that included staff training, aerial photography of the metropolitan area,
purchiase and use of equipment and vehicles to help collect and maintain computerized cadastral data for
elaborating reference maps and an appraisal of properties to update their registration and tax assessment.
Part C: Maintenance and Improvement of Roads and Urban Development Planning
Installation of a road maintenance management system, including the following: (i) basic measures and



40
procedures of program planning to improve and expand the capacity to maintain the Municipality's
highway network; (ii) a program of maintenance and improvement works that included approximately 186
kilometers of main transport corridors to the business center of the Municipality, to take maxinum
advantage of the economic efficiency of the existing road network, improving traffic flows and reducing
vehicle operating costs.
The implementation of the project suffered delays through the suspension of disbursements to
Guatenala by the World Bank until November 1992. By 1992, only 11% of the total funds of the project
had been disbursed.
On August 13, 1992, the Municipality of Guatemala (City) requested this Ministry to be relieved
of its obligation of US$1 1.21 million of the total loan amount, due to problems in executing the project.
On September 12, 1992, this Ministry, on behalf of the Government of Guatemala presented this
request to the Bank. By a letter dated February 10, 1993, the World Bank informed this Ministry that the
requested cancellation had been made effective on September 12, 1992.
On September 3, by its official communication no. 01089, this Ministry reiterated to the
Municipality of Guatemala City the concerns raised in official communications of November 22, 1996,
January 9 and June 6 1997, requesting the Municipality's intervention for the purpose of presenting an
audit report to the World Bank concerning expenditures made for Parts A and C of the Loan Agreement.
To date, the Municipality has not responded to this.
According to the records of the Department of External Debt Control of the Directorate of External
Finance and Trusts, the balance outstanding to amortize under the Bank loan is the following:
Amount utilized by the Municipality:    US$3,165,474.71
(-) Amount amortized by 31/10/97        US$2,010,195.44
Balance:                                US$1,155,279.27
(Accompanying letter signed by:)
Lic. Patricia de Lemus
Sub-Director of External Finance and Trust Funds



41
Annex II
COMMENTS FROM THE
BORROWER
ON THE
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT



DESDESECRETRRIA EJECUTIUA PRESIDENCIA 2381986            02-17(MAR)-1998 16:53  PR6IN02
PEES1DZML4 DE LA WPJBLICA
N = _
Soetra Ecutua
ua tema 1 a, 13 de febrero de 1997
AO A.                  REF:  DAI-032-96/& 40
Senor
VircW SERRA
Espwcialista dw Desarrolla Urbano
Sector de Finanzas, Sector Privado e InfraestructL ra
Ofjcina Regionhal de AmOrics Latina y el Caribe
Banco tMndial
Washing ton D. C.
Refs Proyecto de Desarrol2lo Miunici  1. (Pr. 2972)
-niorme Final diO la Implement cAi5n.
Apreciada Seror Serras
.He dirijo a uz ted, en referencia a su oticia de fecha JJ de
enera de 1??,. por media del cual me preswent. eJ nWcorme Final
de JsAplementaci6n (IF!), para del Banco Mtundial, E7 reJacidn al
Proyecto  de DeSarrollIa Municipal,  invitando  a   Sgbierno  a
realizar cu.lquier comentario respecto a dicho in o#,me.
A este  respecto, me perm.ato Ind.zcarle que on  tErminos
generAles hemos visto con buenos oijs v2 cantenid  *m  IF!, por
lo 4uw no tenemos comentarios epec.aJles que real z4r.
Aten tamente,
- -   O1^ Pu53flaCIA DI, La RLdAUCA.



