Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2972 GU
                  (Municipal Development Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                    MUNICIPALIDAD DE GUATEMALA
                      Dated November 15, 1989
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2972 GU
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated  November  15,  1989,  between INTERNATIONAL
BANK  FOR   RECONSTRUCTION   AND   DEVELOPMENT   (the   Bank)  and
MUNICIPALIDAD DE GUATEMALA (the Municipalidad).
     WHEREAS (A)  by  the  Loan  Agreement  of  even date herewith
between the Republic of Guatemala (the Borrower) and the Bank, the
Bank has agreed to  make  available  to  the Borrower an amount in
various  currencies  equivalent  to  twenty-nine  million  dollars
($29,000,000), on the terms and  conditions  set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on  condition  that the Municipalidad agree to
undertake such obligations toward  the  Bank  as  are set forth in
this Agreement;
     (B)  by  a  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  to  be  entered into
between the  Borrower  and  the  Municipalidad,  a  portion of the
proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be
made available to the  Municipalidad  on  the terms and conditions
set forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
Page  2
     WHEREAS the  Municipalidad,  in  consideration  of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement  with the Borrower, has agreed to
undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in the  Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this
Agreement and the  General  Conditions  (as  so  defined) have the
respective meanings therein set  forth. In addition, the following
terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "OCP" shall mean the  Office  of the Concejal Primero in
the Municipalidad.
     (b)  "Cadastre Department" shall  mean the department respon-
sible  for  maintaining   and   updating   the   cadastre  of  the
Municipalidad.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. The  Municipalidad  declares  its commitment to
the objectives of the Project  as  set  forth in Schedule 2 to the
Loan Agreement, and to  this  end,  acting  through the OCP, shall
carry out parts A  and  C  of  the  Project with due diligence and
efficiency  and  in  conformity  with  appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering, transit  and  urban development practices,
and shall provide, or  cause  to  be provided, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services  and  other resources required for
Parts A and C of the project.
     Section 2.02. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the  goods,  works  and consultants' services required
for Parts A and C of  the  Project  and  to be financed out of the
proceeds of  the  Loan  shall  be  governed  by  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03.   The  Municipalidad,  acting  through the OCP,
shall carry out the obligations  set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05,
9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09  of  the General Conditions (relating to
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records
and reports, maintenance  and  land  acquisition, respectively) in
respect of Parts A and C of the Project.
     Section 2.04.  The  Municipalidad,  acting  through  the OCP,
shall duly perform all  its  obligations under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.  Except  as  the   Bank   shall  otherwise  agree,  the
Municipalidad, acting through the OCP, shall not take or concur in
any action which would  have  the  effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the  Subsidiary  Loan Agreement or any provi-
sion thereof.
     Section 2.05. (a) The  Municipalidad, acting through the OCP,
shall, at the request of  the  Bank,  exchange views with the Bank
with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its
obligations under this  Agreement  and  under  the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
     (b)  The  Municipalidad,  acting   through   the  OCP,  shall
promptly inform the  Bank  of  any  condition  which interferes or
threatens to  interfere  with  the  progress  of  the Project, the
accomplishment of the purposes of  the Loan, or the performance by
the Municipalidad,  acting  through  the  OCP,  of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Page  3
     Section 2.06.  The  Municipalidad,  acting  through  the OCP,
shall at all times until completion of the Project staff the posi-
tion of Chief of the  Cadastre Department with a person possessing
the necessary qualifications and experience for such position and,
in the event of  a  new  appointment  being made to such position,
shall inform the Bank of the candidates for the position.
     Section 2.07. Without limitation of  any of the provisions of
Section 9.07 of the General  Conditions,  no later than January 30
and July 30 in each  year  commencing  in 1990 until completion of
the Project,  the  Municipalidad,  acting  through  the OCP, shall
prepare and furnish to the Bank:  (i)  a report, of such scope and
in such detail as the  Bank  shall reasonably request, on the pro-
gress of the implementation of Parts  A  and C of the Project, and
the achievement of the  physical and financial performance targets
set forth in  Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement during the semester
ended immediately preceding December  31  or  June 30, as the case
may be; and (ii) an action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for the
semester commencing immediately preceding January  1 or July 1, as
the case may be, containing  proposals and performance targets for
the implementation of Parts  A  and  C  of the Project during such
semester.
     Section 2.08.  The  Municipalidad,  acting  through  the OCP,
shall, until completion of the  Project: (i) include in its annual
budget for each  fiscal  year  an  allocation,  as a separate line
item, of the funds  necessary  to  cover the Municipalidad's local
currency contribution to the  financing  of  Parts  A and C of the
Project during such fiscal year;  (ii)  no later than November 30,
of each year, furnish  to  the  Bank  for its review a preliminary
draft of its annual  budget  for  the next succeeding fiscal year,
showing  such  budgetary  allocation;  and  (iii)  no  later  than
January 30 of each year, furnish  to  the Bank a certified copy of
its official  annual  budget  for  the  then  current fiscal year,
showing such allocation.
                            ARTICLE III
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 3.01. (a) The  Municipalidad, acting through the OCP,
shall maintain separate records  and  accounts adequate to reflect
in accordance with  sound  accounting  practices the resources and
expenditures related to Parts A and C of the Project.
     (b)  For all expenditures in  carrying  out  Parts A and C of
the Project and with  respect  to  which withdrawals from the Loan
Account were made on the  basis  of statements of expenditure, the
Municipalidad, acting through the OCP, shall:
          (i)  maintain, in accordance with  paragraph (a) of this
               Section, separate  records  and accounts reflecting
               such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one  year after the Bank has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures; and
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records.
     (c)  The Municipalidad, acting through the OCP, shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) and paragraph (b) (i) of this Section for
               each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appro-
               priate auditing principles consistently applied, by
               independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
Page  4
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later  than  four months after the end
               of each such year the  report of such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope  and  in such detail as the
               Bank shall have  reasonably  requested, including a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
               statements of expenditure referred to, in paragraph
               (b) (i) of this  Section  and submitted during such
               fiscal  year,  together  with  the  procedures  and
               internal controls  involved  in  their preparation,
               can be relied  upon  to  support  the related with-
               drawals; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concern-
               ing said records and accounts and the audit thereof
               as the  Bank  shall  from  time  to time reasonably
               request.
     Section 3.02. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Municipalidad shall  produce,  for  each  of  its fiscal years
after its fiscal  year  ending  on  December  31, 1990, funds from
internal sources equivalent to not less than the percentage speci-
fied below of the  annual  average  of the Municipalidad's capital
expenditures incurred, or expected to  be incurred, for that year,
the previous fiscal year and the  next following fiscal year.  For
purposes of the preceding  sentence, the following percentages are
hereby specified: (i) 15% for  1991;  (ii) 25% for 1992; (iii) 35%
for 1993; and (iv) 40% thereafter.
     (b)  Before September 30  in  each  of  its fiscal years, the
Municipalidad shall, on  the  basis  of  forecasts prepared by the
Municipalidad and  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  review whether it
would meet the requirements set  forth in paragraph (a) in respect
of such year and the next  following fiscal year and shall furnish
to the Bank a copy of such review upon its completion.
     (c)  If any such  review  shows  that the Municipalidad would
not meet the  requirements  set  forth  in  paragraph  (a) for the
Municipalidad's  fiscal  years   covered   by   such  review,  the
Municipalidad shall promptly take  all necessary measures in order
to meet such requirements.
     (d)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The term "funds  from  internal  sources" means the
               difference between:
               (A)  the sum of  revenues  from all sources related
                    to operations,  net  non-operating  income and
                    any reduction  in  working  capital other than
                    cash; and
               (B)  the sum of all expenses related to operations,
                    including administration, adequate maintenance
                    (excluding  provision   for  depreciation  and
                    other   non-cash   operating   charges),  debt
                    service  requirements,   increase  in  working
                    capital other than  cash,  and other cash out-
                    flows other than capital expenditures.
         (ii)  The  term  "net  non-operating  income"  means  the
               difference between:
               (A)  revenues from  all  sources  other  than those
                    related to operations; and
               (B)  expenses  incurred   in   the   generation  of
                    revenues in (A) above.
        (iii)  The term "working  capital  other  than cash" means
               the  difference  between  current  assets excluding
               cash and current  liabilities  at  the  end of each
Page  5
               fiscal year.
         (iv)  The term "current assets  excluding cash" means all
               assets other than cash  which could in the ordinary
               course of business  be  converted  into cash within
               twelve  months,   including   accounts  receivable,
               marketable  securities,  inventories  and  pre-paid
               expenses properly chargeable  to operating expenses
               within the next fiscal year.
          (v)  The term "current  liabilities"  means all liabili-
               ties which will  become  due  and payable or could,
               under circumstances  then  existing,  be called for
               payment within  twelve  months,  including accounts
               payable and debt service requirements.
         (vi)  The  term  "debt  service  requirements"  means the
               aggregate amount  of  repayments (including sinking
               fund payments, if any)  of,  and interest and other
               charges on, debt.
        (vii)  The term "capital  expenditures" means all expendi-
               tures  incurred   on   account   of  fixed  assets,
               including interest charged to construction, related
               to operations.
       (viii)  Whenever for the purposes  of this Section it shall
               be necessary to value, in  terms of the currency of
               the Borrower,  debt  payable  in  another currency,
               such valuation shall be  made  on  the basis of the
               prevailing lawful rate  of  exchange  at which such
               other currency is, at  the  time of such valuation,
               obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt,
               or, in the absence of such  rate, on the basis of a
               rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
     Section 3.03. No later than  September  30 in each year until
completion of the Project,  the  Municipalidad, acting through the
OCP, shall prepare and furnish  to the Bank a three-year financial
plan for the  three  fiscal  years  commencing  the next following
January 1, of such  scope  and  in  such  detail as the Bank shall
reasonably  request,  covering  the  overall  operations, revenues
(including revenues generated from property taxes) and investments
of the  Municipalidad,  containing  targets  for overall financial
performance,  covering  borrowings,  debt  service  and  personnel
costs, and specifying  plans  for  revenue  measures generally and
property taxes in particular.
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 4.02. This Agreement and  all obligations of the Bank
and of the Municipalidad thereunder shall terminate on the date on
which the Loan Agreement  shall  terminate  in accordance with its
terms,  and  the  Bank  shall  promptly  notify  the Municipalidad
thereof.
     Section 4.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                             ARTICLE V
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 5.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
Page  6
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have desig-
nated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C.  20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                Telex:
             INTBAFRAD                       440098 (ITT)
             Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA) or
                                              64145 (WUI)
     For the Municipalidad:
          Palacio Municipal
          Centro Civico - Zona 1
          Ciudad de Guatemala
          Guatemala
                                        Telefacsimile:
                                             514129
     Section 5.02. Any action  required  or  permitted to be taken
and any document required or  permitted  to be executed under this
Agreement on behalf of the  Municipalidad, or by the Municipalidad
on behalf of the Borrower  under  the Loan Agreement, may be taken
or executed by the Concejal  Primero  of the Municipalidad or such
other person or persons  as  the  Municipalidad shall designate in
writing, and the Municipalidad  shall  furnish  to the Bank suffi-
cient evidence of  the  authority  and  the authenticated specimen
signature of each such person.
     Section 5.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts,  each  of  which  shall  be  an  original,  and  all
collectively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                     INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                     By /s/ Shahid Husain
                                           Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean
                     MUNICIPALIDAD DE GUATEMALA
Page  7
                     By /s/ Alvaro Heredia Silva
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic and Regional Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, a margin of preference will be granted
to bids offering goods,  described  in the accompanying specifica-
tion, which  are  manufactured  to  a  substantial  extent  in any
country including Guatemala, which is a party to the Mercado Comun
Centroamericano, the common market  created  by the General Treaty
for  Central  American  Economic  Integration  signed  at Managua,
Nicaragua  on  December  13,   1960  by  Guatemala,  El  Salvador,
Honduras, Nicaragua and Costa  Rica (hereinafter called the CACM),
in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   For the purposes of  Part  B  of this Schedule, the following
definitions shall apply:
     (a)  (i)  the term "Qualified CACM Bid" means a bid submitted
               by a  manufacturer  established  in  territories of
               member countries, including  Guatemala, of the CACM
               for goods manufactured or  processed in such terri-
               tories  and  for   which   the  bidder  shall  have
               established to the  satisfaction  of  the entity or
               agency inviting  bids,  that  the  manufacturing or
               processing cost  of  such  goods  includes  a value
               added in such territories, equal to at least 20% of
               the ex-factory bid price of such goods;
         (ii)  the  term  "Non-Qualified  CACM  Bid"  means  a bid
               submitted by a  manufacturer  established in terri-
               tories of member countries, including Guatemala, of
               the CACM, for  goods  manufactured  or processed in
               such  territories,   other   than   any   such  bid
               classified as a Qualified CACM Bid; and
        (iii)  the term  "Foreign  Bid"  means  any  bid  which is
               neither a Qualified  CACM  Bid  nor a Non-Qualified
               CACM Bid.
2.   All bidding  documents  for  the  procurement  of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference  which  would be granted and shall
set forth the information required to establish the eligibility of
a bid for such preference.
3.   Bidders are required to state  in  their bid the c.i.f. (port
of entry) price  of  imported  goods  and  the ex-factory price of
locally manufactured goods.
4.   Except to  the  extent  hereinafter  provided,  bids  will be
compared on the  basis  of  their  ex-factory  or  c.i.f. (port of
entry) priced adjusted in  accordance with paragraphs 2.49 through
2.54 of the Guidelines.
5.   After evaluation, responsive bids  will  be classified in one
of the following groups:  Qualified  CACM Bids, Non-Qualified CACM
Bids or Foreign Bids.
Page  8
6.   All bids in each  group  will  be  first compared among them-
selves, to determine the lowest  evaluated bid in each such group.
The lowest evaluated bids of each group will then be compared with
each other and if, as  a  result  of this comparison, an evaluated
Qualified CACM Bid or Non-Qualified CACM Bid is the lowest it will
be selected for the purpose of award.
7.   If the lowest bid in  the  comparison under paragraph 6 above
is a Foreign  Bid,  such  bid  will  be  further compared with the
lowest evaluated  Qualified  CACM  Bid  as  determined under para-
graph 6 above.  For  the  purposes  of  this comparison only, each
Foreign Bid will be compared on the basiS of the sum of its c.i.f.
(port of entry) price, adjusted  in accordance with the provisions
of paragraph 4 above, plus an  amount  equal to the smaller of (i)
one-half the amount of customs duties and other import taxes which
a non-exempt importer would  have  to  pay for the importation, of
goods offered in such Foreign Bid,  or  (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid
price of such  goods.  If  the  Qualified  CACM  Bid is the lowest
evaluated bid in such  comparison,  it  shall  be selected for the
purpose of award; otherwise,  the  lowest evaluated Foreign Bid as
determined under paragraph 6 above shall be so selected.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Equipment and vehicles estimated  to  cost less than $250,000
equivalent per contract, up to  an  aggregate amount not to exceed
$1,500,000, may be procured  under  contracts awarded on the basis
of competitive  bidding,  advertised  locally,  in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.   Civil works under Part  C.1  of  the  Project may be procured
under contracts  awarded  on  the  basis  of  competitive bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance  with procedures satisfactory to
the Bank, except that such civil  works estiamted to cost up to an
aggregate amount not  to  exceed  $3,500,000,  may  be procured by
force account under the  direct  supervision of the Municipalidad,
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
Part D:
     Without limitation upon the  provision  of the Guidelines, in
respect of procurement of goods, works, and services:
1.   Goods and Works:
     (a)  No prior registration of bidders shall be required.
     (b)  No bidder shall be disqualified because his bid price is
above or below a predetermined value.
     (c)  Bid and performance  securities  shall be denominated in
the currency of the  bid  or  any freely convertible currency, and
shall be issued  by  any  bank,  located  in  Guatemala or abroad,
acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank.
     (d)  Price adjustments formula acceptable  to the Bank may be
incorporated in contracts of more than one year term.
2.   Services
     (a)  Foreign  consultants  shall  be  allowed  to participate
freely in the selection process even if local consultants shall be
available for the concerned services.
     (b)  No prequalification shall be required.
Part E:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   (a)  With respect to  each  contract  for equipment and civil
works estimated to cost  the  equivalent  of $250,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs  2  and  4 of Appendix 1 to the
Page  9
Guidelines shall apply.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement.
2.   The figure of 20% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the Municipalidad, acting through the OCP,
in carrying out Parts A  and  C of the Project, the Municipalidad,
acting through the OCP,  shall employ consultants whose qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and  conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank.  Such  consultants  shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of  the  "Guidelines  for  the  Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and  by  the  World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981.
                                        SCHEDULE 2
                                   Physical and Financial
                                   Performance Targets for
                                Parts A and C of the Project
                                           Year
                         1990      1991   1992     1993    1994   (1994)
Implementation
Cadastre: properties    80,000   180,000 280,000  340,000  400,000
registered and valued
(cumulatively)
Road Maintenance:         37      74        120   140     175       (186)
Kms improved
(cumulatively)
Finance
Total current              32.3    35.5  41.7  43.0    44.3     (44.3)
revenues (Q million)
Total property tax         14.9    17.3  22.6  23.0    23.4     (23.4)
revenues (Q million)
Ratio of Current            1.3     1.4   1.5   1.2     1.2      (1.2)
Revenues/current
expenditures (in-
cluding debt
service)
Debt service as a          20%     20%   20%   20%     20%       (20%)
percentage of cur-
rent revenues
Personnel costs as a       45%     45%   45%   45%     45%       (45%)
percentage of current
revenues
Page  10
