Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2972 GU
                  (Municipal Development Project)
                              between
                      REPUBLICA DE GUATEMALA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                      Dated November 15, 1989
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2972 GU
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated  November  15,  1989,  between  REPUBLIC OF
GUATEMALA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the  Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project;
     (B)  Parts A and C of the  Project will be carried out by the
Municipalidad de Guatemala (the Municipalidad) with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to the Municipalidad part of the proceeds of the Loan as
provided in this Agreement;
     (C)  Part B  of  the  Project  will  be  carried  out  by the
Borrower, acting through the  Comite de Reconstruccion Nacional de
la Presidencia de la Republica (the Comite); and
Page  2
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions  set  forth  in  this  Agreement  and  in  the  Project
Agreement  of  even  date  herewith   between  the  Bank  and  the
Municipalidad;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Project Agreement" means  the  agreement, including all
schedules and agreements  supplemental  thereto,  between the Bank
and the Municipalidad of even  date  herewith,  as the same may be
amended from time to time;
     (b)  "Subsidiary  Loan   Agreement"   means   the  agreement,
including  all  schedules   thereto  and  agreements  supplemental
thereto,  to  be  entered  into   between  the  Borrower  and  the
Municipalidad pursuant to Section  3.01  (b) of this Agreement, as
the same may be amended from time to time;
     (c)  "Subsidiary Loan" means the  loan  to be extended by the
Borrower to the Municipalidad pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this
Agreement;
     (d)  "BANVI"  means  Banco   Nacional   de   la  Vivienda,  a
decentralized  public  institution  established  by  Congressional
Decree No. 2-73, dated January 2, 1973, as amended to date;
     (e)  "DAHVI" means the  Division  de  Asentamientos Humanos y
Vivienda of the Comite;
     (f)  "Inter-Institutional Agreement"  means  the agreement to
be entered into pursuant to Section 3.07 of this Agreement;
     (g)  "NGO" means any  non-governmental organization active in
the provision of low-income housing and community infrastructure;
     (h)  "Conjuntos  BANVI-FEER"  means,   collectively,  the  32
communities referred to in Part B.2 of the Project;
     (i)  "Squatter  Communities"  means,  collectively,  the five
communities referred to in Part B.1 of the Project;
     (j)  "Community   Agreements"    means,   collectively,   the
agreements to be entered  into  pursuant  to  Section 3.06 of this
Agreement between the  Borrower,  acting  through  the Comite, and
each  of  the  Conjuntos  BANVI-FEER  and  each  of  the  Squatter
Communities;
     (k)  "BANVI Agreement" means the agreement or arrangements to
be entered into pursuant to Section 3.09 of this Agreement between
the Borrower, acting through the Comite, and BANVI;
     (l)  "Small-business  Credit"  means   the  agreement  to  be
entered into pursuant to  Section  3.11 of this Agreement, between
the Borrower, acting through  the  Comite,  and an organization or
organizations;
Page  3
     (m)  "Asociacion de Vecinos"  means:  (i)  in  respect of any
Squatter Community, an association  of land holders established as
an entity with juridical  personality  and  with capacity to enter
into contracts; and (ii) in  respect of any Conjunto BANVI-FEER, a
community   betterment    committee    (Comite   Pro-Mejoramiento)
recognized as such  by  official  act  of  either  the Comite or a
political subdivision  of  the  Borrower,  and  possessing limited
capacity to enter into contracts;
     (n)  "NGO Agreements" means,  collectively, the agreements to
be entered into pursuant to Section 3.08 of this Agreement between
the Borrower, acting through the Comite, and each of the NGOs;
     (o)  "Quetzal" or "Quetzales"  or  "Q"  means the currency of
the Borrower;
     (p)  "BANVI-FEER Program means the program of housing finance
provided for in BANVI's  Reglamento  para la concesion de creditos
con   Recursos    del    Fondo    Extraordinario   Especifico   de
Reconstruccion, dated May 14,  1976  and approved under Resolucion
No. 278, Acta No. 106, by BANVI's Junta Directiva; and
     (q)  "Project   Preparation   Advance"   means   the  project
preparation advance granted by  the  Bank to the Borrower pursuant
to an exchange of letters  dated  February  16, 1987 and April 30,
1987 between the Borrower and the  Bank  as amended to the date of
this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01.  The Bank  agrees  to  lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the Loan
Agreement, an amount in  various  currencies equivalent to twenty-
nine million dollars ($29,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods  and  services  required  for  the  Project  described in
Schedule 2  to  this  agreement  and  to  be  financed  out of the
proceeds of the Loan and in  respect of interest and other charges
on the Loan.
     (b)  On  each  of  the   semiannual  interest  payment  dates
specified in Section 2.06  of  this  Agreement, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from  the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required  to  pay,  on  such date, interest and
other charges on the  Loan  accrued  and  payable on or before the
date set forth, and up to  the  amount allocated, in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement, as such Schedule may  be amended from time to time
by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank.
     (c)  Promptly after the  Effective  Date,  the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from  the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amount required  to  repay  the principal amount of the
Project Preparation Advance withdrawn  and  outstanding as of such
date and  to  pay  all  unpaid  charges  thereon.  The unwithdrawn
balance  of  the  authorized  amount  of  the  Project Preparation
Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date  shall be December 31, 1994 or
such later  date  as  the  Bank  shall  establish.  The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of  three-fourths  of  one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal  amount  of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Page  4
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one-
half  of  one  percent  per  annum  above  the  Cost  of Qualified
Borrowings for the last Semester  ending prior to the commencement
of such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower  of  the  Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest  Period"   means   the  six-month  period
               commencing on each  date  specified in Section 2.06
               of this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed;
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank; and
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.08. The Municipalidad and the Comite, respectively,
are designated as representatives of the Borrower for the purposes
of taking any action required  or  permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this  Agreement and Article V of the
General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and to this end,  without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its  other  obligations  under the Loan Agreement: (i)
shall cause the Municipalidad  to  perform, in accordance with the
provisions of the Project  Agreement,  all  the obligations of the
Municipalidad therein set forth with  respect  to Parts A and C of
the Project; (ii) shall  take  or  cause  to  be taken all action,
including the provision of  funds,  facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the Municipalidad to
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken
any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance;
and (iii) shall carry out  pare  B  of the Project, acting through
the Comite, with due  diligence  and  efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative,  financial, engineering and urban
development practices, and provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the carrying
out of Part B of the Project.
     (b)  The Borrower shall relend $14,110,000 of the proceeds of
the Loan to the Municipalidad for  the carrying out of Parts A and
C of the Project, under a  subsidiary loan agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower  and  the Municipalidad, for the purpose
of having the Municipalidad carry out Parts A and C of the Project
and under terms and conditions  which  shall have been approved by
the Bank, which terms  and  conditions  shall provide, inter alia:
(i) an  amortization  schedule  coinciding  with  the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3  to this Agreement; (ii) that the
Page  5
Subsidiary Loan be denominated, disbursed and repaid in Quetzales;
and (iii) a mechanism whereby  the Municipalidad shall be required
to repay the Subsidiary Loan and to pay interest and other charges
to the Borrower in  amounts  sufficient  to enable the Borrower to
repay that portion  of  the  Loan  corresponding to the Subsidiary
Loan, together with interest  and  other  charges, at the exchange
rate prevailing at the time of payment.
     (c)  The  Borrower  shall  exercise   its  rights  under  the
Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  in  such  manner  as  to  protect the
interests of the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  and  to accomplish the
purposes of the  Loan,  and,  except  as  the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
     (d)  The Borrower shall,  under  arrangements satisfactory to
the Bank, make  available  to  the  Comite  an amount in Quetzales
equivalent to that portion of  the  proceeds of the Loan allocated
for the carrying out of Part B of the Project.
     (e)  The  Borrower  shall  exercise   its  rights  under  the
arrangements referred to in paragraph  (d) of this Section in such
manner as to protect the  interests  of  the Borrower and the Bank
and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank
shall otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall  not  assign, amend,
abrogate or waive such arrangements or any provision thereof.
     (f)  The Borrower  shall,  until  completion  of the Project;
(i)  include  in  its  annual  budget  for  each  fiscal  year  an
allocation, as a separate  line  item,  of  the funds necessary to
cover the Borrower's local  currency contribution to the financing
of Part B of  the  Project  during  such  fiscal year; and (ii) no
later than  January  30  of  each  year,  furnish  to  the  Bank a
certified copy of its official  annual budget for the then current
fiscal year, showing such allocation.
     Section 3.02.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree,
(i) procurement  of  the  goods,  works  and consultants' services
required for Part B of the  Project  and to be financed out of the
proceeds of  the  Loan  shall  be  governed  by  the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement;  and  (ii) procurement of the goods,
works and consultants' services required for  Parts A and C of the
Project shall be governed by  the  provisions of Schedule 1 to the
Project Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the  General  Conditions  (relating  to  insurance, use of
goods and  services,  plans  and  schedules,  records and reports,
maintenance and land  acquisition,  respectively) shall be carried
out by the Municipalidad pursuant  to  Section 2.03 of the Project
Agreement, in respect of Parts A  and  C of the Project, and shall
be carried out  by  the  Borrower,  acting  through the Comite, in
respect of Part B of the Project.
     Section 3.04. The Borrower, acting either directly or through
the Comite, shall, as  promptly  as  practicable after the date of
this  Agreement  and  in  any   event  according  to  a  timetable
satisfactory to the Bank and consistent with the implementation of
the Project:  (i)  cause  the  Municipalidad  to  transfer  to the
Borrower, in exchange for  compensation,  title to all land (other
than privately owned land) which is  the  situs of any part of the
Squatter Communities, for  administration  by  the  Comite (or, if
title to  such  land  is  held  by  the  Borrower  or  a political
subdivision of  the  Borrower,  make  available  such  land to the
Comite); (ii) acquire, in exchange  for compensation, title to all
privately owned  land  which  is  the  situs  of  any  part of the
Squatter   Communities,   for   administration   by   the  Comite;
(iii) develop and carry out  a  program, satisfactory to the Bank,
for  subdividing  such  land  and  transferring  title  thereto to
persons living  in  the  Squatter  Communities  in accordance with
operating  regulations  and  procedures   which  shall  have  been
Page  6
approved  by  the  Bank;  and  (iv)  effect  the  establishment as
Asociaciones de Vecinos of  each  of  the Squatter Communities, on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
     Section 3.05. The Borrower,  acting through the Comite, shall
effect the establishment as Asociaciones de Vecinos of each of the
Conjuntos BANVI-FEER, on terms  and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank.
     Section 3.06. The Borrower,  acting through the Comite, shall
enter into agreements, satisfactory to  the Bank, with each of the
Asociaciones de  Vecinos  established  in  the respective Squatter
Communities  and  the  Comite  Pro-Mejoramiento  of  the Conjuntos
BANVI-FEER for the  purpose  of  having such communities cooperate
and coordinate with the Comite  in  the  carrying out of Part B of
the Project in such respective communities.
     Section 3.07. The Borrower,  acting through the Comite, shall
enter into  an  agreement,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  with the
Municipalidad,  for  the  purpose   of  having  the  Municipalidad
cooperate and coordinate with  the  Comite  in the carrying out of
Part B of the Project.
     Section 3.08. The Borrower,  acting through the Comite, shall
enter into agreements, satisfactory to  the Bank, with one or more
NGOs, acceptable to the Bank, for  the purpose of having such NGOs
assist the Comite in the carrying out  of part B of the Project in
the Squatter Communities and the Conjuntos BANVI-FEER.
     Section 3.09. The Borrower, acting either directly or through
the Comite,  shall  enter  into  arrangements  satisfactory to the
Bank, with BANVI, whereby  BANVI  shall undertake to cooperate and
coordinate with the Comite in  the  carrying  out of Part B of the
Project in the  Conjuntos  BANVI-FEER,  including, inter alia, the
obligations to:  (i)  provide  clear  title  to  the real property
occupied by the  persons  or  families  residing  in the Conjuntos
BANVI-FEER to such respective  persons  or families; (ii) transfer
to  the  Municiplidad   responsibility   for  the  maintenance  of
infrastructure  systems,   including   roads,   drains  and  water
distribution   systems,   in   the   Conjuntos   BANVI-FEER;   and
(iii) improve the  collection  by  BANVI  of mortgage payments and
arrears from its debtors residing to the Conjuntos BANVI-FEER.
     Section 3.10. Without limitation of the provisions of Section
9.07 of the  General  Conditions,  no  later  than  January 30 and
July 30 in each year  commencing  in  1990 until completion of the
Project, the Borrower,  acting  through  the Comite, shall prepare
and furnish to the Bank: (i)  a  report, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank  shall  reasonably  request, on the progress of
the implementation of Part B  of  the Project, and the achievement
of the physical performance  targets  set  forth  in Schedule 5 to
this Agreement during the semester ended the immediately preceding
December 31 or June 30,  as  the  case  may be; and (ii) an action
plan, satisfactory to the  Bank,  for  the semester commencing the
immediately preceding January 1  or  July  1,  as the case may be,
containing   proposals   and    performance    targets   for   the
implementation of Part B of the Project during such Semester.
     Section 3.11. The Borrower,  acting through the Comite, shall
enter  into  an  agreement,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  with an
organization or organizations  satisfactory  to  the Comite and to
the Bank, whereby organization or organizations shall undertake to
administer  and  extend  credit  under  the  small-business credit
program to be financed in  part  under  Part  B of the Project, in
accordance with operating policies  and procedures satisfactory to
the Bank.
     Section 3.12. The Borrower, acting through the Comite, shall,
at all times until completion  of  the Project, staff the position
of the chief  of  DAHVI  with  a  person  possessing the necessary
qualifications and experience for such  position, and in the event
of a new appointment being made to such position, shall inform the
Page  7
Bank of the candidates for the position.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a)  The  Borrower,  acting through the Comite,
shall maintain separate records  and accounts adequate to reflect,
in accordance with sound  accounting  practices, the resources and
expenditures related to Part B of the Project.
     (b)  For all expenditures under  Part  B  of the Project with
respect to which withdrawals  from  the  Loan Account were made on
the basis  of  statements  of  expenditure,  the  Borrower, acting
through the  basis  of  statements  of  expenditure, the Borrower,
acting through the Comite, shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be  maintained in accordance
               with  paragraph  (a)   of  this  Section,  separate
               records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  ensure  that   all   records   (contracts,  orders,
               invoices,  bills,  receipts  and  other  documents)
               evidencing  such  expenditures  are  retained until
               least one  year  after  the  Bank  has received the
               audit report for the fiscal  year in which the last
               withdrawal from the Loan Account was made; and
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records.
     (c)  The Borrower, acting through the Comite, shall:
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a)  and  in  paragraph  (b)  (i) of this
               Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
               with appropriate  auditing  principles consistently
               applied, by independent  auditors acceptable to the
               Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later  than  four months after the end
               of each such year, the report of such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope  and  in such detail as the
               Bank shall have  reasonably  requested, including a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
               statements of expenditure  referred to in paragraph
               (b) (i) of this  Section  and submitted during such
               fiscal  year,  together  with  the  procedures  and
               internal controls  involved  in  their preparation,
               can  be  relied   upon   to   support  the  related
               withdrawals; and
        (iii)  furnish  to   the   Bank   such  other  information
               concerning said records and  accounts and the audit
               thereof  as  the  Bank  shall  from  time  to  time
               reasonably request.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01.  Pursuant  to  Section  6.02 (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  The Municipalidad shall  have  failed  to perform any of
its obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (b)  Acuerdo  Gubernativo,  dated  March  18,  1976,  of  the
Borrower, establishing the  Comite,  as  previously amended, shall
have been further  amended,  or  suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived in such a  manner  that,  in  the  opinion of the Bank, the
Page  8
carrying out of Part  B  of  the  Project  shall be materially and
adversely affected.
     (c)  Any of the parties  to  any of the Community Agreements,
the NGO Agreements,  the  Inter-Institutional Agreement, the BANVI
Agreement or the Small-business Credit Agreement shall have failed
to perform any of their respective obligations thereunder.
     (d)  A change shall have  been  made  in any of the Community
Agreements, the NGO Agreements, the Inter-Institutional Agreement,
the BANVI Agreement or  the Small-business Credit Agreement which,
in the opinion of the  Bank, shall materially and adversely affect
the carrying out of Part B of the Project.
     (e)  Decreto  62-87,  dated   September   17,  1987,  of  the
Borrower,  on  real  estate   taxes,   shall  have  been  amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a manner that, in
the opinion of the Bank, the carrying out of Part A of the Project
shall be materially and adversely affected.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  any of the events specified  in paragraphs (a) or (c) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement  shall occur and shall continue for
a period of sixty days after  notice thereof shall have been given
by the Bank to the Borrower; and
     (b)  any of the events  specified  in  paragraphs (b), (d) or
(e) Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  6.01.  The   following   events   are  specified  as
additional conditions to the  effectiveness  of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  has  been  executed on
behalf of the Borrower and the Municipalidad;
     (b)  The  Inter-Institutional   Agreement   shall  have  been
executed on behalf of the Borrower, acting through the Comite, and
the Municipalidad; and
     (c)  the Borrower shall have  acquired title to, or otherwise
the use of, such land located in each of the Squatter Communities,
in accordance with Section 3.04 (i) and (ii) of this Agreement, as
shall be  the  situs  of  Project  implementation  until the first
anniversary of the Effective Date.
     Section  6.02.  The  following  are  specified  as additional
matters, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to  be  included  in  the  opinion  or  opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
     (a)  that the Project Agreement  has  been duly authorized or
ratified by the  Municipalidad,  and  is  legally binding upon the
Municipalidad in accordance with its terms;
     (b)  that  the  Subsidiary  Loan   Agreement  has  been  duly
authorized or ratified by  the  Borrower and the Municipalidad and
is legally binding  upon  the  Borrower  and  the Municipalidad in
accordance with its terms; and
     (c)  that the  Inter-Institutional  Agreement  has  been duly
authorized or  ratified,  respectively,  by  the  Borrower and the
Municipalidad,  and  is  legally  binding  upon  each  of  them in
accordance with its terms.
       Section  6.03.  The  date  of  February  15,  1990  is hereby
Page  9
specified  for  the  purposes  of  Section  12.04  of  the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. Except  as  provided  in  Section  2.08 of this
Agreement, the Ministro de Finanzas  of the Borrower is designated
as representative of  the  Borrower  for  the  purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministerio de Finanzas
          Centro Civico
          8a Avenida, Calle 21, Zona 1
          Guatemala, Guatemala
          Cable address:               Telex:
               MINFIP                   9207
               Guatemala                MINFIP GU
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C.  20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:              Telex:
          INTBAFRAD                     440098 (ITT)
          Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                         64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                        REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
                        By /s/ Rodolfo Rohrmoser Valdeavellano
                                         Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ Shahid Husain
                                           Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of  the  Loan  to  each  Category  and  the  percentage of
Page  10
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)  Civil works:
     (i)  under Part C         4,990,000        72%
          of the
          Project
    (ii)  under Part B         7,980,000        62%
          of the
          Project
(2)  Goods and                         )        100% of foreign
     equipment:                        )        expenditures, and
                                       )        100% of the ex-
     (i)  under               1,000,000)        factory cost of
          Parts A and                  )        expenditures for
          C of the                     )        locally manufact-
          Project                      )        ured goods
                                       )
    (ii)  under               1,510,000)
          Part B of the                )
          Project                      )
                                       )
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
    Category              Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(3)  Consultants'                               100%
     services (in-
     cluding regis-
     tration teams
     for the property
     cadastre):
     (i)  under                2,350,000
          Parts A and
          C of the
          Project
    (ii)  under                  300,000
          Part B of the
          Project
(4)  Home improvement            960,000        50% of amounts
     and small business                         disbursed
     loans
(5)  Interest and              3,890,000        Amounts due pur-
     other charges                              suant to Section
     on the Loan                                2.02 (b) of this
     accrued on                                 Agreement
     or before
     February 14, 1994
(6)  Refunding of              1,500,000
     Project Prepara-
     tion Advance
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
    Category              Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(7)  Unallocated
Page  11
     (i)  under Parts          2,170,000
          A and C of
          the Project
    (ii)  under Part B         2,350,000
          of the Project
                              __________
          TOTAL               29,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals  shall  be  made  in  respect  of  payments  made  for
expenditures:
          (i)  prior to the  date  of  this Agreement, except that
               (A)  withdrawals,  in   an   aggregate  amount  not
               exceeding the equivalent of  $1,000,000 may be made
               in respect of  Categories  (1)  (i)  and (3) (i) on
               account of payments made  for expenditures prior to
               that  date  but  after   July   1,  1986,  and  (B)
               withdrawals, in an  aggregate  amount not exceeding
               the equivalent of $500,000  may  be made in respect
               of Category (1)  (ii)  on  account of payments made
               for  expenditures  prior   to   the  date  of  this
               Agreement but after July 1, 1987;
         (ii)  under Categories (1) (ii),  (2)  (ii) and (3) (ii),
               in respect of any  individual Squatter Community or
               any  individual  Conjunto  BANVI-FEER until (A) the
               Bank has received evidence satisfactory to the Bank
               that  such  Squatter  Community  or  such  Conjunto
               BANVI-FEER to be upgraded with the proceeds of such
               withdrawal, has established legal personality as an
               Asociacion  de  Vecinos   and  that  the  Community
               Agreement between the Asociacion de Vecinos of such
               Squatter Community and the Borrower, acting through
               the Comite, has  been  duly  executed;  and (B) the
               Bank has received a  legal opinion, satisfactory to
               the Bank, to  the  effect  that  such Asociacion de
               Vecinos   or   Comites   Pro-mejoramiento   of  the
               Conjuntos  BANVI-FEER  have  been  duly established
               with   legal   personality   in   accordance   with
               applicable law  and  that  such Community Agreement
               has been duly  authorized  or  ratified  by, and is
               binding upon, the respective parties thereto;
        (iii)  under Categories (1) (ii),  (2)  (ii) and (3) (ii),
               in respect of  any  Conjuntos  BANVI-FEER until (A)
               the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to the
               Bank that the BANVI Agreement between BANVI and the
               Borrower, acting through the  Comite, has been duly
               executed, and (B)  the  Bank  has  received a legal
               opinion, satisfactory to  the  Bank,  to the effect
               that the BANVI  Agreement  has been duly authorized
               or ratified by, and is  binding upon, BANVI and the
               Borrower, acting through the Comite; and
         (iv)  under Category (4) until  (A) the Bank has received
               evidence satisfactory  to  the  Bank  that: (i) the
Page  12
               Small-business   Credit   Agreement   between   the
               Borrower,  acting  through   the   Comite,  and  an
               organization  or   organizations   has   been  duly
               executed;  and  (ii)  an  appropriate  agreement or
               agreements, satisfactory to  the  Bank, between the
               Borrower, acting through the Comite, and any one or
               more NGOs in accordance  with  Section 3.08 of this
               Agreement has been duly  executed; and (B) the Bank
               has received a  legal  opinion, satisfactory to the
               Bank, to the effect that each Small-business Credit
               Agreement and each  agreement  entered into between
               the Borrower, acting through the Comite, and an NGO
               has been duly  authorized  or  ratified  by, and is
               binding upon,  the  respective  parties  thereto in
               accordance with its terms.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of  the  Project  are  to revitalize municipal
administration  and  finance  in  the  Municipalidad  by improving
management and revenue generation, and to provide and rehabilitate
basic urban infrastructure and community services to selected low-
income and Squatter Communities.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower  and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Institutional Development in the Municipalidad
1.   Updating  the  cadastre  of  the  Municipalidad  in  order to
increase revenues to the  Municipalidad  and  to the Borrower from
property taxes and improve  development planning and management of
urban public services, through actions which will include training
of staff, aerial  photography  of  the metropolitan area, purchase
and utilization of equipment  and  vehicles for the generation and
maintenance of digitized cadastral data for the production of base
maps,  and  a  physical  survey  of  properties  to  update  their
registration and valuation.
2.   Implementing systems to  improve: (i) functional organization
in the municipal  government;  (ii) personnel management, training
and  career   development;   (iii)   revenue  administration;  and
(iv) budgetary management  and  financial and investment planning,
including, with respect to all  of the foregoing items, purchasing
and utilizing data management and other office equipment.
Part B:   Urban Services
1.   Implementing  a  pilot  program  to  upgrade  five low-income
communities affecting  in  total  approximately  6500 families and
providing secure land tenure,  improved water supply and drainage,
road paving,  community  facilities,  home  improvement  and small
business credit, and design and supervision in connection with all
of the foregoing.
2.   Rehabilitating and reconstructing  water supply, drainage and
other essential infrastructure, purchasing and utilizing equipment
and vehicles, and providing community facilities in 32 residential
communities developed  by  BANVI  through  the BANVI-FEER Program,
affecting between  140,000  and  160,000  persons,  and design and
supervision in connection with all of the foregoing.
3.   Providing technical assistance to assess shelter deficiencies
nationwide and to formulate an operational program addressing such
deficiencies.
Part C:   Road Maintenance and  Improvement  and Urban Development
          Planning
Page  13
1.   Installing a road  maintenance  management system, including:
(i) organizational  measures  and  program  planning procedures to
upgrade  and  expand   the   road   maintenance  capacity  of  the
Municipalidad; (ii) a program of maintenance and improvement works
covering   approximately   186   kilometers   in   the   principal
transportation corridors  and  central  business  district  of the
Municipalidad to maximize the  economic efficiency of the existing
road network  by  improving  traffic  flows  and  reducing vehicle
operating costs; (iii) the purchase and utilization of maintenance
equipment  and  vehicles;  and  (iv)  design  and  supervision  in
connection with all of the foregoing.
2.   Carrying out a Study of urban development in the metropolitan
area of Guatemala City.
                               * * *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1994.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                        Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                       (Expressed in dollars)*
On each February 15 and August 15
     beginning February 15, 1994
     through February 15, 2005                   1,210,000
     On August 15, 2005                          1,170,000
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     The following  premiums  are  specified  for  the purposes of
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
     Time of Prepayment                       Premium
                                      The interest rate (ex-
                                      pressed as a percentage
                                      per annum) applicable to
                                      the balance outstanding
                                      on the Loan on the day
                                      of prepayment multiplied
                                      by:
Not more than three years                      0.18
     before maturity
More than three years but                      0.35
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                        0.65
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity
More than eleven years but not                 0.88
     more than fifteen years
     before maturity
More than fifteen years                        1.00
     before maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
Page  14
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I: Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic and Regional Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in part A hereof, a margin of preference will be granted
to   bids   offering   goods,   described   in   the  accompanying
specification, which are manufactured  to  a substantial extent in
any country including Guatemala, which  is  a party to the Mercado
Comun Centroamericano, the  common  market  created by the General
Treaty  for  Central  American   Economic  Integration  signed  at
Managua, Nicaragua on December 13, 1960 by Guatemala, El Salvador,
Honduras, Nicaragua and Costa  Rica (hereinafter called the CACM),
in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   For the purposes of  Part  B  of this Schedule, the following
definitions shall apply:
     (a)  (i)  the term "Qualified CACM Bid" means a bid submitted
               by a  manufacturer  established  in  territories of
               member countries, including  Guatemala, of the CACM
               for  goods  manufactured   or   processed  in  such
               territories and  for  which  the  bidder shall have
               established to the  satisfaction  of  the entity or
               agency inviting  bids,  that  the  manufacturing or
               processing cost  of  such  goods  includes  a value
               added, in such territories,  equal  to at least 20%
               of the ex-factory bid price of such goods;
         (ii)  the  term  "Non-Qualified  CACM  Bid"  means  a bid
               submitted   by   a   manufacturer   established  in
               territories   of    member   countries,   including
               Guatemala, of the  CACM,  for goods manufactured or
               processed in such territories,  other than any such
               bid classified as a Qualified CACM Bid; and
        (iii)  the term  "Foreign  Bid"  means  any  bid  which is
               neither a Qualified  CACM  Bid  nor a Non-Qualified
               CACM Bid.
2.   All bidding  documents  for  the  procurement  of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference  which  would be granted and shall
set forth the information required to establish the eligibility of
a bid for such preference.
3.   Bidders are required to state  in  their bid the c.i.f. (port
of entry) price  of  imported  goods  and  the ex-factory price of
locally manufactured goods.
4.   Except to  the  extent  hereinafter  provided,  bids  will be
compared on the  basis  of  their  ex-factory  or  c.i.f. (port of
entry) price adjusted in  accordance  with paragraphs 2.49 through
2.54 of the Guidelines.
5.   After evaluation, responsive bids  will  be classified in one
of the following groups:  Qualified  CACM Bids, Non-Qualified CACM
Bids or Foreign Bids.
6.   All  bids  in  each  group   will  be  first  compared  among
themeselves, to determine the  lowest  evaluated  bid in each such
group. The  lowest  evaluated  bids  of  each  group  will then be
compared with each other and  if,  as a result of this comparison,
an evaluated Qualified CACM Bid  or  Non-Qualified CACM Bid is the
Page  15
lowest, it will be selected for the purpose of award.
7.   If the lowest bid in  the  comparison under paragraph 6 above
is a Foreign  Bid,  such  bid  will  be  further compared with the
lowest evaluated Qualified CACM  Bid as determined under paragraph
6 above.  For the  purposes  of this comparison only, each Foreign
Bid will be compared on the  basis  of the sum of its c.i.f. (port
of entry) price,  adjusted  in  accordance  with the provisions of
paragraph 4 above, plus an amount equal to the smaller of (i) one-
half the amount of customs  duties  and other import taxes which a
non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation of goods
offered in such Foreign Bid, or  (ii)  15% of the c.i.f. bid price
of such goods. If the  Qualified  CACM Bid is the lowest evaluated
bid in such comparison, it  shall  be  selected for the purpose of
award; otherwise, the lowest  evaluated  Foreign Bid as determined
under paragraph 6 above shall be so selected.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Equipment and vehicles estimated  to  cost less than $250,000
equivalent per contract, up to  an  aggregate amount not to exceed
$2,900,000, may be procured  under  contracts awarded on the basis
of competitive  bidding,  advertised  locally,  in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.   Civil works under Part  B  of  the  Project costing less than
US$500,000 per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally, in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to  the  Bank, except that such civil
works estimated to cost up  to  an  aggregate amount not to exceed
US$4,000,000 may be  procured  by  force  account under the direct
supervision  of  the   Comite,   in   accordance  with  procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.
Part D:
     Without limitation upon the  provision  of the Guidelines, in
respect of procurement of goods, works, and services:
1.   Goods and Works:
     (a)  No prior registration of bidders shall be required.
     (b)  No bidder shall be disqualified because his bid price is
above or below a predetermined value.
     (c)  Bid and performance  securities  shall be denominated in
the currency of the  bid  or  any freely convertible currency, and
shall be issued  by  any  bank,  located  in  Guatemala or abroad,
acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank.
     (d)  Price adjustments formula acceptable  to the Bank may be
incorporated in contracts of more than one year term.
2.   Services:
     (a)  Foreign  consultants  shall  be  allowed  to participate
freely in the selection process even if local consultants shall be
available for the concerned services.
     (b)  No prequalification shall be required.
Part E:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   (a)  With respect to each contract for equipment estimated to
cost the equivalent  of  $250,000  or  more  and each contract for
civil works estimated to cost  the equivalent of $200,000 or more,
the procedures set forth in  paragraphs  2  and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
Page  16
4 of Appendix 1 of the Guidelines shall apply.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement.
2.   The  figure  of  20%  is  hereby  specified  for  purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II: Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist  the  Borrower, acting through the Comite,
in carrying  out  Part  B  of  the  Project,  the Borrower, acting
through the Comite, shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience  and  terms  and  conditions  of  employment  shall  be
satisfactory to the Bank.  Such  consultants  shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of  the  "Guidelines  for  the  Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and  by  the  World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981.
                                   SCHEDULE 5
                         Physical Performance Targets for
                               Part B of the Project
                                       Year
                         1990   1991   1992   1993   1994
Implementation
Lots improved               -      1      2      3      5
in Squatter
Communities               1,300  2,900  4,200  5,350  6,500
(cumulatively)
Conjuntos                   2     13     28     32
BANVI-FEER
upgraded and
transferred
out of BANVI
(cumulatively)
