C.3
RETURN      TO                                        RESTR IECT ED
REPORTS      DE             FILE    COPY                  Report No.TO-650a
WITHIN
ONE WEEK
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
COLOMBIA
July 8, 1968
Projects Department



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit       =         Peso (Ps.)
US$1.00             =         Ps. 16.30(June 1968)
US$1 million                  Ps. 16.3 million
Ps. 1 million       =         US$61,350
Fiscal Year: January 1 - December 1
Units of Weights and Measures: Metric
Metric: British/U.S. Equivalents
1 m                 =         3.28 ft.
1 km2                         0.62 mi.
1 km2                         0.386 sq. mi.
1 m ton             =         0.98 lg ton
=         1.1 US short ton



C OLOi 511.
APPRAISAL OF FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
SUMMARY 
1.  INTRODUCTION                                                     1
2. BACKGROUND                                                        h
A.  General                                                      4
B.  Transportation Sector                                        h
C.  Transportation Coordination                                  7
3. THE HIGHWAY SECTOR                                                8
A. Highway Administration                                         8
B. Highway Planning and Financing                                 9
C. Highway Engineering                                            10
D. Highway Construction                                           11
E. Highway Maintenance                                           12
F.  Characteristics and Growth of Traffic                        12
4. THE PROJECT                                                       14
A.  General Description                                           14
B.  Highways and Bridges to be Constructed or Reconstructed       14
C.  Design and Consulting Services and Equipment                  17
D.  Cost Estimates and Financing                                 20
E.  Execution                                                     23
5. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION                                             25
A. General                                                        25
B. The Project Roads and Bridge                                   25
6. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS                                    30
This report has been prepared by Messrs. North (Engineer) and Park
(Economist), members of the Bank identification and appraisal missions of
December 1967 and April 1968, respe4ctiveay.



Table of Contents - continued
A       TiT   o   n    c
COnr:½ 'Jqcti 0? Con~ ci^.ctF, .t.'rdo d
TABLES
1. Traffic to and from the principal ports
2. Highway lengths, all systems
3. National highway system
4. National highway system, design standards
5. Project design standards
6. Vehicle registration, 1958-1966
7.  Motor fuel consumption, 1958-1967
8. Vehicle operating costs on average paved roads
CHARTS
1. Existing Ministry of Works organization
2.  Proposed Ministry of Works organization
MAP
Location of project



COLOTMIA
APPRAISAL OF THIE FIFTH HIGLH-V PROJECT
SUII2AS rFY
The Bank has been closely associa-ted with highway development in
Colombia since 1951, and in 1967 the Government asked the Bank for a further
loan to continue expanding and upgrading its national trunk highway system.
The proposed project would include the construction or reconstruction, in-
cluding paving, of about 510 km of highway, the construction of a major
bridge, consulting services for construction supervision, for assisting the
implementation of the reorganization of the Ministry of Public Works, and
for preinvestment studies and detailed engineering of further priority
highway projects.  Some equipment would also be included.
ii.       The total cost of the project, including contingencies, is esti-
mated at US$39.5 million equivalent. The Bank loan of US$17.2 million
equivalent would finance the estimated foreign exchange cost of construc-
tion (about 45 percent) and the actual foreign exchange cost of consultants
and equipment. There would be retroactive financing of construction costs
and of some consulting services both from May 1, 1968.  The remaining funds
would be provided by the Government through the lational Highway Fund.
iii.      The project would be the fifth highway project financed by the
Bank in Colombia since 1951. Bank/IDA financing has totalled US$86.35
million equivalent. The Bank has also been active in the railway field in
Colombia, having provided loans totalling US$76.3 million equivalent over
the same period.  A project for a further loan of US$18.3 million equiva-
lent has recently been appraised.
iv.       Detailed engineering has been satisfactorily carried out or is
now being completed by consultants who would assist the Government in pre-
qualifying contractors, analysing bids and supervising construction. The
cost estimates are considered accurate and adequate contin;encies have been
included.
v.        The project is technically and economically sound.   The economic
rates of return for the different works range from 11 percent to 21 percent.
vi.       Six contracts have already been let following acceptable proce-
dures. The remaining contracts would be let on the basis of international
competitive bidding. Execution of the project would be the responsibility
of the Ministry of Public Wlorks.
vii.      The project provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$17.2
million equivalent. An appropriate term for the loan would be 24 years,
including four years period of grace.



COLOMBIA
APPRAUISAL OF THE FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Colombia has requested a loan of US$17.2
million equivalent to help finance a project costing about US$39.5 million
equivalent including (a) the construction or reconstruction (with paving)
of about 510 km of four national highways, (b) the construction of a
major highway bridge, (c) consulting services for supervising (a) and (b)
above, for preinvestment studies and detailed engineering of further priority
roads, and for assisting the reorganization of the M'inistry of Public
Works, and (d) the purchase of equipment needed for effective reorganiza-
tion of the Ministry.
1.02      The Bank has been closely involved with the improvement of
Colombia's transportation facilities since 1951, when it made a loan for
the emergency rehabilitation of an important part of the national highway
system. It has since made three other loans and IDA has made one credit
for highways; in all US$86.35 million has been provided for this purpose,
as follows:
Loan/Credit    Date Signed        Amount
Loan 43-CO        1951        $16.5  million    Fully disbursed
Loan 84-CO        1953        $14.35 million    Fully disbursed
Loan 144-CO       1956        $16.5  million    Fully disbursed
Loan 295-CO       1961        $19.5  million    Fully disbursed
Credit 5-CO       1961        $19.5  million    Balance of about $1.4
million being applied to
completion of feasibility
studies, management study
and transport investment
survey.
Total   $86.35 million
1.03      The first loan was for the emergency rehabilitation of some
3,000 km of the most important trunk roads - basically to establish a
continuous all-weather main road system where no modern highways worthy
of the name had previously existed. The program was highly ambitious and
the difficulties which were to be encountered in carrying it out (climatic,



- 2 -
geophysical, personnel and institutional) were seriously under-estimated.
With rudimentary engineering and project preparation, construction costs
increased drastically and work progressed very slowly. The second and
third loans were made to enable the original program to be continued and
amplified by the addition of other important roads; also the original
construction standards were improved.
1.04      The fourth project (Loan 295-CO and Credit 5-co) was for the
completion of certain parts of the original project (still unfinished
after ten years), the construction of another 450 In of road and the
upgrading of other roads (many of which had been constructed originally
to relatively low standards under the earlier loans) to meet the require-
ments of the rapidly increasing traffic volumes. This project also
provided funds for purchasing a large fleet of maintenance equipment in
recognition of the need to improve highway maintenance practices. In
1965, as a condition for extending the Closing Date of the loan and
credit, the Government agreed to employ management consultants to reor-
ganize the M.O.P.
1.05      In 1964 the Bank stationed in Colombia an engineer with long
experience of Latin American highway problems to provide closer supervision
of the Bank project. This arrangement has been of much value in identify-
ing and correcting problems as they arise and the arrangement is still in
force.
1.06      Financing of the construction and reconstruction program from
Loan and Credit funds ceased in 1967 with about 80 percent of the program
completed; Loan funds were by then exhausted and the Credit Closing Date
was extended to December 31, 1968 to enable certain important studies to
be carried out. The proposed loan would finance the completion of part of
the construction work still remaining from the Fourth Highway Project while
the Government is financing the rest entirely from its own resources.
1.07      During the period of its final extension from July 1967 to
December 1968, Credit 5-CO is financing the completion of the following
studies:
(i) Completion of feasibility studies and detailed
or preliminary engineering for three trunk
roads.(Medellin-La Dorada, Bogota-Villavicencio
and Pcpayan-Pasto) and the Barranquilla Bridge;
(ii) The first phase of the management study of the
Ministry of Public Works; and
(iii) The first phase of the transportation investment
survey.
These are all expected to be completed before the Closing Date of the Credit.



- 3 -
1.08      While the improvement in road coTmunications resulting from
the Bank's lending has no doubt contributed to the encouraging economic
development of the country and to closer integratiori of its traditionally
independent regions, the physical execution of these projects has been
difficult, due to inadequate provision of local funds, to slowness in
adopting modern engineering techniques, and to reluctance to abandon
archaic and time consuming procedures and modernize Government organiza-
tions. These obstacles have been attacked and many of them removed, but
many problems still remain to be overcome. The most pressing problem at
present is an institutional one - the reorganization of the authority
responsible for the national highway system - and is now being tackled by
the Government Assistance to this end would be given by. the proposed loan.
1.09      Although the execution of the Fourth Highway Project had been
largely unsatisfactory, the Government that came into power in 1966 quickly
took important steps to correct the situation by the imposition of addi-
tional taxes on road users (para 2.18), the creation of a National Highway
Fund with earmarked revenues (para 3.09) and the appointment of consultants
to help reorganize the Ministry of Public Works (para 3.06). These steps
and subsequent general improvement in project execution justified the Bank's
proceeding with the loan now under consideration. The Government has
however been informed that continuing progress on reorganizing the Ministry
is a prerequisite for any further highwiay lending.
1.10      In addition to the lending for highways mentioned above, the
Bank has made four loans totalling US$76. 3 million equivalent to Colombia
for railways. A fifth railway project (mainly for track rehabilitation)
has been appraised and a loan of about US$180 3 million equivalent is
expected to be made at the same time as the proposed highway loan.
111l      Other international or national lending agencies have not been
particularly active in the highway field in Colombia. However, USAID
provided funds and equipment for the "caminos vecinales" program (para
3.01) in its early stages and IDB has recently made a loan for US$12.7
million for the construction of the Cienaga-Santa Nlarta-Paraguachon road
which will link Colombia and northern Venezuela.
1.12      This report has been prepared by Messrs. North (Engineer) and
Park (Economist) on the basis of feasibility studies prepared by Colombian
consultants INGETEC (in association with TAMS, U.S.) and INTEGRAL (in
association with Gannett, Fleming, Corddry and Carpenter, U,S.) and on
the basis of identification and appraisal missions which visited Colombia
in December 1967 and April 1968, respectively.



2. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      The background material of this report is similar to that given
in the report on the Fifth Railway Project and is repeated here to make this
report self-contained. The Republic of Colombia extends over an area of
mbre than one million km2, or about that of all six member countries of the
European Economic Community. It has the third largest population (19 million)
in South America. Although it lies across the equator, its climate varies
widely with the altitude, which ranges from sea level to nearly 6,000 m.
One-fifth of the country is more than 1,000 m above sea level, and the
population is mostly settled within temperate regions above this height, the
three principal areas of settlement being: the agricultural and industrial
centers of the Eastern Highlands, including Bucaramanga and the capital city
of Bdgota; the fertile and elevated Cauca 'alley, lying to the west of the
Central Highlands; and the industrial region of Antioquia, to the north of
the Cauca Valley, with Medellin, the country's second largest city, as its
natural center.
2.02      In the remaining four-fifths of the country, the only other sizeable
concentrations of population are around the twio Atlantic seaports of
Barranquilla and Cartagena where considerable industrial activities are also
centered.
2.03      Agriculture accounts for nearly 30 percent of Colombia's GDP
(compared with close to 40 percent in 1960). Manufacturing industry has been
growing at a faster rate than most other sectors of the economy and now
accounts for nearly 20 percent of total GDP. The remaining 50 percent of
GDP is accounted for by mining service and other activities. The principal
mineral resource so far discovered is oil, which at present supplies 15
percent of the country's total exports as well as domestic requirements.
There are also extensive deposits of coal, wqhich, in one area where iron
ore is also found, support a steel mill.
2.04      Colombia's GDP increased by a little over 4 percent p.a. in the
1961-1966 period, which, with the population growing by more than 3 percent
p.a. and with per capita income presently estimated at only US$250-270 was
a disappointing rate of growth. One important reason for this was the
unsatisfactory balance of payments position and the shortage of foreign
exchange wshich has persisted since the collapse of coffee prices more than
ten years ago. The country's reliance on coffee exports has been steadily
declining over the last decade, but this single commodity still accounts for
more than 60 percent of the total value of exports compared with 74 percent
in 1958. There have been substantial increases in other exports, notably
in oil, bananas, sugar, cattle, and tobacco, but this diversification has
not yet overcome the continued trade deficit or eliminated the need for
restrictions on imports. The Government's present objective is to achieve
a sustained growqth rate of about 6 percent in GDP.



-5-
B. Transportation Sector
2.05      The three mountain ranges of Colombia, extending from north to
south for almost the whole length of the country, present formidable barriers
to movement between the main areas of popu].ation, which until recently
developed as separate and almost isolated communities. The country is
fortunate in having coastlines on both the Atlantic and the Pacific, but this
advantage is again offset by the difficulty of movement from the coasts
into the interior, over forbidding terrain and often over long distances.
For this reason, distribution of traffic through the ports is determined
more by the origin or destination within Colombia than by the shipping
routes concerned. In the west, the towns and communities of the Cauca
Valley and Antioquia use the Pacific port of Buenaventura for practically
all their overseas trade, while for points to the east and north of the
Central Highlands some 85 percent of imports and exports are channeled
through the Atlantic ports of Barranquilla, Santa Marta and Cartagena,
even though many of these towns, including Bogota, are geographically closer
to the Pacific.
Railways
2.06      The railway system totalling some 3,400 km in length developed
originally as a number of independent systems which were consolidated in 1954
into a single network under the authority of the Colombian National
Railways (CNR). The most important route is the Atlantic line connecting
the Atlantic port of Santa Marta with Bogota, which was constructed with
Bank financial assistance and was completed in 1961. The railway system is
dealt with in detail in the appraisal report for the Fifth Railway Project.
Highways
2.07      Colombia has some 45,oo0 km of roads, of which about 5,000 km
are paved. The total number of road vehicles - 251,000 in 1966 - has been
increasing by about 6 percent p.a. in recent years, and trucks by about
3.5 percent p.a. This is a fairly slow rate of growqth compared with that
in other countries at a similar stage of development, though there has been
a pronounced trend towards larger vehicles, and total trucking capacity
has consequently been expanding at a somewhat faster rate.
2.08      To a large extent the development of the highway network has been
complementary to the railway system rather than competing with it. The
Bogota-Medellin-Santa Marta routes, for example, are essentially the province
of the railway; on the other hand, the large areas of rural habitation in
the northwest, between Medellin and Cartagena, are bound to depend on the
trunk highway between these two cities as their main artery. The provision
of modern highways has resulted, nevertheless, in considerable diversions
of traffic from rail to road in some areas. In some cases this is due to
the present rundowfn condition of the railway; on the Paz del Rio-Bogota
route, for example, it seems likely that most of the steel traffic could
return to rail once a reasonable service can be offered. On other routes,
particularly Bogota-Espinal-Ibague, Cali-A4edellin, and in future Cali-
Buenaventura, road transport is likely to offer sufficient advantages for



- 6 -
many types of traffic to make the long-term prospects of railway traffic
in these areas somewhat uncertain.
Air Services
2.09      Colombia's very difficult terrain encouraged an early development
of air services for internal as well as international transportation. In
addition to the four international airports at Bogota, Barranquilla, M4edellin
and Cali, there are some 25 other airports each handling at least 1,000
passengers a month, and a total of more than 75 operational airfields
throughout the country. Internal passenger traffic is increasing by about
8 percent p.a., and internal air freight movement by about 9 percent p.a.,
though the latest data available, for 1966, show only 119,000 tons of traffic,
generating 74 million ton-km, handled by internal air services during the
year. Nevertheless, in view of rapid technical developments in this field,
and of the inherent difficulties of surface transport in Colombia, this mode
of transport should continue to maintain its present relative importance.
Ports
2.10      The total tonnage of dry cargo passing through the four principal
ports is shown in Table 1. None of these are large ports by international
standards and indeed Colombia's foreign trade is still quite small for a
country of its size, due partly to the high costs of movement between the
ports and the interior.
2.11      Buenaventura, the biggest of the four, will expand considerably as
the result of the investment program being financed by the Inter-American
Development Bank, now nearing completion. W4hen further port capacity is
required, it is most likely to be sought in the Atlantic ports in view of
the improving overland transport to these ports. The distances involved for
throughout movements - more than 1,000 km to Bogota, for example - are such
as to favor rail rather than road transport. The railway is not considering
further extension at this time to connect with the two other Atlantic ports,
Barranquilla and Cartagena; successful rehabilitation of the existing railway
is an essential preliminary before additional investment and operating
responsibilities are undertaken.
River Transport
2.12      Although its traditional importance has declined considerably due
to the development of railways and highways, inland waterway transport on
the Magdalena river is still of considerable importance to the populous north-
eastern part of Colombia from the Atlantic ports to Bogota. The Magdalena
waterway connects the interior with the port of Barranquilla, and, through
an artificial canal, the port of Cartagena. Traffic data are sketchy and
unreliable. The waterways handle bulky import and export goods and petroleum
products. They also serve as a complementary form of transport to the
railways; traffic to and from Cartagena and Barranquilla, which are not
connected by railways, is transshipped to railways at Cienaga and a number
of river ports upstream. The port of Gamarra was constructed recently by
CNR as a transshipment point at a cost of about $.5 million.



- 7 -
2.13      The potential of river transport has not been adequately explored.
The preliminary indications of the Transport Investment Survey currently
being financed under Credit 5-CO (paras 4.19 - 4.22) are that the complementary
nature of the waterw^zays (both to railwzays and highways) could be further
utilized to the benefit of the national economy.
Pipelines
2.14      Petroleum products, Colombia's second largest export after coffee,
are for the most part transported by pipeline. Crude oil pipelines supply
five refineries, including one at Cartagena, which ships refined products,
via the Panama Canal, to Buenaventura for distribution to western Colombia.
Another line supplies crude oil to Santa IMarta for export. Refined products
are also moved by pipeline from refineries to Bogota and Medellin, and from
Buenaventura to the Cauca Valley.
Transportation Coordination
2.15      Responsibility for the administration of the transport system is
divided among a number of agencies and organization. The CNR is an autonomous
entity with its own Board of Directors. The national highway system comes
under the general supervision of the Ministry of Public WrTorks which operates
the National Highway Fund for the financing of construction and maintenance.
Port construction and operation are the responsibility of the Njational Port
Authority, Empresa Puertos de Colombia (EPC). River transport on the
Magdalena River is under the Asociacion Wacional de Navieros (ADENAVI) which
is responsible for maintenance and improvement of the Magdalena River routes
and the Canal del Dique near the port of Cartagena and most river ports.
Airport construction and operation are the responsibility of the national
airport authority, Empresa Colombiana de Aerodromos (ECA).
2.16      Except for the fact that the Minister of Public Works is an ex
officio member of the boards of these autonomous or semi-autonomous agencies,
there is no central body which coordinrates the activities of these different
modes of transport. The Government's planning department, Planeacion Nacional,
is responsible for investment coordination among different modes. This
function is, however, not yet effectively carried out because of inexperience
and shortage of trained staff. No machinery for effective operational
coordination of the various modes exists at present.
2.17      Although the organizational aspect of transport coordination is
less than satisfactory, so far transport development has not been adversely
affected because, given the limited financial resources, there has been
relatively little duplication of facilities. Also, during the last two years,
since the inception of the present Government, there have been a number of
improvements in both administration and operation in the various transport
modes. The Ministry of Public Works' investment decisions are made increas-
ingly on a basis of sound investment programming. The recent establishment
in MOP of a Planning Office for investment programming and of the National
Transport Institute for regulating the various transport modes are steps
toward improved transport coordination. The Transport Investment Survey



- 8 -
should indicate the major areas of weakness in investment, wqhich would lead
to eventual improvement.  Althoulgh the report of the study is not expected
before the middle of this year, sufficient is known from the investigations
and the preliminary analyses to indicate that it will support the major
investment items in the current rail and road investment programs.
2.18      The recent imposition of an additional ad valorem tax of 114
percent of the refinery price to the existing 15 centavos per gallon tax
on gasoline (representing an increase of about 700 percent) and the institu-
tion of a new ad valorem tax of 55.5 percent on diesel have been important
steps toward the better coordination of the operation of the various modes
of transport, particularly road and rail. The increase in motor fuel taxes
has resulted in a drastic reduction in the Government's indirect subsidy
to road transport, and is estimated to have raised the percentage of road
user contribution to the Government's road costs from about 15 percent
to 40-50 percent.



- 9 -
3. THE HIGIdrAY SECTOR
A. Highway Administration
3.01      Colomhla has a road network totalling about h5,000 km in length,
of wvhich about 18,000 lom form the national highway system, about 19,000 Icm
are departmental, and the balance are municipal (linking towns with outlying
communities and farms) and private (such as to oil concessions). The depart-
mental system includes about 3,000 Im of '"caminos vecinales' which are low
standard feeder roads built under a national program established in 1960;
materials and labor for these are furnished by the local community assisted
financially and technically by the departmental and central authorities.
About 20 percent of the national system is paved; data for the other systems
are not available but the proportion of paved roads is much lower, perhaps
five to ten percent (Tables 2 and 3).
3.02      The Soad system is still at an early stage of development.  It has
0.04 Im per km  of the land areas of the country and 2.6 Ian per thousand
population against 0.04 and 4.2 for Venezuela and 0.1 and 10 for Brazil,
respectively. Due to the difficult terrain which causes high construction
costs and to the isolation and traditional independence of the various
region centers, it has not been until the last two decades that there has
been any real effort to link the main population and economic centers of
the country by good roads.
3.03      The national highway system includes the basic trunk network which
connects the main centers of population and a number of secondary roads
linkdng the smaller towxns to the primary network as well as some minor roads
of purely local importance. The roads in the proposed project belong to the
basic trunk system.
3.Oh      An adequate inventory of the national highway system does not exist.
The management consultants, who have been engaged under Credit 5-CO to help
reorganize the vilnistry of Public Works have begun making highway inventories
of all highways in Colombia, withi the aid of Colombian military engineers.
The result will facilitate future highway planning and operations, help to
fill the data gap on departmental and other roads, and establish a basis for
classifying roads into the various highway systems.
3.05      The Ministry of Public Works (M.O.P.) is responsible for planning,
constructing and maintaining the national highwjay system. The Minister also
has separate responsibilities (through semi-autonomous agencies) for railwlays,
ports, aerodromes, national government buildings, and. for technical advice
on the construction of "caminos vecinales" (see para. 3.01). The national
highway system accounts for about nine-tenths of M.O.P.'s efforts and
expenditures.
3.06      Since the efforts to create a modern transportation system which
started in the early 1950's, there have been or-anizational difficulties
within the M.O.P. wzhich operated under archaic procedures and systems.
There have been continual efforts by the Bank since it first became involved



- 10 -
with highways in Co1ombia to encourage the modernization of the highwlay
organization.  These efforts have borne soame fruits, such as the introduc-
tion of compe-titive bidding under unit price contracts, the use of feasibility
studies, insistence on detailed engineering prior to construction and the
development of sound local consulting engineering capabilities.  The Ministry
organization itself has, however, undergone little effective change and it
was not until 1966 that the Government, at the urging of the Bank, negotiated
with management consultants -to review the Ministry operations, to make
recommendations for improvement and subsequently to help implement these
recommendations. The consultants appointed were COMEC (Mexico) in joint ven-
ture with Frederick R. Harris (U.S.), and they have now submitted their
reorganization recommendations. The first phase of the study (review and
preparation of recommendations) started in May 1967 and was completed in
April 1968; this phase was financed from Credit 5-CO. The second (implemeh-
tation) phase is now starting; however, the consultants submitted a number of
their recommendations during the course of the first phase and the Government
has already acted on some of them. The existing M.O.P. organizational struc-
ture is shown in Chart I (in fact, this structulre exists only on paper and
has never been fully implemented) and the structure proposed by the consultants
in Chart II.
3.07      The Government has recognized the necessity for reorganizing M.O.P.
and has ftlly supported the efforts of the management consultants.  A number
of new measures have already been introduced and some of the most senior posts
filled with wJell-qualified recruits to the hinistry.  The outlook for further
improvements in the oraanization of I1.O0.P. iS promising.
B. Highway Planning and Financing
3.08      As already mentioned, highway investment programming over the last
two years has been increasingly based on rational planning.  The highwjay
projects previously undertaken by the M.0.P. had been numberous and ambitious,
but many have never been completed3 present policy is to concentrate more on
completing the high priority works already started rather than on starting
new ones.  Further improvement in the highway investment planning may be
expected when the report of the Transport Investment Survey is available and
also when the Planning Office recently established in M.O.P. is properly
functioning. The Government has given assurance that the Planning Office
will collect traffic and other technical, economic and financial data nece-
ssary for highway planning.
3.09      One of the main causes of poor performance on earlier highway
projects was the inadequate provision of local funds by the Government for
an ambitious road program; this not only forced construction contractors to
gear their output to known availability of funds but led directly to the
financial failure of some firms. The establishment of the National Highway
Fund at the end of 1966 provided a more assurec scurce of financina for highwgay
works. Incomplete data on the operation o.f the Fund in 1967 in Icate that
during the first eleven months of the year the revenues available for the



Fund were about Ps. 380 million, which covered over 30 percent of the Mini-
stry's highway expenditure of Ps. 1,180 million. The Ministry's budget for
1968 indicates that the motor fuel taxes earmarked to the Fund would amount
to Ps. 700 million which would cover about 70 percent of the budgeted expen-
diture. Under the new National Highway Fund system, once overall plans have
been approved, the Congress is not involved in the detailed planning process
or in the allocating of National Highway Fund resources to specific projects,
and this helps to facilitate the rational planning of an investment program
by the Ministry of Public Works.
C. Highway Engineerin_
3.10      The highway design standards which were adopted in 1962 are given
in Table 4. The standards agreed for the project financed from Loan 295-Co
and Credit 5-CO and which approximate to the national highwmay standards for
principal highways are given in Table 5; these standards were used for the
detailed engineering of highways to be financed from the proposed loan. As
part of their organizational study, the management consultants are reviewing
the standards presently in force and are maling recommendations for rational-
izing them on the basis of expected traffic volumes.
3.11      With increasing traffic has come the need for higher-type pavements.
There appears however to be a tendency on the part of the Ministry to provide
heavier and more elaborate pavements than absolutely necessary. The Ministry
makes little use, for instance, of low cost paving methods, such as single
and multiple surface treatments, which would probably be appropriate for many
highways in Colombia.
3.12      Although many of its personnel are competent, the Ministry does not
have the capacity to cope with all highway design work and has had to use
consultants for this purpose. While the reorganization of the Ministry will
improve the efficiency of the engineering staff and will thus enable more
design to be undertaken directly, it will continue to be necessary to use
consultants for the bulk of design work, at least for new highway construction.
3.13      The consulting profession is now well established in Colombia.
There are a number of large and capable Colombian engineering firms, some of
which have developed as a direct result of thair participation in Bank projects
in highways, power and other fields. However, the experience of these firms
in the highway field although increasing, is still limited; for employment
on previous highway projects the Bank has insisted tha t the local firms be
associated with acceptable foreign consulting firms who could provide mature
and experienced engineering guidance. This policy should continue until
the local capacity has improved sufficiently.
3.14      The above remarks apply also to the supervision of construction.
Until recently the Ministry has been reluctant to use consultants for this
work, preferring to rely on its own staff. IJnfortunately the lack of proper
supervisory organization, coupled with the Ministry's inability to attract
and keep more experienced staff, frequently resulted in works not being



- 12 -
supervised properly. Consultants have been used to advise Ministry staff
on supervision but this compromise has not proved satisfactory. Until the
Ministry develops the capacity for proper supervision it will be necessary
for the supervision of construction of' Bank-financed highway projects to be
entrusted fully to consultants.
3.15      Consultants for design, supervision and studies have previously
been retained by the Government on open-ended contracts activated by work
orders. Although this system is acceptable, there should be adequate con-
trols established by the Bank of these arrangements as applied to the project.
The work orders for consultants should therefore be based on proposals sub-
mitted by the consultants and reviewed and approved by the Bank. If used
for studies or engineering the proposals should be supported by a detailed
estimate indicating local and foreign costs and a ceiling price for the work
to be performed.
D. Highway Construction
3.16      Modern methods of highway construction were first introduced into
Colombia in the early 1950's, when experienced foreign contractors were
employed on management contracts for the first Bank highway construction
project. The mountainous terrain and the corresponding heavy earth-moving
that was entailed in such terrain led to the intensive use of heavy equipment
which had not previously been operated to ary extent in Colombia. There are
now a number of competent local firms which are capable of undertaking contracts
of up to $4 or $5 million equivalent. In the most recent Bank/IDA project
(Loan 295-CO/Credit 5-co) virtually all construction was carried out by
Colombian contractors.
3.17      Construction equipment for works financed from foreign loans can
be imported free of duty, provided a financial guarantee is given that it
will be re-exported immediately after completion of the worlc. In the past,
procedural delays in the Superintendencia de Comercio Exterior have often
hampered importation and consequently have adversely affected the progress
of construction. This question was discussed with Government during nego-
tiations and assurance given that arrangements will be made for the Superin-
tendencia to accord priority of treatment in the approval and issue of
licenses for the importation of construction equipment and spare parts needed
for the project works.
3.18      Confirmation was obtained from the Government during negotiations
of the right of foreign contracting firms to obtain foreign exchange necessary
for their operations under the loan and to repatriate their profits.
3.19      Major highway construction is now alnost invariably carried out
under unit price contracts let after competitive bidding. W4hile the contracts
have in general been in satisfactory form, there has been some lack of uni-
formity in contract conditions, specificatlons, etc., and this has probably
contributed to the delay experienced in legalizing contracts which is discussed
in the following paragraph. The management consultants are presently engaged



- 13 -
in preparing standard contract documents for highway construction; these
new standards would be used for those construction works to be financed from
the loan which are not already contracted.
3.20      A major cause of delay in previous Bank financed highway projects
in Colombia has been the innumerable checks and counterchecks to which a
Government contract when awarded is subject before it becomes legally effec-
tive.  Some of these checks are legal requirements, other are merely adminis-
trative and many are for reasons which have long since disappeared. To the
extent that these delays occurred within M.O.P., they have been reviewed and,
where possible, reduced by the present Minister. It is also possible that
the Ministry reorganization will lead to further reductions.  HoweTver, other
Government agencies outside M.0.P. cause many of these delays and little or
no further improvement (except perhaps through the standardization of contract
documents mentioned above) can be introduced unless Government procedures
generally are overhauled.
E. Highway Maintenance
3.21      The quality of maintenance on the national highway system is very
irregular. Central control has been lacking and thus the effectiveness of
maintenance has generally been dependent on the interest of individual district
engineers and on the adequacy of funds and equipment provided to each district.
The distribution of such funds and equipmen-t has not been planned centrally
on a rational basis.
3.22      The inadequacy of the maintenance organization has been recognized
for some years, and the Second Highway Loan in 1953 made provision for the
appointment of maintenance experts and for the purchase of some shop and
field equipment.  Yowever, due to the lack of an efficient basic organization
and to the high rate of turnover of linistry staff, the improvement introduced
under the loan did not have any lasting effect; because of rapid deterioration
in the condition of highways toward the end of the 1950's provision lwas made
in the Fourth Highway Loan of 1961 for a further appraisal of maintenance by
consultants and for the purchase of a large amount of additional maintenance
equipment.
3.23      The consultants, INGETEC/TAYIS, submitted their report on highway
maintenance in 1965; they made a large number of useful recommendations
covering the full range of the H.0.P.ts maintenance function and suggested
a program of implementation, Although the need for improved organization
was accepted by the then Government, it took little or no effective action to
put the recommendations into effect. However, the Government that came into
power late in 1966 realized the need to improve highway maintenance and has
already made a number of changes, such as the establishment of new central
work shops and warehousing facilities in Bogota. The management consultants
have helped to establish a pilot program in one of the maintenance districts
which is already yielding considerable benefits; the implementation phase of
their study will extend the results of this program over the remaining dis-
tricts. During negotiations the Government gave assurance that it will continue
its efforts to ensure the proper maintenance of the national highway system.



- 14 -
F. Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic
3.24      The road vehicle fleet has been growing at an average annual rate
of about 6 percent during the period 1958-66 (see Table 6). The number of
trucks increased by a lower rate of 3.5 percent, but this conceals the in-
crease in average size of new trucks from about 5 tons in 1958 to over 10
tons in 1966. As a result the total carrying capacity of the trucking fleet
has been increasing at a much higher rate than the number of trucks. The
motor fuel consumption statistics also show a similar upward trend: 6 percent
for gasoline and 5.5 percent for diesel oil (see Table 7). The slight esti-
mated decrease in diesel fuel consumption and the slackening rate of increase
in gasoline consumption in 1967 are due to the severe restriction of imports
during the year wlhich affected all modes of transport nearly equally. Thcy
do not appear to result from the increased motor fuel taxes put into effect
at the end of 19606.
3.25      Reliable data on traffic patterns and densities are scarce, but
the newly established Planimng Office in M.O.P. has already instituted traffic
census programs.
3.26      The Government introduced regulations in 1955 which laid down maxi-
mum weights and dimensions for vehicles.  The maximum loads were 3.2 m tons
for single axles and 14.5 m tons for tandem axles.  These regulations are
satisfactory but are not being fully enforced with the result that truck
traffic with excessive axle loadings damages and pavement structure and leads
to the need for premature reconstruction of the highways. From an earlier
loan, the Bank financed the purchase of scales for checking vehicle loadings
to enable the regulations to be implemented; unfortunately, riots in 1958 led
to the destruction of many of the weighing stations and the enforcement of
legal penalties for infringement was discontinued. At the present time the
Ministry is operating fourteen permanent weighing stations and has a number
of portable scales available; however, central coordination of these stations
is poor. The ldinist.r recognizes the need for better enforcement and has
publicised its intention to penalize offenders. It has also reached agreement
with the Superintendent of Foreign Trade to stop the importation of vehicles
which do not conform with the legal limitations.   The Traffic Police are being
reorganized as part of the newly-created National Transport Institute (para
2.17) and will be used for enforcement. The iJLinistry intends to undertake
a study of velicla loadings during the remainder of 1968.



- 15 -
4. TIEE PROJECT
A. General Description
4.01      The proposed project consists of:
(i) The construction or reconstruction, including
paving, of about 510 km of four national highways;
(ii) The construction of a bridge over the Rio Cauca at
La Virginia;
(iii) The construction supervision for (i) and (ii) above;
(iv) The second (implementation) phase of a management
study of the Ministry of Public Works;
(v) Pre-investment studies and detailed engineering for
future highway construction programs; and
(vi)  The provision for traffic, laboratory, engineering
and workshop equipment for the Ministry of Public Works.
B. Highways to be Constructed or Reconstructed
4.02      Buenaventura-Bua:   The construction of the 35 km section between
Pailon and La Delfina (at present only a very low standard motorable track)
will complete the improved road connection between Buenaventura (Colombia's
main Pacific port), the Cali/Buga area and the fertile Cauca valley. The
most difficult section of this road is now being completed to sub-base
between Loboguerrero and La Delfina, following the narrow canyon of the River
Dagua. A contract acceptable to the Bank has already been let to a Colombian
contractor (see Annex ) for the next section between La Delfina and Pailon
for construction up to and including sub-base. As it is expected that
heavy traffic will divert immediately to the new route (as soon as it is
opened) from the old low standard and devious mountain route, a second
contract is to be let for the asphalt concrete paving of the Pailon-La
Delfina section and of the 18 km section from La Delfina to Loboguerrero in
order to avoid damage to the sub-base in the extremely wet climatic
conditions of the area. The new road to Buenaventura has been under
construction for over twenty years and it is of prime importance that the
connection should be completed soon in order that benefits from past invest-
ment can begin to materialize. The paving of the last 15 km of road
between Loboguerrero and Buga is now being completed by contract with
Government funds and would not be financed from the loan.



- 16 -
4.03      Medellin-Cartagena:  The original construction (to relatively
low standards) of this o85 km trunk road was financed by the Bank under
an earlier Bank project. Substantial traffic increases led to part of
this road being improved and paved under Loan 295-C0 and Credit 5-CO,
but appraximately 319 km of this work still remain to be completed
between Rio Grande and Sincelejo and it is proposed to include all this
work in the proposed loan. A few further minor sections totalling some
four kilometers are still unpaved north of Siicelejo and will be improved
and paved with Government funds without loan financing.
4.04      Two hundred of the 323 km are in the rolling valley of the Rio
Cauca, and present few construction difficulties. The 120 km section
from Rio Grande to Puerto Valdivia is, however, in very mountainous
terrain with difficult materials and wet climatic conditions.
4.05      The proposed reconstruction work will include widening, improved
alignment and asphalt concrete paving. Two contracts acceptable to the
Bank have been awarded to Colombian contractors (see Annex ) for the
section Rio Grande-Ventanas totalling 86 km. The remaining work to be
financed from the loan will be divided into six contracts to be let in
two groups of three contracts.
4.06      Medellin-Santuario:  This 55 km section is considered to be the
first part of an eventual new through route from Medellin to Bogota via
La Dorada although it is unlikely that the construction of the remainder
of the connection will be justifiable for some time due to the high costs
of construction in extremely difficult terrain. The proposed construction
of the Medellin-Santuario section therefore is to enable industry to expand
from the rapidly growing city of Medellin where space for further expansion
is very limited. The road climbs through mountainous terrain out of
Medellin before reaching the rolling upland valley of the Rio Negro; its
construction will be to trunk highway standards and will include asphalt
concrete paving. Except for a short section connecting the new road to
the main Medellin-Cartagena road across the Medellin river, this project
is already under construction under two contracts satisfactory to the
Bank awarded in 1966 to Colombian contractors (see Annex ). Engineering
of the short connecting section is substantially complete and will be
finished by the end of 1968.
4.07      Bogota-Bucaramanga: This road forms part of the main North-
South trunk route between Bogota and the Atlantic ports. Although it is
probable that eventually this trunk route will be relocated in easier
terrain, the present road will, despite its generally low geometric
standards, be able to serve traffic needs for many years. It was con-
structed in its present location under programs financed from previous
Bank loans and it has now been paved throughout except for a 64 km section
between Barbosa and Oiba. For 35 km from Barbosa the road is now being



- 17 -
improved and paved by contract; although included in the project, the
Government will continue to finance this section completely with its own
funds and the proposed loan will finance orly the improvement and paving
of the remaining 29 km to Oiba. Detailed engineering of the 29 km is in
hand and is substantially complete and will be finished shortly.
h.08      Due to the previous lack of interest taken by the M.O.P. in
highway maintenance, the paving north of Oiba to Bucaramanga has been
allowed to deteriorate very badly. The M.O.P. is now rehabilitating the
damaged sections partly with its own forces and partly by contract, all
under the direction of a Colombian firm of consultants.   This rehabilita-
tion work will be largely completed during 1968; assurances were however
given during negotiations that it will be completed no later than the
completion of the work to be financed from the proposed loan.
Bridge Construction
4.09      La Virginia Bridge:  Suspension bridges carry the Cali-Medellin
trunk road over the Cauca River at La Virginia and La Pintada. Both
bridges were built over forty years ago to lignt loading standards with
timber decks. Under present-day vehicle weights these bridges could be
dangerously overloaded, and loading restrictions are therefore applied;
in addition, being only single lane bridges, they impose considerable
delays on traffic. The Government is already making separate arrangements
to replace the La Pintada bridge and the proposed loan would finance the
replacement of the other bridge at La Virginia.
4.10      The replacement bridge with a total length of about 200 m will
be on a new alignment bypassing the village of La Virginia. The work
will also include the construction of some four kilometers of main access
roads, two kilometers of minor road providing access to La Virginia and
an overpass of the Cali-Medellin railway line. The Bank has already
approved the award of a contract to a joint venture of German and
Colombian firms (see Annex ) and this contract is now being legalized.
4.11      The following summarizes the costs of the construction and
reconstruction program included in the project (para. 4.26):



- 18 -
Basic Cost Estimates./  Additional
Type                                 quantity
of        Col. Pesos  US$ million  contingency
Road                         Work        million      equiv.      allowance
(percentF
1. Buenaventura-Buga
(a)  Pailon-Delfina     Construction      33.8*        2.07          20
(35 km)          to sub-base
(b) Pailon-Delfina-
Loboguerrero-km    Paving            16.0         0.98          10
40 from B,uga
(68 km)l/
2.  Medellin-Cartagena      Reconstruction
and paving
(a) Rio Grande-
Ventanas (86 km)                     68.6*        4.20 )
(b)  Ventanas-Caucasia                                      )
(117 km)                          110.3         6.77 )
(c) Rio San Jorge-Planeta                                   )        15
Rica (47 km)                         39.0         2.39 )
(d)  La Ye-Sincelejo- 3/                                    )
Cartagena (73 km)-                    53.3        3.88
3.  Medellin-Santuario      Construction      51.4*        3.15          10
(55 km)               includirng
paving
4. Cali-Medellin            Replacement       17.3*        1.06          10
of La Virginia
Bridge
5.  Bogota-Bucaramanga      Reconstruction
, and paving
Barbosa-Oiba (64 km)4'                    34.0         2.09          15
433.7        26.59
1/ Cost estimates are from May 1, 1968, the date from which the Bank would
finance expenditures and do not include contingencies for quantities or
price escalation (which are given in para. 4.26). The estimates also
exclude the cost of land expropriation which is borne entirely by the Govern-
ment. US$ equivalents are calculated on the basis of Ps. 10.30 = US$1.00.
2/ Costs included only for Pailon-Loboguerrero (53 km).
3/ Costs included only for La Ye-Sincelejo (69 km).
17/ Costs included only for 29 km between Oiba and 35 km from Barbosa.
* iork is already under contract (see Annex ).



- 19 -
C. Design and Consulting Services and Equipment
4.12      For Roads and Bridges to be Constructed or Reconstructed:  Consultants
have completed or are now completing engineering for the highways in the pro-
gram. The studies and engineering for the project have been carried out by
Colombian consultants in association with U.S. firms, as follows:
(i) Barbosa-Oiba and La Virginia Bridge - INGETEC in
association with TAMS; and,
(ii) Remaining construction - INTEGRAL in association
with Gannett, Fleming, Corddry and Carpenter.
4.13      The geometric standards for the works to be financed from the pro-
posed loan are shown in Table 5. Some relaxation of standards regarding grades
and curvature has been found necessary wJhere the project involves reconstruc-
tion in mountainous terrain in order to avoid expensive relocation of alignment
and excessive disturbance of mountain slopes but the highways will be adequate
to carry traffic volumes expected over the next 15-20 years.
4.14      The engineering (except for Barbosa-Oiba and for the connection of
the Medellin-Santuario road to the Medellin-Cartagena road (paras 4.o6 and
4.07) has been reviewed and is acceptable. The Barbosa-Oiba section is being
engineered now by INGETEC/TAMI  and the other by INTEGRAL/Gannett, Fleming; the
engineering is substantially completed and will be finished shortly.
.15       Pavements have been designed in asphalt concrete following Asphalt
Institute methods and adopting a stage construction approach. The designs
adopted are acceptable.
4.16      Until the M.O.P. has been satisfactorily reorganized and its staff
strengthened, supervision should be entrusted fully to the consultants who
carried out the design work. The supervision arrangements, including the
arrangements for the association of Colombian and U.S. firms, were discussed
and agreed during loan negotiations (see para 3.13).
4.17      For the Management Study:  The management consultants (paras 3.06
and 3.07) completed the f-irst phase of their study in April 1968 and presented
their report and recommendations for the reorganization in June. These rec-
ommendations and the timing of their implementation have been reviewed and
agreed by the Government and the Bank. The consultants will continue with
implementation in a second phase which is to last twelve months. The pro-
posed loan will finance the foreign cost of this second phase, from May 1,
1968; thus the loan will involve some retroactive financing for this study,
possibly amounting to about $0.1 million. Both phases were included in the
consultants' contract approved by the Bank.
4.18      The Government has agreed that the services of CCMEC/Harris or of
other consultants satisfactory to the Bank will be retained beyond the period
of the present contract (June 1969) should this be necessary for effective
implementation of the reorganization.



- 20 -
4.19      For Pre-investment Studies and Detailed Engineering:  Economic and
engineering studies on about 700 km of high priority roads would be carried
out to provide (i) more refined data to the Transport Investment Survey for
its Phase II investigation and (ii) the basis for continued highway invest-
ment in Colombia. Unfortunately, Phase I of the Survey has not yet been
completed and until it is no firm recommendations on the priority roads to
be studied will be available. For this reason, an estimate of cost is made
on the basis of studies of 700 km of roads to be selected later, and of sub-
sequent detailed engineering of 300-400 km of roads to which the studies would
give the highest priority; the estimate is based on the past experience of
average costs of studies and engineering in Colombia. The total cost is
US$2.5 million equivalent and the foreign cost component about US$1.25 million,
which would be provided by the Loan. When the Transport Investment Survey
report (Phase I) is ready, the Government will discuss its findings and rec-
ommendations with the Bank and agree on the list of roads to be studied.
4.20      Harvard Universityts Development Advisory Service signed a contract
with the Government in 1967 to carry out, under IIA financing (Credit 5-Co)),
a Transport Investment Survey (Phase I) to review the transport investment
priorities for 1968-78 and other problems related to investment programming
and transport coordination. The survey is being carried out using an econo-
metric model which measures the aggregate effects of transport development by
tracing the interactions of individual investment projects on the national
economy. It is a useful tool for rational investment planning which, with
appropriate adjustments, could be applied to other developing countries. The
first phase of the survey will lead to a second phase involving refinement
of the results by feeding into the transport model the more detailed data to
be provided by the proposed preinvestment studies.
4.21      However, Harvard University does not wish to extend its services
to cover Phase II because its primary objectives of refining the models and
initiating their practical application would be achieved with the completion
of Phase I. Harvard feels that it is more appropriate for a non-academic
business organization to carry out the Phase II investigations. The cost and
method of financing of Phase II would be affected by the choice of the entity
which will have to take over the execution of the Survey from Harvard. For
this reason, the financing of Phase II will be dealt with separately from the
proposed loan.
4.22      Discussions are currently underway between Harvard and the Bank on
the best way which the work on the Harvard model could be carried out, and
Phase II taken on to completion.
4.23      The allocation for pre-investment studies and engineering would
also cover the services of a pavement design expert to advise the M.O.P.
on economic pavement design methods appropriate for Colombian conditions
for a period of about three to four months (para 3.12).
4.24.     Equipment:  If the M.O.P. reorganization proposals are to be
effectively implemented, certain equipment must be purchased. The Management
Consultants have prepared a list of such requirements which, in outline, are:



- 21 -
(i) Workshops equipment (small tools and service     $375,000
for central and district shops)
(ii) Traffic department (inventory vehicles,
counters and speed detectors)                     hO,o000
(iii) Engineering (drafting and photogrammetric           5,000
equipment)
(iv) Soil and materials laboratory equipment            40,000
$460,000
4.25      The proposed loan would include an allowance of $0.5 million equiva-
lent for this equipment. It is not proposed to finance purchases of additional
field maintenance equipment at this time, as large fleets of such equipment
are already held by the M.O.P. It is felt that this existing equipment should
be put to more effective use by (a) building up an effective highway main-
tenance organization to operate it, and (b) improving the functioning of M.O.P.
workshops and the planning of equipment maintenance and overhaul. The manage-
ment consultants have stated that much of the equipment now lying unservice-
able (some of which has been financed by the Bank under previous projects)
could be put back into service if spares were available. They estimate that
the necessary spares would cost about $1.0 million; it is not proposed to
include provision for this in the loan because it is a recurrent expenditure
which the Government should meet from its own resources. The Ministry recog-
nizes the need for these spares and is already purchasing much of them locally;
it is also pursuing arrangements for obtaining foreign exchange totalling about
$80,000 per month for the purchase of spares abroad at lower cost.
D. Cost Estimates and Financing
4.26      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$39.5 million equiva-
lent, including contingency allowances. A summiay of the project cost and its
foreign exchange component which the loan is to finance follows:



- 22 -
Foreign Exchange
Total               Component
Col.Pesos  US$ equiv.    US$ equiv.
(rti%lion)          (million)
1.  Construction, reconstruction      [33.7         26.59     11.97      (45%)
and/or paving of 456 km of high-
ways and the La Virginia Bridge
Quantity contingencies (average   65.1          3.98      1.80       (45%)
15%)
Price contingencies               46.0           2.85      o.47
Total, Item 1  544.8         33.42     14.24
2.  Consultants for supervision        36.0          2.21      0.55      (25%)
of construction
3.  Consultants for Phase II of       10.1          0.62       0.53      (85%)
Management Study
4. Pre-investment Studies and         40.7          2.50      1.25       (50%)
detailed engineering for future
highway programs.
5. Contingency allowance for            4.2          0.26      0.13      (50%)
Consultants
6.  Equipment for Ninistry of          8.2          0.50       0.50      (100%)
Public Works reorganization
Total          644.o          39.5i    17.20
4.27      The above estimates are considered accurate.   The estimates of
construction cost have been made by the consultants and are based on quan-
tities taken from detailed engineering studies, on prices of five contracts
already awarded for sections of road and the bridge in this program, and
on unit prices for contracts awarded for similar works over recent years.
4.28      A contingency allowance averaging 15 percent has been provided
for possible increases in quantities. This has been assessed for each project
by the supervisory consultants and varies from 10 to 20 percent for individual
projects (para 4.11) depending on the type of work and terrain, The higher
figure is applicable to one section only where difficult soil conditions are
anticipated and where the road line may need adjustment during construction.



- 23 -
In many cases the roads are in mountainous terrain where it is not possible
to forecast slides iith accuracy.   The contingency allowance is reasonable.
4.29      The allowance to cover possible price increases during construc-
tion after the date of estimation (May 1, 1968) has been computed on the
basis of a 10 percent annual rise in the local component of construction
cost and 2.5 percent in the foreign component.   It has also been assumed
that the general upward trend in construction cost in Colombia will be
paralleled by the recently established floating exchange rate.
4.30      Estimates for the cost of supervision of construction have been
provided by the consultants concerned and checked by Bank staff; the foreign
cost of these services would be the cost of the associated foreign firms
but an additional allowance has been made for the foreign cost of personnel
vehicles which M.O.P. would supply for supervision.    For the management
consultants the estimate is based on the contract price.    In the absence
of a detailed program for pre-investment studies and detailed engineering
the estimate for these is based on an assessment by Bank staff of probable
per-km costs for a reasonable future investment program.
4.31      The consultants' estimates of the foreign exchange component of
construction cost as adjusted by the Bank give about 40 percent if all
works were to be carried out by local contractors and about 54 percent if
all works not already awarded were to be carried out by foreign contractors.
On the basis that between one-third and one-quarter of the remaining works
would go to foreign contractors the foreign exchange component would approach
45 percent. This figure has been used to determine the Bank's participation
in construction costs and is adequate to achieve the purposes of the project.
4.32      It is proposed that the Bank participate in the project in the
following manner:
(a)  Forty-five percent (which represents the approximate foreign
exchange component) of construction costs with retroactive
financing for ongoing contracts from May 1, 1968;
(b)  The foreign exchange cost of consultants.   In the case of the
Management Study it is proposed that the loan would finance
the second phase of the study retroactively from May 1, 1968,
the first phase having been financed from Credit 5-CO up to
that date; and
(c)  The foreign exchange cost of equipment (including personnel
vehicles to be provided to consultants supervising construc-
tion).



- 24 -
On the assumption that the loan would be made by the end of July
1968, the amount of retroactive financing provided would be about US$0.6
million equivalent for construction and US$0.1 million equivalent for the
management consultants.
4.33      The works not yet contracted are expected to be put in hand by
the end of 1968, and all works are expected to be completed by the end of
1971.   The tentative annual breakdown of expenditures between the Govern-
ment and the Bank is given as follows:
(US$ million equivalent)
Total     Government Share   Bank Share
1968                6.0           3.1              2.9
1969               14.6           8.0               6.6
1970               12.0           7.0              5.0
1971                5.9           3.6              2.3
1972*               1.0           0.6               0.4
Totals       39.5          22.3             17.2
* Allowing for carryover to complete reimbursement
E.  Execution of the Project
4.34      The executing agency would be the Ministry of Public Works assisted
by consultants.   The project would be financed through the National Highway
Fund which is administered by the Ministry of Public Works.    Adequate local
funds will be made available through the Fund as required for the execution
of the project, and the Bank will review the annual budget of the Fund and
receive periodic statements indicating the financial status of the individual
items to be financed from the loan.
4.35      Bidding procedures for the six contracts already awarded (for the
Rio Grande-Rio Nechi and Rio Nechi-Ventanas sections of the Medellin-Cartagena
Road, the Pailon-La Delfina section of the Buenaventura-Buga Road, the Medellin-
Guarne and Guarne-Santuario sections of the Medellin-Santuario Road, and for
the La Virginia Bridge) conformed with the procedures for Loan 295-CO and
Credit 5-CO, and have been accepted by the Bank.    Thus, of the $26.59 million
equivalent estimated cost of construction (excluding contingencies) in which
the proposed loan would participate, a total of US$10.48 million (or about 40
percent) is in respect of contracts which have already been awarded, (for
additional details of these contracts, see Annex f).    The new contracts
would be let following the Bank's established international competitive
bidding procedures, including the prequalification of contractors which has
not previously been practiced for highway works in Colombia.    The consul-
tants who prepared designs would advise the Government in the prequalifica-
tion of contractors, would analyze bids and wqould supervise construction.



4.36      There are a number of foreign contracting firms presently active
in Colombia but they have not taken part in recent highway works mainly
because of uncertainty in the availabllit- of construction funds; now that
the National Highway Fund has been established this deterrent to foreign
participation has been removed.   Apart from the paving of Pailon-Loboguerrero,
the value of individual new contracts (para 4.11) is expected to range from
about US$1.9 million equivalent to US$3 million equivalent.    In order to
attract foreign bidders but at the same time enable local contractors to bid
for contracts of a size appropriate to their capabilities, it is intended
that the six new contracts on the i4edellin-Cartagena Road be divided into
two groups of three; contracts in each group would be bid simultaneously
and bids would be allowed for any or all contracts in the group.    Each group
would have a total value of about $7-7.5 million equivalent.    The bidding
procedures were agreed with the Government during loan negotiations.
4.37      The arrangements for the employment of consultants for the pre-
investment studies and the detailed engineering cannot be finalized until
the content of these studies is determined.   The arrangements should however
be on the basis discussed earlier (para 3.15) and this was agreed during
loan negotiations.
4.38      The mnajor items of equipment to be financed from the loan would
be purchased following the Bank's normal international competitive bidding
requirements.   As there are some minor items of relatively low cost, it is
proposed that purchase of individual items up to the value of US$10,000
equivalent should be procured on the basis of limited local bidding. The
arrangements for equipment procurement wiere agreed during negotiations.
4.39      Any surplus funds remaining in the Loan Account on completion of
the project should be cancelled.



- 26 -
5. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
A. General
5.01      In advance of detailed findings of the Transportation Investment
Survey, the choice of roads was limited to projects of obvious high
priority and this resulted in a relatively small project. In selecting
the project items, the Harvard team carrying out the Survey was fully
consulted and the high priority of the project roads confirmed.
5.02      The project works are expected to reduce costs of transport
on the various major trunk highways by lowering vehicle operating costs,
shortening travel distance and eliminating existing or expected bottle-
necks. To provide the basis for estimating benefits, two Colombian
consulting firms, in cooperation with foreign counterparts, prepared
estimates of vehicle operating costs in Colombia, which are shown in
Table 8. The estimates of the two firms show considerable variations
when compared item by item but, in total, the vehicle-km costs are very
close to each other and provide a suitable basis for analyses of project
benefits.
5.03      In order to estimate transport cost savings resulting from the
proposed works, the consultants adjusted the average vehicle operating
costs estimated as above to take account of the physical condition of
the existing roads. The adjusted estimates suggest that the vehicle
operating costs on the project roads at present are on an average 30
percent higher than the average on paved roads, indicating a similar
percentage of savings after the completion of the project. This estimate
appears reasonable, and in line with Bank experience elsewhere.
5.o4      The traffic forecast was based on the assumption that the traffic
growth rate would decline from 7 to 5 percent per annum during the esti-
mated economic life of 20 years. No generated traffic is taken into
consideration, except in the case of the Medellin-Santuario Road, the
justification for which depends on future industrial expansion and the
consequent generation of traffic. The assumed rates of traffic growth,
which are similar to the average rate of traffic growth in the country
as a whole, are likely to be conservative in view of the higher potential
for growth in the areas served by the project roads.
B. The Project Roads and Bridge
(i) Buenaventura-Buga Highway
5.05      This highway has been under construction since 1946 and is still
not open to traffic. *Because the road is not complete the investment made
during the past two decades (over Ps. 220 millicn in present value) is
locked up in unfinished



- 27 -
works and no benefits have been derived. The additional investment under
the proposed project to complete this road (about Ps. 58 million) would
make it possible to utilize all the investments made in the past.
5.06      The highway will provide a shorter route between the port of
Buenaventura and the fertile Cauca valley north of Cali. At present,
traffic moves by way of Cali involving an additional driving distance
of over 100 km.
5.07      The existing highway via Cali handles a daily traffic volume
of over 1,200 vehicles, of which about 450 vehicles have origins or
destinations at Buga or points north. This latter traffic is expected
to be diverted to the new short route between Buga and Buenaventura.
Moreover, the balance of the traffic (750 a day) between Cali and
Buenaventura will be diverted to this road at Loboguerrero. At present,
the traffic moves over a round-about unpaved road between Cruce Dagua
and El Pailon (see map); although the road between Cruce Dagua and
Loboguerrero was paved, this road is not yet used by traffic to and from
Buenaventura because the construction between Pailon and La Delfina is
not completed. The Cali-Buenaventura traffic thus diverted to the new
road would save, in addition to reducing vehicle operating costs, more
than 20 km in driving distance.
5.08      The average per trip cost of vehicle operation for all the
traffic affected would be reduced by about 30 percent, for the Buga-
Buenaventura traffic from Ps. 380 to Ps. 209 and for the Cali-Buenaventura
traffic from Ps. 290 to Ps. 225. On this basis, the total benefits from
the reduction in transport cost during the assumed 20-year economic life
of the investment would produce a 16.5 percent return on the total cost
of the road (i.e. the additional investment under the present project
plus all the past investment). If the future expenditure under the pro-
ject only is considered (the past investments being treated as a sunk cost)
the rate o2 return would be about 85 percent.
5.09      The completion of this road will increase the competitive
ability of road transport against the railway for traffic between
Buenaventura and the Cauca valley region. It is, however, not certain
whether it will, in fact, divert much rail traffic to road or merely put
increased pressure on the railway to improve the efficiency of its
operation. The considerable traffic volume on the existing low standard
highway confirms that road transport, in addition to railways, is essential
to the region. The estimates of the project benefits do not take into
account any diversion of the railway traffic to the new road and the
project road is justified without such diversion. The Harvard Survey
is expected to throw more light on the road-rail coordination problem to
guide investment decisions in future cases'



- 28 -
(ii) Medellin-Cartagena Highway
5.10      The improvement and paving of the three separate sections
(totalling about 320 km) will make the iMedellin-Cartagena trunk highway
a completely paved highway. This would be the culmination of efforts
begun 20 years ago to provide a modern arterial route between Medellin,
the country's second largest city and an important industrial center,
and theAtlantic port of Cartagena.
5.11      From Medellin the highway, after negotiating a difficult
mountain range, traverses rolling terrain serving many river valleys with
high agricultural potential and then fertile plains extending toward the
Atlantic coast. The highway serves many population centers along the
route, many of which came into being as a result of its original construc-
tion.  ThiT highway is the only transport mode for the region; there are no
railways or waterways to supplement it.
5.12      The existing traffic volume varies between 600 to 1,000
vehicles a day, the proportion of heavy commercial traffic volume rang-
ing between 60 and 90 percent. The vehicle operating costs on the high-
way after the completion of the proposed project would be about 30 percent
lower than the existing level. On this basis the total benefits during
the assumed 20-year economic life of the proJect would produce rates of
return ranging between 15 percent and 21 percent for the different sections
of the highway.
(iii) Medellin-Santuario Highway
5,13      The main purpose of constructing this road is to permit the
expansion of the Medellin industrial complex. Medellin is, after Bogota,
the largest population and industrial center of Colombia. However, in
contrast to Bogota where ample expansion is possible, Medellin, due to
its location in the valley of the same name, has extremely limited land
available. The land in the valley is presently almost fully developed
and the expansion of industries in the metropolitan area is thus severely
limited. The most appropriate area for expansion is the high plateau
around Santuario, about 55 km to the southeast of Medellin.
5.14      The Santuario area is presently connected to Medellin by a low
grade gravelled road in poor condition. Evidence of urgent need to find
industrial sites outside Medellin is shown by the fact that, despite the
extremely poor road connection with Santuario, there has already been a
movement of industries into this area which started about 3 years ago.
Since then two textile plants and a furniture plant, each with about 200
employees, have been established in the vicinity of Santuario. This trend
of industrial expansion has been accompanied by an increase of about 150
percent in land prices.



- 29 -
5.15      There is no doubt that some further industrial expansion into
the Santuario area will occur with or without the project roads. However,
the existing low grade road cannot handle, without causing undue difficul-
ties to road users, the present traffic volume of about 500 vehicles a
day (about 50 percent heavy commercial traffic) let alone any increase
in the traffic volume resulting from the industrial expansion. Without
the construction of the proposed project road, the existing road will,
in the near future, become a bottleneck in the development of the
Santuario area, affecting adversely the overall regional development.
5.16      The consultants' investigation of land, labor, water and other
requisites of industrial development in the Santuario plateau and of the
manufacturing enterprises in Medellin provides a basis to anticipate an
accelerated movement of industries into this area given convenient road
access. It is estimated that the growing trend of industrial expansion
into the area would generate traffic at the rate of 10 percent per annum
during the first 10 years of the operation of the proposed road. This is
in addition to the normal trend of traffic growth of 7 declining to 5
percent per annum. Due to the particularly difficult condition of the
existing road, the reduction in vehicle operating cost after the cons-
truction of the project road would be approximately 38 percent. On these
bases, the estimated savings in vehicle operation cost would produce a
rate of return of about 11 percent on the cost of the project road over
an assumed economic life of 20 years.
(iv) Barbosa-Oiba Highway
5.17      This highway is a section of the trunk highway between Bogota
and Bucaramanga (426 km), which the Government has been improving over
the past 10 years. This 64 km section, located about halfway between
Bogota and Bucaramanga, is the last remaining unpaved part of the high-
way. It was built to its present standards nearly 10 years ago as a
part of previous Bank highway projects.
5.18      Bucaramanga is the main industrial and marketing center of the
northeastern region of Colombia.  Railway transport is available between
Bucaramanga and Bogota through a spur from the Atlantic Railway near
Puerto Wilches to Bucaramanga, but this round-about route is only appro-
priate for movement of heavy or bulky goods; passenger traffic between
the two cities is presently almost entirely handled by air transport which,
with the inadequate airport facilities at Bucaramanga, is frequently
interrupted by bad weather conditions.
5.19      The daily traffic volumes on the Bogota-Bucaramanga highway vary
between 450 and 5,000 vehicles, the lowest volume being registered on the
Barbosa-Oiba section. The bad condition of the section and the consequent
high cost of vehicle operation is a major reason for its relatively low
traffic volume.



- 30 -
5,20      The consultants' traffic study indicates that nearly 75 percent
of the daily traffic between Barbosa and Oiba is heavy commercial traffic,
i.e. buses and trucks, and also that over 60 percent of the commercial
traffic and about 40 percent of passenger cars is long distance traffic
running between Bogota and Bucaramanga or beyond. This suggests that the
proposed improvement of this section would, by facilitating a freer traffic
movement between two of the country's most important industrial centers,
result in rapid growth of traffic.
5.21      An analysis of vehicle operating costs indicates that the reduc-
tion in transport costs after the completion of the proposed project would
be about 30 percent and the total estimated savings would produce a rate
of return of about 16 percent on the project cost over the road's assumed
economic life of 20 years.
(v) La Virginia Bridge
5.22      This bridge, built 40 years ago, is a single lane structure on
the trunk highway between Cali and Medellin, two major industrial and
population centers of Colombia. The bridge handles at present a daily
volume of traffic of over 1500 vehicles, o; which ng?arly 60 porcent is
heavy commercial vehicles.
5.23      The bridge is unsafe for the existing traffic and is in danger
of collapse. Should this happen, traffic would have to be diverted an
additional distance of 76 km over an inferior road, resulting in an average
additional cost of travel of Ps. 40 million annually wJhich is nearly twice
the cost of constructing the proposed new bridge.
5.24      Although it is believed that the bridge is unsound and should not
be left in operation, even if this were not the case the level of congestion
on the single-lane bridge is already such that its replacement by the proposed
new bridge would yield a rate of return of about 15 percent.



- 31 -
6.  CONCLUSIONS _AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      The project, involving the expansion and improvement of important
trunk highways, is teclmically and economically sound. The cost estimates
are considered realistic and the individual works give rates of return vary-
ing between 11 and 21 percent on the investment.
6.02      Consulting engineering services are included in the project for
construction supervision; for implementing the reorganization of the Ministry
of Public W4orks; and for pre-investment studies and detailed engineering of
further priority roads. The project would also provide for the purchase of
equipment needed in the reorganization of the Ministry.
6.03      The cost estimates are soundly based and adequate allowances have
been made for contingencies.  The Loan would finance; the foreign cost of
the project, which amounts to about 47 percent of the total cost.
6.04      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on
the following principal points: (i) the reorganization timetable for M.O.P.
(para 4.18); (ii) the procedures for importation of contractors' construction
equipment (para 3.17); and (iii) the appointment of consultants for pre-
investment studies (para 4.37).
6.05      The project provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$17.2
million equivalent. On the basis of the construction period and the average
economic life of the investments, an appropriate term would be 24 years
including four years period of grace.
July 8, 1968



Annex
CONSTRUCTIO\J CONTRACTS AliRDED
Approximate
Contractor                  Amount of Contract
Section and Length       Name           Nationality       Col. Pesos  US$ Equiv.
(millions)
1.  La Delfina-Pailon        Siac, Ltd.     Colombian           33.8        2.1
35 km
2.  Rio Grande-Rio Nechi     Proyectos      Colombian           45.4        2.8
53 km                    Construcciones,
'td.
3. Rio Nechi-Ventanas        Constructora   Colombian           23.2        1.4
33 km                    Sanchez
4. Medellin-Guarne           Unicon         Colombian           27.0        1.6
21 km                    Intecon, Ltd.
5. Guarne-Santuario          Sococo Corp.   Colombian-          2h.4        1.5
34 km                    Comprised of   American
R. Piedrahita,
Nathan Moore,
Mora Mora Co. Ltd.
and Auregados y
Mezclas Iguena
6. La Virginia Bridge        HB Fstructuras   Colombian-        17.3        1.1
Metalicas SA,    German
Concixiles, Ltd.
and Murne Rodas,
Ltd.
171.1       10.5



COLOMBIA.
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Traffic to and from the Principal Ports (Excluding Oil)1966
(000 tons)
Movements to and from Interior by:
Imports   Exports    Cabotage    Total        Rail     Road     Water     Total
Buenaventura           708.2     465.8       571.2      1,745.2       502.8   538.9      -        1,041.7
Barranquilla           412.0      34.4       44.1         49o.5         -     349.9    95.5         445.4
Santa Marta            331.7     169.3       23.3         524.3       322.0    36.5      -          358.5
Cartagena              246.5      77.6       81.0         405.1         -     202.3    59.9         262.2
1,698.h     7-7.1      719.6       3,165.1      824.8 1,127.6    155.4       2,107.8
Source:  Empresa Puertos de Colombia (Colpuertos).



Table 2
COLGMBIA
FIFTif HIGETJAY PROJIFET
Highway Lengths, by System
Department                  National  Departmental   Municipal   Private  Totals
Antiquia                      1,6h2        2,089          392       120    4,243
Atlantico                        83          321            -         -       4
Bolivar                         440         213             -         -      653
Boyaca                        1,708       1,670          189          -    3,567
Caldas                        1,046        2,017       1480          -    4,543
Cauca                         1,099         971           348         -    2,418
Cordoba                         511         454             -         -      965
Cundinamarca                  1,063       1,874         1,200        30    4,167
Choco                           230            -            -        20      250
Guajira                         484          58             -         -      542
Huila                           904          947            -         -    1,851
Magdalena                     1,462          904            -       220    2,586
Meta                             832         990           48        56    1,926
Narino                        1,028         526             -         -    1,554
Santander                     1,464       1,403            20         -    2,887
N.de Santander                1,443         176           227     1,067    2,913
Tolima                        1,064       1,267           917     1,876    5,124
Valle                           711       3,276             -         -    3,987
Intendencias y
Comisarias                  611           -             -         -      611
TOTALS                17,825      19,156         4,821     3,389   !5,191
Notes:  1.  Intendencias (Caqueta, San Andres, Arauca) and Comisarias (Putumayo,
Amazonas, Guainia, Vaupes, Vichada).
2. Private roads in N. de Santander and Tolima are for the oil extraction
industry.
3. Municipal roads in Caldas, Cundinamarca and Tolima are largely connec-
ted with the coffee industry.
4.  Departmental system includes approximately 6,500 km of roads for which
legislation to transfer to Mational Highway System exists, but which
M.O.P. has not yet taken over.
5.  Departmental system includes 2,865 km of "caminos vecinales."t
Source: Departmento Administrativo Nacional de Estadistica (DANE), Bogota,
July 1967.



Table 3
COLOMBIA
FIFTH HIGITV'AY PROJECT
National Highway System, by Surface Type and Works Districts
(km)
Works                   P a v e d           U n p a v e d          Totals
Districts            Concrete   Asphalt      Gravel    Earth
Medellin                49         272        1,306                   1,627
Cartagena               40         326          165                     531
Tunja                    -         222        1,580                   1,802
Manizales               31         463          609                   1,103
Popayan                  1          82          835                     918
Monteria                 -         128          346                     474
Bogota                  36         481          453                     970
Quibdo                   --                     245                     245
Riohacha                 -           -          437                     437
Neiva                    -         195          795                     990
Valledupa                -         261          983                   1,244
Villavicencio           14          16          383      523            936
Pasto                    -          13        1,303                   1,316
Bucaramanga              -         333        1,005                   1,338
Cucuta                   -         168        1,691                   1,859
Ibague                   -         289          785                   1,074
Palmira                 29         357          423                     809
Florencia                -          35          229                     264
San Andres              13           -           47                      60
TOTALS          213       3,641       13,620      523         17,997
Note: 1. Road lengths given do not correspond exactly with the length in the
Departments in which the District headquarters are situated (vide
previous table).
2. Total length of system exceeds figure quoted in previous table
(17,825) because of additions since compilation of latter.
Source: Ministerio de Obras Publicas, Bogota (1968).



COLOM-IA
Fifth Highway Project
National Hiighway Systern: Design Standards
CLASSI FICA TI ON
D -`IiGNATION                      8th Class (Local Roads)      3rd Class (Secondary or Regianal Higlhays)    2nd Class (Principal Highways)       1st Class (Special Higlsuays)
Th- of rerrmin                     Flat   Rolling   Mount.         Flat     Rolling    Mourn.                   Flat   Rolling    Mount.            Flat    Rolling   Mount.
Vjeeocl ,.y (kph)                   50      ho        30            60        50         IJC                     80       60       50               100       80         60
bhth of' Fav-ment (m)                       5.50                              6.50                                        7.20                       2 x 7.20 (aii)
S'houllera (a)
Traffic            _600 V.P.D. - 1.2 to 2.5        600 to 1200 V.P.D. - 1.8 to 3.0           1200 to 2500 V.P.D. - 2.5 to 3.0  2500 V.P.D. - 3.0 to 3.6
!axiamum              1.20    1.00      o.60          2.00      1.50        1.00                   2.40     2.00      1.50            3.60      3.00       2.50
Mi Gut        _         _                      1.00     1.00        1.50                   2.50     2.00      1.50            2.50      2.00       1.50
in       Fill                 -         -              2.00      2.00        2.00                   2.50     2.50      2.00            2.40      2.40       2.00
WidthL of Roadbed  (m)                  7.00  to  10.00                  10.00  to  12.00                            12.00  to  13.50                        ---------
Ril,tiu- Of-way   (m)                       30 (MIN)                         30 (MIN)                                     50 (MIN)                            60 (MIN)
:Kinimun Radius   (m)              100      50        30           200       100         50                     3S0    200        100/,6           ).rn      'rS        20n
, :L_num Grades (%)                  5       8        10             5         6           8                      3        4       5/6                3         4          5
12% IF  L-C'200 m.              9% If L-C300 m.                                7% If  L-C300 m.                  Study Use of Climbing Lane
,topping Sight Distance
Potil Length of Road (m)            60      45       30             75       60          45                     110      75        60               155       110        75
'assini Sight Distance (m)         130      70       50            200      130          70                    300      200        /70             400       300        200
:'idth of Structures
Lengths up to 25 m                    6.10                              6.10                                        8.00                                8.00
Lengths greater than 25 m                  3.30                              6.10                                        7.40                                7.40
Bridge cnd Structures Loadirg               H 15                       H 20 - s16                                   H1 20 - S 16                           H 20 - S 16
Source: Ministry of Public Works



TABLE 5
COLOMBIA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Design Standards for Project Roads
---  Mountainous ---
Flat or Rolling     Standard     Special
Design Speed (kph)                100               60            5
Non-passing sight distance
(m)                            145               85           60
Passing sight distance
(m)                            610              400          240
Minimum radius of curves
(m)                            327              127           50
Maximum grade (%)                 3-6                6           6-8
Width of pavement (m)             7.3               7.3          6.7
Width of each shoulder (m)        2.0               2.0          1.5 fill
1.0 cut
Width of bridges between curbs
(i) Under 15 m long          8.5              8.5          8.5
(ii)  Over 15 m long          7.9              7.9          7.9
Design loading for bridges        H20-S16-44       H20-S16-44   H20-S16-44
Note: In mountainous terrain, where existing roads are being re-
constructed, in special cases curves of 30 m radius and grades
of up to 10 percent have been used to avoid excessive line
relocation or distrubance of unstable mountainous slopes.
Source: Loan 295-CO/Credit 5-CO.



COLOINBIA
Fifth Highway Project
Vehicle Registration 1958-1966 (December 31)
1958     1959      1960      1961      1962      1963      1964      1965     1966
Passenger vehicles         67,761    68,808   72,353    84,605              85,273    86,423    87,977    95,654
0
Jeeps                      11,41-4   12,375   14,539    17,225     °        23,315    24,936    27,037    29,831
Light trucks                4,991     5,155    5,336     5,696               7,270     8,o49     8,724     9,830
Buses                      12,283    13,358   15,030    15,850     Z        17,911    18,341    19,345    20,719
Panels and Pickups         25,092    27,578   30,601    31,043              41,980    40,673    41,994   44,991
Trucks                     36,9h9    39,275   43,061    4h,145              39,381    43,880    45,171    4.7,296
Others                        895       927       998    1,037                2,210    2,450     2,643     2,786
Total                     159,385   167,476  181,918   199,601              217,340  224,752   232,891   251,107
Source:  Departmento Administrativo Nacional de Estadistica.
0'



TABLE 7
COLOMBIA - FIFTH IIGHjTAY PROJECT
Motor Fuel Consumption, 1958 - 1967
In thousand barrels h
Gasoline            Diesel
1958                     7.226              2e263
1959                     7o565              2.357
1960                     8.446              2.703
1961                     9.515              2.964
1962                    10.346              3.213
1963                    10,524              3s226
1964                    10.965              3.607
1965                    11,698              3.952
1966                    12.563              4.212
1967 (estimated)        12.737              3.973
/1  1 barrel equals 42 US gallons.
Source: Economic Department of the Esso Colombian S.A.



TABLE 8
COLOMBIA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Vehicle Operating Costs on Average Paved Roadd4
Estimates by Two Consultants
(Centavos per km - 1965-66 prices)
Cost Categories                Consultant,/          Consultant,/
______________             INGETIC/TAMS      INTEGRAL/Gannett, Fleming
Gasoline, oil and washing                22.3                  33.9
Maintenance                             14.2                   17.9
Salaries                                48.3                   4.5
Tires                                   22.1                   1h.9
Garage                                    .5                     *5
Depreciation                            30.4                   21.3
Overhead                                l2.4                   15.0
150.2                 148.0
/1  The vehicle is an average size truck in use in Colomzbia, and has
an 8-tcn carrying capacity. The estimates are net of taxes.
/2 Data representing average for Colombia.
/3 Data based on costs prevailing in western Colombia,
Source: INGETEC
INTEGRAL



COLOMBIA: FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
EXISTING ORGANIZATION OF MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS
MINISTER
r--------------        ------------           -         - 
NATIONAL RAILROADS                          COLOMBIAN AIRPORT      NATIONAL FUND              NATIONAL                                ADVISER TO THE
PORTS OF COLOMBIA                            'A'rEAUTO                                       EA      FIEPLANNING OFFICE
OF COLOMBIA                                 AUTHORITY         FOR LOCAL ROADS            EVALUATIONREAYOFC                           MINISER
|INFORMATION                      SECRETR                      INERAIOA        AN
DIRECTORYOEIG
IVOROOJUICS  GROUPOT NO AND                                            ACCGENERAL  GROUPS N
=ENGINERIN                                           MARIHNT   -      1r                               ADMINISTRATIVE                            R RELAT
I   BRANCH                                         B RANCH                                             B RANCHF                              B RANCH
SOILS NNCT,ON  SECTION  OCONTRACTS                                                               ONENS       FSINANCN
r VISION       DIVISION   CONST RuCTION                                        N           MA;ER;A7-     DI 'I SIONNOL1N
SOURCF Ministry of P.bl,c Wor,k
NOTE: This chart  epresents the Ministry st-ucture os establ,shed by Decrees 151 and 525 of 1967  The actual eINti,na orownio?ion dOeN not contorT, to it complelely. 
May 1968                                                                                                                                                                      IBRD-3876



COLOMBIA: FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
PROPOSED ORGANIZATION OF THE MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS
NATIONAL RAILROADS
OF COLOMBIA        -
PORTS OF COLOMBIA
COLOMBIAN AIRPORT         I
AUTHORITY                                                                                     MINISTER
NATIONAL FUND FOR         I
HIGHWAYS                                                            [
DIETO  FPLANNING,     DIETO     FSEILDIRIECTION OF
STAFF                    ADVISORS                                      PROGRAMMING AND              COOFSEIL                  INFORMATION AND
NATIONAL FUND FOR      -ONTROL _.I                                                                                                                     ASSESSMENT               PUBLIC RELATIONS
RURAL ROADS
GENERAL CONSTRUCTION
SPECIFICATIONS    __
COMMITTEE
I~~~~~ STAFF                                                                                   STAFF_                                              _        DISONF
DESIGN SPECIFICATIONS                                                                                                                                      SECRETARY    OF
COMMITTEE           I      TECHNICAL AFFAIRS                                                                                                           AFFAIS
l     .                 _     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~STATISTICS AND                              SECTION OF                       AFIS|                       OGNZTION AND
|  l     I                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COMPUTER DIVISION                          FLIGHT SERVICE                                                MTOSDIVISION
UNIT PRICES      L
COMMITTEE
IDIRECTION OF DESIGN 
AND MATERIALS             DIRECTION OF                           DIRECTION OF                                       DIRECTION OF                                DIRECTION OF                    DIRECTION OF
|  ENGINEERING   l l     CONSTRUCTION                          MAINTENANCE                                       ADMINISTRATION                              LABOR RELATIONS                 REAL PROPERTY
SISISIN SF  DIVISION  OF  lDIVISION OF             DIVISION OP                          DIISOION   OP             D                         DIOF  OF
DIVISIONAOFTDIVISIONOOFNDIVI ION                           DIOO          UILDINGS,               DIVISION OF               DIVISION OF  WAREHOUSES  DIVISION OF  DIVISION OF  DIVIS     ON OF          DIVISION OF
STUSIES AND  MATERIALS       SAT      CONSTRUCTION  MAINTENANCE                           EFSIPMNNT                 GENERALANNE                                         SOIL        MDCL         RODS        PPRT
DESIGNS  ENGINEERING  CONT  s  SUPERVISIONIDDRTRICTS       PARKS AND                               SEINANCE   PROCUREMENT      ND       PERSONNE     SROOCIA      MEDVICAL                 PROPAERETY
DESIONS  ENSINEERIND  SJPERVISION  DISTRICTS                         AND SHOPS                 SERVICESUMENT           INVETORIE
Highway      SWil and    SttstiD-     Contro ad    Pogr... -od              Oo,nr-on-    Mo-ntnor-    A-cuntfing  F.rmat C-ntro  Purha..    Teoh-io      ReOt tig     Tr-inig     Coord,noln   I3.,dI,g,    Ruidog
DGsgn Set.0-h,dcII ....ecio                  Erpndtrs-ocl Stodror                  Technica    B.dget       Cotros..                   -d-1       Regisren aid  Cultur..l   Hospital     Monume-rs
SOURCE COMET/HARRIS -Management Consult-nt-l                                                                                                                                          -
Juns 19H68S-H3
sf-tu-  M-1--                                                              pu~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ h.,  S.P.-,                 st.t"i.c.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BR- 93 



C O L O M B I A-.,j
FIFTH      HIGHWAY          PROJECT             S     MARTA:
BARRANQ    L      CIENAGA
CARTAGENA
SINCELEJO 
4/           Q            <MONTERIA   A YE                               V E N E Z U E L A
*       | / g\rCCT
<                V  > < J VENTANAS PLAN.T_
UCASI g g BERME X 0                 BUCARAMANGA
T VALDI I ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~   AIOA     RUKRODNEWR
TANAS  BARRARADNFRCONTRCTONO
*LORENCARECONANDESR*CTIO
&s          PUERTO~~~~~~~~AEIL ALEA
0  50  100  150  2~00K
MAY 1968                                                                     lRD 22LLIN  8OIBA
-0  9   i       °   gLA DORADA      >          ~~~~~~~PAZ DEL RIO
LA1.VIRGINIA 
BUENAVENTURA_         <                        /3                        °PTO. LOPEZ
LOBOGUERRERO                BUGA g/
CRUCE DAGUA/ 
/        J CAL~LI       /        COLOMBIA 
~~~ gj                     J  NE~~~~~~~~IVA
/            PoPArANiPOPAY
t / G~~~~~~~~ARZON
* X  (              \                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NATIONAL TRUNK ROAD NETWORK
./ irU C   |          \                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ROADS FOR CONSTRUCTION OR
> ° | O ~~~~~~~~~FLORENCIA                                        RECONSTRUCTION
\   iPASTO                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAJOR BRIDGE FOR REPLACEMENT
\ 1,1111 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EXISTING                           RAILROADS
'  UICHACA       o    0    10   IO    20MAER IAL CABLEWAY
E C UADOR       >      
MAY 1968                                                                                       IBRD 2298



