                                                   For official use only




                                                                                                Report No:ICR-000124

                           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT

                                                     (IBRD-39490)

                                                          ON A

                                                         LOAN

                                       IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 125 MILLION

                                                           TO

              ADMINISTRACION NACIONAL DE USINAS Y TRASMISIONES ELECTRICAS (UTE)

                                                      URUGUAY

                                                         FOR A

                             POWER TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT



                                                   November 02, 2006




Finance, Private Sector and infrastructure Sector Department
Argentina, Chile, Paraguay and Uruguay Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                            ( Exchange Rate Effective 06/30/2006 )
                                  Currency Unit = Peso
                                      Peso 1.00 = US$ 0.0418
                                      US$ 1.00 = Peso 23.95

                                          Fiscal Year
                                   January 1- December 31

ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


ANCAP    Administración Nacional de Combustibles Alcohol y Portland (National Fuel, Alcohol and
         Cement Co.)
ANTEL    Administración Nacional de Telecomunicaciones (National Telecommunications Co.)
BROU     Banco de la República Oriental del Uruguay
CIER     Comisión de Integración Energética Regional (Regional Energy Integration Commission)
CTM      Comisión Técnica Mixta de Salto Grande (Salto Grande Technical Commission)
DNE      Dirección Nacional de Energía (National Energy Office)
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
IDB      Inter-American Development Bank
IDP      Institutional Development Program
IVA      Impuesto al Valor Agregado (VAT)
LPG      Liquefied Petroleum gas
LRMC     Long Run Marginal Cost
MERCOSUR Common Market Agreement (Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay, Uruguay)
MIEM     Ministerio de Industria, Energía y Minería (Ministry of Industry, Energy and Mining)
NCB      National Competitive Bidding
NDC      National Dispatch Center
NEL      National Electricity Law
OPP      Oficina de Planeamiento y Presupuesto (Planning and Budget Office of the Presidency)
OSE      Obras Sanitarias del Estado (Water and Sewerage Company)
PERL     Public Enterprice Reform Loan
SAL      Public Services and Social Sectors
SAR      Staff Appraisal Report
SRMC     Short Run marginal Cost
TC       Tribunal de Cuentas (Government Auditing Agency)
UGA      Unidad de Gestión Ambiental (UTE)
UTE      Administración Nacional de Usinas y Trasmisiones Eléctricas (National Power Co.)




                    Vice President:              Pamela Cox
                    Country Director:            Axel van Trotsenburg
                    Sector Manager:              Susan G. Goldmark
                    Project Team Leader:         Philippe J-P. Durand

                                             URUGUAY
                           POWER TRANSMISSION& DISTRIBUTION
                                      TABLE OF CONTENTS




1. Basic Information                                                        1
2. Key Dates                                                                1
3. Ratings Summary                                                          1
4. Sector and Theme Codes                                                   1
5. Bank Staff                                                               2
6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design                       2
7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes                        5
8. Assessment of Outcomes                                                   10
9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome                                14
10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance                             15
11. Lessons Learned                                                         16
12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners    17
Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis                                         18
Annex 2. Restructuring                                                      22
Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing                                        23
Annex 4. Outputs by Component                                               24
Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis                                    25
Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes      28
Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                  30
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Result                                          31
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results                            32
Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR            33
Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders          34
Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents                                      35
Annex 13. Additional Annexes                                                36

1. Basic Information
                                                                                 URUGUAY POWER
Country:                    Uruguay                    Project Name:             TRANSMISSION&
                                                                                 DISTRIBUTIO
Project ID:                 P008177                    L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-39490
ICR Date:                   10/26/2006                 ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                                 UTE - ADMIN. USINAS
Lending Instrument:         SIL                        Borrower:                 Y TRANSM.
                                                                                 ELECTRICAS
Original Total
Commitment:                 USD 125.0M                 Disbursed Amount:         USD 124.0M

Environmental Category:B
Implementing Agencies
UTE
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners

2. Key Dates

Process               Date                   Process              Original Date      Revised / Actual
                                                                                     Date(s)
Concept Review:       12/17/1992             Effectiveness:       07/11/1997         07/11/1997
Appraisal:            05/11/1994             Restructuring(s):
Approval:             10/31/1995             Mid-term Review:                        06/15/2001
                                             Closing:             12/31/2002         03/31/2006

3. Ratings Summary
3.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                                Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                             Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                                        Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                                    Moderately Satisfactory

3.2 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
Implementation Performance             Indicators      QAG Assessments (if any)           Rating:
Potential Problem Project at any
time (Yes/No):                         Yes             Quality at Entry (QEA):            None

Problem Project at any time                                                               Moderately
(Yes/No):                              No              Quality of Supervision (QSA):      Unsatisfactory
DO rating before Closing/Inactive
status:                                Satisfactory


4. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Power                                                             100                100
                                                                  Original Priority  Actual Priority
Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Administrative and civil service reform                            Primary             Primary
Infrastructure services for private sector development             Primary             Primary
Regulation and competition policy                                  Primary             Secondary

Other urban development                                              Primary               Primary
Climate change                                                       Secondary             Secondary

5. Bank Staff
Positions                                                          At ICR                At Approval
Vice President:                                                    Pamela Cox            Shahid Javed Burki

Country Director:                                                  Axel van
                                                                   Trotsenburg           Gobind T. Nankani

Sector Manager:                                                    Susan G. Goldmark Asif Faiz

Project Team Leader:                                               Philippe J-P. Durand  Armando Ribeiro
                                                                                         Araujo
ICR Team Leader:                                                   Philippe J-P. Durand
ICR Primary Author:                                                Fernando Lecaros

6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)


6.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country macroeconomic and structural/sector background, rationale for Bank
assistance)


From preparation to closure, the project spanned a long period which encompassed a particularly active
period of power sector reforms in Latin America during which private sector participation became
relatively commonplace, with successes as well as failures. To understand how the project was conceived,
as well as the Bank's role in the Uruguayan power sector, an overview of developments since the early
1990s will provide the required context.

During the 1980s and early 1990s the Uruguayan economy exhibited sharp variations in its rate of growth,
with an average GDP growth below 1 percent between 1988 and 1990. A study commissioned by the Bank
in 1993 (Uruguay-Private Sector Assessment--Report No. 11648-UR) pointed out that failing transport,
power and communications facilities were undermining private sector development and growth. The
Lacalle Government (1990-1995) decided to improve economic performance by enhancing competition and
increasing private sector participation in the provision of public services. This was consistent with similar
policies adopted in other Latin American countries at the time, particularly Argentina and Brazil, which are
partners of Uruguay in MERCOSUR, the Southern Cone Common Market created in 1991. The reforms
put in place by Argentina in 1992-1993 were particularly dramatic, including a complete unbundling of the
sector, the sale of numerous generation and distribution companies to private investors, and the
implementation of a fully competitive market.

In October 1991, the Government passed a Public Utilities Law to allow granting concession permits to the
private sector to provide public services that had traditionally been supplied by Government-owned
companies. However, a referendum succeeded in repealing the Public Utilities Law in December 1992,
and reaffirmed a tradition of strong State participation in the provision of public services. The GOU
persisted in its reform efforts and removed the regulatory function from UTE (Administración Nacional de
Usinas y Trasmisiones Eléctricas), the state-owned company in charge of power generation, transmission
and distribution. It also availed itself of the support provided by the Bank's Public Enterprise Reform Loan
(PERL­Loan 3517-0-UR) to assess the institutional framework, to propose a new model, and to draft a
decree creating the new system, which became an Electricity Law which was submitted to Congress in
1995 under the recently-inaugurated Sanguinetti Government (1995-2000).

The Bank's support for the power sector had been in place for many years through loans to UTE for power
infrastructure development. The Bank's first loan to the sector dated back to 1950, and eight power sector
operations had been agreed by the time the project was being prepared. During this period the Bank and



                                                        2

UTE were implementing the Power Modernization (1990) and the Power Sector Rehabilitation (1985)
loans; the former financed a new thermal power plant, and the latter covered the rehabilitation of
production, transmission and distribution facilities. In coordination with UTE, a new operation--the
Transmission and Distribution project--was prepared with the goals of: (i) supporting the reform efforts of
the GOU, and (ii) supporting UTE's plan to increase the reliability of supply and improve the delivery of
electricity.

The project was prepared between 1993 and 1995. The context in which the loan was prepared included:
(a) the willingness of the Government to reform the power sector, as evidenced by its actions regarding the
removal of the regulatory function from UTE, and the preparation of an Electricity Law which was
submitted to the legislature in 1995; and (b) Technical Assistance to the Government through the PERL
loan, regarding power sector reform.

At the time of project preparation power sector reform and private sector participation were pillars of the
Bank's policy, and a loan to a State-owned enterprise such as UTE required that it be prepared taking this
policy into account. Accordingly, two considerations were included in the design of the new Transmission
and Distribution project in addition to the physical components: (a) an effectiveness clause that required the
approval of a new Electricity Law, and (b) technical assistance to facilitate the future integration of UTE to
the reformed power sector. The expectations for sector evolution were that (a) the Electricity Law-already
submitted to the legislature in 1995-would be approved, (b) once approved, the Government would put in
place the organizations contemplated in the Law, such as the regulator and the market administrator, (c)
with the support of the PERL-which still had over a year to go-the Government would prepare the required
secondary legislation for the reform to take effect, and (d) the transmission and distribution project would
be initiated and would support UTE in adapting to the new sector structure.

The Board approved the loan on October 31, 1995 but the loan agreement was only signed on March 18,
1997. The Government delayed signing the loan agreement because of the risk that the Electricity Law
would not be approved; however, by March 1997 the Law was practically a reality, and it was approved
and in force on June 17, 1997. The loan was declared effective on July 11, 1997. The approval of the
Electricity Law was an important achievement, which fulfilled the role of the loan itself as an instrument of
power sector reform.

The Electricity Law provided for freedom of entry to the generation market and open access to the
transmission and distribution networks; it mandated the creation of the sector regulatory agency and the
power wholesale market management organization, together with a national power dispatch center; it also
required the separation of accounts for enterprises exercising more than one activity (generation,
transmission, or distribution). Putting in place secondary legislation and organizing the different offices
remained to be done; as noted above, the studies financed under the PERL were expected to support the
Government in writing the regulations and laws that would provide practical content to the new law, but the
PERL closed on June 30, 1997.

During the following years (1997-1999), the Government put in place the electricity regulator (UREE) and
the market administrator (ADME), and UTE organized into business units for generation, transmission, and
distribution. However, private sector investment did not flow into the sector, and a competitive market was
not established. In order to provide stimulus to reform under the Batlle Government (2000-2005), the Bank
put in place two new operations: a Public Services and Social Sectors Structural Adjustment Loan, SAL
(Loan. 7164-0-UR) to support infrastructure reforms and in which specific power sector conditions were           1

associated with loan tranche disbursements, and the Public Services Modernization Technical Assistance
Loan (Loan 4598-UR), which was prepared to support the implementation of measures required for
complying with the SAL conditions.
_____________________________________________
1Including: implementing regulatory accounting and publishing performance indicators for the power sector;
establishing the electricity distribution tariff; approving power purchase agreements; activating the electricity spot
market; publishing and complying with a national energy policy.




                                                             3

As of late 2006, the way forward in terms of reform under the Vasquez Government (2005-2010) is under
consideration. On one hand, the experience of many other countries has shown that reforms are often
unsuccessful, particularly in small systems such as the Uruguayan one; on the other, UTE continues to
provide good value for money, with acceptable service at reasonable rates. For that reason, reform is no
longer at the top of the agenda and the emphasis has shifted towards energy security given the high price of
oil. Accordingly, the Bank continues to support the Uruguayan energy sector through assistance in putting
together an energy strategy in which UTE remains the predominant supplier in the country in the short
term, with a gradual incorporation into regional energy markets.
6.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

Project objectives stated in the Loan Agreement were: (a) to improve the reliability of electricity service at
a minimum cost, through the improvement of (i) the reliability of the distribution of power, (ii) the efficient
use of energy, and (iii) customer safety; and (b) to support the sustainability of the reforms being carried
out in the power sector, through the consolidation of (i) such reforms; and (ii) UTE's institutional capacity.
 Indicators set out in the SAR consisted of: (a) Availability factor for each power plant in the system (%);
(b) Reserve margin (%); (c) Average number of interruptions per customer (number/customer) for
Montevideo and the rest of the country; (d) Average time of interruption per customer (hours/customer) for
Montevideo and the rest of the country; (e) Total losses as a percentage of total generation; (f) Staffing
levels (customers/employee); (g) Tariff defined as the average price per kWh; (h) Receivables (days); (i)
Cash Operating Ratio (%); (j) Self-financing ratio (%); and (k) debt service coverage (times).

6.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators (as approved by original approving authority), and
reasons/justification

The objectives remained unchanged throughout the project's implementation. Key indicators also remained
unchanged, with the exception of indicators related to reliability monitoring (average number of
interruptions per customer and average time of interruption per customer) that were redefined with greater
clarity in 1997 as: (a) Total time of interruptions per year in hours/customer, (b) Average number of
interruptions per customer/year, and (c) Average duration of each interruption in hours per customer per
year.

6.4 Main Beneficiaries, original and revised
(briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD and as captured in the PDO, as well as
any other individuals and organizations expected to benefit from the project)

The project's main direct beneficiaries were UTE's customers, who would benefit from an improved
electricity supply; in particular low voltage domestic users in Montevideo were expected to benefit from
the replacement of a hazardous connection scheme (a so-called floating neutral arrangement which can
lead to electrocution), to a safer one facilitated by the project.

6.5 Original Components (as approved)

Part A: Improvements in the Distribution Network of Montevideo (three sub-components) for a SAR-
estimated cost of US$164.5 million:

1. (a) The expansion of 500kV substations, consisting of the expansion of substations "I" in Montevideo
and San Carlos in Punta del Este through the installation of power transformers, reactive power control
devices and related switchgear equipment, and (b) modification of 500kV substations A and B located in
Montevideo through the installation of reactive power control devices and switchgear equipment;

2. The expansion and upgrading of the 150kV transmission system in Montevideo, consisting of (a)
replacement of switchgear equipment and (b) reinforcement of the grounding system of the 150kV
substations to prepare them for new short circuit requirements, (c) the expansion of substations E and J
through the installation of additional bays, (d) the installation of a new substation G, and (e) the installation
of about 26km of underground 150kV cable in order to interconnect such cables with all the substations


                                                        4

within the 150kV transmission system; and

3. Renovation of the distribution system of Montevideo through the change of the 22kV Medium Voltage
(MV) and the 380/220V Low Voltage (LV) systems, and the installation of a new system in the areas of
influence of substations G, L, and R;

Part B: Technical Assistance for a SAR-estimated cost of US$2.5 million:

1. Technical assistance to UTE to support (a) the restructuring of its internal organization; (b) carrying out
the Non-Technical Losses Reduction Program; (c) carrying out the following studies: (i) a study on load
curve characteristics for different classes of consumers, and (ii) a study on marginal cost tariffs; (d) the
preparation and implementation of a demand-side management program; and (e) technical assistance
required for Project implementation.

2. Training for the benefit of UTE's management and staff in order to improve (a) managerial capabilities,
and (b) the operation of the Borrower's environmental unit.

6.6 Revised Components

The studies on load curves and marginal cost tariffs were deemed unnecessary under the reformed sector
structure and the preparation of a demand-side management program was incorporated to the GEF-
financed energy efficiency project, whose preparation started in June 2000 (it was approved in January
2005). These revisions took place without formal amendments to the loan agreement, as changes were
minor. The training component was financed by UTE at a lower cost than the SAR estimate.

6.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding allocations)

The project's schedule was the most significant change. Delays in reaching the implementation stage as
well as delays during implementation characterized the project. As indicated above, despite having been
appraised in 1994 and approved in October 1995, the Loan Agreement was signed on March 18, 1997, and
the project only became effective on July 11, 1997. The 17-month delay between Board approval and the
signing of the Loan Agreement was due to the delay in the approval of the Electricity Law. The risk of a
delay was explicitly recognized during project preparation and, because of the uncertainty associated with
this condition--which was only partially under the executive's control--a delay in signing the loan
agreement was considered preferable to an extended delay before effectiveness.
Once the project was initiated, the initial closing date of December 31, 2002 was extended successively to
March 31, 2006. During project implementation, delays were associated with (a) a cumbersome
procurement law which requires extensive approvals by different authorities, (b) challenges to contract
award that were allowed by the procurement law, which required resolution before a bid winner could be
officially designated--a factor which was partially corrected with the Bank's assistance through the
Uruguay Modernization of Public Procurement project in 2001--and (c) a reduced implementation rate due
to insufficient funds assigned by the Planning and Budget Office (OPP), to UTE during the years of
economic recession (1999-2002). This last reason was particularly relevant: the impact of the economic
recession proved devastating to the country and, although the power sector managed to weather it relatively
well, the overall public sector constraints impeded a normal execution of the project.

7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

7.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their mitigations
identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

The project SAR (dated September 15, 1995) was prepared in 1994-95; the relevant CAS was prepared
end-1993; it included an infrastructure component based on a Bank Private Sector Assessment that



                                                       5

emphasized the need to address issues associated with unreliable power supplies, inadequate transport
facilities, and poor telecommunications. The project directly addressed the power sector issues flagged in
the CAS by seeking to improve the reliability of electricity service. The project design was further
supported by a number of complementary studies which addressed different power sector issues: (a) an
energy options study funded under the Public Enterprise Reform Loan (PERL--loan 3517-0-UR), which
developed an energy strategy with different scenarios for primary energy and interconnections to supply
future electricity requirements; (b) a sector reform study prepared under the PERL, which proposed new
institutional arrangements for the power sub sector; (c) a methodology for calculating tariffs based upon
long-run marginal costs, prepared with Bank support under the Fifth Power Project (Loan 1779-UR) and
updated by UTE; and (d) the lessons learned from ongoing operations, namely the Power Sector
Rehabilitation Project (Loan 2622-UR) and the Power Modernization Project (Loan 3221-UR). The
project complemented the latter two operations by extending to transmission and distribution the
improvements achieved in generation.

Taking into account the precedents noted above, the project was well prepared insofar as (a) it had a well-
conceived and well-supported infrastructure component, (b) its objectives were realistic and clear; (c) its
implementation was entrusted to a well-regarded power company with extensive experience (in particular
with Bank-financed projects), (d) the institutional component of the project, once it became operational,
was limited to aspects for which UTE could be held responsible (e.g. technical assistance in adapting to the
new sector structure); and (d) it had achieved a significant goal by being instrumental in bringing about the
Electricity Law, and further institutional strengthening of the sector was being supported by the PERL.

Lessons learned taken into account in project preparation included lessons from (a) Bank-wide lending to
the power sub sector and the Bank's policies for the power sector, which were applied to this case, and (b)
previous projects for the power sub sector in Uruguay. Lessons from Bank-wide lending included the
emphasis on power sector reform, which was the reason for linking the loan to the approval of changes in
the Electricity Law before initiating project implementation). The Bank had made eight loans to Uruguay's
power sector before the project under consideration. There was a nine-year hiatus in Bank lending to the
sector between the fourth (1970) and fifth (1979) power projects, because of difficulties in reaching
agreement with the Government on measures to restore the sector to a sound institutional and financial
situation, which was achieved through the Fifth Power Loan in which the Bank recommended measures to
strengthen and improve the performance of UTE. The Government passed a National Electricity Law in
the late 1970s, changed UTE's bylaws, and relieved UTE from its responsibility for telephone services.
The most recently completed Bank project at the time of preparation was the Power Engineering Loan,
whose ICR indicated that at appraisal the Bank should have carefully reviewed the process to be followed
for the selection of consultants as well as the procurement of goods by the borrower, and the need to
prepare documentation in advance in order to face the "convoluted procedures of Uruguayan procurement
laws". As a result, bidding documents for procurement of the most important items and terms of reference
for hiring consultants had been prepared when the SAR was issued. Moreover, the roughly two year
period between appraisal and effectiveness was used to help with project preparation, as attested by the
contents of Aide Memoirs, such as the one associated with a visit in April 1997, which indicated that
despite the loan not being effective, UTE had continued with the preparation of the bidding program,
which was updated on the occasion of the loan agreement signature. The Bank also took occasion of this
period to apprise UTE regarding the procedures to be followed when presenting bidding award evaluations
for no objection (use of the Standard Bid Evaluation Form), thereby advancing the project's
implementation.

Project risks taken account were mainly of an institutional nature (the project posed no special technical
risks). The delay in creating a new regulatory system as a condition of effectiveness was a specific risk
that was taken into account, which allowed for a conscious delay in signing the loan agreement until
conditions were propitious enough to ensure that the Electricity Law would be passed.
The Project implementation plan was agreed during appraisal taking into consideration lessons learned on
past projects with UTE, and aimed especially at: (i) having a strong implementation unit; and (ii) having a
satisfactory procurement plan including the advance preparation of procurement documents. The project
would be coordinated within UTE by a project coordinator, with the help of a full-time project unit.




                                                       6

7.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions taken, as
applicable)

Project implementation took 9 years, between loan effectiveness (July 1997) and actual loan closing (July
2006), though in the end the loan was practically fully disbursed (99%). Two main factors explain this long
implementation period: i) the 1999 ­ 2002 economic crisis, that not only affected project implementation
pace, but also had an impact on some performance indicators; and ii) the nature of the project and UTE's
procurement procedures.

Impact of the economic crisis

Between 1999 and 2002 Argentina and Uruguay were hit by a brutal economic crisis. Although it was due
mainly to macroeconomic problems in Argentina, the links between the two economies drew Uruguay into
the crisis. GDP declined by 18 percent between 1998 and 2002--including 11 percent in 2002 alone--
while unemployment rose to 20 percent by the end of 2002. Manufacturing was particularly hard hit--its
output declined by 29 percent during the same period, and electricity demand was reduced accordingly.
The exchange rate plummeted from 12 pesos/US$ in December, 2000 to 27 pesos/US$ in December,
2002--a devaluation of 125 percent in two years.

The recession impacted significantly on the project on two counts:

1. It delayed the implementation of the physical components, which would have required committing
substantial resources at a time when Treasury required extreme fiscal measures for dealing with the
economic crisis, and was subject to limitations on public investment included in IMF program agreements.
UTE generated sufficient funds to sustain the investments required by the project, but because the
Government controlled UTE's finances, it limited the company's investments and sought to extract as many
resources as possible from it. All of this translated into a limited budget for UTE, which was unable to
keep up with the rhythm of investment that had originally been envisaged (Bank supervision missions tried
unsuccessfully to improve this state of affairs).

2. The economic recession had an important impact on the project's overall indicators; for example,
demand decreased by 0.1% in 2001 and by 4.2% in 2002, and losses, due to the economic duress
experienced by users, increased from around 14% in 2000 to 16% in 2002 and 19% in 2003. The decline
in demand justified, at least in some cases, a lower rate of project implementation, as the incorporation of
some elements could be delayed without any significant operational consequences.

Nature of the project and UTE's procurement procedures

As is the case of most power transmission and distribution projects, the project included a large number of
biddings (more than 70), that were implemented sequentially. Combined with the duration of UTE's
procurement stages, this resulted in extended project implementation. The table below shows that, on
average, UTE required more than a year to sign contracts under ICBs (which represented the large majority
of bidding processes under the project). In addition, several bidding processes were delayed by sometimes
frivolous complaints presented by bidders.

         Stages                                                 Typical Duration             Total Duration

         Preparation of bidding documents, and World
         Bank non objection                                     60 days                      60 days

         Bid preparation                                        60 days                      120 days
         Bid evaluation, and WB non objection.                  90 to 120 days               210-240 days
         Award of contracts by UTE's Board                      30 to 45 days                240-285 days
         Bidding process review and contract signing
         authorization by Tribunal de Cuentas                   30 to 45 days                270-330 days

         Contract Signing by UTE Board (*)                      60 days                      330-390 days
     *Including procedures to be followed in Uruguay to verify the validity of powers of attorney from foreign firms.




                                                         7

Given the slowdown in project implementation, a Mid-Term Review (MTR), initially scheduled to take
place before October 31, 1999, was carried out in June 2001. The MTR assessed the delay in project
implementation at about 20 months and noted that UTE would consequently request that the project
closing date be extended at least until December 31, 2004 (the closing date in the loan agreement was set to
December 31, 2002). The MTR also noted the preparation of a GEF-supported Energy Efficiency Project
which would complement the objectives of the Transmission and Distribution project by replacing the
demand-side management program included in the technical assistance component of the project. The
MTR reviewed the monitoring indicators for 2000 and those expected for 2001, and noted that most of the
goals agreed with the Bank were being achieved, with the exception of (a) delays in payments from
municipalities and other decentralized Government authorities which showed a 194-day receivables delay
compared to an agreed level of 60 days, (b) an increase in service interruptions in the Montevideo
distribution network due to weather factors, and (c) an overrun in the cash operating expenses to total
operating revenue ratio (59.6% instead of a target 55%) due, inter alia, to UTE being subject to income tax
(which wasn't the case when the project was assessed). The overall conclusion of the MTR was positive in
regard to project implementation and objectives. This was because the real delay since the loan was
declared effective, i.e. netting out the initial delay associated with the Electricity Law, was only about three
months. Furthermore, the evolution of project indicators at the time of the MTR was considered
acceptable. It was agreed that UTE would request that the closing date be extended to December 31, 2004.
The request was agreed to, under the condition that all contracts financed by the Bank for the supply of
goods and services be signed by December 2003. In 2004, with the accumulated delays associated with the
economic crisis, it became evident that the project would not be completed by December due to financial
problems affecting some contractors, and UTE requested an additional one-year extension; the Bank
agreed to a closing date of September 30, 2005.

By late 2004, project implementation was about 80% completed regarding the investment components;
disbursements were expected to reach US$95.5 million by December 2004, which left roughly US$30
million (around 25% of the loan) for disbursement in 2005. By May 2005 it was estimated that it would
not be possible to reach this goal; a further extension was requested and the Bank moved the closing date
to March 31, 2006. This date proved to be final, with total disbursements of US$124 million.
Regarding technical assistance, by late 2004 there had been satisfactory support to UTE to improve
commercial management and reduce distribution losses; as part of the project UTE also implemented
improvements to its organization and its procedures (SAP was put in place); the TA component was
upgraded to satisfactory and was declared to have been fully implemented (with the exception of demand-
side management, which had been allocated to the energy efficiency project).

Project costs as of June 30, 2006 amounted to US$165.9 million, of which US$64 million were invested in
transmission reinforcements and US$101.7 were invested in distribution; the remainder was spent on
technical assistance and training. Investments were financed in a 75:25 ratio by the Bank and UTE,
respectively, which differs from the 64:36 ratio in the assessment. This was due to the devaluation of the
Uruguayan peso as a consequence of the economic crisis; because UTE's contribution was oriented towards
works, which were paid in local currency, the dollar value of these investments shrank whereas the value
of Bank-financed goods, which were paid in foreign currency, remained practically unchanged. It should
also be noted that investments financed under the project represented a minor part (about 15%) of UTE's
total investment over the project implementation period.

7.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

(a) M&E design. The indicators chosen to monitor implementation progress reflected the effect on system
performance of infrastructure investments as well as the project's objectives, together with the financial
performance of the utility. The latter consisted of standard utility statistics and, in combination with the
former, provided a convenient assessment regarding progress and achievement of PDO (see details on
targets and achievements in Annex 1 and Annex 13). The choice of indicators can be conveniently
classified as:




                                                         8

      · Indicators related to service quality, which include reliability indices represented by statistics such
          as the average frequency of power cuts per customer per year and the average duration per power
          cut per customer; these are most closely related to the project's objective of improving reliability;
      · Efficiency indicators such as physical energy losses, which are also associated with project
          components, such as the replacement of old cables and the lower loading of transformers;

      · Indicators of energy availability essentially power plant availability and reserve margin to explain
          eventual interruptions of service due to generation-level causes;

      · Efficiency indicators related to staffing and pricing, and financial indicators: although not directly
          related to project components, these indicators are collected (as in most investment loans) to
          ensure that the beneficiary is in a condition to ensure the project's sustainability.

It should be noted that the absence of indicators related to the consolidation of sector reform, clearly
indicates that this was a secondary objective, which was expected to be achieved with the approval of the
electricity law (as a condition of loan effectiveness).

(a) M&E implementation. The data was routinely collected by UTE and registered in quarterly progress
reports; standard utility practice was followed in collecting it;

(b) M&E utilization. During project implementation the evolution of indicators was monitored along with
project progress; project-related resource allocation, which was determined a priori according to
infrastructure needs, was by and large unaffected; however, the monitoring of losses evidenced an increase
in non-commercial losses, which was judged to be associated with the economic recession, and induced
UTE to increase inspections, and improve connections and metering;

(c) Sustainability of M&E arrangements. Indicators regarding the power system's performance will
continue to be collected routinely by UTE as a managerial tool to monitor performance and service quality.
Financial indicators are produced regularly.

7.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

The project was rated "B" for environmental assessment purposes. No adverse environmental impacts
were expected to result from the project, since the majority of works would consist of renovation and
substitution within existing facilities. A satisfactory environmental analysis of UTE's transmission program
was completed during project preparation; the corresponding report was published and made available to
the public and in the Bank's Public Information Center. The modification of the 150kV system consisted
of changing equipment in existing substations and the modernization of the distribution network consisted
of replacing old cables by new ones.

No safeguard issues arose either during project implementation or when project components were put in
operation, which justifies the original rating for the project.

It is also worth noting that (a) UTE developed a highly regarded environmental team which ensured that
environmental safeguards were observed, (b) regarding fiduciary aspects, UTE kept close control of the
project in terms of procurement and management and (c) UTE's auditors certified its financial statements
without qualifications during project implementation. The project included the following financial
indicators to ensure financial sustainability: receivables from private clients and from Government (days),
cash operating ratio (%), self-financing ratio (%), and debt service coverage (times). Of the latter, the
receivables indicator relative to Government clients was not achieved; at closure lags in collections from
municipalities continue to exceed target values.

7.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by present



                                                        9

operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional capacity, and
next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

Project-financed equipment and installations were put into service without major difficulties. They do not
involve major technical challenges and require routine utility maintenance. The essential requirement
consists of (a) professional management in the technical and operations areas, for which UTE has a good
track record, and (b) financial resources, which should be ensured by UTE's financial equilibrium achieved
through economic pricing.       Indications of UTE's soundness (including its technical achievements) are
presented in detail in Annex 13. They comprise, among others:

          Financial soundness. Target financial ratios were achieved with the exception of the cash
          operating ratio for 2005 (although it was achieved during most other years); this shortfall was
          associated with increased operating costs as a result of higher international fuel prices, which also
          coincided with low hydrological conditions. The situation regarding receivables is mixed: private
          sector bills are paid promptly, and there has been improvement in payments by the Government
          and other centralized institutions, but payments by municipalities continue to be unsatisfactory.

          Domestic tariff. The target value was achieved in 1999 (10.5UScents/kWh) but the actual price
          fell substantially during the recession/devaluation years; from a low of 6.6US cents in 2002, there
          has been a constant recuperation for this politically sensitive indicator, to 9.5UScents/kWh in
          2005, against a target of 11.6UScents/kWh. The Government has traditionally been committed to
          ensuring that UTE's finances remain healthy and to maintain adequate tariff levels; in fact, UTE's
          domestic tariff is at the upper end when compared with those of other South American countries.
          Because of UTE's financial strength it has been consistently able to transfer resources to the
          Government.

Future monitoring of project performance regarding physical infrastructure can be performed through the
collection of standard utility statistics, as done during project implementation, which is likely to continue.
Further reinforcements to maintain energy security will require either new generation or, as proposed by
UTE, a further interconnection with Brazil to access lower cost energy. The 2005 CAS includes an
investment operation to improve energy security and sector performance, in particular through
interconnection with Brazil, and regulatory strengthening.

8. Assessment of Outcomes

8.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

Project Development Objectives have been relevant throughout project preparation, project
implementation, and closure:

1. Service reliability improvement: this is a basic and sensible objective for utility companies, which
remains relevant at closure; similarly the breakdown into reliability of distribution of electricity, the
efficient use of energy, and customer safety are still relevant. Currently, reliability has been complemented
by the objective of increasing energy security for the country.

2. Supporting the sustainability of reforms being carried out in the power sector: the consolidation of
power sector reform is a sound objective to enhance sector efficiency and ensure reliable electricity supply
at the lowest cost. This objective was in large part achieved when the Electricity Law was passed, as a
condition of effectiveness, and the Government committed to implementing the corresponding regulatory
framework. The Electricity Law was an important step forward in opening the door towards private sector
participation; as an objective, it remains highly relevant, especially in Uruguay, due to partial progress in
advancing the regulatory reforms embodied in the law. The Government is currently examining how to
adapt the institutional and regulatory framework of the sector taking into account the lessons learned from
regional integration and power sector reforms in Latin America and the best organization for the



                                                        10

Uruguayan power sector to take advantage of regional electricity trade.

The design of the project was adequate to achieve the project's development objectives by putting in place
both transmission and distribution equipment to ensure that the system could ensure reliable supply insofar
as physical investments are concerned, the critical reliability and safety reinforcements were identified and
project needs were technically studied to assure that they would be effective.

Regarding the institutional component, its design was adequate to ensure that UTE would be better
prepared to operate within the reformed power sector. UTE's management was improved by putting in
place a SAP administrative system, which allows identifying and allocating costs to business units. UTE's
efficiency was improved as measured through the customer/staff indicator, which achieved the target value
early in the project (1999) and exceeded it thereafter.

The project did not entail components directly aimed at consolidating sector reform as this was expected to
be achieved through the PERL in the early years after project approval, and because the Government used
its own resources to start implementing the electricity law approved as a condition of loan effectiveness. In
2001-02, separate support to power sector reform consolidation was provided through the SAL and its
companion Public Services Modernization TA Loan, as mentioned in Section 6.1.

8.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on outputs in
Annex 4)

Development objectives fall into two broad categories: reliability improvements and the sustainability of
reforms.

A. Reliability improvements.

(i) Improving power distribution reliability: transmission and distribution investments have improved
service reliability as shown in the overall evolution of the monitoring indicators summarized below:

(a) Overall generation supply was monitored through power plant availability, i.e. the percentage of time
that plants were available to supply electricity, and reserve margin, i.e. the capacity available for
unexpected surges of demand or outages of power plants, expressed as a percentage of production capacity;
the project achieved and exceeded the targets in many cases;

(b) Distribution service quality, monitored through the average frequency with which service is interrupted
for a customer (times per year), the average duration of a power cut (hours), and the total duration of power
cuts per customer per year (i.e. how many hours on average a customer lacks service). Regarding
interruption frequency, the recorded values are around the targeted values; the duration of power cuts is,
however, above the targets, particularly outside Montevideo; this can be explained by the sensitivity of
power cut duration to weather phenomena, such as tornadoes (e.g. in August 2005), which require large
remedial intervention by the power company, during which time customers may remain disconnected for
lengthy periods. UTE was awarded ISO 9001:2000 certification in August, 2006, for the process of
resolving power cut incidents; this is clearly evidence that distribution quality has improved.

The following table illustrates some of the key indicators of the project and how they evolved during
project execution (all indicators are included in detail in Annex 1).

  Selected Indicators
  Interruption times     1997                  2000                 2002                   2004
  Montevideo             12 (target:11)        10 (target:8)        11 (target: 4)         6 (target: 4)
  Interior               32 (target: 29)       32 (target 22)       28 (target:8)          13 (target: 7)
  Losses (%)             18 (target: 16)       13.8 (target: 13.5)   15.8 (target 13.5)    18 (target 13.5)




                                                       11

Taken in isolation the project's indicators are not particularly meaningful. A better appreciation of UTE's
capabilities is obtained through international comparisons, which are fully included in Annex 13. Some
conclusions pertaining to UTE's standings are the following:
     · UTE's customer satisfaction is outstanding; in 2003 the company came in second among 30
          private and public utilities in Latin America in a survey conducted by CIER; UTE's ranking has
          been consistent it was 4th in 2004, and 3rd in 2006;

     · Regarding service quality as measured by interruption times, UTE ranks around the average
          (Chile's exhibit a better performance and the Brazilian utilities are similar to UTE;

     · In terms of tariffs, UTE's price levels are similar to those in Brazil, Ecuador and Peru, and lower
          than those in Chile. Providing adequate service at reasonable prices explains customer
          satisfaction to a large degree.

(ii) Promoting efficient use of energy: with Bank support, the Government and UTE prepared and
obtained GEF financing for an Energy Efficiency project (TF053298) that is under implementation; and a
public sector electricity saving plan was implemented in 2005-06. Efficient energy use is also associated
with losses. Towards the middle of project implementation, losses converged to the targeted value;
following the economic recession, they increased substantially (from less than 14% to around 19%),
presumably because of an increase in theft due to economic duress; UTE is actively seeking to reduce them
through meter and connection inspections, and sanctions to transgressors, with early success (losses
dropped to 17.3% in June 2006); the experience of other companies shows that this is an important
challenge that requires persistence with a view to reaching acceptable levels in the medium term. Between
2004 and May 2006, improved measurements have been put in place for around 70,000 residential users
and 12,000 commercial and industrial users, at a cost of around US$6.5 million.

(iii) Improving customer safety: this objective was closely associated with improvements in power
distribution reliability; implementation of arrangements to improve the grounding of customer service
(correcting the unusual floating neutral arrangement for low voltage supply) contributed to an increase in
customer safety.

B. Sustainability of sector reforms.

(i) The project achieved its role in promoting sector reform when the Electricity Law was passed.
Nevertheless, it is illustrative to follow the saga of sector reform once the Law was passed. A regulatory
decree to put in place the regulatory agency and the market administrator was issued in January 1999; the
regulator (UREE) was established in June 2000. The regulator remained relatively ineffectual as long as
UTE maintained its predominance within the sector, but trade with Argentinean electricity producers was
allowed and supplied the demand for electricity in Uruguay at comparatively low cost, at least until the
2002 economic crisis, which led to a dysfunctional regional electricity market. The Bank provided support
to power sector reform through the Public Services Modernization Technical Assistance Loan (Loan 4598-
UR) and conditions were established in the SAL approved on April 8, 2003, to advance with the power
sector reform process. However, the full empowerment of the regulator and the market administrator,
together with the establishment of a competitive power market, remain an elusive goal.

(ii) Consolidation of UTE's institutional capacity: UTE's capacity was strengthened through training
included in the project (managerial seminar to train for the new power sector structure, seminars for UTE's
staff on the new sector structure and UTE's changing role, and environmental strengthening of UTE's
environmental unit). UTE staff is highly conversant with power sector reforms, including those
implemented by their main trading partner in the regional market (Argentina) which has enabled the
company to operate within a regional market environment. The introduction of management tools such as
the SAP system helped UTE to improve its administrative performance and will allow it to adapt to
requirements imposed by the eventually effective implementation of the power sector reform, such as its
separation into business units. On the environmental front, UTE organized a well-trained environmental
unit, with widely recognized expertise. Ultimately, UTE can be characterized as a well-managed, efficient
and self-sufficient power company: it possesses acknowledged technical know-how (as evidenced by


                                                        12

technical assistance provided to other companies), it pioneered the introduction of computer-backed
management systems such as SAP (an area where it also provides external assistance), and the Government
receives dividends through transfers to the Treasury--very much as the owner of a private company would.

8.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost, and
comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

During project preparation, in 1994 and 1995, an economic and financial analysis was performed for the
transmission and distribution investments of the project. The distribution component was evaluated
separately and yielded an economic IRR of 25% and a financial IRR of 19%, as indicated in the SAR. The
transmission component, because of the discrete nature of the investments it envisaged, was not evaluated
separately; rather, an overall evaluation of UTE's investment program was used as a proxy, which yielded a
financial IRR of 15%.

In 1996 the question arose of whether extending the distribution project to outlying areas was justified, and
at the Bank's request UTE prepared an economic analysis, which was then repeated in 2006to obtain an ex-
post perspective. The results of these analyses are summarized as follows:

     Economic Analysis results             Core Area                           Outlying Area

                                           Net PV @12%              IRR%       Net PV @12%          IRR
                                                                                                    %
     Ex-ante (1996)                        61M$                     25%        46M$                 29%
     Ex-post (2006)                        14M$                     19%        23M$                 24%

Although the project is still well-justified, the ex-post benefits are much lower than expected, mainly as a
result of lower-than-expected demand growth due to the years of economic recession.

An ex-post economic evaluation of the transmission component of the project was undertaken, using a base
case expansion plan for generation which yielded an economic IRR of 21% and a financial IRR of 12%.

Despite the differences between the prior and posterior analyses, both indicate that the project is
economically justified.

8.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The project's rating reflects achievements in terms of improving electricity service in Uruguay through
transmission investments, and in Montevideo in particular, through distribution investments. High quality
electricity supplies are known to be a condition for supporting economic development, and the project was
successful in materializing these benefits. The rating also reflects the achievement of its development
objectives insofar as reliability (which was directly addressed by the network reinforcements), efficiency
(transmission investments allowed lower cost dispatch), and customer safety (through distribution
investments) are concerned. Furthermore, these development objectives were achieved with expectations
of high rates of return on investments financed under the project.

The 'moderately satisfactory' status reflects three factors: (a) delays in project implementation, which
despite being mostly explained by the economic recession, could have been avoided had the Government
not refrained from providing sufficient budgetary allocations to UTE in 2002-04; (b) the failure to achieve
some of the goals set out in the project performance indicators; although there are explanations for UTE's
not having achieved the agreed goals, there are areas--such as loss control and receivables--where the
company could have performed better; and (c) slow progress on power sector reform implementation,
though this was not directly supported under the project ­ beyond approval of the electricity law as a



                                                       13

condition of loan effectiveness

8.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The economic recession brought to light the need to address the energy needs of the poor, and a social
tariff was instituted as a consequence of the loss reduction study financed by the project, which showed it
as a way of moderating electricity theft.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

UTE continues to be regarded as a competently run and well-staffed organization. The project strengthened
its technical and management qualities, particularly UTE's environmental unit, which is recognized as
exemplary in the region.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

Improved electricity service, particularly in Montevideo, has increased the public's support for UTE.

8.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Low or Negligible

The benefits associated with the investment components of the project are unlikely to be jeopardized:

(a) The technology involved is well-known and runs little risk of becoming obsolete in the long term;

(b) Maintenance requirements are standard and UTE does not face any technical or financial difficulty in
complying with them;

(c) Risks associated with the operating environment are unlikely to affect the project's components;
Uruguay is located in a stable geological area where earthquakes that could destroy the project's
components are infrequent.

The investment component could be at risk if UTE were to experience a major financial crisis that could
lead to neglecting maintenance procedures and the breakdown of equipment. UTE's track record, even
under conditions such as those experienced in the economic crisis, shows that the company has consistently
complied with manufacturer's instructions and major dereliction is considered very improbable.

In considering the risk associated with the financial situation of UTE it is important to note that, although it
is a Government-owned utility, it has been competently run and, in fact, it is a source of Government
revenue rather than a destination of public resources. Contributions to Government include taxes and
transfers to the Treasury (which totaled around US$37 million in 2004). As noted before, UTE's financial
solidity is evidenced by its success in floating US$25 million bonds based only on the company's guarantee
(the State did not guarantee them). The bonds were rated AA+, which essentially reflected country risk, but
could have been higher otherwise.




                                                      14

10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)
10.1 Bank

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Bank prepared the project as an integral part of its support to the Uruguayan power sector, and inserted
it as a continuation of other loans with UTE in the past. The project took into account the new ideas that
were being discussed and implemented in other Latin American countries regarding power sector
organization, while essentially financing core investment components to upgrade the delivery of electricity.
The role of the project in backing the approval of the Electricity Law was an important accomplishment,
and there was an expectation that support for drafting regulations would come from the Bank's Public
Enterprise Reform Loan (PERL). However, the PERL was nearing closure, and maintaining the
momentum of reform would have called for envisaging further support, for example through an operation
targeted towards supporting the regulatory and market management organizations (e.g. early preparation of
the Public Services Modernization TA). Safeguard issues were taken into account: the investment
component of the project raised no environmental effects--it consisted of standard electrical equipment, and
involved no emissions issues. The project included a program to train the Environmental Unit of UTE
(created as part of loan 3221-UR), which was at an incipient stage and later became a well-regarded team in
the region.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Bank team kept a pro-active relation with UTE during the supervision phase of the Project. Its
reporting in the PSRs and ISRs was realistic and comprehensive. Its ratings of Development Objective
appear justified. There is a question regarding its rating of implementation progress, which is reported
consistently as 'satisfactory'. Given the delays experienced by the project, particularly after the initial
decision to extend the closing date, such a rating does not appear to be justified. The Aide Mémoires
associated with supervision missions were informative and discussed with UTE. There were periods during
which missions were less frequent (e.g. during 2002 when project investments declined due to measures
taken by the Government during the recession), but nevertheless at least one supervision mission a year was
undertaken; increasing the supervision effort during the economic crisis would not have yielded
improvements in implementation given the IMF-related budgetary constraints faced by the Government.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The overall Bank performance rating reflects the ratings for preparation and supervision, as well as the
pertinence of the project in terms of development objectives.

10.2 Borrower

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Government complied with the provisions of the Guarantee Agreement. It put in place the required
mechanisms to ensure that UTE would be paid the bills it issued to central Government and its agencies,
but it was unable to provide support for UTE to collect its bills effectively from agencies such as


                                                      15

municipalities. Some of the failings in the Government's performance include: it did not take the initiative
to streamline the procurement processes early-on in the project, which would have helped to ensure a
speedier implementation (a later Bank technical assistance grant would address the issue), and it was
partially responsible for the initial delay in getting the Electricity Law approved (although most of the
blame can be attributed to protracted discussions in the Legislature).

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Implementing
Agency             Performance

                   UTE undertook project implementation by adequately staffing the project office and
                   ensuring that its technical resources devoted it the required attention. The project was an
                   important undertaking for UTE in order to improve reliability and ensure an overall
                   smooth operation of its system; this high profile was a guarantee--which materialized--
                   that the company was committed to successful preparation and implementation. Financial
                   management of the project was satisfactory and a fluid and transparent dialogue with the
UTE                Bank was maintained throughout implementation. The project's components which have
                   been put in service are operating without major mishaps and their future operation is
                   likely to be satisfactory. UTE could have implemented the project faster, particularly
                   during the later stages, thereby saving resources, and it was unable to control its accounts
                   receivable from Government clients (e.g. municipalities and other). The increase in
                   system losses, associated with greater theft, are particularly striking and have yet to be
                   completely controlled (although UTE is implementing a vigorous loss-reduction effort).

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The combined rating reflects the Government's and UTE's achievements in complying with the conditions
of the Loan Agreement and on having successfully put in place the project's components; it also reflects
shortcomings in the lack of greater diligence to reduce the initial delay in passing the Electricity Law, the
delays experienced during implementation due to the tight fiscal situation during the recession, as well as
the lack of using political pressure in supporting UTE for collecting municipality bills.

11. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

The main lessons of the project are the following:

(i) An investment loan is not the appropriate vehicle to achieve or consolidate sector reform: Although the
focus of the project was not on sector reform, there is an important lesson regarding the approval of the
Electricity Law as an effectiveness condition. Namely, if sector reform is to be effectively implemented, it
is necessary to put in place secondary legislation as well as institutional strengthening measures for the
agencies created by the primary statute, through a parallel operation, such as a TA loan to the Government.
It is also very important that the Government has the political will and backing to adapt the integrated
utility (UTE in this case) to the new competitive environment and allow the regulatory framework to be
fully applied, for the sector reform to be effective.

(ii) Power sector reform should be based on a realistic assessment of the political economy and prospects
for acceptance of this reform: in Uruguay there was a deep-seated acceptance, by the public in general, of
Government-owned companies, and a wariness with respect to private sector management of public
services as evidenced by the 1992 and 2004 plebiscites. It should also be noted that UTE is highly regarded
with the public in terms of transparency, competence, management, and service quality and fund
generation. Finally reform of small power systems has experienced difficulties in several other countries.




                                                        16

(iii) Tariff adjustments reflecting costs of service ensured UTE's financial viability: The Government's
ability to adjust tariffs to reflect costs of service and customers' acceptance these increases, explain UTE
strong financial position, which is a guarantee for the sustainability of project-financed investments.
However, the cost-plus system applied in electricity tariff formation, together with incomplete regulation
of UTE and lack of competition at generation level, point out to a risk of higher tariff than the level of
efficient costs.

(iv) Difficulty of establishing efficiency incentives in the case of profit-making SOEs. While UTE made
significant contributions to Treasury, efficiency gains and/or tariff reductions might still be feasible. These
points to the need to improve corporate governance and to increase efficiency incentives for UTE
management.

(v) Budget restrictions imposed by the Government on UTE hampered investment levels. When submitted
to budget restrictions by the government during the 2001-03 recession, UTE reduced its investment levels.
This affected T&D investments under the project and delayed project implementation. At the same time,
the overall budget allocation for UTE should be part of a more predictable long term planning with proper
incentives in a properly regulated environment for the power sector.

(vi) Impact of UTE's procurement framework and procedures on project implementation: The complexities
of public procurement laws applicable to government-owned utilities often result in delaying bidding
processes and project implementation; this problem is lessened when utilities operate within a private law
framework (e.g. as corporations or limited-liability companies).


12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies




(b) Cofinanciers

N.A.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

N.A.




                                                         17

Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

Project objectives stated in the Loan Agreement were: (a) to improve the reliability of electricity service at
a minimum cost, through the improvement of (i) the reliability of the distribution of power, (ii) the efficient
use of energy, and (iii) customer safety; and (b) to support the sustainability of the reforms being carried
out in the power sector, through the consolidation of (i) such reforms; and (ii) UTE's institutional capacity.

Indicators set out in the SAR consisted of: (a) Availability factor for each power plant in the system (%);
(b) Reserve margin (%); (c) Average number of interruptions per customer (number/customer) for
Montevideo and the rest of the country; (d) Average time of interruption per customer (hours/customer) for
Montevideo and the rest of the country; (e) Total losses as a percentage of total generation; (f) Staffing
levels (customers/employee); (g) Tariff defined as the average price per kWh; (h) Receivables (days); (i)
Cash Operating Ratio (%); (j) Self-financing ratio (%); and (k) debt service coverage (times).

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

The objectives remained unchanged throughout the project's implementation. Key indicators also remained
unchanged, with the exception of indicators related to reliability monitoring (average number of
interruptions per customer and average time of interruption per customer) that were redefined with greater
clarity in 1997 as: (a) Total time of interruptions per year in hours/customer, (b) Average number of
interruptions per customer/year, and (c) Average duration of each interruption in hours per customer per
year.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                                Actual Value

Indicator                Baseline Value      Values (from         Formally Revised          Achieved at
                                             approval             Target Values             Completion or
                                             documents)                                     Target Years
Indicator 1 :            Increase in UTE's staff productivity (customers per employee)
Value
(quantitative or         110                 140                                            197
Qualitative)
Date achieved            12/31/1995          12/31/2002                                     06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. % achievement)    The target value of 140 customer/employee was achieved in 1998

Indicator 2 :            Tc: total duration of service interruptions per customer in Montevideo (hours per
                         year)
Value                                                                                       6.0 in 2003, 5.59
(quantitative or         12                  4                                              in 2004, 12.4 in
Qualitative)                                                                                2005
Date achieved            12/31/1997          12/31/2002                                     12/31/2005
Comments                 In 2005 the indicator deteriorated due to major meteorological disturbances
(incl. % achievement) (tornadoes)

Indicator 3 :            Tc: total duration of service interruptions per customer outside Montevideo (hours
                         per year)
Value
(quantitative or         32                  7.2                                            12.85 in 2004,
Qualitative)                                                                                37.94 in 2005

Date achieved            12/31/1997          12/31/2002                                     12/31/2005



                                                        18

Comments
(incl. % achievement) same as PDO 2

Indicator 4 :        Fc: average number of interruptions per customer/year in Montevideo --SAIFI--
Value
(quantitative or      11                4.24                                          4.71 in 2004, 5.2

Qualitative)                                                                          in 2005

Date achieved         12/31/1997        12/31/2002                                    12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. % achievement)

Indicator 5 :        Fc: average number of interruptions per customer/year outside Montevideo --
                     SAIFI--
Value
(quantitative or      25                13.88                                         8.95 in 2004, 10 in

Qualitative)                                                                          2005

Date achieved         12/31/1997        12/31/2002                                    12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. % achievement)

Indicator 6 :        Dc: average duration of interruption per customer per year (hours) in Montevideo --
                     SAIDI--
Value
(quantitative or      1.03              0.94                                          1.19 in 2004, 2.38

Qualitative)                                                                          in 2005

Date achieved         12/31/1997        12/31/2002                                    12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. % achievement)

Indicator 7 :        Dc: average duration of interruption per customer per year (hours) outside
                     Montevideo --SAIDI--
Value
(quantitative or      1.28              0.52                                          1.44 in 2004, 3.79

Qualitative)                                                                          in 2005

Date achieved         12/31/1997        12/31/2002                                    12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. % achievement)
Indicator 8 :        Total power losses (technical and commercial) in %
Value                                                                                 13.8% in 2000,
(quantitative or      18.02             13.5                                          19.4% in 2004,
Qualitative)                                                                          18% in 2005
Date achieved         12/31/1997        12/31/2002                                    12/31/2005
Comments              Losses decreased during first years of project implementation, and deteriorated
(incl. % achievement) subsequently with economic recession
Indicator 9 :        Domestic tariff (US cents/kWh)
Value                                                                                 10.5 in 1999, 6.6
(quantitative or      11                11.3                                          in 2002, 9.5 in
Qualitative)                                                                          2005
Date achieved         12/31/1997        12/31/2002                                    12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. % achievement) Economic recession and devaluation reduced the price by almost half



Indicator 10 :        Receivables (days)



                                                   19

Value
(quantitative or      Private sector: 19 Private sector: 30                          Private sector: 26

Qualitative)          Government: 116 Government: 60                                 Government: 251

Date achieved         12/31/1997          12/31/2002                                 12/31/2005
Comments              Central Government is around 170, but decentralized government agencies and
(incl. % achievement) municipalities are in excess of 500 days
Indicator 11 :        Cash Operating Ratio (%)
Value                                                                                50 in 2001 and
(quantitative or      57                  55                                         2002, 54 in 2003,
Qualitative)                                                                         66 in 2005
Date achieved         12/31/1997          12/31/2002                                 12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. % achievement) Higher operating costs have resulted due to oil price increase

Indicator 12 :        Self-financing ratio (%)
Value
(quantitative or      83                  50                                         51
Qualitative)
Date achieved         12/31/1997          12/31/2002                                 12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. % achievement)
Indicator 13 :        Debt service coverage (times)
Value
(quantitative or      1.98                1.5                                        1.73
Qualitative)
Date achieved         12/31/1997          12/31/2002                                 12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. % achievement)
Indicator 14 :        Reserve margin (%)
Value
(quantitative or      40                  >20                                        29
Qualitative)
Date achieved         12/31/1997          12/31/2002                                 12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. % achievement)
Indicator 15 :        Power plant availability factors (%)
                      Gabriel Terra: 78 Gabriel Terra: 95                            Gabriel Terra: 98

Value                 Baygorria: 98       Baygorria: 75                              Baygorria: 98

(quantitative or      Palmar: 95 Salto    Palmar: 90 Salto                           Palmar: 95 Salto

Qualitative)          Grande: 95 La       Grande: 95 La                              Grande: 95 La
                      Tablada: 98 Batlle: Tablada: 80 Batlle:                        Tablada: 85 Batlle:
                      61 Maldonado: 95 75 Maldonado: 75                              81 Maldonado: 72
Date achieved         12/31/1997          12/31/2002                                 12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. % achievement) Availability factors exceeded targets in 2003 and 2004.




                                                   20

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)


                 Baseline   Original Target Values                       Actual Value Achieved at
Indicator                                             Formally Revised
                 Value      (from approval                               Completion or Target
                            documents)                Target Values      Years
Indicator 1 :    There were no intermediate outcome indicators in the PAD
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :    There were no intermediate outcome indicators in the PAD
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 :    There were no intermediate outcome indicators in the PAD
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




                                                 21

Annex 2. Restructuring (if any)

Not Applicable




                                   22

Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

Components                                               Appraisal        Actual/Latest      Percentage of
                                                         Estimate (USD M) Estimate (USD M)   Appraisal
MODIFICATION OF 500 KV SUBSTATIONS                       39.20           26.10               66.58
EXPANSION OF THE 150-KV TRANSMISSION
SYSTEM IN MONTEVIDEO                                     44.50           37.90               85.17

FIRST PHASE OF RENOVATION OF THE
MONTEVIDEO DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM                           80.80           101.70              125.87

TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                     1.80             0.20               11.11
TRAINING                                                 0.70            0.10                14.29
INTEREST DURING CONSTRUCTION                             31.50            9.00               28.57
Total Baseline Cost                                      198.50           175.00
Physical Contingencies                                   12.50
Price Contingencies                                      17.00
Total Project Costs                                      228.00
Front-end fee PPF                                        0.00             0.00               0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                                       0.00             0.00               0.00
Total Financing Required                                 228.00          175.00


(b) Financing
                                                              Appraisal
Source of Funds                                 Type of                      Actual/Latest    Percentage of
                                                Cofinancing   Estimate (USD
                                                              M)             Estimate (USD M) Appraisal

Borrower                                                      103.00         50.80            49.32
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND                                            125.00         124.10           99.28
DEVELOPMENT

(c) Disbursement Profile




Note: The graph is in currency of the loan/credit/grant.




                                                        23

Annex 4. Outputs by Component

Project Outputs

Investment component

1. Transmission equipment (500kV and 150kv): 24 bid requests were issued for a total of around $49 million,
which comprised 500kV and 150kV transformers and reactors, 500/150kV switching equipment, condensers, SF6
substation equipment, communications equipment, underground cable, civil works, control and protection
equipment;

2. Distribution equipment (medium and low voltage): 49 bid requests were issued for a total of around $75
million, which comprised conductors, underground cable, compact transformer banks, substation transformers,
medium voltage equipment, security equipment, metering equipment (including time of day meters), civil works,
breakers, tools, medium voltage substation panels and bays, and solar panels.
Institutional strengthening component

1. Consulting financed by the project: Study for the reduction of non-technical losses ($106,500) and support for
project implementation ($64,000).

2. Training: UTE conducted 17 seminars/ meetings to deal with different aspects of sector reform, including
market organization, grid codes, and economics of regulation, regulation and distribution, power markets, regional
power markets, among others. The direct costs amounted to around $35,000 (mostly in-house resources were
used).




                                                   24

Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis)

A- ECONOMIC ANALYSIS IN SAR
1. UTE's expansion plan was prepared based on an average annual expected load growth of 4.26% for the next ten
years, which is considered appropriate (see Annex 5). The generation expansion plan was based on a power
balance study prepared by UTE which the Bank found satisfactory, and on a feasibility study prepared by Southern
Electric International (Feasibility Study of Units 3 and 4 Batlle y Ordoiiez Power Station and Expansion of La
Tablada Power Station) under a grant from the US Government. The transmission system expansion plan was
based on a consultant study prepared by UTE with the help of MARTE Engenharia (Obras de Transmision,
Comunicaciones y Telecontrol - Periodo 1994/2000 - Expansion Plan for Transmission, Telecommunications and
Telecontrol Systems for Period 1994-2000), financed under Loan 3221-UR. The renovation of the distribution
system was recommended by a consultant study prepared by Fitchner (Estudio de Distribuci6n de Energia) financed
under Loan 2484-UR, and confirmed by an additional study prepared by SwedPower (Consulting Services for
Feasibility Studies of New Topology of the Distribution System for UTE Montevideo) under a grant from the
Swedish Government. The Bank has reviewed these studies and found them satisfactory. Based on the studies
performed, the Bank was assured that UTE's expansion plan represents the least cost solution for the required
system expansion.

2. The proposed project includes investments in two different areas: (i) transmission expansion to allow an adequate
supply of electricity to an expanding market; and (ii) renovation of the distribution system in three areas in the city
of Montevideo to improve reliability, reduce technical losses, and extend the life of the power system. It is difficult
to separate accurately the benefits resulting from each of these investments from the general benefits resulting from
the investment program. However, to avoid doubt, a conservative approach was utilized in the economic analysis of
the project. Under this approach two different rate of return were calculated: first, the rate of return of the
renovation of the distribution system of Montevideo; and second, the rate of return of the entire investment program
for the period 1995-2003.

3. The internal rate of return of the renovation of the distribution system was computed as the discount rate
equalizing the present value of the cost streams and benefits associated with it. The cost stream (in 1994 constant
prices) comprises the capital cost of the renovation equipment and works (excluding taxes and duties) for the entire
distribution system in Montevideo, the operational and maintenance costs and the upstream cost (generation and
transmission) of energy supplied, for the condition with and without the renovation. The benefits were measured by
the consumer willingness to pay the unsupplied energy in the "without project" scenario calculated at its lower
bound value as the cost of unsupplied energy at the current tariff. The amount of unsupplied energy was estimated
as the unserved energy by the existing system due to its capacity limitations. This is a conservative estimate since
the unserved energy due to service interruptions was not included. The proposed project would finance only the
first phase of this renovation; however, no attempt was made to evaluate the economic rate of return of this separate
part of the system because the renovation in question will, in fact, install a complete new system with different
voltage levels. Therefore, the only justification to implement the first phase visas part of the renovation of the
whole system. To analyze the influence of this investment decision an alternative case was considered and the
internal rate of return was computed using the cost stream at market level investments costs, i.e., including taxes
and duties (to analyze the decision from a corporate point of view). Also to analyze the influence of variation in the
assumptions, a sensitivity analysis was carried out. The results of these analyses are:

                          Internal Rate of Return of Distribution Renovation Component
      Scenario
                1.   Base Case                                                             25.1%
                2.   Investments 10% higher                                                23.1%
                3.   Benefits 10% lower                                                    19.1%
                4.   Benefits 10% higher                                                   31.2%
                5.   Benefits 10% lower and Investments 10% higher                        17. 7%
                6.   Investments 30% higher                                                20.1%
                7.   Alternative case (Investments at market values                       19. 2%
                8.   Alternative Case (market values)with Investments 10% higher           17.8%
                9.   Alternative Case (market values) with Benefits 10% lower             14. 6%




                                                         25

4. The rate of return of UTE's investment program for the period 1995-2003 is 15.4%. It was computed at a
discount rate equalizing the present value of the stream of costs and benefits associated with UTE's expansion plan.
The cost stream, in constant 1994 prices, comprises the capital cost of the investment program (excluding taxes and
duties) and the associated incremental operational and maintenance costs. Revenues derived from incremental sales
were used as a proxy for benefits. The benefit stream represents revenues generated by the investment program
using average tariffs, also in constant prices, and assuming that these benefits are attributed to the program at 50%
in 1995, 60% in 1996, 70% in 1997, 80% in 1998 and 100% from 1999 on. Other benefits to the society and the
economy of the country -- such as those derived from improvement of service quality to customers and availability
of energy -- were not included in this analysis. If social benefits were included, the rate of return would be higher.

5. Sensitivity analyses were carried out to evaluate the impact on the base case internal rate of return as a result of
variations in key parameters. The results of these analyses were:

                              Internal Rate of Return on UTE's Investment Program
Scenario
               1.   Base Case                                                           15. 4%
               2.   Investments 10% higher                                              13. 6%
               3.   Benefits 10% lower                                                  12. 5%
               4.   Benefits 10% higher                                                 18.1 %
               5.   Benefits 10% lower and Investments 10% higher                       10.9%
               6    Investments 30% higher                                              10. 7%

B- EX-ANTE ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF DISTRIBUTION COMPONENT (1997)
This analysis was executed before the initiation of the project to confirm the economic desirability of a new
proposed strategy for voltage change in Montevideo, which consisted of extending the change to substations outside
the area which was originally targeted. The methodology was similar to the one outlined above, with an evaluation
of benefits resulting from incremental energy (including consumer surplus with a price elasticity of -0.36), loss
reduction and reduced power cuts.

The prices used for estimating the benefits associated with incremental energy and consumer surplus were:

               Residential                                            0.11 US$/kWh
               Commercial                                             0.13 US$/kWh
               Industrial                                             0.11 US$/kWh


The results were:

                                          Results for Original Area
               Discount
               Rate      NPV (M$)          IRR         NPV/Investment             PV Investment

               8%        120 203           25.03%      2.84                        43 225
               10%        86 259           25.02%      2.17                        39 750
               12%        61 419           25.03%      1.64                        37 451

                                           Results for Extension Area
               Discount
               Rate      NPV (M$)          IRR         NPV/Investment             PV Investment

               8%         86 039           29.38%      3.52                        24 443
               10%        63 250           29.38%      2.76                        22 917
               12%        46 475           29.38%      2.15                        21 616


C- EX-POST ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF DISTRIBUTION COMPONENT (2006)

A similar analysis was conducted upon project closure. The assumptions concerning energy prices were slightly



                                                       26

higher, but the same price elasticity was assumed.

                Residential                             0.13 US$/kWh
                Commercial                              0.15 US$/kWh
                Industrial                              0.12 US$/kWh

The results were:

                                           Results for Original Area
                Discount
               Rate        NPV (M$)          IRR      NPV/Investment               PV Investment

                8%         31 223            19%      1.92                          16 289
                10%        21 388            19%      1.37                          15 621
                12%        14 100            19%      0.94                          15 007

                                          Results for Extension Area
                Discount
               Rate        NPV (M$)          IRR      NPV/Investment               PV Investment

                8%         45 022            24%      2.81                          16 402
                10%        32 617            24%      2.12                          15 393
                12%        23 354            24%      1.58                          14 796

D. EX-POST EVALUATION OF THE TRANSMISSION PROGRAM

This analysis is particularly illuminating, as it provides a perspective on the frequently fickle nature of projected
assumptions. It notes that the project was prepared in 1993/94 for a maximum demand of 1,600MW to be attained
in 2002, which hasn't been reached by 2006. It also notes that none of the expected thermal plants, including two
large combined cycle stations, was put in service. The ex-post evaluation of the project took these lessons into
account by moderating its assumptions regarding demand growth and limiting it to less than 3% per annum.

The methodology employed for the evaluation consisted of comparing net benefits and net costs obtained as the
difference between a "with" and "without" project scenario. Net costs refer to differences in investment,
ancillary, and O&M costs with and without the project; net benefits refer to differences associated with reductions
in unserved energy, and incremental demand facilitated by the project. Two hydrology conditions were simulated
to take into account different dispatch possibilities. The results are summarized as follows:


                      Cost Difference (w and w/o project)       Benefit Difference (w and
                                                                       w/o project)        Net Benefit



        Period Investments O&M      Unserved                    Reduced   Fault      Incremental
                                    energy    Ancillary Total   Unserved                          Total
                                                                energy    Reduction Sales

       2000-
       2030     58,546      18,414 -49,896    3,371      30,436 331,922 2,988        32,127       367,037 336,600

        All values in US'000


The corresponding indicators are: IRR= 21.43%, B/C ratio=12.06, B/Investment ratio=6.27

A sensitivity analysis complemented the latter; if project benefits and costs are frozen after 2016 (which
corresponds to the planning horizon of the long run energy simulation), IRR is reduced to around 14%, and the B/C
ratio becomes 1.6. This result shows that the transmission capacity enabled by the project will only become fully
utilized in the long term.




                                                       27

Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

Names                      Title                   Unit                   Responsibility/Specialty
Lending
Armando Ribeiro Araujo Consultant                     OPCPR               Staff/task mgr at apprais
Ricardo S. Klockner        Sr Financial Analyst       LCSFP               Financial Analysis
Supervision/ICR
Suman Babbar               Sr Adviser                 IEF                 Privatization specialist
Alvaro J. Covarrubias      Consultant                 LCSFE               Staff/ mission leader
Nelson De Franco           Consultant                 LCSFE               Staff/ mission leader
Philippe J-P. Durand       Lead Energy Specialist     LCSFE               Task mgr at completion
Susan G. Goldmark          Sector Manager             LCSFE               Sector Manager
Ricardo S. Klockner        Sr Financial Analyst       LCSFP               Financial Analysis
Fernando Lecaros           Sr Energy Spec.            LCSFE               ICR author
Lucia Spinelli             Consultant                 LCSFE               Economic Analysis
Luis M. Vaca-Soto          Consultant                 LCSFE               Staff/ mission leader

(b) Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

No. Date ISR Archived         DO               IP             Actual Disbursements (USD M)
1     12/07/1995                Satisfactory     Satisfactory 0.00
2     06/30/1996                Satisfactory     Satisfactory 0.00
3     08/28/1996                Satisfactory     Satisfactory 0.00
4     06/05/1997                Satisfactory     Satisfactory 0.00
5     12/03/1997                Satisfactory     Satisfactory 1.11
6     06/02/1998                Satisfactory     Satisfactory 1.97
7     06/19/1998                Satisfactory     Satisfactory 1.97
8     12/30/1998                Satisfactory     Satisfactory 8.79
9     06/19/1999                Satisfactory     Satisfactory 17.57
10 12/07/1999                   Satisfactory     Satisfactory 22.47
11 06/23/2000                   Satisfactory     Satisfactory 26.54
12 11/30/2000                   Satisfactory     Satisfactory 29.98
13 06/21/2001                   Satisfactory     Satisfactory 44.43
14 11/30/2001                   Satisfactory     Satisfactory 51.82
15 05/30/2002                   Satisfactory     Satisfactory 57.49
16 11/26/2002                   Satisfactory     Satisfactory 65.28
17 05/30/2003                   Satisfactory     Satisfactory 66.46
18 12/05/2003                   Satisfactory     Satisfactory 67.86
19 05/22/2004                   Satisfactory     Satisfactory 76.41
20 11/22/2004                   Satisfactory     Satisfactory 81.10
21 04/28/2005                   Satisfactory     Satisfactory 88.28
22 07/21/2005                   Satisfactory     Satisfactory 97.48
23 11/19/2005                   Satisfactory     Satisfactory 110.67
24 07/12/2006                   Satisfactory     Satisfactory 123.71

(c) Staff Time and Cost


                                                  28

                           Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

Stage of Project Cycle                            USD Thousands
                           No. of staff weeks     (including travel and
                                                  consultant costs)
Lending
FY93                                              0.36
FY94                                              86.93
FY95                                              49.13
FY96                                              8.80
FY97                                              0.00
FY98                                              0.00
FY99                                              4.81
FY00                                              2.25
FY01                                              0.00
FY02                                              0.00
FY03                                              0.00
FY04                                              0.00
FY05                                              0.00
FY06                                              0.00
FY07                                              0.00
Total:                                            152.28
Supervision/ICR
FY93                                              0.00
FY94                                              0.00
FY95                                              0.00
FY96                                              13.18
FY97                                              29.44
FY98                                              54.53
FY99                                              42.86
FY00                       14                     72.09
FY01                       13                     43.37
FY02                       8                      54.79
FY03                       9                      62.83
FY04                       6                      86.26
FY05                       4                      63.08
FY06                       7                      69.79
FY07                                              12.05
Total:                     61                     604.27




                          29

Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank                      Ratings                  Borrower           Ratings
Ensuring Quality at Entry: Moderately Satisfactory Government:        Moderately Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision:   Moderately Satisfactory  Implementing
                                                   Agency/Agencies:   Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                       Overall Borrower
Performance:              Moderately Satisfactory  Performance:       Moderately Satisfactory




                                                  30

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)




                                             31

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)




                                            32

Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR



COMPLETION REPORT

1. Main factors that affected implementation and results.

a) Factors not under Government or UTE's control
         - Initial delay: this was because Loan effectiveness was subject to having an approved new
         institutional power sector framework.
         - 2002 crisis: banks went bankrupt and the dollar jumped from around $10 to over $30, which led
         to a decreased participation of own funds in the projects, and great difficulties for suppliers to
         obtain bank guarantees to present to UTE.
         - A majority of suppliers presented their proposals in Euros, which led to a cost overrun in
         relation to the original estimate in dollars.
         - The increase in the prices of aluminum and oil led to exorbitant adjustments in the purchase
         costs of cables.
         - Unsuccessful bidders presented claims that led to delays in contract award.
         - Some suppliers arrived at the contract-signing stage without the required documentation (e.g.
         foreign firms which still had to obtain powers of attorney), or with faulty documentation, which
         delayed contract signing.

b) Factors generally subject to Government control

         - Budget limitations: financed investments were sometimes not executed with the proper priority
         and were affected by budget cuts.

c) Factors generally subject to UTE's control

         - The Bank's requirement that there be a contract between a supplier and UTE (which in other
         UTE bidding processes doesn't apply because the transaction is deemed to be agreed and
         perfected when the supplier presents the performance guarantee) implied an important delay due
         to notary's demands for recognizing the contract.

2. Sustainability

UTE has made adequate provisions for maintaining all equipment.

3. Bank and Borrower performance

We believe that the performance of the Bank and UTE were satisfactory, although significant delays were
associated in 2003 with modifications of bidding documents on the Bank's part, and the application of
different criteria depending on who reviewed them.

4. Lessons learned
         - We believe there should be a mechanism whereby bidders that claim and are unsuccessful in
         their endeavor, should compensate UTE for costs and delays incurred because of their actions.

         - A guarantee should be required for any claim.

         - Transmission bidding processes should be grouped together.

         - To avoid delays in execution, signing of a contract could be substituted by the supplier's assent
         and the presentation of a performance bond according to the contract's amount--which should be
         in excess of US$30,000. In the case of major turnkey works, contracts would continue to be
         signed.




                                                      33

Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders




                                             34

Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents

Staff Appraisal Report- Uruguay- Power Transmission and Distribution Project, September 13, 1995,
Report No. 13433-UR
Estudio de rentabilidad económica de la nueva estrategia de implementación del cambio de tensión en la
ciudad de Montevide o, UTE, 1997
Evaluación económica ex-post del cambio de tensión en la ciudad de Montevideo, UTE, 2006
Evaluación económica ex-post del Proyecto de Transmisión UTE-BIRF 1994-2002
Informe trimestral de avance al 30-06-2006 UTE, 30 June 2006




                                                   35

Annex 13. Additional Annexes
13.1

UTE's service reliability, efficiency and financial indicators.

PROJECT INDICATORS

The project main objective consisted of improving electricity service reliability at least cost. Thus, key
project indicators can be divided in two groups, those closely related with service reliability and those
that capture the increase in efficiency. Inside the latter group indicators can be classified in two
categories: i) indicators resulting from UTE's managerial skills and, ii) tariffs and financial indicators.

I) SERVICE RELIABILITY

Service Interruptions in Montevideo

While the interruption frequency is around the agreed values (see details in table below), the interruption
duration is far above. Consequently, total interruption time was above the agreed value, though
decreasing since 2001 and getting near the target in 2004. The unusual rebound experienced in 2005 can
be explained by climate factors, including a severe storm in the month of August 2005.


                             Montevideo Total Interruption Time
                    16.00

                    14.00

                    12.00

                    10.00

                     8.00

                     6.00

                     4.00

                     2.00

                     0.00
                            1997    1998   2000    2001    2002    2003    2004   2005

                                        Montevideo - Real      Montevideo - Agreed



Service interruptions in the Country's interior

The total performance in the Interior is worse than in Montevideo. Again, interruption frequency is near
the agreed values or even below but interruption duration is far above. The same rebound due to unusual
weather conditions can be observed in 2005.




                                                       36

                              Interior - Total Interruption Time

                     50
                     45
                     40
                     35
                     30
                     25
                     20
                     15
                     10
                     5
                     0
                          1997   1998    2000     2001    2002    2003      2004  2005


                                          Interior - Real    Interior - Agreed



II) EFFICIENCY

UTE's managerial skills.

Losses. This indicator fluctuated as follows: after project start and up to 2000, losses converged towards
the agreed values (i.e. less than 14%). Starting in 2000, due to the economic crisis, losses began to
increase; they reached a maximum of 19% in 2004. UTE reacted by designing a loss reduction plan,
including an increase of inspections as well as improvements in connections and metering equipment.
UTE's efforts have paid off, and starting in 2005 losses have started to decrease, although their absolute
value is still high (17.3% in June 2006) compared to the target efficient level of 13.5 %.


                                       Total Power Losses

                       20.00

                       18.00

                       16.00

                    %  14.00

                       12.00

                       10.00

                        8.00
                              1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005             Jun-
                                                                                        06


                          Total Power Losses - agreed        Total Power Losses - real


    · Staffing. The client/employee ratio improved constantly during the period of project
         implementation, and exceeded the targets. In 1997 the ratio was 138 clients per employee; in
         2006 this value reached 197 customers per employee.
    · Receivables. The receivables period for private sector customers lies within the agreed range.
         For public sector customers the situation is different: whereas bills from Government and other
         central entities are being paid within 75 days (which is above the 60 day target but shows
         considerable improvement relative to the levels--above 170--at project initiation), municipalities
         continue with great delays in payments, often in excess of 500 days. UTE is in the process of


                                                       37

                                                               establishing payment plans with the municipalities, together with efficient public lighting
                                                               projects that will reduce municipal electricity consumption and thus improve their ability to
                                                               pay.
                              · Power plant availability and reserve margin. All power plants achieved the key indicator
                                                               objective, improving on it considerably in many cases; the reserve margin was increased far
                                                               beyond the agreed levels, with a decreasing tendency in the last years (in 2005 it was around
                                                               30%). However, it should be noted that in Uruguay the capacity margin is not as important as
                                                               the energy production potential, due to the variability of hydroelectric production

Tariffs and financial indicators

                              · Domestic tariff (US cents/kWh). This indicator progressed well until 1999 when it reached its
                                                               goal of 10.8 cents/kWh. Thereafter it declined, in parallel with the devaluation of the peso,
                                                               reaching a nadir of 6.6 cents/kWh in 2002. Subsequently the indicator has recuperated its value,
                                                               reaching a level of 9.5 cents/kWh in 2005. It is worth mentioning that the agreed tariffs
                                                               incorporated estimates of government appropriation (direct payments to Government) higher
                                                               than real ones - thus resulting in an overestimation of required tariffs.
                              · Financial indicators. As a result of the above managerial indicators and the tariffs level, UTE's
                                                               financial ratios show a solid position, with encouraging prospects for the medium and long
                                                               term. The loan agreement covenants relative to internal generation of funds and debt coverage
                                                               have been complied with. The cash operating ratio did not reach the agreed level by the closing
                                                               date; however, it was reached on most of the years prior to 2004. For 2006 it is estimated at
                                                               62.04%, in excess of the 55% goal; the increase in this indicator in 2004-06 is due to the
                                                               increase in costs to supply demand since the beginning of 2004, as a result of low hydrological
                                                               runoff and the increase in international fuel prices. In December 2004 UTE successfully floated
                                                               a US$30 million bond issue, which is an indication of the strength of the company's financial
                                                               position.

Summing up, the following table presents the evolution of all the indicators, including target and real
values.

                                                                                                          1997         1998         1999         2000         2001         2002         2003    2004    2005
                                                                           Indicators
                                                                                                      Target Real  Target Real  Target Real  Target Real  Target Real  Target Real  Target Real  Real    Real

                                                              Average number of interrumption
                                                              per custumer/year (Fc)
            yt                                                                          Montevideo 10.67     11.26  9.24   7.82  7.61   9.62  5.97   9.4   4.33 11.59   4.24   6.8   4.16  5.98   4.71     5.2
              ilib                                                                           Interior 23.86  25.36 21.96 20.75  19.36  21.35 16.76 23.24  14.16 23.32  13.88 20.24   13.6 12.56   8.95       10

                                                              Average duration of interruption
                  lia                                         per customer per year - hours (Dc)
                     re
                       ecivreS                                                          Montevideo     1.03   1.03  1.05   1.08  1.02   1.06     1   1.50  0.97   0.98  0.94   1.66  0.91  1.00   1.19    2.38
                                                                                             Interior  1.22   1.28  1.23   1.38  1.00   1.49  0.77   1.89  0.54   1.30  0.52   1.38  0.51  1.66   1.44    3.79
                                                              Total duration of service
                                                              interruption per customer - hours
                                                              per year (Tc)
                                                                                        Montevideo       11  11.65  9.77   8.47  7.91  10.19  6.06 14.10     4.2 11.36    4.2 11.28  3.79  6.00   5.59   12.38
                                                                                             Interior  29.3   32.4 28.87   28.6 21.79  31.86  14.7 43.85   7.61 30.27   7.61 27.98   6.87 20.81  12.85   37.94
                                                              Total Power Losses (%)                  15.60  18.02 14.60 14.70  14.00  14.00 13.50 13.80  13.50 14.50  13.50 15.80 13.50 19.20   19.40       18

                                                              Staffing (Customers per employee)         114   138    118   143    122   147    126   161    131   168    135   176    140   180    189     193

                                      tn                      Receivables (days)
                                                              Private Sector                             30     19    30     19    30     22    30     22    30     21    30     21    30    24      28      26
                                        meega                 Government                                 60   116     60   151     60   174     60   193     60   256     60   229     60   222    247     251
                                                                                      Public entities                                                               83         105           83      78      75
                                                                                      Municipalities                                                              567          453          472    551     567
                                                              Power plant availability factor (%)
 y                                           man                          Gabriel Terra Hydroplant       74  78.00    90 96.75     95  97.12    95 95.97     95 97.01     95 97.43     95 97.53  98.22   97.60
                                                                              Baygorria Hydroplant       93  98.07    93 97.84     93  96.58    66 97.44     66 94.90     75 98.63     75 97.64  98.89   97.87
  enc                                           s
                                                                                 Palmar Hydroplant       90  94.96    90 97.57     90  96.73    90 92.80     90 96.60     90 96.47     90 96.13  96.79   95.02
     ci                                          E'
                                                                           Salto Grande Hydroplant       95  95.00    95 95.00     95  95.00    95 95.00     95 95.00     95 95.00     95 95.00  95.00   95.00
                                                   UT
       Effi                                                                La Tablada Thermoplant        80  97.90    80 90.02     80  69,57    80 78.97     80 96.30     80 76.69     80 90.55  98.19   85.48
                                                                                 Batlle Thermoplant      65  61.00    65 94.27     65  83.57    65 82.59     75 92.50     75 98.54     75 98.81  88.50   81.14
                                                                           Maldonado Thermoplant         70  94.66    70 68.42     70  46.32    70 93.95      0 93.95         99.28       91.66  90.17   71.68
                                                              Reserve Margin (%)                         20  40.00    20 39.14     20  36.19    20 30.83     20 30.40     20 32.97     20 35.14          29.32

                                                              Domestic Tariffs (U$S cents/kWh)        10.00  11.00 10.30 10.60  10.50  10.50 10.80   9.90 11.10   8.40 11.30   6.60 11.60  7.00   7.90      9.5
                              &                      la
                                                              Cash operating ratio (%)                   60  57.32    55 54.80     55  61.14    55 59.60     55 50.10     55 50.40     55 54.10  76.40    66.4
                               ffsi                    nci
                                                              Self-financing ratio (%)                   50  83.00    50 85.00     50  74.00    50 84.00     50 76.00     50 57.00     50 85.00  15.00       51
                                   Tar                    FinaDebt service coverage (times)            1.50   1.98  1.50   1.95  1.50   1.88  1.50   1.86  1.50   2.03  1.50   1.67  1.50  1.37   0.92    1.73




                                                                                                                                      38

UTE's SERVICE QUALITY

Besides project indicators, it is important to assess UTE's service quality and to compare its
accomplishments with other utilities in the region.

As regards customer satisfaction, UTE's performance is outstanding. In 2003 the company obtained the
second scoring, between 30 private and public utilities, in the Customer Satisfaction Survey conducted
by the Regional Energy Integration Commission (CIER). In 2004, UTE's ranking was 4th, behind 3
Brazilian utilities and in 2006 UTE's position is 3rd, behind CELESC and COPEL, both Brazilian
utilities.

In terms of total interruption time, as shown in the graph below, UTE's levels are near the regional
average. El Salvador utilities are far above, Chile's shows a better performance and the Brazilian levels
are similar to UTE's.


                                                                Total Interruption time
                       Rural Urban         Total


                      100

                       80

                 s     60

                  hour
                       40

                       20

                        0
                              -    y                                  r                             -               -             -                  -             -             -
                               E                                                  RA                                               R

                                UT  guaurU ESALC    lE- or                                                                 ile            nati        LF            RJ
                                                          advlaS -                  CTEL             GA
                                                                                                       M     eil                                           liza          liza
                                                                                                                              Ch    ESU                 CP     Br     CE     Br   LUS    liza


                                                AES               OEE  adovlaSlE            ilehC-      EL      Ch   AESAS
                                                                                                                                       ED     genrA                                  ESA     Br

                                                                                        CHI               ED
Source: Regulatory agencies and Utilities.

Finally, in terms of tariffs, the table below shows that UTE's levels are similar to those in Brazil,
Ecuador and Perú. However, it should be pointed out that the compared countries have different power
sector characteristics that affect tariff levels (in particular the share of hydropower). The following chart
synthesized countries power sector main features.




                                                                                                   39

Electricity Tariffs ­ Final Consumers




Source: CIER




                                        40

