Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13433-UR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
URUGUAY
POWER TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
SEPTEMBER 13, 1995
Infrastructure and Urban Development Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Uruguayan Peso (Ur$)
US$1 = Ur$6.1 (April 1995)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
kcal  =     kilocalorie (3.968 Btu; 4,186.8 Joules)
kg    =     kilogram (2.206 pounds)
km    =     kilometer (0.62 mile)
kW    =     kilowatt (1.34 horsepower)
kWh  =      kilowatt-hour (860.42 kcal)
TOE  =      Tons of Oil Equivalent (10.415 million kcal)
k     =     (kilo) thousand
M           (Mega) million
G     =     (Giga) billion
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANCAP       Administraci6n Nacional de Combustibles Alcohol y Portland
(National Fuel, Alcohol and Cement Company)
ANTEL       Administraci6n Nacional de Telecomunicaciones (National Telecommunications
Company)
BROU        Banco de la Republica Oriental del Uruguay
CTE         Comisi6n Tecnica de Energia (Energy Technical Commission)
CTM         Comisi6n T6cnica Mixta de Salto Grande (Salto Grande Technical Commission)
DNE         Direcci6n Nacional de Energia (National Energy Office)
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
IDB         Inter-American Development Bank
IDP         Institutional Development Program
LPG         Liquified Petroleum Gas
LRMC        Long Range Marginal Cost
MERCOSUR Common Market Agreement among Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay, and Uruguay
MIE         Ministerio de Industria, Energia y Mineria
(Ministry of Industry, Energy and Mines)
NCB         National Competitive Bidding
NDC         National Dispatcher Center
NEL         National Electricity Law
OPP         Oficina de Planeamiiento y Presupuesto
(Planning and Budget Office of the Presidency)
OSE         Obras Sanitarias del Estado (Water & Sewerage Company)
PERL        Public Enterprise Reform Loan
SRMC        Short-Range Marginal Costs
TC          Tribunal de Cuentas (Government Auditing Agency)
UGA         Unidad Gesti6n Ambiental (UTE's Environmental Unit)
UTE         Administraci6n Nacional de Usinas y Trasmisiones Electricas
(National Power Company)
VAT         Value Added Tax



URUGUAY
POWER TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
1. THE ENERGY SECTOR AND THE POWER SUBSECTOR
A. The Energy Sector
The Economic Setting  ...................................... I
Energy Resources ........................................ 2
Energy  Consumption    ...................................... 2
Energy Sector Organization .................................. 2
B. The Power Subsector
Institutional Characteristics .................................. 3
Power Subsector Reform .................................... 3
Power Subsector Policies .................................... 4
Electricity Pricing ........................................ 4
Demand Side Management ................................... 5
Power Market and Facilities .................................. 6
Losses ............................................... 7
Power Balance   .......................................... 9
Lessons from   Bankwide Lending  to Power Subsector ..................  10
Lessons from   Previous Projects in the Power Subsector in Uruguay  ...                                        ......  10
2. THE PROJECT ENTITY (UTE)
UTE's Organization  and Management  ...........................  12
Staffing and Training    .....................................  12
Management Information  System    .............................. 13
Financial Management   ....................................  13
Organization    ........................................ 13
Accounting    ......................................... 13
Financing  Planning    .................................... 14
External Audit ....................................... 14
Internal Audit ........................................ 14
Insurance .......................................... 14
Taxes    . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . .   15
Billing  and  Collection  .....................................  15
UTE's Financial Performance   ................................  15
UTE's Projected  Future Financial Performance   .....................  17
Investment Program    ...................................... 19
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission consisting of Messrs. Armando Araujo (Task Manager, LAIIN)
and Ricardo Klockner (Sr. Financial Analyst, LAIIN), which visited Uruguay in May 1994. Messrs. Herman Nissenbaum
and William Mayville, Consultants, also assisted in report preparation. Peer reviewers were Messrs. Hernain Campero (Sr.
Energy Planner, LA21N), Juan David Quintero (Water Pollution Specialist, LATEN) and Vladimir Jadrijevic (Sr. Power
Engineer, LAIIN). Mme. Iris Moreno assisted in the production of the report. The Managing Division Chief and
Department Director are Asif Faiz and Gobind T. Nankani, respectively.



3. THE PROJECT
Project Origin ......... ... 20
Rationale for Bank Involvement .20
Project Objectives  ....................................... 21
Project Description   ...................................... 21
Project Implementation ........................... 22
Status of Project Preparation .22
Project Costs . . .                                                                                                23
Project Financing . .                                                                                              23
Procurement .24
Disbursements . .                                                                                                  25
Project Operation . . . .                                                                                          26
Monitoring and Reporting . .                                                                                       26
Economic Analysis . . . . . . .                                                                                    26
Environmental Aspects . . .                                                                                        28
Financial Benefits . .                                                                                             29
Project Benefits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                           29
Risks . .                                                                                                          29
4. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION.31
ANNEXES
1. Energy Demand . .                                                                                                          33
2.  Power Sector Reform. . . . . .                                                                                            35
3. Energy Options Study .                                                                                                     39
4.  Energy Pricing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                                                              41
5.  The Market for Power . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                                                      44
6. Power Balance . . .                                                                                                        49
7.         UTE's Organizational Structure .............................. . 55
8.  Plan of Action to Improve Efficiency .56
9.  Financial Performance . . . . .                                                                                           62
10.       Investment Program   ...................................... 70
11.  Project Description and Costs .e.v.. ....                                                                                75
12.  Project Implementation Plan ................87
13.       Monitoring Indicators  ....................................  101
14.  Economic Analysis ..................X..104
15.  Environmental Aspects ..........                                                                                        110
16.  Supervision Plan ................111
17.       Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File  .............   113
MAP  IBRD No. 19541



- iii -
URUGUAY
POWER TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                Administraci6n Nacional de Usinas y Trasmisiones E1lctricas
(UTE)
Guarantor:               Republica Oriental del Uruguay
Beneficiary:             Not Applicable
Poverty:                 Not Applicable
Amount:                  US$125 million (including up to US$3 million equivalent of
retroactive financing)
Terms:                   US dollar single currency loan repayable over 15 years,
including five years of grace , at the Bank's standard LIBOR-
based variable interest rate for US dollar single currency loans
Interest Payment Dates
and Rate Fixing Dates:    April 15 and October 15, 1995
Financial Benefits:      See paragraph 3.24
Commitment Fee:          0.75 % on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver
Financing Plan:          See paragraph 3.9
Estimated Rate of Return: 15.4% (based on UTE's investment program)
Map:                     IBRD No. 19541
Project Identification No.: UY-PA-8177






1. THE ENERGY SECTOR AND THE POWER SUBSECTOR
A. THE ENERGY SECTOR
The Economic Setting
1.1   Uruguay is small in both area (176,320 sq. kilometers) and population (3.15 million)
with a good level of socioeconomic development. Per capita income (US$3,910 in 1993) is
above the Latin American average, and income distribution compares favorably with that of
many developed countries. The population is mostly urban (87 percent) and well educated.
1.2   However, despite the legacy of prosperity in the early 1900s, Uruguay's economic
performance over the past four decades has fallen short of its potential. This is largely
because of insufficient savings and capital investment. There was good growth briefly in the
late 1970s in the wake of strong foreign fund inflows, which were unfortunately more
associated with external debt accumulation than equity investments. As a result, Uruguay
underwent a wrenching recession in the 1980s when the foreign inflow was reversed and the
country had to service massive interest obligations. Although domestic savings subsequently
increased, gross fixed investment remained low. This has accelerated the erosion of
Uruguay's capital stock, which has long been inadequately maintained, and has contributed to
the pattern of recurrent low GDP growth. The latter averaged less than 1 % between 1988
and 1990, and then increased to 2.9% in 1991, 7.4% in 1992, fell to 1.5% in 1993, and
grew to 4.2% in 1994. The high growth in 1992 was fueled by strong capital inflows that
helped finance a significant expansion of consumption and imports, as well as demand
pressures from Argentina and Brazil, which still persist.
1.3   A recent Bank study (Uruguay-Private Sector Assessment-Report No. 11648-UR, June
18, 1993) found that unreliable power supply, inadequate transport facilities, poor
communications between major cities and generally unsatisfactory trade facilitation and
logistics are undermining Uruguay's private sector development. The Government has set
about to overcome these deficiencies, recognizing that their early mitigation would be
particularly timely. Uruguay is well positioned to become a successful open economy.
Implementation of the MERCOSUR agreement (a common market among Argentina, Brazil,
Paraguay and Uruguay) could intensify Uruguay's economic links with its neighbors, to
which it is already quite vulnerable. Nevertheless, on balance, increased access to the
MERCOSUR market, which has a combined output of over US$500 billion and almost 200
million people, could become a constructive factor in Uruguay's future growth. This applies
particularly to the expansion of the service sector, as well as the possibilities of exploitation
of regional energy market prospects. To a considerable extent, the realization of this
opportunity depends on making the country's power distribution system more reliable,
especially in the light of the possible expanded trade opportunities within MERCOSUR.



-2-
Energy Resources
1.4   Uruguay's energy resources are limited, and the country has to rely on oil imports to
cover a significant share (55%) of its energy requirements. Hydropower resources are, by
and large, already used (88% of all possible hydropotential is utilized), and the remaining
potential hydro capacity (12%) is not economic to develop at present fuel prices. Thus
immediate power demand will need to be met by energy conservation, thermal installations,
and eventual power exchange with neighboring countries. Over the last twenty years
Uruguay has maintained adequate pricing for power and oil derivatives plus additional
conservation measures, have reduced the percentage share of oil in its energy consumption.
Electricity rates have been kept in line with cost-of-living adjustments, and are based on
marginal cost principles.
Energy Consumption
1.5   Total energy consumption in 1992 was 2,052,000 TOE (Tons of Oil Equivalent),
resulting in 0.649 TOE per capita, an adequate level when compared with other countries at
a similar stage of development. Total energy consumption has varied in accordance with
economic growth. During the recession of 1980-85, it fell by 3.5% per year compared to a
3.7% per year decline for GDP, and in 1985-91, it grew 2.3% compared to a 3.4% growth
in GDP. The energy demand is concentrated in few sectors with, residential representing
37% of total demand, followed by industrial 29%, transportation 27%, and agriculture with
only 7%. Annex 1 shows the participation of each sector in total energy demand, as well as
the participation of the different sources of energy to supply the demand. This annex shows
the importance of oil imports in the Uruguayan economy. To be able to serve future energy
requirements, Uruguay needs to develop a strategy of Energy Options. Such a study is under
way, as described in para. 1.13 and in Annex 3.
Energy Sector Organization
1.6   The Ministry of Industry, Energy and Mines (MIE) is responsible for long range
planning, sector policy setting, and supervision of the state-controlled companies in the
sector. At present the sector is monopolistic. The most important operating entities are the
National Petroleum Company (Administraci6n Nacional de Combustibles, Alcohol y Portland
- ANCAP) and the National Power Company (Administraci6n Nacional de Usinas y
Trasmisiones Electricas - UTE).
1.7   The Government (with Bank support) is reorganizing the energy sector. Based on
studies funded by Loan 3517-0-UR (Public Enterprise Reform Loan, PERL), the Government
has created an Energy Technical Commission (Comisi6n Tecnica de Energfa - CTE)
composed of representatives of the Ministers of Mines and Energy, Economy and the
Director of the Planning and Budget Office (OPP) to give technical support to the
Government on regulatory issues and on tariff setting. The Ministry of Mines and Energy,
through the Direcci6n Nacional de Energfa (DNE) with the support of CTE, would enforce



- 3 -
regulation. A new regulatory system will be created to open sector activities to market
forces where possible. Measures contemplated would include the transfer to the private
sector of the gas distribution system of Montevideo, private participation in some areas of oil
distribution, private investments in power generation to compete with UTE, and private in
distribution of electricity to certain areas of the country.
B. THE POWER SUBSECTOR
Institutional Characteristics
1.8   UTE was established in 1912 as the sole entity responsible for power generation,
transmission, and retail distribution of electricity in the country. The scope of UTE's
services is prescribed in the National Electricity Law (NEL) and UTE's by-laws. The NEL
establishes the general regulation of generation, distribution, exports and imports of
electricity. In October 1991, law #16211 was enacted to allow the participation of private
investors in generation activities, but their participation in the sector has been very small
because of the lack of adequate and specific detailed regulation of the general principles
defined in the law. The new regulatory system being implemented (see para. 1. 11) will
address this issue. A Presidential Decree enacted on November 7, 1994, has removed from
UTE all regulatory power it previously had. This Decree created the Energy Technical
Commission (see para. 1.7), transferring to it the responsibilities of giving the adequate
technical support to the Government in defining tariff levels and enforcing regulations. A
new regulatory framework defining transparent regulations favoring competition in power
generation is to be implemented shortly (see para. 1.12).
1.9   UTE is an autonomous public entity (its Board of Directors is appointed by the
Government) reporting to the MIE. Its budget is approved by the Planning and Budget
Office (OPP), which imposes ceilings on investments and expenditures. The Government
auditing agency (Tribunal de Cuentas) is responsible for ensuring that UTE complies with
budget and procurement legislation.
1.10  The only other entity that now operates in the power sector is the "Comisi6n Tecnica
Mixta del Salto Grande (CTM). " CTM is a binational entity owned by the governments of
Uruguay and Argentina in charge of the operation of the Salto Grande hydro power plant
(1890 MW). CTM's board is composed of five Argentine and five Uruguayan members, all
appointed by their respective governments.
Power Subsector Reform
1.11 The Government is restructuring the sector in order to promote private investment in
new generation plants, with the Government increasingly playing a subsidiary role in
investments, while strengthening its regulatory functions in areas where a natural monopoly
exists. These reforms intend to: (i) remove from UTE all responsibility for policy
formulation, power planning, and regulatory functions; (ii) define a clear concession regime



- 4 -
for private sector investments in competitive power generation; and (iii) create a new
regulatory system to balance protection of the public interest with the need for enterprise
autonomy, including the setting of tariffs in accordance with clear rules for their calculation.
1.12  Studies prepared by consultants (under Loan 3517-0-UR - PERL), and reviewed by
the Bank propose the aforementioned new arrangement for the power subsector: a
competitive market for power generation. UTE would be separated into three business units
(Generation, Transmission and Distribution) with different accounting systems and
transparency of cost allocation among them. Larger consumers will be free to buy energy
from any generator. Transmission access will be open. Annex 2 gives additional details on
the new regulatory system. As a condition of negotiations of the proposed loan, the
Government enacted a Presidential Decree (on November 7, 1994), removing from UTE all
its regulatory power (see para. 1.8) and creating the Energy Technical Commission to give
the technical support to the government in its regulatory actions. A new regulatory system
was designed based on the aforementioned consultant studies and would be put in place as
one condition of effectiveness of this Loan. In addition, the proposed project would support
the implementation of these modifications in accordance with Bank policy for the sector, and
would allow the dialogue with the Government on this issue to be maintained.
Power Subsector Policies
1.13 Power subsector policies are defined by MIE as part of the overall energy policy of
the Government. An energy options study under preparation and funded under Loan 3517-0-
UR is intended to recommend an energy strategy with different scenarios for primary energy
sources (natural gas, oil and coal) to generate future electricity requirements. It will also
consider power exchange with Argentina and Brazil through existing and possible future
interconnections (see Annex 3). It will be a strategy paper, not an investment plan. The
consulting firm to carry out the study has already being selected. The Government has
launched the study as a condition of negotiations of the proposed loan. When the Energy
Options Study is completed, the Government and the Bank will jointly review its conclusions,
in order to provide technical support to the Government on different strategies for
incorporating the study results into the planning of future power sector development.
Electricity Pricing
1.14 The National Electricity Law defines the tariff regime in Uruguay. It provides that
tariffs be set on basis of a target rate of return (not lower than 6%) on a rate base consisting
of average revalued net assets in operation plus a provision for working capital. The tariff
structure also differentiates tariff levels to customers at different consumption levels and
different voltage levels of supply to reflect the cost of supplying electricity to them. The
present average tariff level is 8.9 US cents/kWh, which is equal to the long-range marginal
cost (LRMC). The LRMC was calculated as part of an independent study (financed under
the Fifth Power Project, Loan 1779-UR) completed in 1982 and recently updated by UTE.
As part of the preparation of this project, a consultant assessed the results of the LRMC



study and carried out an analysis of the taxation and subsidies included in electricity prices
(see Annex 4). The conclusions of this Energy Pricing Study concerning the power sector
are: (i) electricity prices are currently about equal to marginal costs; (ii) UTE has a
competent staff able to deal with tariff questions and qualified to undertake marginal cost
analyses; (iii) electricity tariffs are correctly structured according to costs, and subsidies are
non-existent; (iv) the tariff system could be improved by incorporating a seasonality element
to reflect higher energy costs during winter; (v) the tariff studies could be improved through
the implementation of the conclusions of a load characteristics study under way; and (vi) the
institutional reform under implementation should not jeopardize the current electricity pricing
structure.
1.15 The conclusions and recommendations of the Energy Pricing Study were taken into
account in the preparation of the project. The Decree creating the new institutional structure
was drafted in consultation with the Bank, and the reforms will not jeopardize the current
electricity pricing structure. During negotiations agreement was reached with UTE to
include in the proposed project: (i) a load characteristics study in accordance with terms of
reference (TOR) satisfactory to the Bank (see Attachment 1 to Annex 11), whose results
would be included in future LRMC studies and would be the basis for UTE's demand side
management actions; and (ii) a marginal cost tariff study to update previous estimates
(utilizing the results of the load curve study; see para. 1. 17), aiming to analyze the effects of
possible different costs of electricity during the different seasons of the year (see Attachment
1 to Annex 11).
Demand Side Management
1.16 UTE offers a time-of-day metering system with different tariff levels to promote
demand side management. This system was first offered in 1986 to larger consumers (above
100 MWh per month and contracted capacity over 200 kW), which amounts to around 17%
of electricity consumption of the country. They were offered three different tariff levels
depending on time of consumption (peak tariff, from 6 p.m. to 10 p.m., night tariff, from 12
a.m. to 7 a.m., and valley tariff, from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. and from 10 p.m. to 12 a.m.). In
1992 this tariff system was extended to medium consumers (contracted capacity over 20
kW). More recently (in 1993), UTE implemented a two level time-of-day tariff scheme
(peak and off-peak) for commercial and residential consumers. The Bank has been
monitoring this implementation, which began with marginal cost studies (under Loan 1779-
UR - Fifth Power Project), and continued with the acquisition of special meters (under Loan
2484-UR - Power Engineering Loan). This new system improves load management, which
reduces peak loads and allows customers to benefit from lower off-peak tariffs.
1.17 The most basic objective of the aforementioned new time-of-day tariff system is to
promote demand-side management by transferring load from peak to off-peak periods, thus
improving energy efficiency. UTE is also conducting a load curve study (financed under
Loan 3221-UR), aiming to obtain the daily load curve for different classes of consumers to
guide additional actions for efficient use of electricity. The proposed project would finance



- 6 -
the continuation of this study to help UTE take the necessary actions to improve its load
curve (para. 1.15). In addition, UTE would begin a program for more efficient use of
electricity by its consumers. The proposed project would finance technical assistance (see
para. 3.4) to help UTE prepare and implement a Demand-side Management Program based
on the results of the load curve study, and including actions to improve electricity efficiency
(see terms of reference in Attachment 1 to Annex 11). Together with the Energy Options
Study (see para. 1.13), this will allow UTE to develop aii adequate Integrated Resource
Planning System. During negotiations, it was agreed that UTE would implement a
satisfactory Demand-side Management Program. The program would be submitted to the
Bank six months after the conclusion of the load characteristics study, and would be based on
its results.
Power Market and Facilities
1.18 The degree of electrification in Uruguay is high (97%) compared to the average of
70% for Latin American countries. Historically, UTE has operated and maintained its
generating facilities satisfactorily. The generating installed capacity (including the
participation in Salto Grande) is 1823 MW, of which 1241 MW is hydroelectric and 582
MW thermoelectric.  Since the oil crisis of 1973, the share of hydroelectric generation in
the total has increased, and today represents about 90% of total generation in years of
average hydrological conditions.
1.19  UTE's 500-kV transmission system is interconnected to the Salto Grande hydroplant.
This has allowed UTE to sell electricity to the Argentine market, and consequently to take
advantage of the competitive environment created by the new regulatory system in Argentina.
During 1992 UTE sold 2,268 GWh to Argentina, resulting in net earnings of US$91.8
million; sales in 1993 were 1450 GWh, and net earnings, US$44.1 million. In addition to
the commercial benefits, this interconnection has also shown the Uruguayan authorities the
benefits of a modern regulatory framework (as it exists in Argentina), stimulating them to
promote in Uruguay the modifications that are now underway (see para. 1.12).
1.20 The domestic power market in Uruguay has shown increasing electricity consumption,
with annual growth of 5.7% over the past four years. Total sales of electricity in 1994 were
4655 Gwh. Montevideo concentrates 52.3% of the sales and the interior responds for
47.7%. Sales to residential customers represents 45.9% of total sales, while industrial
represents 35.7%, commercial 15.9%, and the remaining 2.5% public lighting. Annex 5
shows consumption of electricity in Uruguay during the past twenty years.
1.21  Under Loan 1779-UR (Fifth Power Project), consultants developed satisfactory
methodologies to forecast electricity demand based on trends and regression analysis
techniques. Using these methodologies, UTE has prepared load demand forecasts (see
Annex 5). The three main consumer categories -- residential, commercial and industrial --
were analyzed, assuming an expected population growth of 0.5% a year, the same rate as in
the previous decade; the same coverage and historic growth for consumption per residential



- 7-
customer; and an annual GDP growth rate of 2 % for the period 1993-2004. The market
study forecast sales growth from 4527 Gwh in 1993 to 6873 Gwh in 2003, an average annual
increase of 4.26%, which is consistent with past experience and future expectations. The
generation requirements were calculated considering that the improvements in the system
would result in reduction of losses to 13.5% by the year 2000, yielding a growth rate of
3.6% in generation requirements. UTE has also estimated its future sales in the power spot
market in Argentina (see Annex 6). The supply options are outlined in para. 1.29-1.32
below.
Losses
1.22 Losses have been at high levels for decades in UTE's system (19% in 1993), due to
technical and non-technical losses. The high technical losses are concentrated in the
Montevideo area due to a heavily-loaded transmission system, very old distribution
installations (some more than 60 years old), inadequate distribution voltage levels for the
present load magnitude (6 kV as medium distribution voltage), and an inadequate low voltage
ungrounded system. To address those issues, a Bank-financed study (under Loan 2484-UR -
Power Engineering Loan) confirmed by an independent study, has recommended the
complete renovation of the distribution system, including modification of the distribution
voltage levels and transformation of the low voltage system to a neutral grounded one. The
complete renovation would be accomplished in four phases of approximately five years each.
The proposed loan would finance the first phase of this renovation. During the preparation
of this project, and as part of the ongoing Power Modernization Project (Loan 3221-UR),
UTE has considerably improved its procedures for maintenance of the distribution system,
which is now adequate, resulting in reduction of service interruptions to an average of four
hours compared to 16 hours previously.
1.23  The non-technical losses result from inadequate accounting of self consumption in
UTE's own installations, inadequate commercial procedures, and theft of electricity (black
losses). Under Loan 3221-UR (Power Modernization Project), UTE has modernized its
commercial operations, reducing the period between meter reading and bill delivery from 45
days to 24 hours. UTE has also created a new Division (Servicio Tecnico Comercial) to be
responsible for implementing a program to reduce non-technical losses. During preparation
of the proposed project, UTE prepared and submitted to the Bank a satisfactory "Non-
Technical Losses Reduction Program". This program will have four areas of action: (i)
commercial procedures; (ii) metering control and policy; (iii) theft of energy and direct
connections; and (iv) accounting for losses. During negotiations UTE agreed to carry out the
"Non-Technical Losses Reduction Program", as detailed in the agreed Implementation Plan
(see Attachment 3 to Annex 12).
1.24 The first area of the program for reduction of non-technical losses (commercial
procedures) has already been implemented. It included the modification and modernization
of all commercial procedures from metering to bill delivery. Under Loan 3221-UR,
supported by a twinning agreement with Uni6n-Fenosa from Spain, UTE introduced a



- 8-
completely new commercial system, eliminating all previous procedures. Today a customer
can have all commercial activities perforned by telephone. All meter recording is now
performed with the help of portable computer equipment, which automatically indicates any
meter-reading error, and reduces the time for issuing the bills. This new system has been
operating successfully for more than a year. The results are impressive, and have helped
change UTE's image to its customers and to the general public.
1.25 The second element of the program (metering problems) aims at auditing the metering
facilities to detect meter malfunctions and theft of electricity by meter tampering. It also
aims at creating within UTE a system for management and supervision of the quality of
installed meters. A first sampling analysis of the problem was concluded in June 1993 by
examining 3,824 consumer installations. This study will serve as the basis for the
recommended actions which are to: (i) create a data bank containing all information on
installed meters; (ii) create a routine system of replacement and checking of meters; (iii)
inspect all customer metering installations; (iv) change adulterated or malfunctioning meters;
(v) seal all metering installations to facilitate future inspections; (vi) carry out a public
relations campaign to educate consumers; and (vii) create a permanent follow-up of the
metering situation of the customers. A timetable for these actions is included in the proposed
Plan of Action (see Attachment 3 to Annex 12).
1.26 The third area of the program (theft of energy and direct connections) aims to assess
the areas in which consumers connect their houses to UTE's system directly without the
company's consent. It will be initiated by a field metering campaign designed to estimate
the amount of energy lost, and at the same time to identify the areas in which this problem is
more concentrated. Subsequently, UTE will address the issue in selected areas by contacting
the consumers to normalize their situation. It will be done gradually and with care due to
security reasons, since the majority of the cases are expected to be in low-income
neighborhoods. The agreed plan has details on the actions proposed and a timetable for their
implementation. Besides direct connections, the program will address the creation of routine
inspections for regular consumers to avoid by-passes and other forms of tampering.
1.27  The fourth part of the program (accounting for losses) aims to estimate losses
adequately by different levels (generation, transmission and distribution) and to account for
the internal consumption of the power plants and the self-consumption of other UTE
installations. The agreed program covers: (i) a survey of the electricity metering situation in
all existing UTE installations; (ii) accounting of the "internal consumption" in all power
generating plants and of the "self-consumption" in all other UTE installations; (iii) creation
of a satisfactory methodology and routine for calculation of losses; and (iv) follow-up on the
evolution of losses in the system.
1.28 For intensive surveillance on the implementation of the Non-Technical Losses
Reduction Program, agreement was reached during negotiations that UTE will hire a
consultant to serve as supervisor of its implementation. The consultant would report to the



- 9-
Bank and to the UTE General Manager on the progress of the program, in accordance with
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank (see Attachment 1 to Annex 11).
Power Balance
1.29 Uruguay's current generating capacity (considering 50% of Salto Grande) is 1836
MW, of which 1241 MW is hydroelectric and 595 MW oil-fired thermal plants.
Hydrogeneration is supplied by three power plants in the Rio Negro (Gabriel Terra,
Baygorria and Palmar) and by the Salto Grande binational hidroplant in the Rio Uruguay.
Thermal generation is supplied by the Batlle y Ordoiiez steam plant (305 MW), La Tablada
gas turbine plant (227 MW), and by two small gas turbines (BBC and Maldonado).
1.30 Investments in future generation will have to rely on thermal plants, since the
economic hydroelectric potential is being used. The energy options study being developed
will indicate the best fuel source to use in future plants (see para. 1.13). In addition, the
rehabilitation of old hydroelectric plants should be pursued to extend their economic lives.
UTE is, therefore, rehabilitating the Gabriel Terra hydroplant, financed under Loan 2622-UR
(Power Plant Rehabilitation Project), and plans to rehabilitate the Baygorria hydroplant in the
future.
1.31 Using computer simulation models for planning and operation of power systems
(developed by consultants under Loan 2484-UR), UTE has prepared a satisfactory power
balance study. Annex 6 shows the results of the power balance and of the least-cost
expansion plan. To adequately meet the load forecast will require the installation of 127
MW in 1996, and of 190 MW in 1998, of additional thermal capacity. The installed
capacity during the next decade would then be as follows:
Installed Capacity (in MW)
Year        1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  2002  2003  2004
Total       2106  2223  2223  2363  2363  2363  2363  2363  2363  2363
Hydro       1511  1511  1511  1511  1511  1511  1511  1511  1511  1511
Thermal     595   712   712   852   852   852   852   852   852   852
1.32 To define the best alternative to supply the required additional capacity, UTE has
contracted the consultant services of Southern Electric International -SEI- (under a grant from
the US Government). SEI has issued a report analyzing several alternatives and
recommending: (i) conversion of the La Tablada thermal station to combined cycle by the
installation of an additional 121-MW new steam turbine generator in 1996; (ii) installation of
a new 180-MW combined cycle thermal plant at the Batlle y Ordofiez thermal plant in the
area currently occupied by units 1 and 2 and the boiler house, in 1998; (iii) installation of a
new 360-MW combined cycle plant at the Greenfield location as an alternative to the
previous installations if they cannot be done. Recently UTE has decided to rely on private



- 10 -
investments for future power generation. Therefore, the installation of an additional 120-
MW in gas turbines (in 1996 as recommended by the studies) would be done by UTE only if
the private sector did not show interest in it. Subsequently, UTE plans to call for tenders
from investors interested in installing the 180-MW combined cycle plant in Batlle y Ordoniez
as an Independent Power Producer (IPP) to sell its generation to UTE. These decisions are
reflected in UTE's proposed investment plan (see para 2.22), and in the financial projections
(see para 2.17).
Lessons from Bankwide Lending to the Power Subsector
1.33 The Bank has been involved in power subsector reform in several countries. Matters
of a general nature, as well as specific aspects relative to reforms in Uruguay, have been
analyzed using lessons drawn from Bank experience in implementation of recent power sector
reforms in several countries in Latin America. The Bank is helping the Uruguayan
Government to modify the regulatory framework of the power sector. The new structure
will introduce a transparent regulatory system separating the past dual role of Government as
operator and owner of the sole power utility in the country. Government will retain its
responsibilities for setting objectives, articulating overall policies, coordinating sector
development and regulation. Regulatory rules will define the procedures for reducing the
level of Government involvement in operations and increasing the accountability of enterprise
managers. It will also define entry and exit conditions for private power producers. The
Bank's new policies for the power sector have been followed in the preparation of this
project, which will permit a transfer to Uruguay of the experience the Bank has acquired in
its involvement in others countries.
Lessons from Previous Projects for the Power Subsector in Uruguay
1.34 The Bank has made eight loans to Uruguay's power subsector; the first six are fully
disbursed and the projects satisfactorily completed. There was a nine-year hiatus in Bank
lending to the sector between the fourth and fifth power projects, because of difficulties in
reaching agreement with the Government on measures to restore the sector to a sound
institutional and financial situation. Restoration of the power sector took place under a key
Bank intervention through the Fifth Power Project (Loan 1779-UR signed in March 1980).
Under this project the Bank recommended measures to strengthen the sector and irnprove the
performance of UTE. As a consequence, the Government passed a National Electricity Law,
changed UTE's bylaws, and relieved UTE of its responsibility for telephone services. The
most recent project (Loan 2484-UR - Power Engineering Loan) was completed in November
1990. The Project Completion Report (No. 12837, dated March 11, 1994), indicates as a
lesson learned that at appraisal the Bank should have carefully reviewed the process to be
followed for the selection of consultants as well as the procurement of goods by the
borrower. This would have uncovered the convoluted procedures of Uruguayan procurement
laws, and might have expedited the process, e.g., by preparing the documentation in
advance, by issuing standard bidding documents or by establishing a more realistic



- 11 -
implementation schedule. The lessons learned were followed during the preparation of the
proposed project.
1.35 Two ongoing projects are funded by Bank loans: the Power Sector Rehabilitation
Project (funded by Loan 2622-UR, an associated Loan from commercial banks guaranteed by
the Bank, and French cofinancing) and the Power Modernization Project (funded by Loan
3221-UR and US Eximbank cofinancing). The Power Sector Rehabilitation Project has been
delayed four years due to slowness in starting project implementation. Several reasons
contributed to the initial delay of this project. It took 18 months for the Government and the
international banking community to conclude the negotiations of the B-Loan associated with
the Bank loan. The complexity of the works to be carried out in rehabilitating a power plant
in operation also caused additional delays in preparation of the bidding documents. Finally,
delays also occurred when the borrower realized that additional financing for the
rehabilitation of the Gabriel Terra power plant was needed and French cofinancing was
negotiated. The project is now progressing satisfactorily with the works under the B-Loan
(Transmission and Distribution) scheduled to be completed in 1996 and the works under
Loan 2622-UR (Gabriel Terra Rehabilitation) scheduled to be completed in December 1997.
As agreed during preparation of the proposed project, the works for rehabilitation of first
unit of Gabriel Terra Hydroplant began on January 6, 1994, as a condition for departure of
the pre-appraisal mission. The first unit is already rehabilitated and back to commercial
operation and UTE is currently rehabilitating the second unit. All contracts for goods and
works for this ongoing project (Loan 2622-UR and the associated B-Loan) have already been
awarded, except for two contracts which should be awarded soon.
1.36  The Power Modernization Project (Loan 3221-UR) began on time and is on schedule
to be completed by 1997. In the preparation of that Loan the Bank used the lessons learned
in the previous project. Both the procurement of the main component (a thernal plant) and
the cofinancing were carried out in advance, resulting in the thermal plant being put into
operation one year ahead of schedule. In retrospect, during project preparation, the Bank
should always take into account the lengthy and complex rules of procurement existing in
Uruguay; to address it, procurement delays should be anticipated and timetables should be
realistic. These lessons learned have been followed during preparation of the proposed
project.



- 12 -
2. THE PROJECT ENTITY (UTE)
UTE's Organization and Management
2.1   UTE's day-to-day management is entrusted to a General Manager assisted by a
Deputy General Manager and three area managers, responsible respectively for: (i) power
generation and transmission; (ii) power distribution and commercialization; and (iii)
administration and finance. There is also an Economic Planning Secretariat which provides
staff functions to support the General Manager. These managers are very qualified and
competent and have substantial experience in the power subsector. The current
organizational structure of UTE is shown in Annex 7.
2.2   UTE is implementing an Institutional Development Program (IDP) aimed at
improving the overall efficiency of its operations and strengthening its distribution and
commercialization activities. As a first step, UTE has entered into a twinning contractual
agreement with a Spanish power utility (Uni6n Fenosa) to gain access to the commercial,
administrative and engineering technology of a more developed utility. A satisfactory new
organizational structure and new economic/financial information system have been
implemented. Under this IDP the management of UTE improved considerably during the
period 1990-94, particularly in its internal organization, by creating a Management
Information System which improved its accounting system, and in its relations with
consumers and in the commercial area (paras. 1.24, 2.5, 2.13 and 2.14). However, there is
yet room for improvement. Accordingly, during negotiations UTE agreed to implement a
Plan of Action to Improve UTE's Efficiency. The plan (see Annex 8 for additional details)
comprises three main areas of action: (i) creation of "Business Units"; (ii) privatization of
activities; and (iii) reduction of staff. This plan of action includes measures to desegregate
UTE into profit centers (creation of "Business Units"), allowing better management,
improved accountability, and possible privatization of some activities UTE performs
currently (such as pole manufacturing, transformer repair, and reforestation), which will
result in greater efficiency and reduction of staff. UTE would carry out the plan in
accordance with the timetable also included in Annex 8.
Staffing and Training
2.3   During the past three years UTE has reduced its permanent staffing by 13% (about
1500 employees), but it is still overstaffed. As of December 1994, UTE permanent staff
amounted to 9694 persons, of which 450 are professional (high level, with University
degrees). The labor productivity indicator, measured as the number of customers per
employee, was 104. Despite the improvement in labor productivity during the past decade
(from 74 in 1980 to 92 in 1992), it is still below the average for Latin American countries
(145). UTE's management is aware of the situation, and since 1989 UTE has frozen the
hiring of new staff. A retirement incentive program was carried out in 1990 and 1993.
UTE has completed a human resources data base and a study to match manpower and
management requirements for the next five years. This study is under implementation. In



- 13 -
addition to the freeze on hiring, other actions are required to improve UTE's labor
productivity. During negotiations UTE agreed to improve its staff productivity as part of the
Plan of Action to Improve UTE's Efficiency, as described in para.2.2 and Annex 8.
2.4   UTE has a satisfactory and comprehensive training program and adequate facilities for
carrying it out. UTE's training center was rehabilitated under loan 3221-UR. In 1993,
about 4720 employees participated in 437 local courses and seminars, with an attendance of
about 5 hours per participant. To strengthen managerial and environmental capabilities, UTE
will carry out a five-year training program as described in Attachment 2 to Annex 11.
Management Information System
2.5   UTE has implemented a satisfactory Management Information System. It consists of
the following systems: (i) a complete computerized billing and collection system; (ii) a new
accounting and budget information system; (iii) an inventory system; (iv) a data base for
administration and control of human resources; (v) project accounts including financing and
disbursement information by credit; (vi) electronic mail; and (vii) a complete customer
information system. The Bank assisted in financing computer hardware and its later
upgrading. The mainframe purchased under Loan 3221-UR was burned in a fire, which
affected headquarters from floors 8 to 10, in August 1993. Currently, UTE is settling with
the insurance company on payment of the corresponding equipment and assets lost during the
fire. To make this Management Information System more effective, UTE has built up an
efficient communications network between headquarters and the regional offices, the first for
a public utility in Uruguay. UTE has voice, facsimile and computer links between
headquarters and its regional offices. A broad communications system through microwave is
under implementation for operational, commercial and financial activities.
Financial Management
2.6   Organization. The financial and accounting functions in UTE are under the
responsibility of the Area Manager for Resources, who is assisted by two sector managers.
The accounting process is centralized in headquarters. Regional operational and commercial
offices transmit all accounting transactions via modem to the computers located at
headquarters.
2.7   Accounting. UTE keeps its accounts in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. The accounts are generally consistent with those of international
accounting standards. UTE's current accounting system was established in April 1990 and
was developed in the context of a computerized system. The new system provides a
comprehensive and adequate presentation of UTE's accounts. UTE has a well-developed
computerized system for financial records, inventory, budget control, billing, fixed assets,
and payroll.



- 14 -
2.8   Financing Planning. UTE's budgetary system complies with the national budget. In
July of each year the preparation of the subsequent year budget begins. The first task is an
update of the current year's budget. In addition to this annual budget, UTE also prepares a
corporate budget in September/October of each year, which includes the preparation of a
five-year investment plan and its corresponding financial projections. The practice of
modern public utilities requires that management be provided with a reliable long-term view
of the expected financial performance of the utility as a flexible financial management tool,
which would permit sensitivity analyses such as the composition of investment programs,
different operational scenarios, inflation, and foreign exchange fluctuations. To achieve this,
UT'E has adopted a long-term financial planning software model prepared jointly with the
Bank. UTE is using it satisfactorily.
2.9   External Audit. Since 1988, UTE's financial statements have been audited by the
Tribunal de Cuentas (TC), which is also responsible for the legal control of cash expenses
and purchases of all the State enterprises. For this reason the TC maintains a permanent
staff at UTE's headquarters. The TC is an autonomous body, which reports directly to
Congress. Audit regulations and standards are based on international auditing practices. The
quality of the audit reports have been acceptable and the reports include a management letter
listing the deficiencies found in the accounts. During 1989 to 1992, and due to the renewal
of UTE's accounting system, audits reports have been submitted to the Bank with a delay
over eight months. In 1993, UTE closed its accounting books with a delay of six months.
For 1994, UTE has taken measures to provide UTE's financial statements and Bank-financed
project accounts for auditing within the deadline agreed with the Bank. Audits of Bank-
financed projects have also been conducted by the TC. During negotiations assurances were
obtained from UTE that: (i) UTE's annual and Bank-financed project accounts will be
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) UTE would maintain separate
accounts for the project; and (iii) UTE would furnish to the Bank within five months after
the end of each fiscal year the audited project accounts, special account, statement of
expenditures, and UTE's financial statements.
2.10 Internal Audit. The internal audit function is the responsibility of the General
Manager. On paper, the internal auditing unit is in charge of periodically examining
operational, financial and accounting, security assessment of the computational software
system, and management control. In practice, this unit only covers the review of some
operational functions. During negotiations UTE agreed to strengthen its internal financial
control as detailed in the Plan of Action to Improve UTE's Efficiency, described in Annex 8.
2.11  Insurance. UTE follows sound insurance practices, generally consistent with those of
utilities elsewhere. Under Uruguayan law, UTE has to insure its assets at the state-owned
insurance bank (Banco de Seguros del Estado). UTE's hydroplants and main building are
insured against fire, explosion, and flooding (at about 83 % below their revalued cost). For
cost reasons, UTE has created an internal reserve provision for transmission towers, which
amounted to US$1.5 million at the end of 1993.



- 15 -
2.12 Taxes. UTE is required to pay a 30% income tax. UTE must also pay custom duties
(ranging from 10% to 30%) and a 22% VAT (except for fuel oil purchased from ANCAP
and power energy purchased from CTM). A 10% tax is charged on electricity sales, of
which 5 % is reimbursed to the Treasury, and the remaining 5 % is kept by UTE. Since
1991, and in accordance with Law 16170, Art. 643, instead of paying dividends, UTE is
subject to Government appropriation of all cash surpluses. These cash surpluses are defined
as cash remaining after paying operating expenses, debt service, and capital expenditures not
financed by other sources, and maintaining adequate liquidity. The amount of cash surplus
transfer for the next fiscal year is defined at the time of approval of the National budget, as a
result of the discussions between UTE and OPP. Although not the best practice, this
procedure has shown adequate transparency on the amount of transfer being defined in
advance, and has not hindered UTE's administration. During project supervision, the Bank
would monitor the continuation of application of that policy (see para. 3.16).
Billing and Collection
2.13 Billing. UTE has a very well-developed billing system. These procedures have
improved considerably since 1992, as a result of the implementation of the IDP. UTE
conducts its billing activities through 57 distribution offices around the country. Consumers
are billed monthly. Data is electronically transmitted to headquarters (by modem). UTE
takes about 24 hours between metering and bill issuing. Bills are sent to customers about
four days after metering. Bills are due for payment two weeks after issuance.
2.14 Collection. UTE's collection procedures are also satisfactory. Bill collection from
private customers has improved from 60 days outstanding in 1989 to about 20 days in 1993,
as a result of the IDP. Bills from private customers are paid either directly in UTE's offices
around the country or in supermarkets, Banco Republica, ANTEL's and OSE's offices, or
lottery agencies. These agencies charge 0.85 % plus VAT on each bill, except for those bills
amounting to less than US$0.5, which is the bill processing cost. Consumers who do not
pay after five days from the due date are charged a fine of 5 % plus 0.2% per day of delay,
and after 21 days from the due date the customer's service is discontinued. After payment is
made, UTE takes about 24 hours to re-connect the supply. At the end of 1993, accounts
receivable from government agencies amounted to US$12.5 million, representing about 69
days of billing. This is due to a "clearing-house system" created by the Government in June
1990 (as agreed under Loan 3221-UR), by which public entities compensate owed balances
between the participants of the system with subsequent payment of any existing balance.
Arrears before June 1990 amounted to US$30 million, and are currently being reduced at a
rate of US$5 million per year. The covenant in Loan 3221-UR on collection of accounts
from public entity receivables would be maintained for this operation.
UTE's Financial Performance
2.15 UTE's financial performance statements for the period 1990 to 1994 are given in
Annex 9 and summarized below:



- 16 -
Table 2.1 - UTE Financial Performance, 1990-94
_________________________________  I   1990       1991      1992       1993      19_94
Total operating revenues                297.5     361.2      414.4     440.0      479.0
Total operating expenses                287.6     278.8      347.6     387.0      405.2
Net operating income                     9.9       82.4       66.8      53.0       73.8
Surplus transferred to Treasury           0.0        15         15        15        30
Total investment                        107.5     136.8      105.2      113.4     146.5
Total borrowing                          58.8      71.4       40.4      24.5       30.1
Average net fixed assets               1647.1    1729.3    1792.3    1737.0   2292.7
Total Long-term debt                    580.2     619.4      600.0      951.8     962.9
Total equity                            895.0    1055.2    1255.9    1291.0    1494.2
Average domestic tariff (USC/kWh)         7.4       7.7        7.3        8.2       9.2
Rate of return (%)                        4.3       4.9        3.8        2.9       3.7
Cash operational margin (%)               34         47        35         32        37
Debt service coverage   (times)           .8        1.5        2.0        1.9       1.6
Debt as % of debt + equity (%)            49         46        37         43        41
Internal resources for investment (%)     78         62        68         84        80
| Accounts receivable (days)                57        74        131         65        65
2.16   During the past five years, UTE has maintained a satisfactory financial performance,
although operating expenses are still high. These results have been possible because the
Government has permitted tariffs to increase in line with inflation, increases that are adequate
to cover marginal cost. Throughout this period, UTE has had a good debt service coverage,
an adequate self-financing ratio, and a satisfactory capital structure. Despite this financial
improvement, the cash operating margin and rate of return have been low due to an increase
in operating expenses. On the other hand, UTE has benefitted from sales to Argentina since
1990 (US$11.9 million in 1990, US$28 million in 1991, US$91.8 million in 1992, and
US$44.1 million in 1993). In 1993, UTE converted about US$380 million of arrears to
CTM (due to power energy purchased) into long-term debt. This debt was added to the debt
resulting from the construction of the Constitution hydroplant (El Palmar), which the
Government constructed and transferred to UlTE in 1983. In spite of these measures, UTE's
debt/equity ratio has remained at a reasonable level, around 40/60.
I.Estimated



- 17 -
UTE's Projected Future Financial Performance
2.17 Projections of UTE's finances for the period 1995-2003 are presented in Annex 9,
and a summary for the loan disbursement period is presented below in Table 2.2. The
projections are based on the assumptions contained in Annex 9.
Table 2.2: UTE Projected Future Financial Performance, 1995-2000
l ______________________ [    1995     1  1996  ]   1997  1  1998   1  1999  1     2000
Total operating revenues        555.0    593.4    630.8    671.2    715.1    752.0
Total operating expenses        452.6    473.2    488.0    502.8    535.7    560.5
Net operating income            102.4    120.2    142.8    168.4    179.4   191.5
Surplus transferred to Treasury    0         0      60.8     53.5      64.5     55.8
Total investment                161.7    205.1    132.0    137.0    159.4   151.8
Borrowing                        80.0    106.4      47.3     45.9      54.1     30.2
Net fixed assets               2428.5   2602.6   2697.8   2798.7   2911.5  3009.9
Total long-term debt            951.3    982.9    917.7    849.4    774.9   685.0
rotal equity                   1639.8   1819.5   1954.7   2132.7   2320.1   2532.7
Average domestic tariff           9.4      9.7      10.0     10.3      10.5     10.8
Rate of return                    4.9      5.2       5.7      6.7       6.8      6.8
Cash operating inargin            38        40       42        44        44       45
Debt service coverage             1.6      1.5       1.7      1.5       1.6      1.5
Debt as % of debt + equity        39        37       34        32        30       26
Self-financing ratio              51        48       64        46        51       54
2.18   From  1995 onward, UTE's financial performance is expected to improve steadily as
sales continue to grow. Staff productivity would be increased through the action plan to be
agreed with the Bank (see Annex 8). UTE is expected to improve its cash operating margin
and generate a substantial amount of cash, after paying debt service and income taxes and
executing the investment program for the period 1995-2003 shown in Annex 6. While UTE
does not make dividend payments, UTE must transfer cash surpluses to the Treasury, as a
result of the application of Law 16170, Art. 643. To maintain a sound financial position, the
annual amount of this cash transfer would be decided at the time of the approval of UTE's
budget for the next year, i.e. by October of each year, and would take place only after
satisfactory self-financing, indebtedness and debt service ratios are met. The cash operating
margin is projected to improve from 38%  in 1995 to 46%  in 2003. Moreover, the self-



- 18 -
financing ratio would be maintained at over 50%, and the debt service coverage ratio would
be 1.5 times during the loan's disbursement period.
2.19   Sensitivity analysis was carried out to verify the effect of: (a) export sales not
materializing; (b) a drought to occur in 1995 or any other year of the study period; and (c)
tariff increase at half of the inflation rate per year. Annex 9, Attachment 5 shows the results
of this sensitivity analysis for the next three and five years. The results for the next three
years (1995-1997) are summarized below:
Table 2.3 Sensitivity Case Key Indicators
Base case     Exports       Drought        Tariff
reduced      occurs in    increases less
1995      than inflation
Sale revenues                 1779         1632          1746          1712
Operating expenses           1414          1320          1424          1402
Transfers to the               61            29            51            30
Government
Internal cash generation      322           266           269           285
Cash operating ratio           62            62            64            64
Debt service ratio             1.5          1.3           1.4            1.4
Self-financing ratio           51            39            41            45
2.20 These indicators show that UTE's financial performance would remain sound even
under these very difficult operational conditions. Even in the event of external market (or
sales) failure to reach the expected values, UTE's internal cash generation would be
sufficient to fund over 40% of the investment program. It should be highlighted that the
Government should analyze UTE's budget carefully before transferring any cash surplus to
the Treasury.
2.21 To ensure a sound financial performance during project implementation, agreement
was obtained with UTE and the Government at negotiations', where applicable, that they
would take all necessary measures to ensure that:
(a)    UTE's ratio of total cash operating expenses to total operating revenues will
not be higher than: 60%  in 1995, 1996 and 1997; and 55%  in each year after
1997;
1.     Financial covenants included in Loan 3221-UR will be replaced accordingly.



- 19 -
(b)   UTE's internal cash generation is sufficient to maintain a self-financing ratio of
no less than 50% from 1995 onwards;
(c)   UTE's debt service coverage ratio should not be lower than 1.5;
(d)   UTE will prepare a five-year financial projection, including the forecast cash
surplus' transfer agreed with OPP for the next year, which would be sent to
the Bank by October 31st of each year, for an exchange of views on the results
of such projections.
Investment Program
2.22 UTE's investment program follows least-cost criteria (Annex 6) and the market and
power balance criteria described in para. 1.31. UTE's transmission and distribution
investments have been maintained at around US$110 million (expressed in January 1994
prices). No further power generating investments would be carried out by UTE, except if
the private sector does not show interest in investing in the sector. This is consistent with
the Government's policy to allow private investors to construct and operate new generating
facilities. Annex 10 gives details of this program for the period 1995-2003. To ensure that
UJTE's future investments would adhere to the financing plan of the proposed project until
the project is completed, during negotiations UTE agreed not to undertake investments
(excluding those for the project) exceeding in any year 1 % of the established value of the
company's fully revalued fixed assets in operation, without prior consultation with the Bank.
1.    As defined in para. 2.12.



- 20 -
3. THE PROJECT
Project Origin
3.1   The obsolescence of the underground distribution system of Montevideo was discussed
between UTE and the Bank during the preparation of Loan 2484-UR (Power Engineering
Loan), and consequently consultants studies funded by that loan analyzed the issue. In fact
the power distribution system of Montevideo is very old (some parts are more than sixty
years old) and requires modernization to reduce service interruptions and technical losses that
hurt Uruguayan industry and service operations. The actual network topology is totally
inadequate without circuit breakers in the 30-kV system, resulting in several substations
going out of service when a fault occurs in one of them. The distribution voltage to the
consumers is phase-to-phase, which can result in very dangerous situations since no neutral
(ground) connection is offered. This scheme also increases technical losses due to lack of
grounding. The studies performed under Loan 2484-UR recommended the complete
renovation of the distribution system by changing the voltage levels from 220 Volts (phase-
to-phase) to grounded 380/220 Volts and from 6 kV and 30 kV to a sole medium voltage of
22 kV. Due to its concern over the amount of the proposed investment, UTE undertook
another similar study using different consultants (funded by a bilateral agreement with
Sweden), which confirmed the recommendations of the previous study. UTE and the
Government then asked the Bank to assist with project implementation. The project was
identified by a Bank mission in December 1992, and was prepared by UTE's planning
division based on the above mentioned studies and additional consultant studies requested by
the Bank. It was appraised in May 1994.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.2   Uruguay's power sector is going through a critical period of reforms, including the
establishment of a new regulatory system, modernization of institutions and the promotion of
private participation. The proposed project would allow the Bank to be instrumental in
furthering these reforms and in providing the necessary assistance to implement them,
profiting from the Bank world-wide experience in sector reforms. In addition, it would
address the increasing obsolescence of Uruguay's capital stock and help overcome one of the
greatest concerns raised by the productive sector in a recent Bank survey: power supply
reliability. The proposed project is in line with the Bank's objective of enhancing Uruguayan
productivity to improve economic competitiveness. The strategy envisaged combines: (a)
maintaining Bank dialogue with the Government to help in the implementation of the new
regulatory framework; and (b) helping the Government to increase the reliability of power
distribution.



- 21 -
Project Objectives
3.3   The proposed project aims to improve the reliability of the electricity service at least
cost and to promote the sustainability of the reforms recently implemented in the power
sector by helping UTE to adapt to the new institutional framework. Project objectives
include: (i) consolidating sector reforms; (ii) consolidating UTE's institutional
improvements; (iii) improving power distribution reliability; (iv) promoting more efficient
use of energy; and (v) improving customer safety.
Project Description
3.4   This project would be the first part of a staged approach to modernize the Montevideo
distribution network. The renovation of the Montevideo distribution network recommended
by the consultant studies (see para. 3.1) would entail very large investments and needs to be
implemented in several phases. The proposed project would cover the first phase, which
would renovate the areas of the city under the influence of substations G, L, and R. This
would include the most critical areas in the city, and would be followed by additional areas
to be renovated under a possible IDB project under preparation. The proposed project would
also include the strengthening, adaptation and expansion of the transmission system to
ensure the renovation of the distribution system as well as power supply for market growth.
Annex 11 gives details of the project description including terms of reference for the
Technical Assistance component and details of the training component. The proposed project
would include:
(a)   modification of 500-kV substations -- consisting of the expansion of substations
I in Montevideo and San Carlos in Punta del Este through the installation of
two power transformers (250 MVA 500/150 kV each), reactive power control
devices and the related switchgear equipment in each of these substations, and
the installation of new 500-kV line bays in substations A and B;
(b)   expansion of the 150-kV transmission system in Montevideo -- consisting of
the replacement of the switchgear equipment (breakers and switches) and
reinforcement of grounding system of the 150-kV substations to make them
appropriate for the new short circuit requirements of the system, the expansion
of substations E and J, the installation of a new substation G, and the
installation of about 26 km of 150-kV underground cable interconnecting
substations;
(c)   first phase of the renovation of the Montevideo distribution system including
voltage change of the medium voltage (22-kV) system and of the low voltage
(380/220 Volts) system -- consisting of installation of a completely new system
in the areas of influence of substations G, L and R;



- 22 -
(d)  technical assistance -- consisting of consultant services to help UTE to
restructure in business units as part of the sector reforms, to implement the
Non-Technical Losses Reduction Program, to help UTE to develop load
characteristics studies for marginal cost analysis and for load management
actions, to help UTE to update its marginal cost studies, to prepare and
implement a Demand-side Management Program and to assist with project
implementation; and
(e)  training -- the training program would consist of: (i) a managerial seminar to
train UTE's managers for the new power sector structure; (ii) seminars for
UTE's staff on the new sector structure and UTE's changing role; and (iii)
environmental aspects to strengthen UTE's environmental unit.
Project Implementation
3.5   The project implementation plan was agreed during appraisal taking into consideration
lessons learned on past projects with UTE, and aimed especially at: (i) having a strong
implementation unit; and (ii) having a satisfactory procurement plan including the advance
preparation of procurement documents. The project would be coordinated within UTE by a
project coordinator, with the help of a full-time project unit. The Project Coordinator and
Directors for each project component (Transmission, Distribution, and Training) with
qualifications satisfactory to the Bank would be appointed as a condition of effectiveness of
this loan. The project coordinator and the project directors would work within the
framework of UTE's organization with the assistance of the project unit, and of the
procurement, construction, engineering, and finance units (the same implementation unit for
the on-going projects). UTE would keep the project unit in place during implementation.
The project coordinator and the project directors would be qualified professionals who would
not be replaced without consultation with the Bank. Bank standard bidding documents for
international competitive bidding (ICB) will be used. UTE would implement the project in
accordance with an agreed Project Implementation Plan described in Annex 12, which
includes the agreed procurement plan and the corresponding timetable. Confirmation of
these agreements was obtained during negotiations.
Status of Project Preparation
3.6   Project preparation is completed. The feasibility study for the modifications in the
distribution system has been completed, and the consultants have issued the final report. The
economic feasibility study has been prepared and found to be satisfactory by the Bank. The
transmission study (funded by Loan 3221-UR) has also been completed. The consulting firm
to carry out the energy options study was selected during preparation of this project and
services are expected to be concluded in November 1995. The environmental studies have
been completed. During negotiations, agreement was reached on a procurement plan and the
corresponding timetable. This was included in the Project Implementation Plan (see para.
3.5).



- 23 -
Project Costs
3.7   The total project cost, excluding interest during constniction, is estimated at
US$196.5 million , of which US$125.0 million would be foreign cost. Costs are expressed
in June 1994 prices and are based on experience with similar projects in the country and
abroad. Physical contingencies are 5 % of base cost for the transmission component and 10%
of base cost for the distribution and technical assistance components. Price contingencies
assume: (i) a project execution period of six years; and (ii) price escalation on base costs
and physical contingencies of 2.0% in 1995, 2.5% in 1996, 2.7% in 1997, 2.5% in 1998,
2.6% in 1999, and 2.7% in 2000-01. It is assumed that variations in the exchange rate
would compensate for the difference between local and international inflation rates.
3.8   The cost estimate for the project is summarized in the following table:
Table 3.1 - Project Costs in US$ million
Project Elements         | Local  Foreign | Total
l___________________________________  c _ _Cost    _ Cost  _ Cost 
(a) Transmission 500 kV              16.2     23.0   39.2
(b) Transmission 150 kV              19.5     25.0   44.5
(c) Renovation of Distribution Network   24.8  56.0   80.8
(d) Technical Assistance and Training  0.5     2.0    2.5
Total Base Cost                      61.0    106.0  167.0
Physical Contingencies                4.3       8.2   12.5
Price Contingencies                   6.2      10.8   17.0
Total Project Cost                   71.5    125.0  196.5
Interest during Construction          0.0     31.5   31.5
Total Financing Required             71.5    156.5  228.0
Project Financing
3.9    The total financing requirements (including interest during construction of US$31.5
million equivalent), are estimated at US$228 million equivalent. The Bank would finance the
foreign component of goods, the technicai assistance and the training program. UTE would
finance the local costs and interest during construction. So that UTE can continue the
ongoing study of load characteristics and initiate other studies, particularly the Non-Technical
Losses Reduction Program, as well as initiate the most urgent procurement of goods, US$3.0



- 24 -
million would be provided for retroactive financing of expenditures made before loan signing
and after June 30, 1995. The financing plan of the proposed project would be as follows:
Table 3.2 - Financing Plan
l _________________________ |  Local    |    Foreign   |    Total
UTE                          71.5            31.5          103.0
Bank                          0.0           125.0          125.0
Total Financing Required     71.5           156.5          228.0
Procurement
3.10   The following table summarizes procurement arrangements:
Table 3.3 - Procurement Arrangements
Project Element                           Procurement Method       NBF   Total
ICB   | LCB      Other            Cost
1. Works
1.1- Transmission                                                 13.9        13.9
1.2- Distribution                                                 29.2
29.2
2. Goods
2.1- Transmission Equipment             63.0                                  63.0
(46.0)                               (46.0)
2.2- Distribution Equipment             12.6                                  12.6
(11.5)                               (11.5)
2.3- Distribution Cables & Accessories    59.1                                59.1
(53.2)                               (53.2)
2.4- 150kV Cable Supply & Installation    15.7                                15.7
(11.3)        _                      (11.3)
3. Consultancies
3.1- Studies/Supervision                                  1.7                  1.7
(1.7)               (1.7)
3.2- Technical Assistance/Training                        1.3                  1.3
(1.3)               (1.3)
Total                                  150.4              3.0     43.1       196.5
(122.0)           (3.0)             (125.0)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank
ICB - International Competitive Bidding LCB - Local Competitive Bidding
NBF-  Not Bank-Financed                 Other - Internat. Shopping/Hiring of Consultants



- 25 -
3.11   Procurement of goods to be financed from the proceeds of the proposed loan would
be done through international competitive bidding (ICB) following Bank Guidelines for
Procurement. In the eventuality of contracts costing between US$50,000 and US$250,000,
they would be procured by local competitive bidding (LCB) acceptable to the Bank. Smaller
contract packages costing less than US$50,000 would be procured under international
shopping up to an aggregate amount of US$1 million. Bids from domestic manufacturers
for goods may receive a margin of preference of 15 % or the applicable import duties,
whichever is lower, for bid evaluation. Contracts funded with local funds would be procured
under local competitive bidding (LCB) following UTE's procurement procedures.
Consultants would be selected from a short list of consulting firms in accordance with Bank
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants. The terms of reference for hiring Consultants were
discussed during appraisal and are summarized in Annex 11. UTE has a long tradition of
implementing projects under Bank financing, which has allowed it to develop good capacity
for procurement actions and thorough familiarization with Bank guidelines. Moreover,
UTE's local procurement procedures are compatible with Bank guidelines. To expedite
procurement, UTE has divided the procurement into 21 bid packages (15 funded under the
proposed loan and 6 funded by UTE) as detailed in the procurement plan agreed during
appraisal and as described in Annex 12. During negotiations agreement was reached to use
the Bank-issued Standard Bidding Documents for all ICB procurement financed from the
proceeds of the proposed loan. It was also agreed that in case of conflict between local
legislation and the Bank's procurement policy, the latter would prevail if appropriate
provisions are included in the Loan Agreement. Such special provisions were included in the
procurement schedule to the Loan Agreement.
3.12   During project supervision, all document relevant to Bank-financed goods contracts
above a threshold of US$250,000 would be subject to the Bank's prior review procedures.
The prior review process would cover all goods contracts procured by ICB. This would
represent almost 100% of Bank financed contracts for goods. Selective post review of
awarded contracts below the threshold levels would be carried out on about 1 in 10 goods
contracts. Consultant contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more for
consulting firms and US$50,000 or more for individuals, and the corresponding terms of
reference would also be subject to the Bank's prior review.
Disbursements
3.13   The proceeds of the proposed loan are expected to be disbursed over six years (see
Annex 12, Attachment 4). The disbursement schedule reflects the Bank's standard sector
profile and experience with past power projects in Uruguay. The proposed loan would be
disbursed against:
(a)   100 % of the foreign currency expenditures and 100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) for goods for the expansion of the transmission system (500
kV and 150 kV) and for the renovation of the distribution system of
Montevideo;



- 26 -
(b)   100% of expenditures for technical assistance; and
(c)   100% of expenditures for the training program.
3.14   To expedite disbursements, a special account would be established in the Central
Bank of Uruguay with a maximum deposit of approximately US$2 million, estimated to
cover four months of average expenditures to be financed from the Special Account. The
account would be replenished by the Bank in accordance with agreed procedures.
Disbursements against contracts or purchase orders of US$250,000 equivalent or less for
goods and less than US$100,000 equivalent for consultant firms and less than US$50,000 for
individual consultants, would be made against statement of expenditures (SOEs) prepared and
certified by UTE. Non-contract expenditures (such as training) would also be made against
SOEs. Documentation for these expenditures would not be submitted to the Bank, but would
be retained by UTE for periodic inspection by Bank staff and for audit purposes. All other
disbursements would be made against full documentation. The closing date would be
December 31, 2002, six months after the estimated completion of the project.
Project Operation
3.15   No special arrangements are required to operate this project beyond existing UTE
present practices, as it will be part of UTE's existing procedures which have been
functioning satisfactorily (see para. 3.5).
Monitoring and Reporting
3.16   The Bank would be furnished with quarterly project progress reports. The scope and
content of the report were agreed during negotiations, and would follow the existing model
used in ongoing projects. The timely implementation of the project depends on adequate
financial resources being made available when needed. For this reason, formal meetings
would take place every year, within four months of the conclusion of the fiscal year, to
review project progress and financing. The meeting, to be held not later than April 30,
1998, will be the Mid-term Review of the project. To improve the efficiency of those
meetings, UTE would present to the Bank one month in advance to the meeting date, a
report indicating the achievements made in project implementation and a proposal regarding
estimated future project disbursements and the corresponding financing plan for the
remaining project implementation period. In view of the experience with UTE in ongoing
and past projects, regular Bank supervision would be required. Bank supervision input into
key activities is presented in Annex 16. A framework for project monitoring and reporting is
presented in Annex 13.
Economic Analysis
3.17   UTE's expansion plan was prepared based on an average annual expected load
growth of 4.26% for the next ten years, which is considered appropriate. The generation



- 27 -
expansion plan was based on a power balance study prepared by UTE, which the Bank found
satisfactory, and on a feasibility study prepared by Southern Electric International (Feasibility
Study of Units 3 and 4 Batlle y Ordoiiez Power Station and Expansion of La Tablada Power
Station) under a grant from the US Government. The transmission system expansion plan
was based on a consultant study prepared by UTE with the help of MARTE Engenharia
(Obras de Trasmisi6n, Comunicaciones y Telecontrol - Periodo 1994/2000 - Expansion Plan
for Transmission, Telecommunications and Telecontrol Systems for Period 1994-2000),
financed under Loan 3221-UR, and later updated by UTE. The renovation of the distribution
system was recommended by a consultant study prepared by Fitchner (Estudio de
Distribuci6n de Energfa) financed under Loan 2484-UR, and confirmed by an additional
study prepared by SwedPower (Consulting Services for Feasibility Studies of New Topology
of the Distribution System for UTE Montevideo) under a grant from the Swedish
Government. The above studies demonstrate that UTE's expansion plan represents the least-
cost solution for the required system expansion. The Bank has reviewed those studies and
found them to be satisfactory.
3.18   The proposed project includes investments in two different areas: (i) transmission
expansion to allow adequate supply of electricity to an expanding market; and (ii) renovation
of the distribution system in three areas in the city of Montevideo to improve reliability,
reduce technical losses, and extend the life of the power system. It is difficult to separate
accurately the benefits from each of these investments from the general benefits resulting
from the investment program. However, to avoid any uncertainty, a careful approach was
utilized in the economic analysis of the project, as detailed in Annex 14. Under this
approach two different rates of return were calculated: first, the internal economic rate of
return of the renovation of the distribution system of Montevideo; and second, the internal
economic rate of return of the entire investment program for the period 1995-2003.
3.19   The internal economic rate of return of UTE's investment program for period 1995-
2003 is 15.4%. Details of the calculation appear in Annex 14. It was computed at a
discount rate equalizing the present value of the stream of costs and benefits associated with
UTE's expansion plan. The cost stream, in constant 1994 prices, includes the capital cost of
the investment program and the associated incremental operating and maintenance costs.
Revenues derived from incremental sales were used as a proxy for benefits. The benefits
stream represents revenues generated by the investment program using average tariffs, also in
constant prices, assuming that these benefits are attributed to the program at levels of 50% in
1995, 60% in 1996, 70% in 1997, 80% in 1998 and 100% from 1999 on. This rate of
return calculation is conservative because other benefits to the society and the economy of
the country -- such as those derived from improvement of service quality to customers and
availability of energy -- were not included in this analysis.
3.20   The internal economic rate of return of the renovation of the distribution system is
25.1 %. The proposed project would finance only the first phase of UTE's renovation
program; however, no attempt was made to evaluate the internal economic rate of return of
this separate part of the system because the renovation in question will, in fact, install a



- 28 -
completely new system with different voltage levels. Therefore, the only justification to
implement the first phase is as part of the renovation of the whole system. The details of the
calculation appear in Annex 14. The cost stream includes the capital cost of the renovation
equipment and works for the entire distribution system in Montevideo, the operating and
maintenance costs and the upstream costs (generation and transmission) of energy supplied
for the condition with and without the renovation. The benefits were measured by consumer
willingness to pay for the unsupplied energy in the "without project" scenario, conservatively
estimated at its bound value as the cost of unsupplied energy at current tariffs. The amount
of unsupplied energy per year was calculated as the amount of energy the actual distribution
system would be unable to supply due to lack of additional capacity. This is a conservative
estimate since the unsupplied energy due to service interruptions (low reliability) was not
included.
3.21   Sensitivity analyses were carried out to evaluate the impact on the base case internal
economic rate of return as a result of variations in key parameters. The results of these
analyses were:
Internal Economic Rate of Return
Scenario
Investment     Renovation of
Program    Distribution Network
1. Base Case                           15.4%           25.1 %
2. Investment Cost       10% higher    13.6%           23.1%
3. Benefits              10% lower     12.5%           19. 1%
4. Benefits              10% higher    18.1%           31.2%
5. Benefits 10% lower and
Investment Cost       10% higher    10.9%            17.7%
6. Investment Cost       30% higher    10.7%           20.1 %
Environmental Aspects
3.22   This project has been rated "B" by the Bank for environmental assessment (EA)
purposes. No adverse environmental impacts are expected to result from the project, since
the majority of works will be for renovation and substitution of existing facilities. The
expansion of the 500-kV system will comprise the installation of transformers in already
existing sub-stations. A satisfactory environmental analysis of UTE's transmission program
has been completed. A report dated May 1994 entitled "UTE - Proyecto de Expansi6n del
Sistema de Transmisi6n 1994-200 - Estudio de Impacto Ambiental" was published and made
available to the public in Uruguay and in the Bank's Public Information Center in
Washington, D.C. The modification of the 150-kV system will consist of changing
equipment in already existing installations and the addition of underground cables and one
compact substation, so there should consequently be no adverse environmental effects. The
modemization of the distribution network will consist of replacing old cables by new ones at
the same site.



- 29 -
3.23   The Bank would help UTE through this project to strengthen its environmental unit.
Based on the results of an assessment study carried out by consultants (funded by Loan 3221-
UR), a restructuring of the Environmental Unit was agreed during appraisal, as well as a
training program on environmental topics. Such restructuring covers the objectives,
functions and organization of the Environmental Unit, as well as procedures for incorporating
environmental concerns in the sector. UTE began implementing such a new structure in
January 1995 as agreed with the Bank. Agreement to include a specific environmental
component in UTE's training program was achieved during negotiations.
Financial Benefits
3.24   The borrower has considered the Bank's alternative loan terrn options -- currency
pool loan, LIBOR-based single currency loan and fixed rate single currency loan terms -- and
has selected LIBOR-based US dollar single currency loan terms, in order to improve the
management of its external liabilities. The choice of US dollar termns was motivated by a
better match between cash inflows and outflows in that currency, which is the base of
country external commerce. The LIBOR-based single currency loan was considered
preferable because of the long grace period and final maturity offers. The borrower
estimated that the risk posed by the volatility of LEBOR-based single currency loan rating
rate would be mitigated in the medium range; short period higher rates would be
compensated by subsequent periods of lower ratio, averaging a rate in the same order of the
fixed rate. However, the much better grace period and maturity would match better the life
span of the proposed investments.
Project Benefits
3.25   By upgrading the antiquated power distribution system in the Montevideo area, the
project would improve power supply reliability to industrial customers and hence help
improve the efficiency and competitiveness of the productive sectors. Institutional reforms
supported by the project would promote private sector participation in power generation,
which together with more effective demand-side management (also supported by the project)
would result in efficiency gains and improve the quality of the electricity service to the
majority of the population. The economic rate of return is expected to be 15.4 percent.
Risks
3.26   The project has no special technical risks. The Presidential Decree creating the
Energy Technical Commission was enacted as a condition of negotiations. The new
regulatory system being designed would create a competitive market for power generation
and its implementation is a condition (spelled out in an agreement with Argentina) for
uruguayan generators to have access to the Argentine competitive power market. However,
since the creation of this new regulatory system is a condition of effectiveness, there is the
risk of delay in beginning project implementation if the Government delays issuing those
regulations. Risks of delays during project implementation have been minimized by adopting



- 30 -
a more realistic time schedule for implementation in line with past projects experience, and
by having already drafted bidding documents for procurement of the most important items
(representing 50% of total project cost) and terms of reference for hiring consultants.
Additionally, UTE will hire consultants to assist with project implementation, reducing the
risks of delays even further.



- 31 -
4. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
4.1    During negotiations, agreement was obtained that UTE will:
4.1.1)    carry out the Technical Assistance component of the project in accordance
with the terms of reference (TORs) described in Annex 11 for the
following studies: (i) a load characteristics study (para. 1.17); (ii) a
marginal cost tariff study to update previous estimates (para. 1.15); and
(iii) a Demand-side Management Program (para. 1.17);
4.1.2)    carry out the agreed "Non-Technical Losses Reduction Program" as
described in the Implementation Plan (Annex 12), including hiring a
consultant to serve as supervisor of the implementation of this program,
who will report to the Bank and to the UTE General Manager on the
progress of program implementation, in accordance with TORs described
in Attachment I to Annex I1 (para. 1.23 and 1.28);
4.1.3)    carry out the agreed "Plan of Action to Improve Efficiency" (Annex 8),
including hiring consultants to help UTE to restructure into Business Units
(BUs), in accordance with the TORs and timetable described in
Attachment 1 to Annex 11 (para. 2.2);
4.1.4)    (i) have its annual and Bank-financed project accounts audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) maintain separate
accounts for the project; and (iii) furnish to the Bank within five months
after the end of each fiscal year the audited project accounts, special
account, statement of expenditures, and UTE's financial statements (para.
2.9);
4.1.5)   take all necessary measures to ensure that: (i) its ratio of total cash
operating expenses to total operating revenues is not higher than 60% in
1995, 1996 and 1997, and 55% in each year after 1997 and onwards; (ii)
its intemal cash generation is sufficient to maintain a self-financing ratio
of no less than 50% from 1995 onwards; (iii) its debt service coverage is
not lower than 1.5; and (iv) a five-year financial projection, including the
forecast cash surplus transfer agreed with OPP for the next year, be sent
to the Bank by October 31 of each year, for an exchange of views on the
results of such projections (para. 2.21);
4.1.6)    hold consultations with the Bank prior to undertaking any capital
investment, other than this project, estimated to cause in any fiscal year
expenditures greater than I % of the gross value, at the time the decision
on the investment is made, of UTE's fixed assets in operation revalued in



- 32 -
accordance with methods of revaluation acceptable to the Bank (para.
2.22);
4.1.7)   implement the project in accordance with the agreed Project
Implementation Plan (Annex 12) and coordinated through a project unit,
with an adequate implementation structure (the same existing
implementation unit for the on-going projects), and headed by a project
coordinator and three project directors who would be qualified
professionals and who would not be replaced without consultation with the
Bank (para. 3.5);
4.1.8)    use the Bank Standard Bidding Documents for procurement of the goods
and services financed under the Bank Loan. In the case of conflict
between the local legislation and the Bank's procurement policy, the latter
would prevail and appropriate provisions to this effect would be included
in the Loan Agreement (para 3.11);
4.1.9)   conduct formal meetings with the Bank within four months of the close of
each fiscal year starting in 1996, for the purpose of discussing project
execution and progress during the preceding year, planned project
execution and financing in subsequent years, and that the meeting to be
held not later than April 30, 1998, will be the Mid-term Review of the
project (para. 3.16); and
4.2   The following conditions of effectiveness for proposed loan were agreed:
4.2.1)    The regulatory framework for the power sector is in full force and effect
(para. 1.12); and
4.2.2)    UTE has appointed the Project Coordinator and the Project Directors for
each project component (para. 3.5).
4.3   Except for the financial covenants, which would be replaced by those specifically
designed for this proposed loan, all other covenants of Loans and Guarantee Agreements
2622-UR and 3221-UR would be maintained.
4.4   Based on the above agreements, the proposed project would be eligible for a Loan of
US$125 million to UTE with the guarantee of the Government of Uruguay.



- 33 -
ANNEX I
URUGUAY
Power Transmission and Distribution Project
Energy Demand
The energy demand in Uruguay in 1992 was 2052 kTOE (thousand equivalent tons of
oil), resulting in a per capita consumption of 0.649 TOE, which compares adequately with
other countries at the same level of development of Uruguay. The growth of energy demand
has followed economic growth very closely. During 1980-85 when the economy (GDP) went
into recession (annual decrease of 3.7%) energy demand declined by 3.5% per year, and
during the period 1985-91, when GDP growth was 3.4%, energy demand grew by 2.29%
annually.
Energy demand is concentrated in the residential (37%), industrial (29%) and
transport (27%) sectors. Petroleum products dominate energy demand (54.5%), with diesel
oil representing 45.5% of the oil derivative consumption. Electricity represents 17.7% of
total consumption. The following tables present energy consumption by sector.
Table 1: Secondary Energy Consumption By Sector (in kTOE). 1991
Sector    Electricity   Oil      Wood      TOTAL  |_%
Residential      232.1     214.8      306.1      753.0      36.7
Industrial       131.8      193.0     263.1      587.9       28.7
Transport          0.2     551.5         0       551.7      26.9
Agriculture                159.4         0       159.4       7.8
Total            364.1    1118.7      569.2    2052.0       100.0
|  %           17.7       54.5       27.7     100.0



- 34 -
Table 2: Participation of Oil Derivatives (in kTOE). 1991
Sector    Total  Gasoline  Diesel  Kerosene   LPG      Fuel
_______  _____               ~ ~~~~Oil
Residential    214.8       0    41.9       47.2   90.6    35.1
Industrial    193.0       0.2   10.5        1.8    3.6   176.9
Transport     515.5     238.1  306.9                         6.5
Agriculture    159.4      7.9  149.6        0.1              1.8
Total         1118.     246.2  508.9       49.1   94.2   220.3
7
%      ~100.0    22.0%   45.5%      4.4%    8.4%    19.7%



- 35 -
ANNEX 2
URUGUAY
Power Transmission and Distribution Project
Power Sector Reform
1.    Background. The energy sector in Uruguay is currently monopolistic. The Ministry
of Industry, Energy, and Mines (MIE) is responsible for sector planning, policy setting, and
for supervising the two state controlled companies in the sector: the National Power
Company (Administraci6n Nacional de Usinas y Trasmisiones - UTE) and the National
Petroleum Company (Administraci6n Nacional de Combustibles, Alcohol y Portland -
ANCAP). Both companies operate national monopolies in each area, with a mix of activities
in operation and regulation. There is no regulatory entity in the sector, and UTE and
ANCAP fix the quality standards for supply of energy products and propose tariffs to the
Government, although the Government is reforming the sector and a new Institutional
Framework should be in place as a condition of effectiveness of this loan.
2.    Power Sector Institutional Structure. UTE is the sole generation, transmission and
distribution company in the country, with the exception of the binational entity CTM, which
operates a 1890 MW hydroplant. UTE is an autonomous public entity governed by a Board
of Directors appointed by the Government. UTE reports to the MIE, but its budget is
approved by the Planning and Budget Office (OPP). The Government Auditing Agency
(Tribunal de Cuentas) reviews budget allocation and procurement process, and also audits
UTE's financial statements. UTE prepares the tariff increase studies and submits them to
OPP, which drafts a Presidential Decree approving it.
3.    Power Sector Reform Studies. The Government is reforming the power sector
aiming at: (i) making the regulatory function independent of UTE; and (ii) promoting
private investment in power generation. Under Loan 3517-0-UR, consultant studies were
carried out and a final report was issued in October 1993 with an assessment of the existing
institutional framework, proposal for a new institutional model, and draft of a Presidential
Decree creating the new institutional system.
4.    Proposed New Power Sector Institutional Framework. The proposed institutional
framework has the following main characteristics:
(a)  Separation of Roles of the State: The state will be responsible for defining
sector policies and for regulating the sector. All regulatory activities presently under
UTE responsibility would be transferred to the Government. Additionally, UTE will
be kept as a public utility, but competing with private investors in power generation.



- 36 -
(b) Role of the Private Sector: Private investors will be allowed to install new
power generating units to compete with UTE in an open competitive market. Private
investment in transmission and distribution in some areas of the country will also be
allowed.
(c)   Energy Technical Commission: An Energy Technical Commission was created
by decree on November 7, 1994. It will be composed of representatives of the
Minister of Industry, Energy and Mines, the Minister of Economy and Finances, and
the Director of the Planning and Budget Office. This new entity would be assisted
by technical units to help the Government on regulatory issues in the sector and on
setting tariffs.
(d)  Regulatory Body: The regulatory body would be the Ministry of Industry,
Energy, and Mines, through the Direcci6n Nacional de Energfa. It would supervise
the long-term free market between generators and distributors, regulate the short
term market, and regulate the distribution of electricity including approving tariffs.
(e)   Sector Structure: The sector will be divided into three areas - generation,
transmission and distribution. UTE would continue to be a government-owned
power utility, but its transmission and distribution activities would be separated into
business units. Although UTE would not be privatized, the new framework would
allow it to be in the future if the Government decides so. UTE will be subject to the
same regulatory rules as private sector participants.
(f)   Generation: Competition will be introduce~d into the generation of electricity.
Independent power producers will construct and operate new power generation plants
and would sell energy to UTE-generation and/or UTE-distribution, large consumers
or private distributors. Two markets will exist: (i) a long-term market where
distributors and large consumers would freely negotiate power contracts with
generators; and (ii) a regulated short-term market in which electricity will be
negotiated in an hourly or daily basis at regulated prices defined by the short-run
marginal cost of the system. Large consumers will also be free to negotiate long
term contracts with generators of their choice.
(g) Transmission: UTE-transmission will own the interconnection system. It will
charge a transmission tariff based on economic cost per kWh transmitted in the
system at cost levels defined by the regulatory body. It will allow open access to the
system by all users. New investments in the transmission system will be made by
UTE or by private transmitters.
(h)  National Dispatch Center (NDC): The dispatch of generating units and
transmission facilities, as well as of international interconnections, will be
coordinated by this entity. The NDC will define the economic dispatch of power
generation aiming at minimizing production cost and losses. The long-term market



- 37 -
will predominate and therefore, long-term prices are expected to be negotiated at
levels not lower than production cost.
(i)   Distribution: UTE-distribution will operate the existing distribution system,
and will be responsible for supplying energy in its concession area. New distribution
companies will be allowed to participate in regional areas which are not served by
IUTE. Any large consumer will be free to buy energy from any producer, paying for
the use of the distribution system owned by third parties.
5.   Timetable of Implementation: Attachment 1 to this Annex shows the timetable
agreed during negotiations.



- 38 -
URUGUAY
Power Transmission and Distribution Project
Timetable for the Restructuring of UTE
2, 1995 IQtr 3, 1996 I Qtr 4, 1995 1 Qtr 1, 1996 | Qtr 2,1996 I  Qtr 3, 1996 | Qtr 4, 1996 | Qt
ID   Task Name                               May| Jun Jul |Aug Sep Oct Nov|Dec Jan Feb|Mar Apr May JunI Jul |Aug Sep Oct Nov|Dec Jan
I   Regulatory Framework
2       New Decree of the Electricity Law
3       Technical Unit
4            Selection of Experts
5           Appointment of experts
6       Price System
7            Engagement of Consultants
8            Execution of the Study
9       Electricity rules
10           Selection of Consultants
11           Concession Regimen
12           Power Market Rules
13           National Dispatch Center Operation
14           Distribution Value Added Calculatio
15  UTE's Restructuring
16       Preparation of Bidding documents
17      Approval by the Bank
18       Selection of consultant firm
19       Approval of contract
20       Consultant's proposal
21       Plan of Action
22      Implementation of the restructuring
Task                                    Rolled Up Task
ProJect:                               Progress                                 Rolled Up Milestone
Date: Wed 4/19/95                      Milestone                                Rolled Up Progress
Summary
Page 1



- 39 -
ANNEX 3
URUGUAY
Power Transmission and Distribution Project
Energy Options Study
1.    Background. Uruguay has very limited indigenous energy resources. MERCOSUR,
however, brings the possibility of Uruguay importing energy from its neighboring countries
as well as the possibility of exporting eventual surpluses during periods of excess productive
capacity. These new possibilities would allow Uruguay to optimize its energy options in a
new approach, different from past trends. During the preparation of the proposed project
the Government contracted a consultant study to recommend the most cost-effective energy
strategy Uruguay should pursue.
2.    Objective of the Study. The study will analyze the options Uruguay should consider
for supplying its energy needs for the next ten years, and recommend a strategy to achieve
maximum economy and reliability of energy supply, detailing the best mix of energy sources
to that end.
3.    Terms of Reference. The study was contracted with the following Terms of
Reference agreed between the Bank and MIE:
(i)  Scope of the Study. The study would include (at a minimum):
(a)    Analysis of Past Supply and Demand - Analyze data of past supply and
demand for each sub-sector (electricity, oil derivatives, gas, coal,
wood) of the energy sector. Such analysis should include an
assessment of the adequacy of supply, eventual shortages and their
reasons, origin of the primary energy and final use of the energy.
(b)    Future Demand Projections - Estimate future demand for each sub-
sector of the energy sector for the next 10 years. The eventual energy
exchange (particularly natural gas and electricity) with Argentina and
Brazil should be considered.
(c)   Interconnection with Argentina - A technical and economic analysis of
the eventual interconnection with Argentina. In this respect the
following should be analyzed in detail: (i) the potential gas market in
Uruguay; (ii) the possibility of real commitment from the gas suppliers
in Argentina for exporting natural gas to Uruguay in the necessary
volume; (iii) estimates of electricity sales possible to export to



- 40 -
Argentina and the resulting need for gas for generation; (iv)
preliminary design of the gas pipeline and its estimated investment
costs; (v) estimates of the price of natural gas delivered in
Montevideo; (vi) based on the study UTE is preparing on the
modifications in its thermoplants to use gas, calculate the price of
electricity generated; (vii) a global technical and economic analysis of
the interconnection through the natural gas pipeline bringing gas from
Argentina and selling electricity to the Argentinean market.
(d)   Interconnection with Brazil - A technical and economic analysis of the
eventual interconnection with Brazil through a transmission system to
bring electricity to Uruguay. The exchange of power in both
directions profiting from the interconnection should be assessed and
quantified.
(e)    Recommendations - Based on the above studies and taking into
consideration the existing ANCAP capacity for refining petroleum (as
well as the reflects that a new mix would bring to the energy supply)
and the firewood production of the country, formulate
recommendations of options Uruguay should pursue to secure an
economic and reliable supply of energy, with the possibility of
benefiting from exchange with its neighbors.
(ii) Consultant Hired. The government recommended and the Bank had no
objection to the Government hiring the Argonne National Laboratory (Illinois,
U.S.A.) to carry out the study. The consultant proposed a satisfactory work
program consisting of eight specialist-months of work and two missions to
Uruguay. The study is being carried out and expected to be concluded by
November 1995.
(iii) Counte=art. The Government of Uruguay is represented by the Planning and
Budget Office (OPP), which is managing the contract. UTE is giving technical
support to the study.



- 41 -
ANNEX 4
URUGUAY
Power Transmission and Distribution Project
Energy Pricing
1.    Background. The pricing of different forms of energy is a determining factor in
consumers' choice of the most adequate form of energy to consume. Price distortions and
subsidies can result in inducing consumers to inadequate use. During project preparation the
Bank contracted an individual consultant to assess the price levels of electricity and of oil
derivative products, including an assessment of the eventual existence of subsidies and of the
taxation existing on energy.
2.     Terms of Reference. The study was carried out in accordance with the following
TOR:
(i) Objective: These TOR detail the tasks performed by an individual consultant
hired by the Bank to assist with the preparation of UTE's Transmission and
Distribution Project. The consultant conducted a research on the existence of
subsidies in energy prices and on the existing tax on energy prices.
(ii) Tasks: The consultant:
(a)    visited Uruguay to collect all data relative to power tariff (inclusive
Long Range Marginal Costs studies prepared in the past), oil
derivative prices, gas; taxation on electricity, oil derivatives and gas;
and possible subsidies existing in the pricing system of these products.
(b)    analyzed the data collected and prepared a report giving: (i) an opinion
on the LRMC studies already performed and the updated value of the
LRMC calculated by UTE; (ii) an opinion on the level and structure of
power tariffs; (iii) an opinion on the level and structure of the prices of
oil derivatives and gas, taking into account international prices where
feasible; (iv) an opinion on the tax system on energy; and (v)
identification of eventual subsidies in energy price structures and
among different forms of energy.



- 42 -
(c)    helped the Bank team in the analysis of the economic rate of return of
the project, particularly for the rehabilitation and modernization of the
distribution network of Montevideo.
(d)    visited Uruguay for one week to help the Bank team during the pre-
appraisal mission of the Project.
(e)    submitted a final report.
3.     Results. The consultant study arrived at the following conclusions and
recommendations:
(a)   Uruguay's energy sector reveals an institutional organization dominated by
powerful state monopolies which generate a substantial portion of state
revenues both through the appropriation of operating surpluses and through
taxes on oil products which are transferred to the Government.
(b)   UTE, the electricity monopoly, undertook a concerted effort to rationalize the
price structure according to marginal cost guidelines in the last decade
following recommendations from a tariff study carried out in 1982 (under Bank
financing). UTE has trained competent staff to deal with tariff questions and
is qualified to update marginal cost analyses if required.
(c)   Pricing levels for electricity are currently on the same order as marginal costs.
Final prices to consumers (including an excise tax of 10% to all consumers -
IMESI) are in excess of marginal costs for most categories. Pricing for
different categories depends on marginal cost analyses and no distinction is
made among consumers posing the same cost burden to the system. The only
remnants of subsidization are a first energy block in the residential and general
tariffs for low consumption users, which are cross-subsidized by larger
residential users who pay a tariff in excess of cost. Otherwise, tariffs are
correctly structured according to costs.
(d)   For future electricity tariff improvements it is recommended that a seasonality
element be incorporated, which would reflect the higher costs of energy during
the winter season. With regard to tariff study updating, improvements in
information should be sought regarding load characteristics and the distribution
system (an ongoing update study, under Bank financing, is addressing this
issue).
(e)   The institutional reform of the power sector being implemented by the
Government should consider the effects on electricity pricing. If a competitive



- 43 -
market develops at the generation level, particularly if access to and from
Argentina is feasible, the pricing of regulated suppliers would require close
tracking of marginal costs.
(f)   Pricing of oil products is considerably more haphazard. It reveals considerable
variations in tax levels between products of similar costs. The final price of
these products to consumers is considerably higher than the full opportunity
cost of those products, and consequently, subsidies are non-existent.
However, the price signal is distorted by the tax system, particularly in the
case of automotive fuels providing incentives for an uneconomic conversion of
the transportation fleet to diesel fuel.
(g)   Oil products are a prime candidate for tax reform, mainly by rationalizing
them and extending a uniform treatment of the value added tax (VAT) to all
products.
(h)   The energy pricing system does not create incentives for efficiency
improvements, since it is based on a cost-plus formula. This is manifested
partially in UTE by a low customer-to-employee ratio and in ANCAP by a
high markup for the main oil products which would suggest production and
distribution inefficiencies.






- 44 -
ANNEX 5
URUGUAY
Power Transmission and Distribution Project
The Market for Power
1.    Historical Data. UTE's historical data of sales of electricity for the period 1970-93
are shown in Attachment 1. The analysis of that attachment shows that the average annual
growth rate of sales of electricity for the past 23 years (1970-93) was 4.3%. However,
during the recent past (1990-93) the annual growth rate has been much higher, at 6.7%. The
following table summarizes the growth rates of sales of electricity in the past 23 years:
Period        Average Annual
Growth Rate
1970-75            2.4%
1975-80            6.9%
1980-85            2.8%
1985-90            3.7%
1990-92            6.7%
1970-92            4.3%
2.    Market Structure. The market structure has been reasonably stable, with sales to
residential customers representing about 46% of total sales, sales to industrial customers
about 36%, sales to commercial customers about 16%, and lighting about 2%. The
generation structure has changed considerably over the last two decades (Attachment 2).
Hydrogeneration increased its share from around 50% in the early 1970s to over 90% in the
late 1980s. This is due to the commissioning of large hydroplants (Salto Grande and El
Palmar) during this period. In the future, however, thernal generation should increase its
participation since all economic hydro sources have been utilized. Exchange of power with
Brazil and Argentina should also play a much greater role in future power supply.
3.    Forecast of Future Power Sales. Under the Fifth Power Project (Loan 1779-UR),
consultants developed satisfactory methodologies to forecast electricity demand based on
trends and regression analysis. UTE has been using these methodologies to update the
forecasts of future electricity demand. UTE forecasts separately the three main customer
categories: residential, industrial and commercial. The coverage in the country is already



- 45 -
very high (around 97%) and the population growth rate quite modest (0.5%). Therefore, the
expected growth in electricity consumption will depend strongly on economic growth. To
prepare the forecast, it was considered that GDP will grow at 2% per year until 2004. The
three main categories were analyzed separately, and total sales subsequently projected.
Finally, UTE considered that losses would be reduced in accordance with a loss reduction
program agreed with the Bank and that 70% of the actual losses would be transformed into
additional sales after implementation of the program. Attachment 3 shows the forecast sales
of energy. The average annual growth forecast for the period is 4.26%, which is compatible
with past records over a long period.
4.    Generation Requirements. Generation requirements are obtained from sales
forecasts, adding forecast losses. Currently the total loss level is high due to technical and
non-technical losses. The improvements in the distribution network of Montevideo (which
represents 52.3 % of the sales of electricity) will help reduce the technical losses. UTE will
implement a program for reducing the non-technical losses. In accordance with both actions
it is expected to reduce losses to the levels shown in Attachment 3 and, therefore, the
generation requirements for domestic market would be:
Year               1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  2002  2003
Energy             6097  6291  6475  6662  6873  7088  7359  7646  7948
(GWh)
Demand             1265  1306  1344  1383  1427  1471  1527  1587  1650
(MW)



- 46 -
ANNEX S
URUGUAY
ADMINISTRACION NACIONAL DE USINAS Y TRASMISIONES ELECTRJCAS
POWER TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Market Historical Data
SALES (in GWH)                               Number                    Mwk.t Structur
_                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Costiners 
Yewr  Resident.  Indudr.  Comerc.  Ughring    TOTAL    Growth               RasimrtL  Indust.  C;onrc.   Ughlrng    TOTAL
(GWh)   (GWh        (GWh)    (GWh)   (GWh)          (%                  t%)        N%       (%        1%)       (%
1970      884       570       280        43       1727     6.7%    662143    48.3%      33.0%      16.2%     2.5%    100.0%
1971      907       623       305        46      1881      8.9%    675879    48.2%      33.1%     16.2%      2.4%    100.0%
1972      852       599       276        36      1763    -6.3%    684963    48.3%       34.0%     15.7%      2.0%    100.o%
1973      871       603       279        53       1806     2.4%    699420    48.2%      33.4%      15.4%     2.9%    100.0%
1974      829       671       252        45       1797    -0.5%    711872    46.1%      37.3%      14.0%     2.5%    100.0%A
1975      869       736        276        57      1940      8.0%    724074    44.8%     38.0%      14.2%      2.9%    100.0%
1976      932       781        298        61      2072      6.8%    736387    45.0%     37.7%      14.4%      2.9%    100.0%
1977      100O      790        334        63     2187       5.6%    755032    45.7%     36.1%      15.3%      2.9%    100.0%
1978     1070       914        357        65      2406    10.0%    765287    44.5%      88.0%      14.8%      2.7%    100.o%
1979     1060       977        378        64     2479       3.0%    778849    42.8%     39.4%      15.2%      2.6%    100.0%
1980     1165       1029       443        69     2706      9.2%    784571     48.1%     38.0%      16.4%      2.5%    100.0%
1981     1293      1078       454        89      2914      7.7%    802878    44.4%      37.0%     15.6%      3.1%    100.0%
1962     1360       1002      465        92      2919      0.2%    813545    46.6%      34.3%     15.9%      3.2%    100.0%
19S3     1400      1051        476       91      3018       3.4%    819161    46.4%     34.8%      15.8%     3.0%    100.0%
1964     1379      1076       475        88      3018      0.0%    837371     45.7%     35.7%     15.7%      2.9%    100.0%A
1985     1411       1114      493        92      3110      3.0%    82522    45.4%       35.8%      15.9%     3.0%    100.0%
1986     1451       1201      510        88      3250      4.5%    897713    44.6%      37.0%     15.7%      2.7%    100.0%
1987     1577       1234       543       84      3438      5.8%    919452     45.9%     35.9%      15.8%     2.4%    100.0%
1988      1710      1308       596        79     3e95      7.5%    936991     46.3%     35.4%      16.2%     2.1%    100.0%
1989      1572     1374        559       67      3572    -3.3%    948214    44.0%       38.5%      15.6%      1.9%    100.0%
1990      1592      1426       623        83     3724      4.3%    982487    42.7%      38.3%      16.7%     2.2%   1W.0%
1991     1811       1506      6s6        100     4077       9.5%   1002148    44.4%     36.9%     16.2%      2.5%    100.0%
1992      1907      1412       675       103     4167       2.2%   1014902    45.8%     35.6%      16.2%     2.5%    100.0%
1993     2078       1614       721       114     4527      8.6%   1035911   45.9%       35.7%      15.9%     2.5%    100.0%



- 47 -
ANNEX 5
Attachment 2
URUGUAY
ADMINISTRACION NACIONAL DE USINAS Y TRASMISIONES ELECTRICAS
POWER TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Generation Historical Data
Generation Generation
Generabon (in GWh)                        for        for            Generabon Structure
Exports  Domestic
Year    Hydro   Thermo  Imported    TOTAL                   Market    Hydro   Thermo  Imported    TOTAL
GWh       GWh       GWh        GWh       GWh        GWh _       (%        (%)       (%)        (%)
1970      1242       889         29      2160                 2160     57.5%      41.2%       1.3%    100.0%
1971      1469       819         351     2323                 2323     63.2%      35.3%      1.5%    100.0%
1972       995      1312         33      2340                 2340     42.5%      56.1%       1.4%    100.0%
1973      1556       875         27      2458                 2458     63.3%      35.6%       1.1%    100.0%
1974      1366       911         20      2297                 2297     59.5%      39.7%      0.9%    100.0%
1975      1132      1241         23      2396                 2396     47.2%      51.8%       1.0%    100.0%
1976      1222      1341         25      2588                 2588     47.2%      51.8%       1.0%    100.0%
1977      1567      1189         28      2784                 2784     56.3%      42.7%      1.0%    100.0%
1978      1637      1293         29      2959                 2959     55.3%      43.7%      1.0%    100.0%
1979      1452      1487         25      2964                 2964     49.0%      50.2%      0.8%    100.0%
1980      2273       972         34      3279                 3279     69.3%      29.6%      1.0%    100.0%
1981      2546       953         36      3535                 3535     72.0%      27.0%      1.0%    100.0%
1982      2446      1069         21      3536                 3536     69.2%      30.2%      0.6%    100.0%
1983      3538        99         16      3653                 3653     96.9%       2.7%      0.4%    100.0%
1984      3664        58         11      3733        ~        3733     98.2%       1.6%      0.3%    100.0%
1985      3685        73          0      3758                 3758     98.1%       1.9%      0.0%    100.0%
1986      4064        37          0      4101                 4101     99.1%       0.9%      0.0%    100.0%
1987      4239       210          0      4449                 4449     95.3%       4.7%      0.0%    100.0%
1988      3927      1505          0      5432        626      4806     72.3%      27.7%      0.0%    100.0%
1989      4641      1759         33      6433          0      6433     72.1%      27.3%      0.5%    100.0%
1990      4413       347         51      4811        100      4711     91.7%       7.2%       1.1%    100.0%
1991      5043       813          0      5856        790      5066     86.1%      13.9%      0.0%    100.0%
1992      6702       881         12      7595       2277      5318     88.2%      11.6%      0.2%    100.0%
1993      6190       601         15      6806       12151     5591    90.9%        8.8%      0.2%    100.0%



- 48 -
ANNEX 5
Attachment 3
URUGUAY
ADMINISTRACION NACIONAL DE USINAS Y TRASMISIONES ELECTRICAS
POWER TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Market Forecast
Year             Sales of              Losses            Generabon              Demand                 Sales
Energy                                Requirements                                 Growth
(GWh)  _        __      %                  h)                  (MW)                   (%)
1995                5024                  17.6                6097                 1265                4.51%
1996                5247                  16.6                6291                 1306                4.44%
1997                5467                  15.6                6475                 1344                4.19%
1998                5692                  14.6                6662                 1383                4.12%
1999                5908                  14.0                6873                 1427                3.79%
2000                6130                  13.5                7088                 1471                3.76%
2001                6364                  13.5                7359                 1527                3.82%
2002                6612                  13.5                7646                 1587                3.90%
2003                6873                  13.5                7948                 1650                3.95%
| The Average Annual Sales Growth for the Period is   4.26%






- 49 -
ANNEX 6
URUGUAY
Power Transmission and Distribution Project
Power Balance
1.    Existing Generation Facilities. Uruguay's present installed generating capacity
(including participation in the Salto Grande binational hydroplant) is 1836 MW, of which
1241 MW is hydroelectric and 595 MW oil-fired thermoelectric. Hydrogeneration is
supplied by three power plants in Rio Negro (Gabriel Terra, Baygorria, and El Palmar) and
by Salto Grande. Gabriel Terra is an older plant commissioned in 1948 with 128 MW (four
units of 32 MW), which is now under rehabilitation (financed under Loan 2622-UR),
including a change in turbines and complete rewiring of the generators. Upon completion of
these rehabilitation works (scheduled for 1997) the life of this power plant will be extended
by an additional 30 years. Baygorria is also an old plant, commissioned in 1961, with 108
MW (three units of 36 MW), and is under normal operation. UTE plans to rehabilitate
Baygorria after finishing the works in Gabriel Terra. El Palmar is a new plant
commissioned in 1982 with 330 MW (three units of 110 MW) and with a good record of
operation.
2.    Uruguay has a very small hydro reservoir capacity. The only existing reservoir is
Gabriel Terra, with capacity for storing the equivalent of 4.5 months of generation. Salto
Grande has regulating storage capacity for only two weeks and therefore its generation
strongly depends on the volume of water inflow. UTE has hydrological data going back 82
years. The hydrological conditions of these rivers are very erratic. During years of average
water inflow the generating capacity in Rio Negro is around 2,600 GWh, and Uruguay's
share in Salto Grande is around 3,800 Gwh in average years. However, during dry years the
generating capacity is substantially reduced to 600 GWh in Rio Negro and to 800 GWh for
the Salto Grande Uruguayan share. This forces UTE to have a thernal backup to be used
only in dry years and even to face curtailments in very dry years.
3.    UTE's thermal installations are concentrated in two sites: Batile Thermoplant and La
Tablada Thermoplant. Batlle thermoplant has six units which have been installed in different
years. Units No. 1 and No. 2 are already retired and therefore out of service. Units No. 3
and No. 4 (50 MW each, steam turbines, oil fired, burning fuel oil) were commissioned in
1954. These units, in addition to their age, have a very low efficiency (329 gr/kWh), and
are therefore the last units to be dispatched. Unit No. 5 is an 88 MW unit commissioned in
1970 with a fuel consumption rate of 262 gr/kWh and a good operational record. Unit No. 6
is a 125 MW unit commissioned in 1975 with a fuel consumption of 260 gr/kWh and a good
operational record. Both units 5 and 6 burn fuel oil. In 1992 a fire in this thermoplant
affected these two units. UTE is therefore rehabilitating them. Unit No. 5 is back to normal



- 50 -
operation and unit No. 6 (the one most affected) is under repair and scheduled to be in
operation by the end of 1994. La Tablada thermoplant is a brand new installation
commissioned in 1992 with 227 MW (two units of 113.5 MW each) consisting of two
industrial type gas turbines burning diesel oil with a consumption of 270 gr/kWh. In
addition to these bigger installations UTE also has three small gas turbines (GE, 10 MW;
BBC, 21 MW, and AA, 24 MW).
4.    Planning for Generation Expansion. A generation development study through the
year 2000 (prepared by independent consultants in March 1980, financed under Loan 1779-
UR) has shown that none of the identified small hydro projects can compete with thernal
plants. Therefore, future generation expansion in Uruguay should be based on thermnoplants.
However, the future development of MERCOSUR opens up the possibility of energy
exchange between Uruguay and Argentina through the already existing 500-kV transmission
line to Salto Grande, as well as the possibility of importing natural gas from Argentina.
There is also the prospect of electrical interconnection with Brazil through a possible 500-kV
transmission line in the future. Annex 3 describes the Energy Options Study to be carried
out by consultants as part of the preparation of this project. UTE has also contracted
consultant studies (Southern Electric International, financed under a US Govermuent Grant,
through the Trade Development Agency) to analyze the technical and economical feasibility
for the next thermal generation expansion in the Montevideo area, including: (i)
rehabilitation of the Battle thermal plant, modernizing it and modifying it to burn natural gas
to be brought from Argentina; (ii) installation of additional capacity (121 MW) in La Tablada
transforming it into a combined cycle plant; (iii) installation of a combined cycle new
thermoplant (180 MW) in the area occupied by units 1 and 2 of Batlle plant; and (iv)
installation of a new combined cycle thermoplant (360 MW) in Greenfield.
5.    UTE has a hydro-thermal computer simulation model for planning of generation
capacity developed by consultants under Loan 2484-UR. UTE has also a competent and well
trained staff able to use this model to carry out simulation studies. UTE has therefore
prepared an update of the planning studies which defines the least-cost expansion plan for the
next ten years. The study recommends the installation of 127 MW in La Tablada in 1996
and 190 MW in Batlle in 1998. These units would be part of a modernization effort in both
thermoplants to transform them into combined cycle plants burning natural gas, if this fuel is
available, or oil derivatives otherwise. These studies were analyzed by the Bank and found
to be satisfactory. UTE has decided to rely on private investments for future power
generation. Based on studies already completed, an additional 120 MW in gas turbines (in
1996) will be installed by UTE only if the private sector does not show interest in it.
Subsequently, UTE plans to call for tenders from investors interested in installing the 180-
MW combined cycle plant in Batlle y Ordoniez as an Independent Power Producer (IPP) to
sell its generation to UTTE. This decision does not change the economics of the previous
planning.
6.    Power Balance. Using the simulation model referred to in para. 5 above and the
generation requirements defined in Annex 5 (Power Market), UTE prepared the power



- 51 -
balances shown in Attachments 1 to 5. Attachment 1 shows the Capacity Balance to supply
the domestic market. Attachment 2 shows the Energy Balance during dry year hydrological
conditions. Attachment 3 shows the Energy Balance during average hydrological conditions
to supply the domestic market (with sales to Argentina at a low level scenario, 600 GWh).
Attachment 4 shows the Energy Balance during average hydrological conditions to supply the
domestic market plus sales of electricity to Argentina in a high level scenario, and
Attachment 5 shows the Energy Balance during average hydrological conditions considering
the export scenario at the expected level of sales to Argentina.



- 52 -
ANNEX 6
Attachment 1
URUGUAY
ADMINISTRACION NACIONAL DE USINAS Y TRASMISIONES ELECTRICAS
POWER TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Capaciy Balance (MW)
Year                       1995      1996       1997      1998       1999      2000       2001      2002       2003
Required Generation(GWh)            6097       6291      6475       6662      6873       7088      7359       7646       7948
Load Factor(%)                      55.00     55.00      55.00     55.00      55.00     55.00      55.00      55.00     55.00
Maximum Demand(MW)                  1265       1306      1344       1383      1427       1471       1527      1587       1650
Thermal Plants:
Batile Units #1. #2                    0          0         0          0          0         0          0         0          0
Batile Units #3, #4                  100        100       100         50        50         50         50        50         50
Batie Unit #5                         88         88        88         88        88         88        88         88         88
Batie Unit #6                        125        125       125        125       125        125        125       125        125
Batile Combined Cycle (new)                                          190       190        190        190       190        190
Gas Turbine GE                        10
GasTurbine B B C                      21         21        21         21        21         21         21        21         21
Gas Turbine A A                       24         24        24         24        24         24         24        24         24
La Tablada                           227        227       227        227       227        227       227        227        227
Add ftional Gas Turbines (new)                  127        127       127        127       127        127       127        127
Sub -Total Thermo          595       712        712       852        852       852        852        852       852
Hydroelectric Plants:
Gabriel Terra                        128        128       128        128       128        128        128       128        128
Baygorria                            108        108       108        108       108        108        108       108        108
Palmar                               330        330       330        330       330        330       330        330        330
Salto Grande                         945        945       945        945       945        945       945        945        945
Sub-TotalHydro            1511      1511       1511      1511       1511      1511       1511       1511      1511
Total Installed CapacRy             2106      2223       2223      2363       2363      2363       2363       2363      2363
Reserve                              211       222        222       236        236       236        236        236       236
NetTotalCapacity                    1895      2001       2001      2127       2127      2127       2127      2127       2127
CAPACITY BALANCE                     630       695        657       744        700       656        600       540        477



- 53 -
ANNEX 6
Attachment 2
URUGUAY
ADMINISTRACION NACIONAL DE USINAS Y TRASMISIONES ELECTRICAS
POWER TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Energy Gneratlon(GWh)
(Dry Year Hydrological Conditons)
Year                      1995      1996      1997      1998       1999      2000      2001      2002      2003
Generaton Required (GWh):
Domestic Market                  6097      8291      6475      6662      6873       7088      7359      7646      7948
Export to Argentina                 0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0
Total                     6097      6291      6475      6662       e873      7088      7359      7646       7948
Hydro Plants:
Rio Negro                           600       600        600       600       600       600        600       600       600
Salto Grands                        800       800        800       800       8oo       800        800       800       800
Totel Hydro              1400      1400       1400      1400      1400      1400       1400      1400      1400
Thermo Plants:
Thermal generaon                   4697       4891      5075      5262      5473      5688       5959      6246      6548
Totad Thermad            4697      4891       5075      5262      5473      5688      5959       6246      6548
|Tota Gneralon(GWh                  6097      6291      6475      6662       6873      7088      7359      7646       7948
ANNEX 6
Attachment S
URUGUAY
ADMINISTRACION NACIONAL DE USINAS Y TRASMISIONES ELECTRICAS
POWER TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Energy G.neradon(GWh) - Low Exports Scenario
(Average Hydrological Condkions)
Year                      1995      1996      1997      1998       1999      2000      2001      2002      2003
Generaion Required (GWh)
Domestc Market                   60s7      6291      6475      6662      6873       7088      7359      7646      7948
Export to Argenina               6oo        S00       600       600       6oo        6oo       600       600       600
Total                     6697      6891      7075      7262      7473       7688      7959      8246      8548
Hydro Plants:
Rio Negro                          2600      2600       2600      2600      2600      2600      2600       2600      2600
Sadto Grands                       3800      3800       3800      3800      3800      380       3800      3800      3800
Total Hydra              6400      6400      6400       6400      6400      6400      6400       6400      6400
Thermo Plants:
Thermal generton                    297       491        675       862      1073      1288       1559      1846      2148
TotadThermr               297       491        675       862      1073      1288      1559       1846      2148
Tot Genraton(GWh)                  6697      6891       7075      7262      7473      76s8       7959      8246      8548



- 54 -
ANNEX 6
Attachment 4
URUGUAY
ADMINISTRACION NACIONAL DE USINAS Y TRASMISIONES ELECTRICAS
POWER TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Energy Generation(GWh) - High Exports Scenario
(Average Hydrological Conditions)
Year                      1995      1996       1997      1998       1999      2000      2001       2002      2003
Generaton Required lGWh):
Domestic Market                  6097      6291       6475      6662      6873       7088      7359       7646      7948
Export to Argenbdna              1682      3432       2603      3801      3131       2862      3499       3309      3036
Total                     7779      9723       9078     10463      10004      9950     10858      10955     10984
Hydro Plants:
Rio Negro                           2600      2600      2600       2600      2600      2600       2600      2600       2600
Salto Grande                        3800      3800      3800       3800      3800       3800      3800      3800       3800
Total Hydro              6400       6400      6400       6400      6400      6400       6400      6400      6400
Thermo Plants:
Thermal generation                  1379      3323       2678      4063      3604       3550      4458      4555       4584
Total Thermal             1379      3323      2678       4063      3604      3550       4458      4555      4584
| Total Generation (GWh)            7779       9723      9078      10463     10004      9950      10858     10955     10984
ANNEX 6
Attachment 5
URUGUAY
ADMINISTRACION NACIONAL DE USINAS Y TRASMISIONES
POWER TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Energy Generaton(GWh) - Expected Exports Scenario
(Average Hydrological Condhions)
Year                      1995      1996       1997      1998       1999      2000      2001       2002      2003
Generaton Required (GWh)
Domestic Market                  6097      6291       6475      6662      6873       7088      7359       7646      7948
Export to Argentina              1994      1935       1843      1774      1831       1605      1428       1360      1132
Total                     8091      8226       8318      8436      8704       8693      8787       9006      9080
Hydro Plants:
Rio Negro                           2600      2600      2600       2600      2600      2600       2600      2600       2600
Salto Grande                        3800      3800      3800       3800      3800      3800       3800      3800       3800
Total Hydro              6400       6400      6400      6400       6400      6400       6400      6400      6400
Thermo Plants:
Thermal generatlon                  1691      1826       1918      2036      2304       2293      2387      2606       2680
Total Thermal             1691      1826      1918       2036      2304      2293       2387      2606      2680
Total Generatlon(GWh)               8091      8226       8318      8436      8704       8693      8787      9006       90801



- 55 -
ANNEX 7
URUGUAY
Power Transmission and Distribution Project
UTE's Organizational Structure
Bod dl D iK*
__                                     lz 
LogpAdor                                 Pubic Pds
hlr Adm                                  To&cl Amy
I G-Op. I
8mvI ava               Tvt_am AL          Co        L
Tnvwnmimcanwnuw opa
__Rsz~~~~wIa && O_.wa                                          _~~~
-w         -
ftWAOC~ R VILOW             I *ch   S  o"o _   or
mw"w"" C"*DTuwaninm
CoawkUcbcm                                 #=flafl & Fnm=
-  ~~~~-         _ _E3tw






- 56 -
ANNEX 8
URUGUAY
Power Transmission and Distribution Project
Plan of Action to Improve Efficiency
1.     UTE will implement a Plan of Action to Improve UTE's Efficiency. The plan will
comprise four main areas of action: (a) creation of Business Units (BUs); (b) improvement of
human resource productivity; (c) revision and reduction of administrative expenses; and (d)
improvement of UTE's internal supervision.
2.     Attachment 1 to this Annex describes the different steps required to complied with
the Plan, UTE's unit responsible for carrying out the activity, the monitoring system to
verify compliance of the plan, and the corresponding timetable. The Plan comprises the
following areas:
(a) Business Units: UTE would be divided into different cost centers with separate
accounting for personnel, assets, and physical facilities for each activity currently
carried out by UTE. The existing accounting system would be split and adapted to
each of these separated units. In principle, UTE would be divided into the following
Business Units: generation, transmission, distribution (by zones, if possible),
forestry activities, pole factory, transformer repair workshop, and external consultant
services.
(b) Improvement of Staff Productivity: In addition to the staff that could be
redeployed or could leave the company as a consequence of UTE's restructuring,
UTE would implement an incentive plan for voluntary retirement and separation.
The plan of action will include a revision of the existing program of recruitment of
temporary staff (university students), and will also aim at reducing staffing by
attrition and by freezing recruitment. It will, as well, restructure the staff profile
through internal recruitment and training.
(c) Revision and Reduction of Administrative Expenses: UTE will carry out the
following activities: (a) take all necessary measures to reduce UTE's administrative
expenses; and (b) review the calculation of administrative expenses charged to
operations. Currently, 100% of headquarters expenses of those areas not related to
operations, other than construction and engineering activities, are charged as
operating expenses. UTE will prepare a study to: (i) revise the existing
methodology to calculate administrative expenses; and (ii) propose a new



- 57 -
methodology to allocate administrative expenses to the various operating and
investment categories.
(d) Improvement of UTE's Internal Supervision: UTE's management will develop a
monitoring system to supervise the implementation of the Plan of Action. In addition,
it will strengthen UTE's internal supervision, through the establishment of a task
force composed of key high level staff, which will prepare a report with
recommendations and a timetable to improve internal control. The task force should
review: management and staffing capability and skill of the internal audit unit (IAU);
its performance and communication channels with top management and the rest of the
utility; and the IAU's objectives and its operating procedures.



ANNEX 8
Attachment 1
URUGUAY
Power Transmission and Distribution Project
ACTION PLAN TO IMPROVE UTE's EFFICIENCY
ACTION PLAN TO [MfKOVE UTE's EFFICUINCY
Action                Sub Activity                                         Responsibility Ccter                   Implementation date             Monitoring System               Note
S: Start
C: Coanpletion
1    SElTING UP BUSESS UNITS (BU)
(a) Creation of Operational Units                                                                                                                _
-    Appointment of the Re-structuring Unit (RU)     General manager                        C: Jan/96                       Quarterly reports to the WB
-    Prepare TOR                                     RU                                     C: April/96                                                                                       k
-    Contract signed                                 General marnaer                        C: June/96                                                                                         0o
-    proposl to rstmcs ture UTE                      RU, with the assistance of consultants
C: Nov/96
-    Discuss proposal with the WB                    RU                                     C: Dec/96
-    Board Approval                                  UTE's Board
-    Implementation of the re-structuring            RU                                     S: Jan/97
C: Sep/97
(b) Creation of a pole factory business unit
-   prepare prqoposa                                 RU, with the assistance of consultants  Sep/96                         Quarterly reports to the WB
Discuss proposal with the Bank                  RU                                     Oct/96
Board Approval                                  UTE's Board                            Nov/96
Implement the proposal                          RU                                      S:JuU/96
|                            | ~~~~~~~~~~C: Jan/917
(e) Creation of the forestry business unit
-   prepare study to re-strueture current forestry unit   RU, with the assistanee of eonsultants  Sep/96                    Quarterly reports to the WB
-    Discuss actions on forestry activities with the    RU                                   Oct/96
Bank
-    discuss action on manufacturing of wooden poles    RU                                   Oct/96
with the Bank
-    Board approval                                  UTE's board                             Nov/96
-    implement the proposal                          RU                                      S:Jul/96
C: Jan/97



ACIION PLAN TO IMFUOVE UTlEs UWCIMCY
Aedim                Sub Activity                                       ReibBy CaU                             h3p lt_IXNI date                   U      Sy                 Note
S.. Stat
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ C:C pit
(d)  Worsbhop Bueicar Unit
-   prepar study to re-a le euffent Woskbaop       RU, with the asisnce of conwhants     Dec/96                         Qualtdy rq,osu to the WB
-   Discus acts witb te Bak                        RU                                    Jan/97
Board approval                                UTE's board                           Feb/97
implement the prqposl                         RU                                    S: Sep/96
l                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C: Jul/97
(e)  Exteal Consutnt Services Business Unit
-   prepare prpoal                                 RU, with the assistance of caultants  Sep/96                         Quanerly reort to the WB
-   Discuss proposal with thc Bak                  RU                                    Oct/96
-   Board Approval                                 UTE's BEard                           NovJ96
-   Inplnemnt the proposl                          RU                                    S:Jul/96
C: Jan/97
2. STRENCIGIq][NG UTE'S HUMAN RESOURCES PRODUCTVrff
(a)  Vohltary Retirement progam
-   prepare a progam for volunty mrring            -   Human  Resources  Directorte   Initiated and completed           Quarterly report to the WB                                      tn
-   Approval by the Board                              (HUD)                             Jun/94
-   implement the proposa                                                                S: Jul/94
C: Dec/94
(b)  Asessing Hunsn Resources Needs
-   prepares study of BU's manpower requirement    -   HUD  with  tie  assistance  of   Mart96                          Qurterly repor to the WB
consultants'
-   approval of the result of te study by the Board                                      Apr/96
deploy suff to BU                                                                    May/97
(c)  Training program for staff to be redeployed
prepare a wamring plan for staff to be re-deploy    -   HUD  with  the  assidance  of   Jun/96                     Semannusl reporu to the WB
individual consulants
discuss training program with the WB                                                Jul/96
Board Approval                                                                      Oct/96
- Implementtion                                                                       ; S Jan/97
(d)  Freezing recnt
-   Control excess stffiDg acgordig to frecinng    - HUD                                 monthbly                       Seniannusi repors to the WB
-   Control of recruitment to fill vacancies of                                          S: Jan/96
specialized staff                             - HUDI                                 C: Dcc/2002
(e)  Recruitment of Temporary staff (Univerity Stuent)



ACnON PLAN TO  PROVL UTE's EFFICIINCY
Actio                Sub Activty                                        Reqwmbtbk  CantuIt                              p    dtSe             M ankrn System                Note
S: Start
C: Comtpleto__
- revision of rcruima  poL;cy for temporary staff   Human Reources Diretorae        Inited                         Quurly rcpu to the VIBt1
- prqwal of a now rocruiont poliy                                                        Sep/94
-   approval by t Board                                                                  Oct/95
-   implanataXtn                                                                        C: Jan/96
(f)  Pedeploymnat of daff working in Distibution Maintennce Activities
-   prepare study to r-deploy daff                 -   Dihtt and Human resources   Dec/95                               Semiannual report to the WB
-   propol to re-deploy                                directorates                      Mar/96
a- appoval by tbe Board                                                                  JutJ96
-   Ipenptaioo                                                                          S: Jan/97
C: Dec/2001
3.  REVIS1ON OF ADMINISTAIVE EXPIESES
-   prepae      study  to  revise  allocation  of   Area Resoutres Directorate           Sep/95                         Semiannual repoia to die WB
administratve expenes
-   Discuss the report with die WB                                                       Oct/95
-   Approval of die agreed methodology                                                   Nov/95
I- mplementation in UTE's accounting books                                               Dec/95
_   Actions to reduce administrative expcnses                                            S: Jul/95                                                             |
C: Dec/95
4. IMPROVEMENT OF UTE'S INTERNAL CONTROL
(a)  Control of dhe plan's objectives_
-   Appointment of a high Task Force composed of   General Manager                       Jan/96                         Semiannual reports to the WB
key managers to supervise the plan
-   definition of pankmeter to evaluate the efficiency    Task Force                     Mar/96
-   measurement of rcsult                          monthly                               monthly
-   discussion of realt with the WB                General Manager                       semiannual
-   actions proposed                               Task Force                            S: Jun/96
C: Dec/2001
(b) Improvement of Internal Control



AcnON PLAN TD MNIOVE UE's EPFICIDCY
Actio                 Sub Actiity                                       Rpbiliiy Center                        l             dote             Metorig SyStC                 Nole
B: Stanr
C: Ccmpldie 
Appoinamt of a task force to renvew mrna      Gaenai Mmugr                          Jan/6                         Sanilua  repotu
centrol sytem and proceduros
-   prpure a rqort incuhig recommendations to   Tak Force                                Mar/96
rove   itcrnal  conol, and in paitlar
-   diseius actns vwith the WB                      eneral Maer                          Apr/96
-   approval by te Dmd, if rquired                  TE's Board                           Jun/96
-   Imp  pntien                                   Tak Force                              S: Jun/96
C: Dec/96
5. STRENMIG HE I  UTE'S ENVIRONMENTAL CAPABILITY
-   limpleimenaio   of  the  o,ganizatonal  snd   UTE's managanent                       Imp_men         i              Sananual rpot to the WB
stuctua fraewk for the Envaroaun l Unit                                             C:  Jan/95
(EU) and its functims.                        EU
-   Isuwnc of stdard procedure for coataon                                               S:  Jul/96
and operaio  of diermal power plants and                                            C:  Jul/97
1.  This study should be prepared by the consultants engaged to propose the re-structuring of UTE in business units.



- 62 -
ANNEX 9
URUGUAY
Power Transmission and Distribution Project
Financial Performance
General
1.    Financial projections for UTE have been prepared in current prices and are expressed
in US$ million.
2.    Financial projections are based on a financial projection model prepared during the
project cycle, which includes three main modules: financing of the investment program,
evolution of the existing liability and debt service, and financial statement projections. These
programs produce more than 40 pages of financial tables, which are included in the Project
File. UTE has started using these programs for its financial planning.
3.    The financial statements show UTE's consolidated financial situation for the period
1994-2003, although UTE would be divided into business units, as described in Annexes 2
and 8. The financial projections assume that 125-MW gas turbines will be installed by UITE
in 1996, and that further generation requirements would be installed and operated by the
private sector. This scenario depends on the results of the Energy Options Study currently
carried out by UTE with the assistance of consultants (see Annex 3).
Income Forecast
4.    Energy sales. Domestic energy sales are based on the report on the demand
projection study prepared by UTE, dated May 1993. It considered an average 4.3 % sales
growth during the period, assuming a reduction of power losses from 18% in 1994 to 14% in
2003. The surplus energy is sold as export sales to Argentina. It is expected that all surplus
would be brought by Argentina since it was considered a price of 50% of Argentina spot
market price.
5.    Tariff. The power revenues are based on existing tariffs as of January 1994, which
have been maintained constant in real terms during the period, as they are in line with the
marginal cost of production. Tariffs of export sales, due to the thermal generation, are based
on the economic cost determined by the Argentine spot market, and energy sales derived
from hydro generation are based on 50% of the prices in the Argentine spot market.



- 63 -
6.     Other operating revenues: estimated at 6.6%  of gross operating revenues due to
energy sales per annum.
7.     Personnel costs: are based on the implementation of the Plan of Action to improve
UTE's efficiency (see Annex 8), to be agreed with the Bank at negotiations. In particular, in
1994 it includes US$5.0 million due to payment for voluntary retirement. Additionally, it
assumes that the total UTE staff will reach about 8,000 employees at the end of the period.
8.     Fuel cost: are derived from UTE's computer simulation of the system's operation.
Fuel prices are calculated on the basis of existing prices as of January 1994, and maintained
constant in real terms during the period. The projection of fuel consumption (in millions of
barrels for fuel oil and diesel) is shown in the following table:
1995   1996   1997   1998   1999  2000   2001   2002   2003
Fuel oil  2.88   2.69   2.72   2.67   2.56   2.72   2.61   2.59   2.58
Diesel    0.10   0.10   0.17   0.02   0.29   0.24   0.51   0.37   0.37
9.     Energy purchased: this mainly corresponds to the energy purchased from Salto
Grande at 1.65 USC/kWh, and imports from Argentina at around 3 to 5 USC/kWh.
1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000  2001   2002   2003
Salto      3455   3570  3552   3674  3706   3781   3836   3957   3944
Grande
Imports      17    31    66    41   153   101   101   141    147
Domestic                           3    52    45    95    136    134
10.    Operation and maintenance expenses: assumes 15 % of gross revenues.
11.    Administrative expenses: are projected as 3.2%  of gross revenues.
12.    Depreciation. UTE's average depreciation rate varies with the composition of assets
entering into operation. Existing assets as of December 31, 1993, have been depreciated at
2.2%, and future transmission, distribution, and thermal generation facilities have been
depreciated at 3.3%.
13.    Taxes. UTE pays custom duties and VAT (22%) taxes. UTE is exempted from
payment of taxes on fuel purchased from ANCAP and energy purchased from Salto Grande.



- 64 -
14.   Other non-operational income (expenses): are projected assuming a reduction of 1 %
per year over the historic average of the last three years.
15.   Income taxes. UTE is charged a 30% tax on income, after discounting interest
charges and 40 % of the total investment program.
16.   Government Appropriation: based on Law 16170, Art. 643, which allows UTE to
transfer to the Treasury its cash surpluses. It is calculated as the difference among gross
operating revenues plus IMESI (impuesto especffico interno) plus non-operating revenues less
cash operating expenses, debt service, capital expenditure not financed by borrowing, and a
reasonable amount for working capital.
Flow of Funds
17.   Investment program. Except for the 125-MW gas turbines to be installed in 1996, no
further generation facilities would be implemented by UTE. New generation required for the
domestic market is assumed to be installed by the private sector. Annex 6 provides more
details.
18.   Financing of investment program. See characteristics of existing loans and credits in
Attachment 4 to this Annex. Terms of the proposed IDB loan are assumed to be 20 years
including 5 years of grace, a 0.75 % commitment fee, and a 7.5 % interest rate. Another
IBRD loan is being considered during 2001-2003. No further loans have been considered.
A Banco de la Republica Oriental del Uruguay (BROU) credit has been considered to finance
the deficit: terms of 5 years and 8 % interest.
19.   IMESI. A 10% tax is charged to domestic sales, from which UTE retains 50%, and
the other 50% is transferred to the Treasury.
Balance Statement
20.   Accounts receivable: are based on 22 days of billing for private customers, and two
months for government agencies and export. Existing arrears from Government agencies
(US$30 million) are expected to be paid during the period 1994-1999.
21.   Inventory for operations: projected as 3% of fixed assets in operation.
22.   Accounts payable: are estimated as the percentage of cash operating expenses, and
local costs of the investment program.



URUGUAY
UTE
FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
Actual and Forecast Income Statements
(Millions of US$)
HITORIC       ESTIMATE                        FORECASl
13-Jun-94        1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  2002  2003
Total Sales (GWh)                    3824  4866  6435  5972  5279  7018  7182  7310  7466  7739  7735  7792  7972  8005
Internal Market                    3724  4076  4167  4522  4807  5024  5247  5467  5692  5908  6130  6364  6612  6873
Exports                             100   790  2268  1450   472  1994  1935  1843  1774  1831  1605  1428  1360  1132
Average Tariff (CENT$/kWh)             7.5   7.0   6.1   7.0   8.5   7.5   7.8   8.1   8.5   8.7   9.2   9.6   9.9  10.4
Internal Market                      7.4   7.7   7.3   8.2   9.2   9.4   9.7  10.0  10.3  10.5  10.8  11.1  11.3  11.6
Exports                             11.9   3.5   4.0   3.0   2.1   2.5   2.6   2.6   2.7   2.8   2.9   2.9   3.0   3.0
Gross Operating Revenues             297.5  361.2  414.4 440.0  479.0  555.0  593.4 630.8  671.2  715.1  752.0  792.5  839.8  884.1
Electricity Sales Revenues         285.9  342.3  394.8 415.4  449.9  523.6  559.6  594.6  632.5 673.9 708.2  745.9  790.2  831.3
Internal Market                 274.0  314.3  303.0  371.3  439.9  474.3  509.9  546.4  584.3  622.2 661.8  703.9  748.8  797.1
Exports                           11.9  28.0  91.8  44.1  10.0  49.3  49.7  48.2  48.2  51.7  46.4  42.0  41.4  34.2
Other Revenues                      11.6  18.9  19.6  24.6  29.1  31.4  33.8  36.2  38.7  41.2  43.8  46.6  49.6  52.8
Operating Expenses                   287.6  278,8  347.6  387.0  405.2 452.6  473.2 488.0  502.8  535.7  560.5  586.6 616.0 634.5
Personnel                  2/       60.2  69.3  81.5  107.8  136.9  135.3  138.5  141.7  144.7  147.7  150.5  153.4  156.2  159.1
Fuel                                18.2  32.7  24.9  18.0  13.4  45.9  44.4  47.9  44.7  50.8  53.5  59.7  57.3  58.3
Energy Purchased                    88.7  47.2  100.6  99.4  70.2  79.2  84.3  87.3  99.1  108.3  110.8  117.3  135.4  138.6
Operabon & Mant.                    45.7  58.2  70.9  73.8  83.0  84.8  86.1  86.7  86.9  92.6  98.5  104.7  111.4  118.6
Administrative Expenses & Others                       13.8  13.9  15.0  16.1  17.3  18.5  19.7  20.9  22.2  23.7  25.2
Depreciation                        74.8  71.4  69.7  74.2  87.8  92.4  103.8  107.1  108.9  116.6  126.3  129.3  132.0  134.7
Operating Income                       9.9  82.4  66.8  53.0  73.8  102.4  120.2  142.8  168.4  179.4  191.5 205.9  223.8  249.6
Non-operating income (net)    1/       3.8   9.6  (1.4)  17.7   2.9  (0.1)  (0.1)  (0.1)  (0.1)  (0.1)  (0.1)  (0.1)  (0.1)  (0.1
Income before interest                13.7  92.0  65.4  70.7  76.7  102.3  120.1  142.7  168.3  179.3  191.4 205.8 223.7  249.5
Interest Charged to Operation         81.9  79.7  38.9  38.9  52.6  61.5  58.0  62.7  57.4  50.4  50.0  49.7  42.2  34.5
Interest Charges                    83.0  84.8  45.3  43.4  56.7  67.4  69.5  68.7  66.2  62.5  57.4  50.3  43.4  37.0
Less: Interest During Construction   1.1   5.1   6.4   4.5   4.1   5.9  11.5   6.0   8.8  12.1   7.4   0.6   1.2   2.5
Gov.appropiation (law16170,Art.643)         15.0  15.0  15.0  30.0   0.0   0.0  44.4  27.9  34.7  22.0  66.3  94.2  113.6
Income tax                                                      0.0   0.0   0.0  16.4  25.6  29.8  33.8  40.4  47.2  57.1
Monetary Correction                            3 ------- _    74.1  67.9  74.4  71.7  74.1  71.3  74.2  73.5  74.7  76.3
let Income                           i (bi.)  (zf)  11.5  1b.8  6802  iuts.7 1 3t,.5  9U.5 ii.5  ,jo.  15b9.3  1  114.8  120.bI
I/  Inchds USSIS mopid by the  nce compay due to he i at l pwr pant m 1993, and USS3 mlio due  fire athduut
2/  Indude US 4 milon e laemihfichm i n 1994
31  H1tea dat do  htcked. adimr t din to inb6h0



URUGUAY
UTn
FINANCIAL PROJE5CTONS
Source and application of Funds Statement
(Millions of USS)
HaTRIC            ETInMATE                              FORICAST
13-June-94        1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003
SOURCSS
Gross Intemal Cash Generation        88.5  163.4  135.1  144.9  164.5  194.7  223.9  249.8  277.2  295.9  317.7  335.1  355.7  384.2
Income before Interest            13.7   92.0   65.4   70.7   76.7  102.3  120.1  142.7  168.3  179.3  191.4  205.8  223.7  249.5
Depreciation                      74.8   71.4   69.7   74.2   87.8   92.4  103.8  107.1  108.9  116.6  126.3  129.3  132.0  134.7
Other income                       0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Less: Net Debt Service              114.9  107.7   69.0   76.3   99.7  123.2  149.6  137.5  169.8  164.6  178.5  169.9  158.4  151.4
Amortization                      33.0   28.0   30.1   37.4   47.1   61.7   91.6   74.8  112.4  114.2  128.5  120.2  116.2  116.9
Interest Charges                  83.0   84.8   45.3   43.4   56.7   67.4   69.5   68.7   66.2   62.5   57.4   50.3   43.4   37.0
TotalDebtService                  116.0  112.8   75.4   80.8  103.8  129.1  161.1  143.5  178.6  176.7  185.9  170.5  159.6  153.9
Less: Interest During Construction  1.1    5.1    6.4    4.5    4.1    5.9   11.5    6.0    8.8   12.1    7.4    0.6    1.2    2.5
Transfer to government                0.0   15.0   15.0   15.0   30.0    0.0    0.0   60.8   53.5   64.5   55.8  106.7  141.4  170.7
Gov. appropriation (Law 16170, Art. 64    0.0   15.0   15.0   15.0   30.0    0.0    0.0   44.4   27.9   34.7   22.0   66.3   94.1  113.6
Income tax                         0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   16.4   25.6   29.8   33.8   40.4   47.3   57.1
Govemment Contribution               27.4   31.4   15.2   18.6   28.4   36.9   43.2   44.3   46.5   51.7   52.8   53.9   56.6   58.3
IMESI                   a!        27.4   31.4   15.2   18.6   22.0   23.7   25.5   27.3   29.2   31.1   33.1   35.2   37.4   39.9                                 a
IMESI returned by the Gov.  2/                                    6.4   13.2   17.7   17.0   17.3   20.6   19.7   18.7   19.2   18.4                              ax
Net Internal Cash Generation          1.0   72.1   66.3   72.2   63.2  108.4  117.5   95.8  100.4  118.5  136.2  112.4  112.5  120.4
Borrowings                           23.7   54.6   35.3   23.2   30.1   80.0  106.4   47.3   45.9   54.1   30.2    7.0   17.7   18.2
IBRD existing                     10.2   26.8    5.7    6.1   10.7    8.5   24.9    1.4    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
IBRD proposed                                                            6.0   27.2   26.5   28.8   25.2   13.0
Other Existing Loans               13.5   27.8   29.6   17.1   19.4   16.5    2.8    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Future Loans                                                      0.0   49.0   51.5   19.4   17.1   28.9   17.2    7.0   17.7   18.2
TOTAL soURs               24.r  125.1  U11.b    %.4       3   1W.4   2J.   143.1  14 I.3   1.b  lb6.4  11U.4  13U.Z  138.6
APPLICAYZOxS
Investment Program                  108.6  141.9  111.6  141.5  146.5  161.7  205.1  132.0  137.0  159.4  151.8  108.0  121.2  126.3
Constnrction Program              107.5  136.8  105.2  137.0  142.4  155.8  193.6  126.0  128.2  147.3  144.4  107.4  120.0  123.8
Generation                      36.7   73.8   28.3   14.8   29.8   35.8   32.4    5.9    4.7    4.9    5.0   18.2   18.8   19.2
Transmission                     7.1   12.1   22.8   27.7   26.7   41.8   52.3   50.0   52.0   61.8   58.0   30.3   26.9   27.1
Distribution                    46.0   40.0   45.1   82.6   64.9   71.1  100.3   65.1   66.4   75.4   76.0   54.8   70.1   73.2
Otherinvestment                 17.7   10.9    9.0   11.9   21.0    7.1    8.6    5.0    5.1    5.2    5.4    4.1    4.2    4.3
Interest During Construction       1.1    5.1    6.4    4.5    4.1    5.9   11.5    6.0    8.8   12.1    7.4    0.6    1.2    2.5
VariationinWorkdngCapital           (83.9)  (15.2)  (10.0)  (46.1  (64.7)   26.7   18.8   11.1    9.3   13.2   14.6   11.4    9.0   12.3
Other Applications                                                 11.5    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
ToTAt PPLICPIA3O2.   126.   101.6   95.4 I9.31                                 143.1  146.3 1.2.6  16.4  119.4  130.            .
1/  Corresponds to IMESI ("Impuesto especifico interno"): 5% tax on sales retained by UTE.
2/  Based on an Agreement botween the Government and UTE to be signed soon, the Governemnt would pay
32% of UTE's debt with CTM, due to IMESI not yet transfered to UTE (USS133 million)



URUGUAY
UTE
FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
Balance Sheets
(Millions of USS)
13-June-94
HISTORIC           ESTIAATE                               FORECAST
ASSETS                           1S90    1991   1992   1993   1994   1995    1996    1997   1990   1999    2000   2001   2002   2003
Net Fixed Assets                   1,686.4 1,890.7 1,942.2 2,160.5 2,292.7 2,428.5 2,602.6 2,697.8 2,798.7 2,911.5 3,009.9 3,060.8 3,123.4 3,190.2
Fixed assets in Operation        3,212.3 3,421.8 3,648.1  3,891.6 4,172.0 4,432.3 4,911.5 5,142.4 5,335.7 5,702.3 6,144.4 6,383.9 6,617.7 6,858.5
Less: Accumulated Depreciation   1,565.2 1,692.5 1,855.8 1,968.5 2,123.2 2,277.2 2,449.4 2,622.6 2,802.3 2,988.9 3,189.9 3,395.8 3,609.3 3,830.5
Net Fixed Assets in Operation    1,647.1  1,729.3 1,792.3 1,923.1 2,048.8 2,155.1  2,462.1  2,519.8 2,533.4 2,713.4 2,954.5 2,988.1 3,008.4 3,028.0
WorkinProgress                     39.3  161.4  149.9  237.4  243.9  273.4  140.5  178.0  265.3  198.1    55.4   72.7  115.0  162.2
Current Assets                       258.5  305.5  428.9  355.3  298.3  323.7  342.1  349.7  358.4  372.9  393.4  407.8  424.5  440.4
Cash and Banks                     23.6   20.9   29.4   20.1    12.6   21.5   23.4   22.6   23.7   25.5   26.4   26.7   28.5   29.7
Temporary surplus                                  56.0   63.5    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Accounts Receivable                44.8   69.6  111.3   73.6   66.4   77.9   83.3   88.4   94.0  100.1  105.1  110.6  117.1   123.0
Other Accounts Receivable  Il      30.2   30.2   30.2   30.2   25.6   21.2   16.4   11.3    5.9    0.2    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Inventories                       123.0  155.8  163.6  115.5  123.8  131.5  145.8  152.6  158.4  169.2  182.4  189.5  196.4  203.6
Other                              36.9   29.0   38.4   52.4   69.9   71.6   73.2   74.8   76.4   77.9   79.5   81.0   82.5   84.1
Other Assets                                 12.4   22.1   30.9   31.4   32.4   33.4   34.3   35.2   36.2   37.1    38.0   38.9   39.8
Other Applications                     1.6    2.3    2.9    3.6   15.2   15.6   16.1   16.6   17.0   17.4   17.8   18.2   18.6   19.0
TOTA. ASSEuS                 [   1,946.5  2,210.9  2,396. ,                     2,294.2  3,.    ,524.3                        3,605.4     1
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Equity                              895.0 1,055.3 1,255.8 1,397.6 1,494.2 1,639.8 1,819.5 1,954.7 2,132.7 2,320.1 2,532.7 2,709.5 2,880.9 3,059.8
Capital                            46.2   55.4  173.4  152.9  181.3  218.2  261.4  305.7  352.2  403.9  456.7  510.6  567.2  625.5
Reserves                                                    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Retained Eamings                 (950.2) (961.0) (951.6) (908.3  (914.2  (873.4) (811.3) (792.1) (734.7) (670.3) (584.7) (535.3) (495.2) (450.9
Capital Revaluation              1,799.0 1,960.9 2,034.0 2,153.0 2,227.1  2,295.0 2,369.4 2,441.1  2,515.2 2,586.5 2,660.7 2,734.2 2,808.9 2,885.2
Long Term Debt                      580.2  619.4  603.6  985.1   962.9  951.3  982.9  917.7  849.4  774.9  684.9  575.8  476.6  377.9
Current Liabilities                  471.3  536.2  536.7  167.6  180.4  209.0  191.8  226.0  227.2  242.8  240.4  239.4  247.7  251.4
Short term Debt                                     0.0
Current portion of Long Terrn Debt  267.4  292.7  133.5   56.6   61.7   91.6   74.8  112.4  114.2  128.5  120.2  116.2  116.9  116.9
CTM, SaltoGrandeandcothers        148.8  190.0  287.8              11.5   13.0   13.9   14.4   16.3   17.8   18.2   19.3   22.3   22.8
Account Payable                    24.3   20.9   62.9   56.0   56.4   57.2   59.9   60.3   62.5   67.2   72.0   73.2   77.0   79.5
Other                              30.9   32.5   52.5   55.0   50.8   47.2   43.2   38.9   34.2   29.3   30.0   30.7   31.5   32.2
Other Liabilities                      0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.1    0.1    0.0    0.1    0.1    0.3    0.3    0.2    0.2    0.4
TOTAL  LIA3ThITXSB  AND  ZQXUlI'  1    ,946.5  2,210.9  2,396.1  2,550.31  2,637.61  2,300.2  2,994.2  3,09.s  3,209.4  3,3331  3,4513  3,524.9  3,6054  3,69.5
I/Corresponds to Government Agencies' arrears before June 1990.



URUGUAY
TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
UTE: LONG-TERM DEBT SCHEDULE
(AsDecember31, 193)
Origina           Grace    Re-payment                 Commit-    Outstandin tdebt
Lender                         Purpose               Amount    Nots Period          period       Interert     meat        USS thousend
Currency                                                     Fee                   Curren
Tloas.d         y.sr    month/year         %          %             Total   Porti
LOANS ALREADY DISBURSED
Debt due to UTE's operation
IBRD  Loan 712-UR                           Fourth Power Project       USS   17,972.57            5 Aug/75 - Aug/95         7 25      0.75    3,973.40   1,907.23
Loan 1779-UR                        Fifh Power Project         US$   21,808.44             3 Apr/83 - Oct/94        7.95       0.75    2,552.26   2,552.26
Loan 2484-UR                        Power Enineeing Project    USS    4,000.00             3 Set/89 - Mar/98   Variable        0.75    2,180.72    475.01
1DB    Loan 379                             Tranem. & Distr. Expansion   USS   25,000.00          8 Jul/89 - Jan/01         8.25       1.25   18,367.31   2,448 97
Bank of America & Bco. Real                 Refinanced debt 85-91      USS   20,000.00            7 Jan/98 - Jan/07    Libor+7/8      0.73   18,258.29
Debt Related to El Palmar P.P.
CACEX 1                             El Palmar Power Plant      USS   78,917.00             7 Apr/90 - Apr/97        8.00              36,827 93  10,522.27
CACEX 2                             El Palmar Power Plant      US$    3,925.51             7 Apr/90 - Apr/97        9 00               1,831.90    523.40
CACEX 3                              El PalmTr Power Plant     US$       146.91            7 Apr/89 - Apr/97        9.00                  60.49     17.28
CACEX (Refinanced)                                             uss   74,260.85             6 Jan/89 - Oct/96   Libor+7/8              40,247.29  12,983.98
Banco de Seguros                    El Palmar Power Plant      US$    3,055.48               Jun/83 - Jun/97        8.00                 637.46    220 38
Refinanced Debt 198-1991                                       us$  339,867.15             7 Jan/98-Jan/07    Libor+7/8              339,867.15
Debt Related to Salto Grande                                                                                                                                                                                  cs
BID    275                                  Salto Grande Power Plant   USS   29,683.19            1 Nov/81 - May/95         8.00      0.73    3,271.49   2,180.98
3 AFUR                               Salto Grande Power Plant  USS   21,400.00             1 May/82 - Nov/96         8.00      0.73    4,280.00   1,426.67
MANUFACTURERS                               Salto Grande Power Plant    US$   25,000.00                                                       24,446.53
- Refinancing 1985-1991                                                                    7 Jan/98 - Jan/07    Libor+7/8
REFINANCING 1993                            Energy purchased to CTM    US   410125.88             2 Jul/95 - Jun/05    Libor+13/16          410,125.88
OtherLoans                                                                               (4)                                                  34,274.38
LOANS UNDER DISBURSEMENT
IBRD  Loan 2622-UR                          Gabnel Terra Rehab.        US$   45,200.00            2 Mar/89 - Sep/00    Variable       0.25    2,865.18   4,600.00
Loan 3221 -U R                      Thenml Plant & Distr.      US$   62,500.00             5 Dec/95 - Jun/05   Variable        0.25   36,839.04
Foreign Bank
OECF UR. P1                         RuralElecbtification       Yen 1,285,000.00  (3)       7 Oct/96-Oct/14          4.00       1.25        0.00
CITIBANK & Associated               Trnm. & Distr. Expanion   US$   45,000.00  (1)         6 Jan/93 - OcV98   Libor                   19,393.64   3,617.40
Credit National                      Gabriel Terra Rehabilitation   FF    43,200.00       12 Sep/00 - Mar/22        2.00               2,689.26
Compagnie Financiere de CIC
et de L'Union Europenne            Gaiel TeamRebilitation   FF    36,800.00               4 May/95 - Dec/07  Libor+l           0.5    2,230.33
Exdmbank #61583                     Themal Power Plant         US$   19,344.74  (2)
PEPCO                               Thmal Power Plant          US$   35,925.95             2 Aug/92 - Aug/02        9.67      0.375   28,976.56   3,592.59
Banco de la Republica (BROU)                ILderourd Cable 150 kV   1US$   17,500.00 _           3 JarV96 - Apr/05   Libor+l .75       0.5    7,590.46
Nde:                                                                                                                            irrT   1,041,786.91  47,06842
(I) Tb line  ras Fedwt JSM34tM7,500
(2) I is a
(3) kermt me: awpNes (4%). Co.j3m usavK  (3-25%)
(4)  1eaed 21.754.7n     ew Lon v& smntm nthaide ed yd debed 12,489.60



URUGUAY
POWER TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Financial Sensitivity Analysis
Base Case        Case A         Case B          Case C         Case D
Period         Period          Period         Period          Period
13-Jme-94 95 - 9   95 - 99 95 - 97  95 - 99  95 - 97  95 - 9   95 - 97  95 - 99  95 - 97  95 - 99
Sales revenues               1779.2  3165.5  1632.0  2918.4  1745.5  3131.8  1712.0  3002.4  1779.2  3165.5
Operating expenses           1413.8  2452.3  1320.0  2294.3  1424.0  2462.4  1402.4  2425.8  1510.9  2621.9
Net Income                    365.4  713.2  312.0  624.1  321.5  669.4  309.6  576.6  268.3  543.6
Gross Intemal Cash Generation    668.4  1241.5  615.0  1152.4  624.5  1197.7  612.6  1104.8  571.3  1071.9
Debt Service                 410.3  744.7  444.5  814.0  429.5  786.7  418.8  760.8  458.2  840.1
Income tax                     16.4   71.8    9.6   54.2   15.6   70.0    7.9   40.4    0.0   35.0
Law 16170, Art 643            44.4  107.0   19.5   23.3   35.2   77.5   22.2   22.2    4.8    4.8
Total Transfer to Treasury     60.8  178.8   29.1   77.5   50.8  147.5   30.1   62.6    4.8   39.8
Govemment Contributions       124.4  222.6  124.4  222.6  124.4  222.6  121.5  215.5  124.4  222.6
Intemal Cash Generation      321.7  540.6  265.8  483.5  268.6  486.1  285.2  496.9  232.7  414.6
Borrowings                   233.7  333.7  290.5  402.3  281.5  381.5  261.3  373.0  319.6  476.2
Investment                    475.4  750.9  475.4  750.9  475.4  750.9  475.4  750.9  475.4  750.9
Cash Operating Ratio           62.4   60.8   62.3   60.5   64.2   61.7   64.2   63.2   67.9   66.1
Debt Service Ratio              1.5    1.6    1.3    1.3    1.4    1.4    1.4    1.4    1.2    1.2
Self-Financing Ratio           50.8   55.6   38.9   46.4   40.8   49.2   45.0   50.3   32.8   36.6
CASE A:   exports do not materialize during the period
CASE B:   A drought occurs in 1995
CASE C:   Tariff increases at half of the inflation rate.
CASE D:   Energy is purchased to CTM at Argentine's spot market price, instead of half price.



- 70 -
ANNEX 10
URUGUAY
Power Transmission and Distribution Project
Investment Program
1.    The investment program for the expansion of the UTE system consists of the
completion of on-going projects, the proposed project, the expansion of La Tablada power
plant, and expansions of the transmission and distribution system in accordance with planning
studies.
2.    Attachment 1 shows details of UTE's investment program, and Attachment 2 shows
the total investment program with taxes and import duties as well as without these levies.
3.    The investment program consists of:
3. 1 Generation
(a) Gabriel Terra Hydroplant Rehabilitation - consists of an on-going project financed
under Loan 2622-UR for replacement of all electromechanical equipment in the
power plant. The contract was signed in 1991, when manufacturing of the equipment
began; field works began in January 1994 in the first unit and will continue until
November 1997 when works in the fourth unit are planned to be completed.
(b) Thermal Generation Improvements - consists of routine rehabilitation and
improvement of small works necessary to keep the existing thermal plants running
adequately.
(c) Hydro Generation Improvements - same as (b) for hydroplants.
(d) Baygorria Rehabilitation - consists of engineering studies to assess the services
necessary to rehabilitate this plant and the corresponding works.
(e) Batlle Unit # 6 - consists of on-going works to rehabilitate this unit from the
damage suffered in the fire that occurred in the plant in 1992. These services are
funded by the insurance company.
(f) Auxiliary Services - consists of investments in services auxiliary to generation;



- 71 -
(g) Additional Generation - No additional generation was considered in the base case
for the investment program. UTE would invest in Gas Turbines (120 MW, US$ 37
million) by 1996 only in the case that no private investor shows interest in investing.
3.2 Transmission
(a) Punta del Este (500 kV) - consists of the expansion of the 500 kV system to Punta
del Este, financed under Loan 2622-UR and the associated B Loan.
(b) Montevideo VI Project - consists of the expansion of the 150 kV system in
Montevideo financed under Loan 2622-UR and associated B Loan.
(c) Communication - consists of the installation of communication systems for
operational purposes.
(d) Transmission for Rural Electrification - consists of transmission expansion
associated with a rural electrification program under Japanese (OECF) financing.
(e) Special Projects - consist of investments which UTE carries out using its own
work force.
(f) Proposed Project - consists of the transmission part of the proposed project.
(g) Transformers Montevideo - consists of installation of four additional transformers
in substations N, C, and E for change of voltage to 22 kV (funded under Loan 3221-
UR)
(h) Zone Centers - consists of four control centers to be installed in different areas of
the country in a hierarchical control system to supervise and operate the transmission
system. A project under preparation for IDB financing would include this
investment.
(i) Interconnection with Brazil - consists of a weak interconnection with the southern
system in Brazil to exchange energy. A project under preparation for IDB financing
would include this investment.
(j) Rice Area Southeast - consists of expansion of the existing transmission system to
supply power to the rice production area in the southeast of the country. A project
under preparation for IDB financing would include this investment.
(k) Line to Southwest - consists of the duplication of the transmission system to the
region of Colonia. A project under preparation for IDB financing would include this
investment.



- 72 -
(1) Telecontrol - consists of a system of equipment for automatic operation of
substations in UTE's transmission system. A project under preparation for IDB
financing would include this investment.
(m) Dispatch Center - consists of the expansion and modernization of UTE's dispatch
center. A project under preparation for IDB financing would include this investment.
(n) System Extensions - consists of system extensions to serve load growth.
(o) Auxiliary Services - consists of investments in services auxiliary to transmission.
3.3 Distribution
(a) General Installations - consists of investments in improvements in distribution
substations.
(b) Montevideo - consists of installations in Montevideo to keep up with load growth
and customer connections.
(c) Interior - consists of installations in cities of the interior to keep up with load
growth and customer connections.
(d) Rural Electrification - consists of rural electrification installations. Part of these
investments are financed under a Japanese (OECF) project.
(e) VI Project - consists of an ongoing project funded under Loan 2622-UR.
(f) Modernization - consists of an ongoing project funded under Loan 3221-UR.
(g) Proposed Project - consists of the distribution part of the proposed project.
(h) Distribution BID - consists of some improvements in specific areas of Montevideo
and the renovation of areas to monitor the work initiated by the proposed project. A
project under preparation for IDB financing would include this investment.
(i) Renovation #2 - consists of the continuation of renovation works of Montevideo
distribution system initiated by the proposed project.



- 73 -
ANNEX 10
Attachnent 1
UTE
INVESTMENT PROGRAM WITH TAXES AND DUTIES BY SECTOR
(In June 1994 Thousand US$ Dollars)
YEAR                  1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003
GENERATION
Gabriel Terra Rehab.            6000   5700   1300
Thermal Gen. Improv.            3080   2500   2500   2500   2500   2500   2500   2500   2500
Hydro Gen. Improv.              1000   2000   1000   1000   1000   1000   1000   1000   1000
Baygorria Rehab.                                        150    250    200  10000  10000  10000
Battle Unit #6                  4000
Auxil. Services                  200    200    200    200    200    200    200    200    200
Personel                        1500   1500   1500   1500   1500   1500   1500   1500   1500
|TOTAL GENERATION             15780.0 11900.0  6500.0  5350.0  5450.0  5400.0 15200.0 15200.0 15200.0
TRANSMISSION
Punta del Este (500 kV)
Montevideo (Ln 2622)           20800   2500
Comunication                    4800   1400   1000    600    600    600    600    600    600
Transm. Elet. Rural             7650
Special Projects (Force Account)  1300   1500   1500   1500   1500   1500   1500   1500   1500
Proposed Project                       13840  32030  21880  10100   5550
Transformers Montevideo         1250   8170
Zone Centers (BID)                       800    400    800    400    800    400
Interconnection with Brazil (BID)              2370   7100  14200
Rice Area Southeast (BID)         60   5820   3800       60    320
Circuit to South-West (BID)                             770   5050   5480
Telecontrol (BID)                              9000   4000   3000
Dispatch Center (BID)            150    150    410   1340
System Extensions               2000   2000   2000   2000   2000  18080  19920  17300  17000
Auxil. Services                  200    200    200    200    200    200    200    200    200
Personel                        1500   1500   1500   1500   1500   1500   1500   1500   1500
TOTAL TRANSMISSION           39710.0 37880.0 54210.0 41750.0 38870.0 33710.0 24120.0 21100.0 20800.0
DISTRIBUTION
General Installations           6150   9000   7000   7000   7000   7000   7000   7000   7000
Montevideo                     12150   7000   5000   5000   5000   5000   5000   5000   5000
Interior                       19960  23530  17360  17360  17360  14580  20130  18520  18520
Rural Elect.
Rural (OECF)                    5920   6000
VI Project (Ln 2622)           10760
Modernization (Ln 3221)         5990  18710
Proposed Project                        2030  20430  20430  20430  17500
Distribution BID                1000   5750   6350   6050  12158  13371
Renovation Phase #2                                                   6620  19340  20400  20400
Personel                        5870   5870   5870   5870   5870   5870   5870   5870   5870
|TOTAL DISTRIBUTION          67800.0 77890.0 62010.0 61710.0 67818.0 69941.0 57340.0 56790.0 56790.0



- 74 -
ANNEX 10
Attachment 2
UTE
INVESTMENT PROGRAM WITH TAXES AND DUTIES (Personel Included)
YEAR                   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003
GENERATION                      15780  11900   6500   5350   5450   5400  15200  15200  15200
TRANSMISSION                    39710  37880  54210  41750  38870  33710  24120  21100  20800
DISTRIBUTION                    67800  77890  62010  61710  67818  69941  57340  56790  56790
OTHER                            7110   7740   4240   4240   4240   4240   3300   3300   3300
TOTAL                          130400 135410 126960 113050 116378 113291  99960  96390  96090
UTE
INVESTMENT PROGRAM WITHOUT TAXES AND DUTIES (Personel Included)
YEAR                   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003
GENERATION                      12138   9154   5000   4115   4192   4154  11692  11692  11692
TRANSMISSION                    30546  29138  41700  32115  29900  25931   18554  16231   16000
DISTRIBUTION                    52154  59915  47700  47469  52168  53801   44108  43685  43685
OTHER                            5469   5954   3262   3262   3262   3262   2538   2538   2538
TOTAL                          100308 104162  97662  86962  89522  87147  76892  74146  73915
UTE
INVESTMENT PROGRAM WITHOUT TAXES AND DUTIES
FOR ECONOMIC ANALYSIS NOT CONSIDERING INVESTMENTS AT THE END OF PERIOD
YEAR                   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003
GENERATION                      12138   9154   5000   4115   4192   4154  10523   8185   5846
TRANSMISSION                    30546  29138  41700  32115  29900  25931  16698  11362   8000
DISTRIBUTION                    52154  59915  47700  47469  52168  53801  39697  30579  21842
OTHER                            5469   5954   3262   3262   3262   3262   2285   1777   1269
| TOTAL                        100308 104162  97662  86962  89522  87147  69203  51902  36958|






- 75 -
ANNEX 11
URUGUAY
Power Transmission and Distribution Project
Project Description and Costs
The proposed project would consist of:
(a)   Modification of 500-kV Substations -- consisting of the expansion of
substations I in Montevideo and San Carlos in Punta del Este through the
installation of two power transforners (250 MVA 500/150 kV each) reactive
power control devices and the related switchgear equipment in each of these
substations, and installation of new 500 kV line bay in substations A and B.
The estimated cost of this component is:
Local       - US$ 16.2 million
Foreign     - US$ 23.0 million
Total        US$ 39.2 million
(b)   Expansion of the 150-kV Transmission System in Montevideo -- consisting of
the replacement of the switchgear equipment (breakers and switches) and
reinforcement of grounding system of the substations of 150 kV to make them
appropriate to the new short circuit requirements of the system, the expansion
of substations E and J, the installation of a new substation G (2 x 63 MVA,
150/22 kV, SF6 insulated), changing the cable of existing transmission line
(150 kV) between substations A and N, and the installation of about 25 km of
150-kV underground cables interconnecting substations (N-E, E-J, E-R, R-G,
R-I). This would make the switching equipment of substations A, B, C, E, F,
H, and N compatible with the new short-circuit level of the 150-kV system
due to the increase caused by the reinforcement of the transmission system.
Also the grounding grids of those substations would be improved to support
the new short-circuit level. To achieve the objectives of the renovation of the
distribution system, it was agreed between the Bank and UTE during project
preparation that the modification of voltage levels would be carried out in the
areas supplied by substations G, R, and L. The transformers 150/30 kV in
substations K, R, and L would be transferred to substations N, C, and E, to
substitute existing transformers at retirement time. In addition UTE would
buy four additional transformers 150/30 kV to expand substations N, C, and E
(and one for reserve). The 150/22 kV transformers for the substations
included in the proposed project would be funded under Loan 3221-UR.



- 76 -
Local       - US$ 19.5 million
Foreign     - US$ 25.0 million
Total        US$ 44.5 million
(c)   First Phase of Renovation of the Montevideo Distribution System -- including
a change of the medium voltage (22 kV) system and of the low voltage
(380/220 Volts) system -- consisting of installation of a completely new system
in the areas of influence of substations G, L and R. In the future, other areas
would be renovated following the philosophy described in (b) above.
Local       - US$ 24.8 million
Foreign     - US$ 56.0 million
Total        US$ 80.8 million
(d)   Technical Assistance -- consisting of consultant services to help UTE to
restructure into business units as part of the sector reforms, to implement the
Non-Technical Losses Reduction Program, to help UTE to develop load
characteristics studies for marginal cost studies and for load management
actions, to help UTE to update its marginal cost studies, to prepare and
implement a demand-side management program and to help project
implementation. Attachment #1 summarizes the terms of reference of the
technical assistance required.
(US$ Thousand)
Study                   Local Foreign      Total
Business Units           50    350          400
Losses Reduction         24    141          165
Load Characteristics     12    40           52
Marginal Cost            25     64           89
Demand-side Mgt.         25     95          120
Distribution            164    810          974
TOTAL                   300   1500         1800
(e)   Training -- a training program consisting of: (i) a managerial seminar to train
UTE's managers for the new power sector structure; (ii) seminars for UTE's
staff on the new sector structure and UTE's changing role; and (iii)
envirommental aspects to strengthen UTE's environmental unit. Attachment #2
gives more details on the training program.



- 77 -
Local      - US$ 0.2 million
Foreign    - US$ 0.5 million
Total       US$ 0.7 million



- 78 -
ANNEX 11
Attachment 1
URUGUAY
Power Transmission and Distribution Project
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Terms of Reference (TORi and Cost Estimate
A. Restructuring of UTE into Business Units
Terms of Reference: This TA component will help UTE to restructure into Business Units
(BUs) as part of the power sector reforms as well as to facilitate improvements in
management. Consultants will:
al)  analyze different organizational options for the separation of UTE into BUs,
and recommend an organizational structure, designed within the context of the
new legal and regulatory arrangements. The options should be consistent with
the Electricity Law's objective of introducing competition into power sector
operations and promoting efficiency in the operation of power activities. The
structural options to be considered will be: (i) one or more generation BUs;
(ii) one transmission BU; and (iii) one or more distribution BUs. For this
purpose, consultants will obtain: (1) an understanding of the electricity law and
its regulations; and (2) a broad understanding of the existing accounting system
and UTE's assets and human resources, through the review of readily available
documents.
a2)   prepare and propose a strategic action plan for the implementation of the
recommended separation of UTE into BUs. This plan will include: (i) a draft
timetable for the implementation of UTE's re-structuring; (ii) the process of
restructuring; (iii) outline functions of the BUs; (iv) development of the
highest level organizational structure; and (v) institutional and operational
arrangements during the transition period. During the preparation of this plan,
consultants will identify a priority list of critical implementation issues based
on the assessment of: (1) human resource allocation; (2) activities developed
by UTE not related to its operational functions; (3) key new resource
requirements; and (4) operational problems during the transition period.
a3)   assist UTE in the implementation of its restructuring including: (i)
development of detailed timetables and responsibilities for implementation; (ii)
allocation of human resources to each proposed BU; (iii) preparation of
financial statements for each BU, including income statements, balance sheets,



- 79 -
and source and application of fund statements; (iv) preparation of detailed
organizational structure and functions of each BU; and (v) definition of
commercial arrangements among the new BUs.
a4)   analyze the new regulatory framework for the sector referring to the tariff
structure and level for generation, transmission, and distribution in UTE's new
BUs. The consultant should help UTE to assess if the tariff level ensures the
financial soundness of each BU.
a5)   submit reports and discuss the results with UTE and the Bank.
a6)   have expertise and experience, either in-house or through sub-contractors, in
the following areas: (i) power sector organization and regulation; (ii)
corporatization of public utilities; (iii) utility accounting and auditing; (iv)
financial analysis; (v) human resource management; and (vi) information
system for power utilities.
Cost Estimate: It is estimated that the study and its implementation will last about 28 weeks
and will have a maximum cost of US$400,000.
B. Implementation of the Non-Technical Losses Reduction Program
Terms of Reference: This TA component will help UTE in the implementation of the Non-
Technical Losses Reduction Program by hiring an individual consultant to act as Supervisor
of program implementation. The Supervisor will:
(bl)  Monitor the implementation of the Non-Technical Losses Reduction Program,
assess its progress and make recommendations to UTE on actions to ensure the
adequate implementation of the Program;
(b2)  Prepare quarterly reports to the General Manager of UTE and to the Bank on
the progress of implementation of the Program, existing difficulties and
recommendations to address them.
(b3)  Act as advisor to the Bank and to UTE's General Manager on actions to
ensure the success of the program.
Cost Estimate: It is estimated that the program will take 30 months to be implemented. The
resulting cost estimate is:



- 80 -
Cost (Thousands of US$ dollars)
Local    Foreign       Total
Consultant Fee                   96.0         96.0
Subsistence           24.0                    24.0
Allowance
Air Fares                         45.0        45.0
Total                 24.0       141.0       165.0
C. Load Characteristics Study
Terms of Reference: This TA component will help UTE to continue the ongoing studies on
load curve characteristics necessary for gathering data for an update of the marginal cost
study. This will also form the basis for the preparation of a Demand-side Management
Program, including actions for more efficient use of electricity by UTE's costumers. The
consultant will:
(cl)  Consolidate all previous data and studies on load characteristics carried out by
UITE;
(c2)  Collect and analyze new data necessary to have updated load curves for
residential, commercial, and different types of industrial costumers. This
survey should show the eventual differences in load curves by geographical
location in the country and should also cover eventual differences in load
curves due to season of the year (winter and summer);
(c3)  Collect and analyze data of the type of electrical equipment used by different
customers and their usage pattern in order to assess (geographically and
seasonally) how improvements in equipment efficiency or in usage could bring
about greater efficiency in electricity usage;
(c4)  Prepare a report on the findings and recommendations.
Cost Estimate: It is estimated that the study will take six months to be completed. The cost
estimate is:



- 81 -
Cost (Thousands of US$ dollars)
Local    Foreign       Total
Consultant Fee                   34.0        34.0
Travel Allowance      12.0                   12.0
Travel Ticket                     6.0         6.0
Total                 12.0       40.0        52.0
D. Marginal Cost Study Update
Terms of Reference: This TA component will help UTE monitor the conclusions of the
Load Characteristics Curve study by updating the calculations of Long Range and Short
Range Marginal Costs. The consultant will:
(dl)  Help UTE staff to update all existing data, criteria and studies on LRMC and
SRMC;
(d2)  Assess the eventual existence of differences between the SRMC during winter
and summer. To that end the results of the Load Characteristics Curve study
should be used as the basis. The consultant will also analyze the influence of
the geographical distribution of load particularly conceming load patterns (such
as Montevideo and Punta del Este). The consultant will recommend if the
eventual difference would justify the creation of different seasonal tariffs
between winter and summer;
(d3) Assess the level of SRMC of UTE at different processing stages (Generation,
Transmission and Distribution) including cost of transmission wheeling. In the
case of distribution the consultant will asses the SRMC by voltage level and by
geographic areas of the country;
(d4)  Prepare a report on findings and recommendations.
Cost Bsmate: It is estimated that the study will take eight months to be concluded. The
cost estimate is:



- 82 -
Cost (Thousands of US$ dollars)
Local    Foreign       Total
Consultant Fee                   58.0        58.0
Travel Allowance      25.0                   25.0
Travel Ticket                     6.0         6.0
Total                 25.0       64.0        89.0
E. Demand-side Management and Electricity Efficiency Improvement
Terms of Reference: This TA component will help UTE to prepare and implement a
Demand-side management program to improve the UTE load curve and to improve the
efficiency of electricity use by UTE's customers. The consultant will:
(el)  Assess all actions that UTE has already taken in this field and prepare a report
consolidating all data and previous actions. The consultant will make
recommendations on the continuation of previous actions and new ones;
(e2)  Prepare a Demand-side Management Program including description and
recommendation of actions to be taken, and detailed timetable for their
implementation. The program would cover at a minimum: (i) information
campaigns, particularly on the off-peak tariff system; (ii) technical advice to
customers on electricity efficiency; (iii) technical training on electricity
efficiency of private consultants who would then try to convince large
customers of the advantages of investing in more efficient equipment; (iv)
energy audits to assess the level of efficiency of electricity usage; (v) proposals
to the local universities to include energy efficiency in their curricula; (vi)
survey of efficiency characteristics of electrical equipment sold in the market,
and preparation of suggestions to the Government on ways to make the
consumer aware of the real data on efficiency at time of buying; (vii) survey
of the public lighting system in the country and recommendations on eventual
new systems with more efficiency;
(e3) Help UTE to implement the recommended program.
Cost Estimate: It is estimated that the program would be prepared from August 1996 to
January 1997 and that it will take 24 months to be implemented, beginning in March 1997.
The cost estimate is:



- 83 -
Cost (Thousands of US$ dollars)
Local   Foreign        Total
Consultant Fee                   80.0       80.0
Travel Allowance      25.0                  25.0
Travel Ticket                    15.0       15 .0
Total                 25.0      95.0       120.0
F. Project Implementation
Terms of Reference: This TA component will cover consultant services to help UTE to
implement the distribution component of the project. It is estimated that two engineers
would be required to work full time in project management for two years, helped by a
selected group of UTE's engineers to work at the management team on implementation of the
distribution works. These engineers from UTE would be trained during those two years in
order to continue carrying out the project afterward. The cost estimate is:
Cost (Thousands of US$ dollars)
Local    Foreign       Total
Total                164        810       974



- 84 -
ANNEX I 1
Attachment 2
TRAINING COMPONENT
Scope
1.    The project would help to: (a) strengthen the management capability of UTE through
developing a three-year training program for managers and higher level staff, as a result of
the power sector reform; and (b) strengthen UTE's environmental capabilities.
2.    UTE would require one specialist-month staff of technical assistance for developing
the management training program, under Terms of Reference to be agreed with the Bank.
Management Development Program
3.    This program would assist key high level staff in gaining a better understanding of the
power sector reform, including the new regulation rules, UTE's restructuring, and functions
of the business units to be created. It would aim at improving the management capability of
about: (a) 32 top level mangers; and (b) 224 middle level managers and higher level key
staff. A training consultant specialized in management manpower development is proposed
to assist UTE in implementing this program. This program would be organized through
local seminars, short courses in business administration with assistance of local and foreign
experts, intemships abroad, and study tours to comparable companies in developing
countries. Courses and seminars would be developed using UTE's own facilities and
external institutions and Universities.
Table 1: Management Training Program
1996         1997         1998          1999         2000
No. I Tec.   No. I    Tec.   No. I Tec.   No. I Tec.   No.    Tec.
1.    Top Managers
Study tours          5      1    4       1
Short courses        1     12     1      9
Seminars             1     16     1     16
2.    Medium Level Managers
Study tours          6      1    6       1     5       1     5      1     5       1
Short courses        4     25     4     25     2      25     2     25     2      25
Seminars             1     30     1     30                                1      30



- 85 -
Table 2: Cost Estimate of the Management Training Program (US$ thousand)
| 1996   1997    1998   1999   2000    Total
1.     Top managers
Study tours                35      28   |         l      l      |  63
Short courses              10      10                              20
Seminars                   20      20   ____r140
2.     Medium Level Managers
Study Tours                42      42      35      35     35      189
Short courses              16      16       8       8      8       56
Seminars                   20      20                     20       60
Total                     143    136       43      43     63      428
4.     Environmental Training
This program would seek to train about 115 UTE staff in environmental matters,
mainly related to thernal generation and transmission systems. The staff would be trained
through study tours to countries in which environmental improvements are applied, seminars,
and short courses. The staff of the environmental unit to be trained would continue to be in
charge of these matters at UE.
Table 3: Environmental Training Program
1996           1997           1998           1999            2000
A     B        A       B      A        B     A       B.      A        B
Study tours             2       1      4       1      3        1     2        1      3        1
Short courses           3       1      4       1      5        1      3       1      5        1
Seminars A              2       1      2       1      2        1     2        1      2        1
Seminras B              1      15                                     1      15
Seminars C              1      15      1      15      1       15      1      15      1       15
Experts                 1       2      1       2      1       2   l1          2      1        2
A = Number of training activities
B = Number of staff members to be trained



- 86 -
Table 4: Cost Estimate of the Environmental Training Program (US$ thousand)
1996      1997      1998      1999      2000       Total
Study tours                          8        16        12         8         12         56
Short courses                       18        24        30        18        30         120
Seminars A'                         4          4         4         4         4          20
Seminars B2                        20                             20                    40
Seminar C3                                     1         1         1          1          5
Experts                           2.5        2.5       2.5       2.5       2.5        12.5
Training materials                   5         5         3         3         3          19
Total                            58.5      52.5       52.5      56.5      52.5      272.5
Seminar Type A   Regional Semninars addressed to staff of the Environmnental Unit (EU).
2.       Seminars Type B   Local seminars organized by the EU to be addressed to UTE's staff, with the
assistance of international experts.
3.       Seminar type C = local seminars addressed to UTE's staff, other than EU.



- 87 -
ANNEX 12
URUGUAY
Power Transmission and Distribution Project
Project Implementation Plan
1.    The Project
1.1   Project Objectives. The proposed project aims to improve the reliability of the
electricity service at least cost and to facilitate the sustainability of the reforms recently
implemented in the power sector by helping UTE to adapt to the new institutional
framework. Project objectives include: (i) consolidating sector reforms; (ii) improving
power distribution reliability; (iii) improving efficient use of energy; and (iv) improving
customer safety.
1.2   Project Description. This project would be the first part of a staged approach to
modernize the Montevideo distribution network. The renovation of the Montevideo
distribution network recommended by the consultant's studies will result in very large
investment and it is recommended to be implemented in several phases. The proposed
project would cover the first phase which would renovate the areas of the city under the
influence of substations G, L, and R. This would cover the most critical areas in the city
and would be followed by additional areas to be renovated under a possible IDB project.
This proposed project would also include the reinforcement, adaptation and expansion of the
transmission system to allow the renovation of the distribution system as well as the power
supply for market growth. The proposed project would therefore include:
(a)   modification of 500-kV substations -- consisting of the expansion of substations
I in Montevideo and San Carlos in Punta del Este through the installation of
two power transformers (250 MVA 500/150 kV each), reactive power control
devices and the related switchgear equipment in each of these substations, and
the installation of new 500-kV line bays in substations A and B;
(b)   expansion of the 150-kV transmission system in Montevideo -- consisting of
the replacement of the switchgear equipment (breakers and switches) and
reinforcement of grounding system of the substations of 150 kV to make them
appropriate to the new short circuit requirements of the system, the expansion



- 88 -
of substations E and J, the installation of a new substation G, and the
installation of about 26 km of 150 kV underground cables interconnecting
substations;
(c)   First phase of the renovation of Montevideo Distribution System including
voltage change of the middle voltage (22 kV) system and of the low voltage
(380/220 Volts) system -- consisting of installation of a completely new system
in the areas of influence of substations G, L and R;
(d)   technical assistance -- consisting of consultant services to help UTE to
restructure in business units as part of the sector reforms, to implement the
Non-Technical Losses Reduction Program, to help UTE to develop load
characteristics studies for marginal cost studies and for load management
actions, to help UTE to up-date its marginal cost studies, to prepare and
implement a demand-side management program and to help project
implementation; and
(e)   training -- a training program consisting of: (i) a managerial seminar to train
UTE's managers for the new power sector structure; (ii) seminars for UTE's
staff on the new sector structure and UTE's changing role; (iii) environmental
aspects to strengthen UTE's environmental unit.
1.3   Pro*ect Costs. The total project cost, excluding interest during construction, is
estimated at US$196.5 million, of which US$125.0 million would be foreign cost. Costs are
expressed in June 1994 prices and are based on experience with similar projects in the
country and abroad. Physical contingencies are 5 % of base cost for the transmission
component and 10% of base cost for the distribution and technical assistance components.
Price contingencies assume: (i) a project execution period of 6 years; and (ii) price escalation
rates on base costs and physical contingencies of 2.0% in 1995, 2.5% in 1996, 2.7% in
1997, 2.5% in 1998, 2.6% in 1999, and 2.7% in 2000-01. Variations in exchange rate
would compensate for the difference between the local and international inflation rates.
1.4   The cost estimate for the project is summarized in the following table:



- 89 -
Project Costs in US$ million
[Project Elements          Local Cost Foreign Cost  Total Cost
(a) Substations 500 kV        16.2          23.0        39.2
(b) Transmission 150 kV       19.5          25.0        44.5
(c) Distribution Renovation   24.8          56.0        80.8
(d) Technical Assistance &     0.5           2.0         2.5
Training
Total Base Cost               61.0         106.0       167.0
Physical Contingencies         4.3           8.2        12.5
Price Contingencies            6.2          10.8        17.0
Total Project Cost            71.5         125.0       196.5
Interest during Construction   0.0          31.5        31.5
Total Flnancing Required      71.5         156.5       228.0
1.5   Project Financing The total financing requirements (including interest during
construction of US$31.5 million equivalent), are estimated at US$228 million equivalent.
The Bank would finance the foreign component of goods, the technical assistance and the
training program. UTE would finance the local costs and interest during construction. The
financing scheme of the proposed project, therefore, would be as follows:
Local J   Foreign     Total
UTE                        71.5       31.5      103.0
Bank                        0.0      125.0      125.0
Total Financing Required    71.5      156.5      228.0
2.    Implementation Arrangements
The project would be coordinated within UTE by a project coordinator, with the help
of a full-time project unit. Directors for each project component (Transmission,
Distribution, and Training) with qualifications satisfactory to the Bank would be appointed.
The project coordinator and the project directors would work within the framework of UTE's
organization with the assistance of the project unit, and of procurement, construction,



- 90 -
engineering, and finances units. UTE would keep the project unit in place during project
implementation. The project coordinator and the project directors would be qualified
professionals who would not be replaced without consultation with the Bank. MIE would
appoint a coordinator for the implementation of the sector institutional framework reforms.
3.    lmplementation Plan
3.1    Timetable and Implementation Plan for Each Project Component. Attachment #1
shows a detailed timetable for project implementation including for the Technical Assistance
component of the project, which is described in details in Annex 1 1 (including consultants'
terms of reference). Attachment 3 shows the Plan of Action to implement the Non-Technical
Reduction Losses indicating actions, activities, responsibility center, timing, and monitoring
system. The Plan of Action to Improve UTE's efficiency is described in Annex 8 and would
be implemented in accordance with Attachment I of that annex (including actions, activities,
responsibility center, timing, and monitoring system).
3.2   Schedule of Procurement Actions. Attachment #2 shows the Procurement Plan,
indicating the grouping of bids and the most important dates of the timetable of procurement
actions. The Procurement Plan includes the following bids:
3.2.1 Transmission (500 and 150 kV systems)
Bid #  Description and Estimated Cost
TI    Transformers and Reactor: including 4 transformners (500/150 kV, 250 MVA) for
Montevideo I and San Carlos; 2 transformers (150/22 kV, 63 MVA) for substation
G; and one reactor 50 MVAR, 500 kV for San Carlos.
Cost: US$ 16.7 million (12.0 foreign and 4.7 local)
Type: ICB (funded by Bank Loan)
T2    Infrastructure Works: Civil works for basic infrastructure of substations Montevideo
I and San Carlos.
Cost: US$ 4.0 million (all local)
Type: NCB (funded by UTE)
T3    Equipment for Substations 500/150 kV: including all switchgear equipment,
protection and control for substations I, San Carlos, A and B
Cost: US$ 11.8 million (8.5 foreign and 3.3 local)
Type: ICB (funded by Bank Loan)
T4    Equipment for Expansions in Existing 150 kV Substations: including all switchgear
equipment, protection and control for expansion of substations L, R, N, and E. It
would also include capacitors for reactive control at substations B and I.
Cost: US$ 11.8 million (8.5 foreign and 3.3 local)



- 91 -
Type: ICB (funded by Bank Loan)
T5    Equipment for SF6 Substations: including all equipment for the new substation G and
for the expansion of substations E and J. It would also include responsibility for
construction supervision by the manufacturer.
Cost: US$ 13.3 million (9.5 foreign and 3.8 local)
Type: ICB (funded by Bank Loan)
T6    Cable 150 kV: including the supply and installation of approximately 26 km of
underground cable, 150 kV interconnecting substations.
Cost: US$ 18.4 million (9.6 foreign and 8.8 local)
Type: ICB (funded by Bank Loan)
T7    Erection and Assembling of 500 kV substations: including all civil works for erection
of these substations and assembling of all equipment.
Cost: US$ 4.4 million (all local)
Type: NCB (funded by UTE)
T8    Erection and Assembling of 150 kV substations: including all civil works for
construction of these substations and assembling of all equipment, including the SF6
component.
Cost: US$ 3.4 million (all local)
Type: NCB (funded by UTE)
3.2.2 Distribution
Bid #  Description and Estimated Cost
LC1   Aerial Lines: including all material for renovation of low voltage aerial lines
Cost: US$ 5.4 million (all foreign)
Type: ICB (funded by Bank Loan)
LC2   Underground Low Voltage Cable for Area "R": including cables and accessories for
renovation of underground low voltage system of area supplied by substation "R".
Cost: US$ 8.5 million (all foreign)
Type: ICB (funded by Bank Loan)
LC3   Underground Low Voltage Cable for Area "L": including cables and accessories for
renovation of underground low voltage system of area supplied by substation "L".
Cost: US$ 4.9 million (all foreign)
Type: ICB (funded by Bank Loan)
LC4   Underground Low Voltage Cable for Area "G": including cables and accessories for
renovation of underground low voltage system of area supplied by substation "G".



- 92 -
Cost: US$ 10.6 million (all foreign)
Type: ICB (funded by Bank Loan)
LC5   Equipment S/E 22kV/380V for Area "R": including transformers and equipment for
substations 22kV/380V for area "R".
Cost: US$ 3.3 million (all foreign)
Type: ICB (funded by Bank Loan)
LC6   Equipment S/E 22kV/380V for Area "L": including transformers and equipment for
substations 22kV/380V for area "L".
Cost: US$ 3.8 million (all foreign)
Type: ICB (funded by Bank Loan)
LC7   Equipment S/E 22kV/380V for Area "G": including transformers and equipment for
substations 22kV/380V for area "G".
Cost: US$ 2.7 million (all foreign)
Type: ICB (funded by Bank Loan)
LC8   Underground 22kV Cables for Area "R": including 22kV underground cables and
accessories for area "R".
Cost: US$ 5.7 million (all foreign)
Type: ICB (funded by Bank Loan)
LC9   Underground 22kV Cables for Area "L": including 22kV underground cables and
accessories for area "L".
Cost: US$ 6.6 million (all foreign)
Type: ICB (funded by Bank Loan)
LC10  Underground 22kV Cables for Area "G": including 22kV underground cables and
accessories for area "G".
Cost: US$ 3.5 million (all foreign)
Type: ICB (funded by Bank Loan)
LOI  Works in Area "R": all works in area "R"
Cost: US$ 8.9 million (all local)
Type: NCB (funded by UTE)
L02   Works in Area "L": all works in area "L"
Cost: US$ 9.3 million (all local)
Type: NCB (funded by UTE)
L03   Works in Area "G": all works in area "G"
Cost: US$ 6.6 million (all local)



- 93 -
Type: NCB (funded by UTE)
3.3   Schedule of Disbursements. Attachment 4 shows the schedule of disbursements of
the proceeds of the Bank Loan and of the counterpart local funds.
3.4   Project Risks. The project has no special technical risks. The political risk is also
modest, since there is legislative authority for all envisaged institutional reform actions. In
addition, the Presidential Decrees creating the Energy Technical Commission was enacted as
a condition of negotiations and the Decree creating the regulatory system would be enacted
as one condition of effectiveness. Risks of implementation delays have been minimized by
drafting bidding documents for procurement of the most important items and by preparing
terms of reference for hiring consultants before appraisal. UTE will also hire consultants to
assist with project implementation, reducing the risks of delays even further.
3.5    Critical Factors Affecting Project Success and Actions to Address them. The most
critical factor that could affect project success is the adequate planning of renovation works
in distribution to avoid large interruptions of service to customers. The renovation works of
the distribution network will reconstruct completely the distribution system in the selected
areas of the city. This could result in long periods of power supply interruption during
implementation of works if the planning of activities is not adequate and made sufficiently in
advance. To address this issue, UTE has aready contracted SwedPower, the same
consulting firm that carried out the feasibility study of the renovation of the distribution
network to prepare all planning strategy for the renovation services. In addition, UTE will
hire specialized consultants to help UTE implement the renovation at least during the first
two years of work. It was also taken a conservative approach for implementation of works
which will be done only in one area at a time. Therefore, IJTE will begin the second phase
of the renovation (possibly funded by IDB) when areas supplied by substations "R" and "L"
will be completed.
4.    Monitoring and Evaluation
4.1    Key Physical Implementation Indicators. See Attachment I.
4.2    Key Performance Indicators. See Annex 14.



URUGUAY
Power Trasrwkslon ansd D0edrbutLon Pro)md
Pronact Thrnetobbe
INS5                                      1998                                     '1997                                      199
Pro      Compnet                          1  2  3  45                   1        1011  12 13 14 151    1718 19 2  21    23 24 25 2   27 28 29      31 32 33 34  35131 |3738 3 9  401 411 421 43144 45 4o  4714|
Transrnihslon                             J FM AM J JA S0N DJ FM AM J JA S 0N OJ F MA MJ J A SON DJ F MAM J JA8 ONID
I   Substation I
2   Substion S. Carlos                                                                                                                                                             t                   
3   Bay In LibstatonA                                                    _ B
4   S"thtation G
5   SibhstatiDnEand J
8   Cable 150W Between IA
|~~~~~~~ F5 Md.50l   A  M  J  J  A  8  0  N                                   J   F  M  A  M J  J   A                   J      M   A     J  J  A   S  0  N  0  J  F  M  A  M J  J   A                    
9   CablelSOW BetwsenER
10   Ce 150OkV BetwS nGR|
Distribution
|11   RenovationoAreR 
12   Remsves6ono:,IArs.L
13   RenovationoArea G
Tedmiical Assktain
14   Effilsncy kniprovirne
16   Non- Tech.*iniaLoss. Reduction                                                                                                                                                                         W,    M
16   Loed ChwMdmlgIw
17   Maigfrnsl Cost
16a Denand-ski. Manswnec
4-.
19"  20DO                                  2001                                  2002~~~~~~~~~
conporm  915151  13151 51 01715159W  5 61 71 S  9 71 71 2 7   71 7  7677 78 71 W81  2  31 4  5P   8
= ksion  I JI Fl MI Al MI JI JI Al 81 01 NJ D  m   J   J  8   0   N   D   J   F   M   A   M   J   J   A  0   N   D   J   F  M   A   M   J   J   A  0   N   D ~     ~      ~      r



URUGUAY
Power Trasnmission and Distribution Project
Procurement Plan
Bid                                                              Bid     Tech.      IBRD       Call       Bid   Evaluat.  Contract  Contract   Delivery
Docs    Specs.       Final       for     Open.   Report    Award  Signature    Goods
Approv.  to IBRD   Approval       Bids             to IBRD                        Services
Transmission
Ti     Transformers (500/150 & 150/22 kV): Reactors 500kV            Jan 96    May 96    Jun 96      Jul 96    Oct 96    Jan 97    Feb 97    Mar97    May98
T2     Infrastructure works Substation I & S. Carlos                 Jan 96    May 96    Jun 96      Jul 96    Oct 96    Nov 96    Dec 96    Jan 97    Jan 98
T3     Equipment 500/150 kV & control, Sst l,A, S. Carlos            Jan 96    Nov 96    Dec 96    Jan 97    Apr 97       Jul 97    Aug 97    Sep 97    Jan 99
T4     Equipment 150/22 kV for substations A,E,L,R,N                 Jan 96    Jan 98    Feb 98    Mar 98    Jun 98    Sep 98    Oct 98    Nov 98    Feb 00           un
T5     Equipment 150/22 kV in SF6 for Substations G, J & E            Jan 96    Jan 98    Feb 98    Mar 98    Jun 98    Sep 98    Oct 98    Nov 98    Jan 00
T6     25 km cable 150 kV installed (turn-key)                       Jan 96    Apr 97    May 97    Jun 97    Sep 97    Dec 97    Jan 98    Feb 98    Apr00
T7     Erection & Assembling Sst 1, S. Carlos, A                     Jan 96    Sep 97    Oct 97    Nov 97    Feb 98    Apr 98    May 98    Jun 98    Apr 00
T8     Erection & Assembling Substations G, J & E                     Jan 96     Jul 98    Aug 98    Sep 98    Dec 98    Feb 99    Mar 99    Apr 99    Feb 01
Distribution
LC1    Material for aerial system renovation                         Jan 96    Apr 96    May 96    Jun 96    Nov 96    Apr 97    May 97    May 97    Jun 01
LC2    Cables 380 V (underground), Area R                            Jan 96    Apr 96    May 96    Jun 96    Nov 96    Apr 97    May 97    May 97    Jan 99
LC3    Cables 380 V (underground), Area L                            Jan 96    Oct 97    Nov 97    Dec 97    Jun 97    Nov 98    Dec 98    Dec 98    Apr 00
LC4    Cables 380 V (underground), Area G                            Jan 96    Fev 99    Mar 99      Apr99    Oct 99    Mar 00    Apr 00    Apr 00    May 01
LC5    Equipment Substtations, Area R                                Jan 96    Apr 96    May 96    Jun 96    Nov 96    Apr 97    May 97    May 97    Jan 99
LC6    Equipment Substtations, Area L                                Jan 96    Oct 97    Nov 97    Dec 97    Jun 97    Nov 98    Dec 98    Dec 98    Apr 00
LC7    Equipment Substtations, Area G                                Jan 96    Fev 99    Mar 99      Apr99    Oct 99    Mar 00    Apr 00    Apr 00    May 01
LC8    Cables 22 kV & accessories, Area R                            Jan 96    Apr 96    May 96    Jun 96    Nov 96    Apr 97    May 97    May 97    Jan 99
LC9    Cables 22 kV & accessories, Area L                            Jan 96    Oct 97    Nov 97    Dec 97    Jun 97    Nov 98    Dec 98    Dec 98    Apr 00
LC1O   Cables 22 kV & accessories, Area G                            Jan 96    Fev 99    Mar 99      Apr99    Oct 99    Mar 00    Apr 00    Apr 00    May 01
LOI   Works Area R                                                   Jan 96    Nov 96    Dec96    Jan 97    Jun 97    Nov 97    Dec97    Dec 97          Jul 99
L02    Works Area L                                                  Jan 96    Apr 98    May 98    Jun 98    Nov 98    Apr 99    May 99    Jun 99    Feb 01
L03    Works Area G                                                  Jan 96    Aug 99    Sep 99    Oct 99    Mar 00    Aug 00    Sep 00    Dec 00    Jun 02    0' M
r_ 



URUGUAY
Power Timnsmission and Distribution Proect
Non-Technical Losses Reduction Pramm
Action                       Sub-Activity                      Responsibility          Implementation          Monitoring
_____________________|                              Center                   Period               System
I - Las  Accou___
a) Technical Loswo in  a&)     Aus. quality of existing metering    Transmision              From: 07/01/96 to:    Activity Final
Generation and                 ystem (including in power plant)    Manager                   09/01/96              Report
Tranmission                    and propose improvements                                                                                      ON
a2)    Calculation of losse by zones      Trnsmision Manager          From: 08/01/96 to:    Activity Final
03/31/97             Report
a3)    Implement new procedures of        Transmission Manager        From: 07/01/96 to:    Activity Final
losws measure                                                 06/30/97              Report
a4)    Implement computer based system    Transmission Manager        From: 10/01/96 to:    Activity Final
07/31/97             Report
b) Technical Losses in   bi)   Establish Methodology for losses  Distribution & Commercial   From: 07/01/96 to:    Issue methodology
Distribution                   determination                     Managers (Montevideo &      10/30/96
Interior)
b2)     Acquisition of meter equipment    Distribution & Commercial   From: 07/01/96 to:    Meters deivery
Managers (Montevideo &      12/30/96
Interior)                  __                    _
b3)     Data collection for estimating losses   Distribution & Commercial   From: 07/01/96 to:    Progress reports
in Montevideo                     Manager for Montevideo      12/31/96
0-
0



Action                       Sub-Activity                      Responsibility          Implementation          Monitoring
Center                   Period              System
b4)     Data collection for estimating losses   Distribution & Commercial   From: 01/01/97 to:    Progress reports
in Interior                       Manager for Interior        08/30/97
b5)    Final Report on Technical Losses   Distribution & Commercial   From: 09/01/97 to:    Final Report
Managers (Montevideo &      12/31/97
Interior)                                                            l
c) Non-Technical      cl)      Final Report on Non-Technical     Technical-Commercial        From: 09/01/97 to:    Final Report
Losses Determination          Losses                             Service Manager             12/31/97
d) Loss Determination   dl)   Assess adequacy of existing        Technical-Commercial        From: 09/01/97 to:    Final Report
Procedure                     procedures                         Service Manager             12/31/97
2 - Metering                                                                                                                          l
a) Meter data bank     al)     Data collection on existing meters    Technical-Commercial    From: 07/01/96 to:    Data bank
Service Manager             12/30/96              available
-4
a2)     Classification of meters by groups    Technical-Commercial    From: 10/01/96 to:    Issue classification
Service Manager             02/31/97
b) Create routine for    bl)   Create routine for checking and   Technical-Commercial        From: 08/01/96 to:    Issue routine
checking meters                substituting meters               Service Manager             09/30/96
c) Large customers     cl)    Define inspection program to be    Technical-Commercial        From: 07/01/96 to:    Issue Program
l___________________           implemented                        Service Manager             08/31/96
c2)     Execute Inspection in all industrial    Technical-Commercial  From: 09/01/96 to:    Progress reports
costumers                         Service for Montevideo &    06/30/97
for Interior
c3)     Execute Inspection in large       Technical-Commercial        From: 09/01/96 to:    Progress reports
costumers                         Service for Montevideo &    06/30/97
for Interior
d) Metering of UTE's   dl)     Data collection on UIJE's own     Technical-Commercial        From: 07/01/96 to:    Progress reports
own installations              installations consumption         Service Manager             12/31/96
3D



Action                       Sub-Activity                     Responsibility          Implementation         Monitoring
Center                  Period               System
d2)    Execute inspection in UTE's        Technical-Commercial       From: 01/01/97 to:    Progress reports
installations                     Service for Montevideo &   03/30/97
for Interior
d3)    Install meters where inexistant   Technical-Commercial        From: 05/15/97 to:    Progress reports
Service for Montevideo &   07/30/97
foi Interior
d4)    Include in costumers cadastre     Technical-Commercial        From: 08/01/97 to:    Final Report
Service for Montevideo &   08/31/97
for Interior
3 - Theft of Energy and Direct Connections
a) Direct connections    al)    Inspections to discover direct  'I'echnical-Commercial      From: 07/01/96 to:    Progress reports
connections in Montevideo         Service Manager             12/31/96
a2)    Inspections to discover direct    Technical-Commercial        From: 07/01/96 to:    Progress reports          0
connections in Interior           Service Manager             12/31/96                                        l
b) Pilot plan to      bi)     Define areas (2) to implement plan    Technical-Commercial    From: 07/01/96 to:    Issue plan
address direct                                                  Service Manager             08/30/96
connections
b2)    Acquisition of materials          Technical-Commercial        From: 09/01/96 to:    Progress reports
Service Manager            03/30/97
b3)    New distribution in the selected  Technical-Commercial        From: 04/01/97 to:    Progress reports
areas                             Service Manager             11/30/97
b4)    Address commercial issues in areas   Technical-Commercial     From: 04/01/97 to:    Progress reports
Service Manager             11/30/97
c) Public Relations   cl)     Campaign about meters             Market Sector Manager       From: 07/01/96 to:    Not Applicable
Campaigns                                                                                   12/31/96                                     :r
c2)    Campaign against theft            Market Sector Manager       From: 07/01/96 to:    Not Applicable         rt
12/31/96                                    :
w



Action                       Sub-Activity                       Responsibility           Implementation         Monitoring
Center                   Period               System
d) Social Analysis     dl)     Campaign of social assistants for  Market Sector Manager        From: 07/01/96 to:    Progress reports
understanding reasons of theft ot                              12/31/96
energy
e) Regularization of   el)     Campaign to regularize the         Technical-Commercial         From: 04/01/97 to:    Final report
customers                      commercial situation of irregular  Service Manager              11/30/97
costumers
4 - Commercial Actions
a) Previous            al)     Assess the improvements achieved    Technical-Commercial        From: 07/01/96 to:    Final Activity
Improvements                   through the IDP                    Service Manager              08/30/96              report
b) Future              bI)     Propose new commercial             Technical-Commercial         From: 09/01/96 to:    Final Activity
Improvements                   procedures with potential action on    Service Manager          12/31/96              Report
reducing losses
b2)    Implement proposed new              Technical-Commercial        From: 01/01/97 to:     Final Activity
procedures                         Service Manager             03/30/97              Report
rt
rt
rt
w



- 100 -
ANNEX 12
Attachment 4
URUGUAY
ADMINISTRACION NACIONAL DE USINAS Y TRASMISIONES ELECTRICAS
POWER TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(in US$ million)
Fisca Year        --   Semester        L      Cumulative             %
Semester          Bank    UTEj Total   Bankl  UTEI  Total Semest.  Cum.
FY1 997
02/96               0.5!   0.3    0.8    0.5    0.3    0.8    0.4    0.4
01/97               6.0    3.3    9.3    6.5    3.6   10.1    4.8    5.2
FY1 998
02/97              12.5    7.2   19.7   19.0   10.7   29.8   10.0   15.2
01/98              12.5    7.2   19.7   31.5   17.9   49.4   10.0   25.2
FY1 999
02/98              12.5    7.2   19.7   44.0   25.1   69.1   10.0   35.2
01/99              15.6    8.9.   24.5   59.6   34.0   93.6   12.5   47.7
FY2000
02/99              15.6    8.9   24.5   75.2   42.9  118.1    12.5   60.2
01/00              12.5    7.2   19.7   87.7   50.1  137.8   10.0   70.2
FY2001
02/00              12.5    7.2   19.7  100.2   57.2  157.4   10.0   80.2
01/01              12.0    6.8   18.8  112.2   64.0  176.2    9.6   89.8
FY2002
02/01               6.0    3.6    9.61 118.2   67.6  185.8    4.8   94.6
01/02               5.0    3.0    8.0  123.2   70.6  193.8    4.0   98.6
FY2003
02/02               1.8    0.9    2.7  125.0   71.5  196.5    1.4  100.0



- 101 -
ANNEX 13
URUGUAY
Power Transmission and Distribution Project
Monitoring Indicators
1.    Indicators: The following indicators would be used during project supervision to
monitor UTE performance:
A) Availability Factor for Each Power Plant: defined (in %) as:
AF= (SUM (Pu * Td))/(Pp * 8760) where
SUM = Sum sign
Pu = Generating Capacity of Each Unit
Td = Number of Hours the Unit was Available during the Year
Pp = Plant Generating Capacity
B) Reserve Margin: defined as the percentage of total installed capacity to be kept as
minimum difference between installed capacity and expected peak load.
C) Average Number of Interruptions per Customer: defined as the ratio between the number
of interruptions of power supply during one year and the number of customers at the end of
that year.
D) Average Time of Interruption per Customer: defined as the ratio between the total number
of hours of the year when service was interrupted and the total number of customers affected
by those interruptions.
E) Total Losses: defined as the ratio:
Loss = (NG-OC-S)/TG, where
Loss  = losses
NG    = Net Generation
OC    = Self Consumption in UTE's facilities
S     = Sales
TG    = Total Generation
F) Staffing: defined as the ratio between the number of customers at the end of the year and
the number of UTE's employees at the same date.



- 102 -
G)    Tariff:  defined as ratio between annual gross revenue (US$ million) and annual
energy sales (GWh);
H)    Receivables: defined as the number of days of an average collection period (total
accounts receivable divided by annual gross revenue from sales);
I)     Cash Operating Ratio: defined as the ratio between total cash operating expenses and
total gross revenues. Total cash operating expenses refer to all expenses related to
operations, including operation, maintenance and administrative expenses, taxes and
payments in lieu of taxes, but excluding provision for depreciation, income taxes,
and other non-cash operating charges, interest and other charges on debts. Gross
operating revenues refer to revenues from all sources related to operations.
J)     Self-financing ratio: defined as the ratio between funds from internal sources and
capital expenditure. Funds from internal sources are the difference between the sum
of revenues from all sources, excluding borrowing, and the sum of all expenses
related to operations, debt service requirements, income taxes, transfers to Treasury,
excluding provision for depreciation and other non-cash operating charges. Capital
expenditures means the sum of all expenditures incurred on account of fixed assets,
including interest charged to construction;
K)    Debt service Coverage. defined as the ratio between gross internal cash generation
(excluding customer contribution and consumer deposits) and total debt service
requirements
2.     Monitoring: Attachment I shows the estimate of these indicators to permit effective
monitoring during project implementation.



- 103 -
ANNEX 13
Attachment 1
URUGUAY
Administracion Nacional de Usinas y Trasmisiones Electricas
Power Transmission and Distribution Project
Monitoring Indicators
Indicator
1996  1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  2002  2003
Availability Factor (%)
Gabriel Terra Hydroplant (*)    74    74    90    95    95    95    95    95
Baygorria Hydroplant (**)   93    93    93    93    66    66    75    95
El Palmar Hydroplant        90    90    90    90    90    90    90    90
Salto Grande Hydroplant     95    95    95    95    95    95    95    95
La Tablada Thermoplant      80    80    80    80    80    80    80    80
Battle Thermoplant          65    65    65    65    65    75    75    75
Maldonado Thermoplant       70    70    70    70    70
Reserve Margin (%)              20.0  20.0  20.0  20.0  20.0  20.0  20.0  20.0
Average Number Interruptions
per Customer (# / customer)
Montevideo                  27    25    23    22    21    20    19    1 8
Interior                    18    16    15    14    13    12    11    10
Average Time of Interruption
per Customer (h / customer)
Montevideo                 1.46   1.44   1.42   1.40   1.39   1.38   1.37   1.35
Interior                   2.55   2.52   2.50   2.48   2.45   2.43   2.41   2.40
Total Losses (%)                16.6  15.6  14.6  14.0  13.5  13.5  13.5  13.5
Staffing (Customers/employees)  110   114   118   122   126   131   135   140
Domestic Tariff (US$cents/kWh)   9.7  10.0  10.3  10.5  10.8  11.1  11.3  11.6
Receivables (days)
Private                     30    30    30    30    30    30    30    30
Government                  60    60    60    60    60    60    60    60
Cash Operating Ratio(%)          60    60    55    55    55    55    55    55
Self-Financing Ratio (%)         50    50    50    50    50    50    50    50
Debt Service Coverage (times)   |  1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5
(*) Rehabilitation Works during 1994-97
(**) Rehabilitation Works during 2000-03






- 104 -
ANNEX 14
URUGUAY
Power Transmission and Distribution Project
Economic Analysis
1.    UTE's expansion plan was prepared based on an average annual expected load
growth of 4.26% for the next ten years, which is considered appropriate (see Annex 5). The
generation expansion plan was based on a power balance study prepared by UTE which the
Bank found satisfactory, and on a feasibility study prepared by Southern Electric
International (Feasibility Study of Units 3 and 4 Batlle y Ordoiiez Power Station and
Expansion of La Tablada Power Station) under a grant from the US Government. The
transmission system expansion plan was based on a consultant study prepared by UTE with
the help of MARTE Engenharia (Obras de Trasmisi6n, Comunicaciones y Telecontrol -
Periodo 1994/2000 - Expansion Plan for Transmission, Telecommunications and Telecontrol
Systems for Period 1994-2000), financed under Loan 3221-UR. The renovation of the
distribution system was recommended by a consultant study prepared by Fitchner (Estudio de
Distribuci6n de Energia) financed under Loan 2484-UR, and confirmed by an additional
study prepared by SwedPower (Consulting Services for Feasibility Studies of New Topology
of the Distribution System for UTE Montevideo) under a grant from the Swedish
Government. The Bank has reviewed these studies and found them satisfactory. Based on
the studies performed, the Bank was assured that UTE's expansion plan represents the least-
cost solution for the required system expansion.
2.    The proposed project includes investments in two different areas: (i) transmission
expansion to allow an adequate supply of electricity to an expanding market; and (ii)
renovation of the distribution system in three areas in the city of Montevideo to improve
reliability, reduce technical losses, and extend the life of the power system. It is difficult to
separate accurately the benefits resulting from each of these investments from the general
benefits resulting from the investment program. However, to avoid doubt, a conservative
approach was utilized in the economic analysis of the project. Under this approach two
different rate of return were calculated: first, the rate of return of the renovation of the
distribution system of Montevideo; and second, the rate of return of the entire investment
program for the period 1995-2003.
3.    The internal rate of return of the renovation of the distribution system was computed
as the discount rate equalizing the present value of the cost streams and benefits associated
with it. The cost stream (in 1994 constant prices) comprises the capital cost of the
renovation equipment and works (excluding taxes and duties) for the entire distribution
system in Montevideo, the operational and maintenance costs and the upstream cost
(generation and transmission) of energy supplied, for the condition with and without the



- 105 -
renovation. The benefits were measured by the consumer willingness to pay the unsupplied
energy in the "without project" scenario calculated at its lower bound value as the cost of
unsupplied energy at the current tariff. The amount of unsupplied energy was estimated as
the unserved energy by the existing system due to its capacity limitations. This is a
conservative estimate since the unserved energy due to service interruptions was not
included. The proposed project would finance only the first phase of this renovation;
however, no attempt was made to evaluate the economic rate of return of this separate part
of the system because the renovation in question will, in fact, install a complete new system
with different voltage levels. Therefore, the only justification to implement the first phase is
as part of the renovation of the whole system. To analyze the influence of this investment
decision an alternative case was considered and the internal rate of return was computed
using the cost stream at market level investments costs, i.e., including taxes and duties (to
analyze the decision from a corporate point of view). Also to analyze the influence of
variation in the assumptions, a sensitivity analysis was carried out. The results of these
analyses are:
Internal Rate of Return
Scenario                 Distribution Renovation
1. Base Case                         25.1%
2. Investments     10% higher        23.1 %
3. Benefits        10% lower          19.1%
4. Benefits        10% higher        31.2%
5. Benefits        10% lower
and Investments  10% higher        17.7%
6. Investments    30% higher         20.1%
7. Alternative case
(Investments at market values)     19.2%
8. Alternative Case (market values)
with Investments  10% higher       17.8%
9. Alternative Case (market values)
with Benefits    10% lower         14.6%
4.    The rate of return of UTE's investment program for period 1995-2003 is 15.4%. It
was computed at a discount rate equalizing the present value of the stream of costs and
benefits associated with UTE's expansion plan. The cost stream, in constant 1994 prices,
comprises the capital cost of the investment program (excluding taxes and duties) and the
associated incremental operational and maintenance costs. Revenues derived from
incremental sales were used as a proxy for benefits. The benefit stream represents revenues
generated by the investment program using average tariffs, also in constant prices, and
assuming that these benefits are attributed to the program at 50% in 1995, 60% in 1996,
70% in 1997, 80% in 1998 and 100% from 1999 on. Other benefits to the society and the
economy of the country -- such as those derived from improvement of service quality to



- 106 -
customers and availability of energy -- were not included in this analysis. If social benefits
were included, the rate of return would be higher.
5.    Sensitivity analyses were carried out to evaluate the impact on the base case internal
rate of return as a result of variations in key parameters. The results of these analyses were:
Internal Rate of Return
Scenario                 UTE's Investment Program
1. Base Case                          15.4%
2. Investments     10% higher         13.6%
3. Benefits        10% lower          12.5%
4. Benefits        10% higher          18.1 %
5. Benefits        10% lower
and Investments  10% higher         10.9%
6. Investments     30% higher         10.7%



- 107 -
ANNEX 14
Attachment 1
URUGUAY
ADMINISTRACION NACIONAL DE USINAS Y TRASMISIONES ELECTRICAS
POWER TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Internal Rate of Return of UTE 1995/2004 Investment Program
(In US$ Million,1 994 constant prices)
Costs                        Benefits
Increment Increment          Increment  Revenue       NET
Capital      O & M       Fuel     Total  Sales 1/      from   BENEFIT
Year    Investment    Costs      Costs     Costs     GWh)      Sales
1995        100.31      0.60      4.70    105.61    217.00      9.01   -96.60
1996        104.16      2.00      2.80    108.96    440.00     21.91    -87.05
1997         97.66      0.80      7.20    105.66    660.00     38.35   -67.31
1998         86.96      7.20      3.30     97.46    885.00     58.76   -38.70
1999         89.52     15.60      6.20    111.32   1101.00     91.38   -19.94
2000         87.14     18.40     10.20    115.74   1323.00    109.81    -5.93
2001         69.20     24.50     17.70    111.40   1557.00    129.23     17.83
2002         51.90     40.00     15.10    107.00   1805.00    149.82     42.82
2003         36.96     43.40     20.40    100.76   2066.00    171.48     70.72
2004 on      36.36     43.40     20.40    100.16   2506.78    208.06    107.90
Rate of Return
Case                                                           ROR
(%)
1.Base Case                                                               15.41
2. Investment Increased by 10%                                            13.60
3.Benefits Reduced by 10%                                                 12.53
4.Benefits Increased by 10%                                               18.15
5. Investments Increased and Benefits Reduced by 10%                      10.86
6.1nvestment Increased by 30%                                             10.66
Notes:
1/ Incremental Sales for each year is calculated as the difference of
forecasted domestic sales for the year and forecasted sales for 1994
2/ Operational Costs data from financial projections (Annex 9)
3/ Fuel expenditures only for generation to domectic sales



- 108 -
ANNEX 14
Attachment 2
URUGUAY
ADMINISTRACION NACIONAL DE USINAS Y TRASMISIONES ELECTRICAS
POWER TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Internal Rate of Return for the Distribution Component (Market Prices)
(In US$ Thousand,1 994 constant prices)
Costs                            Benefits
Unserved      Value   NET
Capital    0 & M       Other       Total  Energy 1/   Unserved BENEFIT
Year     Investment      Costs       Costs      Costs    (GWh)       Energy
1995          22387        672       3785      26844          82       6560   -20284
1996          22387       1343       7785      31515         169      13520   -17995
1997          22387       2015      12035      36437         262      20960   -15477
1998          22387       2686      16590      41663         361      28880   -12783
1999          22387       3358      21467      47212         467      37360    -9852
2000          22387       4030      26672      53089         580      46400    -6689
2001          22387       4701      32210      59298         700      56000    -3298
2002          14211       5128      38133      57472         829      66320      8848
2003          14211       5554      44442      64207         966      77280     13073
2004          14211       5980      51254      71445        1114      89120     17675
2005          14565       6417      58431      79413        1270     101600     22187
2006          14565       6854      65804      87223        1431     114480     27257
2007          14565       7291      71173      93029        1547     123760     30731
2008          14565       7728      82845     105138        1801     144080     38942
2009          14565       8165      92048     114778        2001     160080     45302
2010          14565       8602     101730     124897        2212     176960     52063
2011          14565       9039     112034     135638        2436     194880     59242
2012          14565       9476     122886     146927        2671     213680     66753
2013          14565       9913     134375     158853        2921     233680     74827
2014          14565      10350     146349      171264       3181     254480     83216
2015 on           0      10350     146349      156699       3181     254480     97781
Rate ofReturn 
Case                                                                   R O R
(%)
1.Base Case                                                                       19.22
2.1nvestment Increased by 10%                                                     17.75
3.Benefits Reduced by 10%                                                         14.64
4.Benefits Increased by 10%                                                       23.64
5.Investments Increased and Benefits Reduced by 10%                               13.48
6.Investment Increased by 30%                                                     15.41
Note: 1/ Unserved Energy estimated as the energy that the existing distribution system would not
serve due to lack of capacity. It is a conservative estimate since it does not consider
unserved energy due to service interruptions.



- 109 -
ANNEX 14
Attachment 3
URUGUAY
ADMINISTRACION NACIONAL DE USINAS Y TRASMISIONES ELECTRICAS
POWER TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Internal Rate of Return of Distribution Component (Shadow Prices)
(In US$ Thousand,1994 constant prices)
Costs                               Benefits
Unserved       Value      NET
Capital      0 & M       Other        Total   Energy 1/    Unserved  BENEFIT
Year      Investment        Costs       Costs       Costs       (GWh)       Energy
1995           16275         672         3785       20732          82         6560   -14172
1996           16275        1343         7785       25403         169        13520   -11883
1997           16275        2015        12035       30325         262        20960    -9365
1998           16275        2686        16590       35551         361        28880    -6671
1999           16275        3358        21467       41100         467        37360    -3740
2000           16275        4030        26672       46977         580        46400      -577
2001           16275        4701        32210       53186         700        56000      2814
2002           10331        5128        38133       53592          829       66320     12728
2003           10331        5554        44442       60327         966        77280     16953
2004           10331        5980        51254       67565         1114       89120     21555
2005           10589        6417        58431       75437        1270       101600    26163
2006           10589        6854        65804       83247        1431       114480    31233
2007           10589        7291        71173       89053         1547      123760    34707
2008           10589        7728        82845      101162        1801       144080    42918
2009           10589        8165        92048      110802        2001       160080     49278
2010           10589        8602       101730      120921        2212       176960    56039
2011           10589        9039       112034      131662        2436       194880     63218
2012           10589        9476       122886      142951        2671       213680     70729
2013           10589        9913       134375      154877        2921       233680     78803
2014           10589       10350       146349      167288        3181       254480     87192
2015 on            0       10350       146349      156699        3181       254480     97781
Rate of Return
Case                                                                          ROR
(%)
1.Base Case                                                                              25.08
2.Investment Increased by 10%                                                            23.15
3.Benefits Reduced by 10%                                                                19.09
4.Benefits Increased by 10%                                                              31.20
5.1nvestments Increased and Benefits Reduced by 10%                                      17.66
6.Investment Increased by 30%                                                            20.14
Note:     1/ Unserved Energy estimated as the energy that the existing distribution system is not able
to serve due to lack of installed capacity. It is a conservative estimate since the
energy unserved due to service interruptions is not computed.



- 110-
ANNEX 15
URUGUAY
Power Transmission and Distribution Project
Environmental Aspects
1.    General. UTE's Environmental study area is very new and was created as a condition
of Loan 3221-UR. UTE's organization includes one Environment Unit (UGA-Unidad de
Gesti6n Ambiental) reporting to the General Manager (responsible for preparing the
Environmental studies for future installations, motivating the operational units to address
environmental problems in operating facilities, and acting as a nucleus for the creation of
adequate capability in the environmental field within the company) and operational
environment units in each operating department (responsible for implementation in its area of
the recommendations received from the Environment Unit).
2.    UGA Training Program. The proposed project would finance a training program for
UGA staff. This training program will focus on training each of UGA's staff in their
respective areas of responsibility. It will include on-the-job training through agreements with
other utilities with more experience on environment matters, university courses, and transfer
of knowledge from individual consultants.
3.    Environmental Assessment of UTE. Under Loan 3221-UR financing, UTE hired a
consultant in accordance with TOR satisfactory to the Bank to make an assessment of the
environmental situation of UTE's facilities, and recommendations on the organization, work
program, and training needs of UTE's environmental area. The recommendations of the
report cover: (i) organization of UGA, (ii) training for UGA staff, (iii) thernoplants, (iv)
hydroplants, (v) transmission lines, and (vi) substations. The Bank reviewed these
recommendations and agreed with UTE on a restructuring of UGA that took place in January
1995. Also benefiting from this proposed project UTE hired a consultant that prepared a
satisfactory environmental analysis of UTE's planned transmission program.
4.    The Bank would help UTE to strengthen its environmental unit. Based on the results
of this assessment study, UTE has restructured the Environmental Unit covering its
objectives, functions and organization, as well as procedures for incorporating environmental
concerns in the sector. UTE also agreed to implement a training program on environmental
subjects.
5.    The Project. The proposed project consists in its major part of works for the
renovation and substitution of existing facilities. The expansion of the 500 kV system will
comprise the installation of transformers in already existing sub-stations. Therefore no
environmental effect is foreseen. The modification of the 150-kV system will comprise
change of equipment in already existing sub-stations, the installation of a compact substation
(SF6 enclosed), and installation of underground cables connecting substations, therefore with
no environmental effects. The modernization of the distribution network will consist of
replacing old cables by new ones at the same site.






- 111 -
ANNEX 16
URUGUAY
Power Transmission and Distribution Project
Supervision Plan
Approx.              Special Activity              Skill             Staff
Dates              in the Supervision Mission      Requirements    Input
(Month/year)
(SW)
Apr/96         Project Launch                      Power Engineer    5
Annual Formal Review Meeting        Financial Analyst
Oct/96         Review Losses Reduction Program     Power Engineer    4
Review Efficiency Improvement Plan   Financial Analyst
Apr/97         Annual Formal Review Meeting        Power Engineer    4
Review Procurement Plan             Financial Analyst
Review TA development
Oct/97         Review Losses Reduction Program     Power Engineer    4
Review Efficiency Improvement Plan   Financial Analyst
Apr/98         Mid-term Review Meeting Review      Power Engineer    4
Efficiency Improvement Plan        Financial Analyst
Review TA development
Oct/98         Review Losses Reduction Program     Power Engineer    4
Review Procurement Plan            Financial Analyst
Apr/99         Annual Formal Review Meeting        Power Engineer    4
Review Transmission Implementation   Financial Analyst
Review TA development
Oct/99         Review Losses Reduction Program     Power Engineer    4
Review Efficiency Improvement Plan   Financial Analyst
Apr/2000       Annual Fonnal Review Meeting        Power Engineer    4
Review Distribution Implementation    Financial Analyst
Review TA development
Oct/2000       Review Efficiency Improvement Plan   Power Engineer    4
Review Distribution Implementation    Financial Analyst
Apr/01         Annual Formal Review Meeting        Power Engineer    4
Review Losses Reduction Program    Financial Analyst
Review Transmission Implementation



- 112 -
Approx.               Special Activity                Skill              Staff
Dates               in the Supervision Mission        Requirements       Input
(Month/year)
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _           _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   (S W )
Oct/01          Review Losses Reduction Program       Power Engineer    4
Review Efficiency Improvement Plan    Financial Analyst
Apr/02          Annual Formal Review Meeting          Power Engineer    4
Review Distribution Implementation    Financial Analyst



- 113 -
ANNEX 17
URUGUAY
Power Transmission and Distribution Project
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1.    Plan Quinquenal de Inversiones para 1994-98
UTE. Montevideo, Uruguay, July 28, 1993
2.    Obras de Transmisi6n, Comunicaciones y Telecontrol Periodo 1994-2000
MARTE Engenharia/UTE, Montevideo, Uruguay, July 1993
3.    Relevamiento de la Carga (Informes 1, 2, 3)
Consultora Cecilia H. Negri de Magalhaes, Montevideo, Uruguay. November 1993,
February and May 1994
4.    Consulting Services for Feasibility Studies of New Topology of the Distribution
System for Montevideo
SwedPower, Sweden
5.    Feasibility Study of Units 3 and 4 Battle y Ordoniez Power Station and Expansion of
La Tablada Power Station
Southern Electric International, U.S.A.
6.    Energy Prices in Uruguay
Fernando Lecaros (Consultant), Bogota, Colombia, Febniary 1994
7.    UTE - Economic Evaluation
Fernando Lecaros (Consultant), Bogota, Colombia, March 1994
8.    Estudio Costo Beneficio de las Inversiones en la Distribucion de Montevideo
UTE - Montevideo, Uruguay, June 1993
9.    Diagn6stico de la Situaci6n Ambiental de UTE - Infoniie Final
Dr. Fernando Gast (Consultant), Bogota, Colombia, April 1993
10.   Diagn6stico de la Situaci6n Ambiental de UTE - Anexos (Priorizaci6n de las
Recomendaciones - Programa de Capacitaci6n)
Dr. Fernando Gast (Consultant), BogotA, Colombia, February and April 1994



- 114-
11.   Proyecto de Expansi6n del Sistema de Transmisi6n 1994-2000 - Estudio de Impacto
Ambiental
Luis Fernando Cadena Suarez (Consultant), Bogota, Colombia, Mayo 1994
12.   Estudio de Reestructuraci6n del Marco Legal y Regulatorio del Sector Energfa
Synex, Ingenieros Consultores, Santiago Chile, October 1993



/.a-    4T,QASh ' '
55,555' '-5Sr
3,              )                                                  n'- ,,   ; X
-                     -                                                                         ,,~ (                      
;   4'-     X    fQ'Sk-                             h-                 dC    S "'-                      RAZI
5  10!  jX  .' . ' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                       ,,'1 
..A RG E NTIN A                                              $ MONTEYIDEO                                                      URUGUAY(Cr
>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~555 ,54                                        505> 750 $55 3.5S5 5 555l                                      W 5.5W 555 5555
07   d                  57.                                                                                 '   lot~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s  Ps,oro G_,, S@ 









,,  j ,,!         "   -'^ 
.-      :1  E          I C   i
as1 IA   L t! -)     W  T



