Page  1
                                                         CONFORMED COPY
                                                    LOAN NUMBER 3949-UR
                            Guarantee Agreement
                 (Power Transmission and Distribution Project)
                                  between
                        REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY
                                    and
                     INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                                AND DEVELOPMENT
                              Dated March 18, 1997
                                                   LOAN NUMBER 3949-UR
                              GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated March 18, 1997, between REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL
URUGUAY (the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Guarantor and Administracin Nacional de Usinas y
Trasmisiones Electricas (the Borrower), having been satisfied as to
the feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to the Loan Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
     (B)  by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank
and the Borrower, the Bank has agreed to extend to the Borrower a loan
in an amount equal to one hundred twenty-five million Dollars
($125,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree to guarantee
the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan and to under-
take such other obligations, all as provided in this Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's entering
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to guarantee
such obligations of the Borrower and to undertake such other obliga-
tions;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                ARTICLE I
Page  2
                    General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated
May 30, 1995 (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part
of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to, and
Section 1.02 of, the Loan Agreement have the respective meanings
therein set forth.
                              ARTICLE II
                    Guarantee; Provision of Funds
     Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor hereby
unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not as surety
merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of, and interest
and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if any, on the pre-
payment of the Loan, and the punctual performance of all the other
obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth in the Loan Agreement.
     Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the provi-
sions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor specifically
undertakes, whenever there is reasonable cause to believe that the
funds available to the Borrower will be inadequate to meet the
estimated expenditures required for the carrying out of the Project,
to make arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, promptly to provide
the Borrower or cause the Borrower to be provided with such funds as
are needed to meet such expenditures.
                               ARTICLE III
                             Other Covenants
     Section 3.01. The Guarantor and the Bank shall, from time to time,
at the request of either party, exchange views with regard to the
Guarantor's plans in respect of the overall development of the power
sector.
     Section 3.02. (a) The Guarantor shall continue to maintain and
operate the Clearing House System throughout the execution of the
Project with the participation of at least the Guarantor, ANTEL, OSE
and ANCAP.
     (b)  Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) above,
the Guarantor shall pay and shall cause each of its departments and
national agencies, or subdivisions thereof, to settle all accounts
payable to the Borrower for services rendered or to be rendered by
the Borrower within 60 days from the date of billing.
     (c)  In the event that any debt included in paragraph (b) above
shall not be paid to the Borrower in a timely manner in accordance
with the provisions of such paragraph or under the Clearing House
System, the Guarantor shall promptly pay such debt to the Borrower
on behalf of the debtor.
     Section 3.03. Upon request from the Borrower to the Guarantor,
the Guarantor shall take all necessary action, including the granting
of all necessary authorizations, import licenses, foreign exchange
permits and all other approvals required under the laws of the
Guarantor, for ensuring the timely procurement of the goods and
services to be financed under the Project.
     Section 3.04. Without limitation to the obligations of the
Guarantor under Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor shall
take all actions (including, without limitation, all actions
necessary for adjustments of the structure or levels of the
Borrower's rates) required to enable the Borrower to comply with its
obligations under Sections 5.02, 5.03 and 5.04 of the Loan Agreement.
Page  3
                               ARTICLE IV
                Representatives of the Guarantor; Addresses
     Section 4.01. The Minister of Economy and Finance of the Guarantor
is designated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Guarantor:
          Ministerio de Economa y Finanzas
          Colonia 1089
          Montevideo, Uruguay
          Cable address:             Telex:
               MINECON               269 MINECON UY
               Montevideo, Uruguay
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:             Telex:
               INTBAFRAD             248423 (MCI) or
               Washington, D.C.       64145 (MCI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in Barcelona, Spain, as of the
day and year first above written.
               REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY
               By /s/ Luis Mosca
                                             Authorized Representative
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
               By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
                                               Regional Vice President
                                       Latin America and the Caribbean
