OFFIMIL
O OCUM-ENTS
LOAN NUMBER 3949-UR
Loan Agreement
(Power Transmission and Distribution Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
ADMINISTRACION NACIONAL DE USINAS
Y TRASMISIONES ELECTRICAS
Dated ley&zA  /  ,197


﻿LOAN NUMBER 3949-UR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated /7&zd,i      i      , 1997, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and
ADMINISTRACION NACIONAL DE USINAS Y TRASMISIONES ELECTRICAS (the
Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) Rep6blica Oriental del Uruguay (the Guarantor) and the Borrower,
having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)    by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith
between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations
of the Borrower in respect of the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set forth
in the Guarantee Agreement, and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)    "ANCAP" means the Guarantors petroleum, alcohol and cement entity
(Administraci6n Nacional de Combustibles, Alcohol y Portland);
(b)    "ANTEL"    means   the   Guarantoes  telecommunications  entity
(Administraci6n Nacional de Telecomunicaciones);
(c) "BCU" means the Guarantors Central Bank (Banco Central del Uruguay);


﻿-2-
(d)    "Clearing House System" means the system currently maintained and
operated by the Guarantor, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Guarantor, the
Bank and the Borrower, under the Prior Loan Agreement (as such system is defined in
Section 1.02 (h) of such agreement) by means of which the Guarantor and certain entities
owned or controlled by the Guarantor, including, bu not limited to public utilities such as
the Borrower, ANTEL, OSE and ANCAP have agreed: (i) to the compensation between
mutually owed balances among the Guarantor and the entities which are part of the system;
and (ii) that from time to time, the Guarantor, by means of such system, will debit and
credit the accounts of the Guarantor and the entities within the system to meet their payment
obligations in respect of the Guaiantor nd other entity or entities within the system;
(e)    "Electricity Law" means the Guarantor's Decree Law No. 14.694 dated
September 1, 1977, duly published in the Official Gazette ()ario Oficial) on Septanber 7,
1977 which permits, inter alia, the participation of the private sector in the power generation
activities in Uruguay, as such law has been amended to the date of this Agreement;
(f)    "Implementation Letter" means the letter of even date herewith from the
Borrower to the Bank which includes, as annexes, the Operational Plafn, the Non-Technical
Losses Reduction Program and the procurement plan of the activities to be carried out
under the Project;
(g)    "Implementation Program" means the timetable of the activities to be
carried out under the Project set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(h)    "Law 16170" means Ley 16.170 of the Guarantor dated December 28,
1990, duly published in the Official Gazette ()iario Oficial) on January 10, 1991 which
establishes, inter alia, the obligation of the state-owned entities to transfer to the Guarantor
the profits generated by such entities on each fiscal year, and such term includes Decree
No. 191 (Det No. 191) dated March 15, 1991, as such law and decree have been
amended to the date of this Agreement;
(i)    "Legal Framework" means the legislation to be issued by the Guarantor
pursuant to Section 7.01(b) of this Agreement establishing, inter alia, the rights and
obligations of stakeholders in the power market;
(j)    "Non-Technical Losses Reduction Program" means the Borrower's
program of actions to reduce the Borrower's non-technical losses on: (i) commercial
procedures; (ii) power metering control and policy; (iii) theft of electricity; and (iv)
accounting of losses, included as an annex to the Implementation Letter;


﻿-3-
(k)    "Operational Plan" means the Borrowers plan of action, satisfactory to the
Bank, to improve the Borrowers operational efficiency, which includes, inter alia, actions
to: (i) improve the productivity of its staff; (ii) revise and reduce its administrative
expenses; and (iii) improve its internal control, included as an annex to the Implementation
Letter,
(1)    "OPP" means the Guarantoes Office of Planning and Budgeting (ficina
de Planeamiento y Presupuesto);
(in)   "OSE" means the Guarantors national sanitation entity Obras Sanitarias
del Estado);
(n)    "PCU" means the project coordination unit referred to in Section 3.05 of
this Agreement;
(o)    "Prior Loan Agreement" means the Loan Agreement entered into between
the Borrower and the Bank on August 21, 1990 (Loan No. 3221-UR), as such agreement
has been amended to the date of this Agreement;
(p)    "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this
Agreement; and
(q)    "UTE Law" means the by-laws of the Borrower approved by the Guarantor
through Decree Law No. 15.031 dated June 24, 1980, duly published in the Official Gazette
(Diario Oficial) on August 12, 1980, including the regulations to such by-laws approved by
the Guarantor through Decree No. 469/980 dated September 3, 1980, duly published in the
Diario Oficial on September 23, 1980, as such by-laws and regulations have been amended
to the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE H
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions
set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to one hundred twenty five
million Dollars ($125,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement for


﻿-4-
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)    The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in
Dollars a special deposit account in BCU on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002 or such later date as
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of
such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan
not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal
to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)    For the purposes of this Section:
(i)    "Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment
Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, each period
from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the
next following Interest Payment Date.
(ii)   "Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.06
of this Agreement.
(iii)  "LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial
Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on
or next preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage
per annum.


﻿-5-
(iv)   "LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) one
half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted
average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or above) the
London interbank offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-
month deposits, in respect of the Bank's outstanding borrowings or
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency
loans or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage
per annum.
(c)    The Bank shall notify the Guarantor and Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate
and LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)    Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank determines that
it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said Section,
the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts of
the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6) months' notice to the Borrower of the
new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the
Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said
modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable April 15 and October 15 in
each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate engineering,
technical, public utility, administrative, financial and environmental practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the Project.


﻿-6-
(b)    Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and
except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the
Project substantially in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5
to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods
and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall not later than December 31, 1999 review jointly with the
Bank the recommendations of the studies referred to in Parts B. 1 (c) (i) and (c) (ii) of the
Project.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall not later than December 31, 1999 complete the
implementation of the Operational Plan.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall continue to operate and maintain during
Project implementation the project coordination unit (the PCU) established pursuant to
Section 3.01 (b) of the Prior Loan Agreement, with functions and responsibilities
satisfactbry to the Bank.
(b)    The Borrower shall ensure that the PCU is at all times: (i) headed by a
qualified professional (the project coordinator); (ii) assisted by three qualified directors
(the project directors); and (iii) staffed in adequate numbers and with qualifications
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.06. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.07 of the General
Conditions, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank 30 days after the
termination of each quarter of a fiscal year, starting three moihs after the Effective Date
until the completion of the Project, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
may reasonably request on the progress of the Project during the quarter preceding the date
of presentation of such report.


﻿-7-
Section 3.07. Without limitation upon the provisions of Article IX of the General
Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)    prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the
Bank, a plan, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, for the
future operation of the Project;
(b)    afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the
Borrower on said plan; and
(c)    thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account the Bank's comments thereon.
Section 3.08. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.01 of the General
Conditions, the Borrower shall review jointly with the Bank by not later than October 31 of
each year, starting in 1997, the progress made by the Borrower in: (i) carrying out the
Project; and (ii) achieving the objectives of the Project. Such review shall, inter alia, focus
on discussing the progress reports and the financial plan (for the year prior to the date of the
annual review in question) referred to in Sections 3.06 and 5.05 of this Agreement,
respectively. As part of each such review the Bank may require the Borrower to prepare an
action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, to make adjustments in Project implementation. In the
event that the Bank requires the Borrower to prepare an action plan, the Borrower shall
furnish such action plan to the Bank not later than 30 days after the conclusion of the
review in question and shall thereafter carry out, or cause to be carried out, such action plan
in accordance with its terms.
(b)    As part of the annual review to be held not later than October 31, 1999, the
Borrower shall jointly carry out with the Bank a Project implementation mid-term review.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in
accordance with sound engineering, technical, public utility, administrative, financial and
environmental practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.


﻿-8-
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times operate and maintain its plani,
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make
all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
technical, public utility, financial and environmental practices.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers,
or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and accounts adequate to
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations, financial condition and
the expenditures in respect of the Project.
(b)    The Borrower shall:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) above,
including its financial statements (balance sheets, statements of
income and expenses and related statements) and the records and
accounts for the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later
than five months after the end of each such year: (A) certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited; and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)    For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:


﻿-9-
(i)    maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, records
and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
Loan Account or payment out of the Special Account was made,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal
year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved
in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related
withdrawals.
Section 5.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
maintain, after its fiscal year ending on December 31, 1996, a ratio of total cash operating
expenses to total operating revenues not higher than: (i) 60% for fiscal year 1997; and (ii)
55% for each fiscal year after fiscal year 1997.
(b)    Before October 31 of each fiscal year during Project implementation, the
Borrower shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by the Borrower and satisfactory to the
Bank, review whether it would meet the requirements set forth in (a) above with respect to
the fiscal year in question and the subsequent fiscal year, and shall furnish to the Bank the
results of such review upon its completion.
(c)    If any such review  shows that the Borrower would not meet the
requirements set forth in (a) above for the Borrower's fiscal years covered by such review,
the Borrower shall promptly take all necessary measures (including, without limitation, all
actions required on its part to adjust the structure or levels of its rates) in order to meet such
requirements.
(d)    For the purposes of this Section:
(i)    The term "total cash operating expenses" means all expenses
related to operations, including administration, adequate


﻿-10-
maintenance, and taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, but
excluding provision for depreciation and other non-cash operating
charges, interest and other charges on debt.
(ii)   The term "total operating revenues" means revenues from all
sources related to operations.
Section 5.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
produce, after its fiscal year ending on December 31, 1996, funds from internal sources
equivalent to not less than 50% of the Borrower's capital expenditures for fiscal year 1997
and for each fiscal year thereafter.
(b)    Before October 31 of each fiscal year during Project implementation, the
Borrower shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by the Borrower and satisfactory to the
Bank, review whether it -would meet the requirements set forth in (a) above with respect to
the fiscal year in question and shall furnish to the Bank a copy of such review upon its
completion.
(c)    If any such review  shows that the Borrower would not meet the
requirements set forth in (a) above for the Borrower's fiscal year or years covered by such
review, the Borrower shall promptly take all necessary measures (including, without
limitation, all actions required on its part to adjust the structure or levels of its rates) in order
to meet such requirements.
(d)    For the purposes of this Section:
(i)    The term "funds from internal sources" means the difference
between:
(A)    the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations,
consumer deposits and consumer contributions in aid of
construction, net non-operating income and any reduction
in working capital other than cash; and
(B)    the sum of all expenses related to operations, including
administration, adequate maintenance and taxes and
payments in lieu of taxes (excluding provision for
depreciation and other non-cash operating charges), debt
service requirements, all cash dividends and other cash
distributions of surplus, increase in working capital other


﻿- 11 -
than cash and other cash outflows other than capital
expenditures, as the term is defined in (vii) below.
(ii)   The term  "net non-operating income" means the ifference
between:
(A)    revenues from all sources other than those related to
operations; and
(B)    expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes
incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) above.
(iii)  The term "working capital other than cash" means the difference
between current assets excluding cash and current liabilities at the
end of each fiscal year.
(iv)   The term "current assets excluding cash" means all assets other
than cash which could in the ordinary course of business be
converted into cash within twelve months, including accounts
receivable, marketable securities, inventories and pre-paid
expenses properly chargeable to operating expenses within the
next fiscal year.
(v)    The term "current liabilities" means all liabilities which will
become due and payable or could under the circumstances then
existing be called for payment within twelve months, including
accounts payable, customer advances, debt service requirements,
taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, and dividends.
(vi)   The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount
of repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and
interest and other charges on, debt.
(vii)  The term "capital expenditures" means all expenditures incurred
on account of fixed assets, including interest charged to
construction, related to operations.
(viii)  Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to
value, in terms of the currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in
another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the


﻿-12-
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency is,
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of
servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis of
a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
Section 5.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not
incur any debt, unless the net revenues of the Borrower for the fiscal year immediately
preceding the date of such incurrence or for a later twelve-month period ended prior to the
date of such incurrence, whichever is the greater, shall be at least 1.5 times the estimated
maximum debt service requirements of the Borrower for any succeeding fiscal year on all
debt of the Borrower, including the debt to be incurred.
(b)    For the purposes of this Section:
(i)    The term  "debt" means any indebtedness of the Borrower
maturing by its terms more than one year after the date on which it
is originally incurred.
(ii)   Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or
agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for the
modification of its terms of payment on the date of such contract,
agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement, on
the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been
entered into.
(iii)  The term "net revenues" means the difference between:
(A)    the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations
adjusted to take account of the Borrower's rate for the sale
of electricity in effect at the time of the incurrence of debt
even though they were not in effect during the twelve-
month period to which such revenues relate and net non-
operating income; and
(B)    the sum of all expenses related to operations including
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and payments
in lieu of taxes, but excluding provision for depreciation,
other than non-cash operating charges and interest and
other charges on debt.


﻿-13-
(iv)   The term  "net non-operating income" means the difference
between:
(A) revenues from all sources other than those related to
operations; and
(B)    expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes,
incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) above.
(v)    The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount
of repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and
interest and other charges on, debt.
(vi)   Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to
value, in terms of the currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in
another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency is,
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of
servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis of
a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
Section 5.05. The Borrower shall not later than October31 of each year, starting in
October 1997 prepare and furnish to the Bank, for its review, the Borrower's financial plan
for the fiscal year following the date of presentation of such plan. Such plan shall include,
inter alia: (i) the expected disbursements to be made under the Loan; and (ii) the Borrower's
five year financial projections which shall include, inter alia, the projected amount of cash
to be transferred by the Borrower to the Guarantor during the fiscal year following the date
of presentation of such plan in accordance with Article No. 643 of Law 16.170.
Section 5.06. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not
undertake any capital expenditure, other than the expenditures described in each financial
plan to be furnished to the Bank in accordance with Section 5.05 of this Agreement,
estimated to cause in any fiscal year expenditures greater than 1% of the gross value, at the
time the decision on making the expenditure is made, of the Borrower's fixed assets in
service revalued in accordance with methods of revaluation acceptable to the Bank.
(b)    For purposes of this Section the term "capital expenditures" means all
expenditures incurred on account of fixed assets, including interest charged to construction,
related to operations.


﻿- 14-
Section 5.07. The provisions of Sections 5.01 (b) (ii), 5.02 and 5.03 of the Prior
Loan Agreement are hereby superseded by the provisions of Sections 5.01 (b) (ii), 5.02,
5.03 and 5.04 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (1) of the General Conditions, the following
additional events are specified:
(a)    that the Electricity Law or any provision thereof related to the Borrower
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced, in such a
manner so as to affect, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of the Borrower to carry out
the Project; and
(b)    that the UTE Law or any provision thereof shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced, in such a manner so as to affect, in
the opinion of the Bank, the ability of the Borrower to carry out the Project.
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the following
additional events are specified, namely, that any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of
Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions:
(a)    that the Borrower has appointed the project coordinator and project
directors for the PCU as provided in Section 3.05 (b) of this Agreement; and
(b)    that the Legal Framework is in full force and effect.


﻿- 15 -
Section 7.02. The date          ? Pi 0, 19/F is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The President of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:              Telex:
INTBAFRAD                    248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.             64145 (MCI)


﻿-16-
For the Borrower:
Administración Nacional de
Usinas y Trasmisiones Eléctricas
Palacio de la Luz
Paraguay 2431
Montevideo, Uruguay
Cable address:              Telex:
LUX                          UY 326627
Montevideo


﻿-17-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in
Ba.zelona, Spain, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By    //S"J, /                      auLec  T-In
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
ADMINISTRACION NACIONAL DE USINAS Y
TRASMISIONES ELECTRICAS
Byutp
Authorized Representative


﻿-18-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.     The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Goods                           122,000,000          100% of foreign
expenditures and
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
(2) Consultants'                      3,000,000          100%
Services
and Training
TOTAL                    125,000,000
2.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)    the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any
country other than that of the Guarantor for goods or services supplied from the territory of
any country other than that of the Guarantor; and
(b)    the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the
Guarantor or for goods and services supplied from the territory of the Guarantor.
3.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement,
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $3,000,000, may be made in


﻿-19-
respect of Categories (1) and (2) set forth in the table in paragraph I of this Schedule on
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after June 30, 1996.
4.     The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis
of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $250,000 or less; (b) the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $100,000 equivalent; and (c) the employment of individual consultants
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent, all under such terms and conditions as the
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.


﻿-20-
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) improve the reliability of the electricity
service at a minimum cost, through the improvement of: (i) the reliability of the distribution
of power; (ii) the efficient use of energy within the Guarantor's territory; and (iii) the safety
of the customer; and (b) support the sustainability of the reforms being carried out in the
power sector, through the consolidation of: (i) such reforms; and (ii) the Borrower's
institutional capacity.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to surh modifications thereof as
the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A: Improvements in the Distribution Network of Montevideo
1.    (a)    Expansion of the 500 kiloVolt substations I and San Carlos located in
Montevideo and Punta del Este, respectively, through the installation of power
transformers, reactive power control devices and related switchgear equipment in each of
the referred substations; and (b) modification of the 500 kiloVolt substations A and B
located in Montevideo through the installation of reactive power control devices and
switchgear equipment in each of the referred substations.
2.     Expansion of the 150 kiloVolt transmission system in Montevideo through the: (a)
replacement and installation of the necessary switchgear equipment (which includes, inter
alia: breakers and switchers) in the substations within such system; (b) reinforcement of the
grounding system of the 150 kiloVolt substations in order to make them compatible with
the new short circuit requirements of such system; (c) expansion of substations E and J
through the installation of additional bays; (d) the installation of a new substation G (2 x 63
Mega Volt Ampere, 150/22 kiloVolt); and (e) installation of about 26 kilometers of
underground cables of 150 kiloVolt in order to interconnect such cables with all the
substations within the 150 kiloVolt transmission system.
3.     Renovation of the distribution system of Montevideo through the change of the
middle voltage (22 kiloVolt) and the low voltage (380/220 Volts) system and the
installation of a new system in the areas of influence within substations G, L and R.


﻿-21-
Part B: Technical Assistance
1.     Provision of technical assistance to the Borrower in order to assist it in: (a) the
restructuring of its internal organization; (b) the carrying out of the Non-Technical Losses
Reduction Program; (c) the carrying out of the following studies: (i) a study on load curve
characteristics for different classes of consumers; and (ii) a study on marginal cost tariffs;
(d) the preparation and implementation of a demand-side management program; and (e) the
implementation of the Project.
2.     Carrying out of a training program for the benefit of the Borrower's management
and staff in order to improve: (a) their managerial capabilities; and (b) the operation of the
Borrower's environmental unit.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002.


﻿-22-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                                   (Expressed in Dollars) *
On each April 15 and October 15
beginning April 15, 2001
through October 15,2010                          6,250,000
*      The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except as
provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.


﻿-23 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.    Procurement of Goods
Part A: General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B: International Competitive Bidding
1.     Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.     The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph I of this Part B.1:
(a)    Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages
estimated to cost more than the equivalent of $250,000.
(b)    Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Guarantor.
Part C: Other Procurement Procedures
1.     National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more per contract but not
exceeding the equivalent of $250,000, per contract, may be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.


﻿- 24 -
2.     International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $50,000 per contract, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $1,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs
3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.     Procurement Planning
Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with the procurement
plan included as an annex to the Implementation Letter, and with the provisions of
paragraph I of Appendix I to the Guidelines.
2.     Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods to be awarded under the procedures
referred to in Part B of this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.     Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Part E: Bidding Documents for National Competitive Bidding
All procurement of goods to which national competitive bidding applies shall be
carried out using bidding documents satisfactory to the Bank.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
1.     Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the
Consultants Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be
based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with
such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant


﻿-25 -
standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable
to the Bank shall be used.
2.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I of this Section, the provisions of the
Consultants Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall
not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less than
$100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the employment of individuals estimated to
cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Bank review shall
not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of
consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by the Bank-
(d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract
value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment
of individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
Section III.  Special Provisions
A.     In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this Schedule
or the Guidelines, the following principles and rules of procurement shall expressly govern
all procurement of goods referred to in Part C.1 of Section I of this Schedule. The principle
and rule of procurement referred to in paragraph 5 below also governs all procurement of
goods referred to in Part B of Section I of this Schedule.
1.     The lowest evaluated bid shall be selected for contract award.
2.     Foreign bidders shall be allowed to participate in national competitive bidding.
3.     Foreign bidders shall not be required to be registered with local authorities as a
prerequisite for bidding, except that foreign bidders may be required as a prerequisite for
bidding, to be registered with local authorities, provided, however, that the information to
be requested by the Borrower to such bidders is of such nate that it will not discourage
their participation.
4.     There will be no prescribed minimum number of bids to be submitted in order for a
contract to be subsequently awarded.
5.     Foreign bidders shall not be required to legalize their bidding documents with
Uruguayan authorities as a prerequisite for bidding.


﻿-26-
B.     In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this Schedule
or the Consultants Guidelines, the following principles and rules of procurement shall
expressly govern all procurement of consultants' services referred to in Section II of this
Schedule.
1.     Foreign consultants shall not, as a condition for participating in the selection
process, be required to enter into ajoint venture agreement with local consultants.
2.     Foreign consultants shall be selected from those included in a short list on the
basis of evaluation criteria and terms of reference, both satisfactory to the Bank.
3.     The prices of contracts over one year duration may be adjusted.


﻿-27-
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
Expected
completion date
of Parts of the Project
Parts of the Project                                not later than
A.1 (a)                                               4/30/2000
A.1 (b)                                               4/30/2000
A.2 (a) and (b)                                      10/31/2000
A.2 (c)                                              10/31/2000
A.2 (d)                                              10/31/2000
A.2 (e)                                               2/28/2001
A.3
- renovation of                                      7/31/1999
distribution
area of sub-
station R
- renovation of                                      2/28/2001
distribution
area of sub-
station L
- renovation of                                      6/30/2002
distribution
area of sub-
station G
B.1 (a)                                               1/31/1999


﻿-28-
Expected
completion date
of Parts of the Project
Parts of the Project                                    not later than
B.1 (b)                                                  12/31/1998
B.1 (c) (i)                                              11/30/1999
B.1 (c) (ii)                                             11/30/1999
B. I (d)
.  - design                                                6/30/1998
- implementation                                        7/31/1998
B.2                                                      8/31/1999


﻿- 29-
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)    the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in the
table in paragraph I of Schedule I to this Agreement;
(b)    the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)    the term  "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to
$1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals (from the Loan Account plus the
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered by the Bank pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions) shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of
$25,000,000.
2.     Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.     After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has
been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)    For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits, which do not exceed the
aggregate amount of the Authorized Aliccation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in
the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Bank shall have determined to be so
required.
(b)    (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.


﻿- 30-
(ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall
furnish to the,Bank the documents and other evidence required
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for
eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.     For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furmish to the Bank such documents
and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
5.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)    if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement;
(b)    if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period
of time specified in Section 4.01(b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required
to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records
and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)    if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to
suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)    once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitment entered into by


﻿-31 -
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of-the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)     If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional
evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank
shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further
deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)    If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank
such outstanding amount.
(c)    The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)    Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this
Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


