L)ocunient ot'
The World Bank
F(OR OFFIC(lAI. l SE ONLY
Report No. 10804-ANG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS MODERNIZATION PROJECT
August 14,1992
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department III
Africa Regional Office
I his documilent has a restrictted distribution and mas bhe used hb recipients onls in the perforimiarce of
their ofhcial duties. It% (ontentt  maa  not otherwise he di% loved without \Aorld Batik authoriiationi.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                       =        New kwanza (NKz)
US$ I=                                       NKz 550
US$ i exchange rate!'                        NKz 550 (April 1992)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                                       British/US Equivalent
1 meter (ni)                        =       328 feet
1 square meter (sq. m)                       10.76 square feet
1 kilometer (km)                    =       0.62 mile
I s.uare kilometer (sq. km)         =       0.39 square mile
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIA      Association of Angolan Industries (Associac,o de Industrias Angolanas)
BCI      Bank of Commerce and Industry (Banco de Comercio e Industria)
BNA      National Bank of Angola (Banco Nacional de Angola)
BPA      Banco Portugues do Atilntico
BPC      Bank of Savings and Credit (Banco de Poupanca e Crddito)
bpd      Barrels per Day
CAP    Agricultural and Fisheries Credit Fund (Caixa de Cr6dito Agropecuaria e Pescas)
CCS      Check Clearing System
CPI      Consumer Price Inder
DNC    National Directorate c f Accounting (Direccao Nacional de Contabilidade)
DNI    National Directorate of Taxation (Direciao Nacional de Impostos)
DOR    Directorate of Organization and Informatics (Direcc,o de Organizac,o e IniformAtica)
ENSA   National Insurance Company (Empresa Nacional de Seguros e Reasseguros)
GARE   Office of Enterprise Restructuring (Gabinete de Redimensionamento Empresarial)
GNP    Gross National Product
IC      Informatics Committee
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
IDA      International Development Association
IFBA    National Banking Trainirig Institute (Instituto de Formaqao Bancaria de Angola)
IMF      International NMonetary Fund
ISSP    Information Systems Stratcgic Plan
L.Cb     Local Competitive Bidding
NIS      Management Information System
OGE    Consolidated Budget (Orcamento Geral do Estado)
PCE      Enterprise Accounting Plan (Plano de Contas Empresarial)
PPF      Project Preparation Facility
SAR      Staff Appraisal Report
SEF      Program of Economic and Financial Restructuring (Programa de Saneamento Econ6mico e FinanceLi
SME    Sniall and Medium Enterprises
SOE      Statement of Expenditures
TA       Technical Assistance
UAN    Agostinho Neto University (Universidade Agostinho Neto)
UNDP   United Nations Development Progamme
I/      Applicable to its imporu and exports, official fmancial transactions and calculations of custotm duties since April, 1992. Other
transactions may be conducted througb the commercial banks at market rates, In July 1992, the prevailing market rate was abost
NKz 1,800 = USS.



FOR OMCLu1 USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAIS 0L REPORT
ANGQLA
EINANCIAL INST=l JlNS MODERNIZATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMALY   .............                         ..    .............
I !NTRODUCTTON .1
II. THE FINANCIAL SYSTM. . .                                                                        2
A.  Macro-Economic Context ........ .              .       ..                               2
1. Background.                                                                        2
2. Recent Developments.                                                               3
B. The Financial Sector..                                                                   4
1. Financial Sector Strategy.                                                         4
2. Recent Develcpments.5
3. Financial Policies.                                                                5
C. The Banking System ....................                                                  7
1.  National Bank of Angola (BNA) ......................                              7
2.  The Commercial Banks  ............. .              .     .............            9
3.  The Agricultural ard Fisheries Credit Fund (CAP) ....             .......        10
D.  The Insurance Subsector ..............              ..       ..............            10
E.  Legal Framework for Financial Sector Operations ............                ..         11
H.      THE PROJECT  ......................................                                         13
A.  Project Objectives and Scope ...........................                               13
B.  Rationale for IDA Involvement  .........................                               13
C.  Project Description  .................................                                 14
1.  Strengthening BNA  .............             ..       ...............            14
(a)   Strengthening Information Systems .................                        14
(b)   Improving BNA Accounting  .....................                            16
(c)   Improving Skills  . ...........................                            17
(d)   Housing for Cornsultants  .......................                          17
2.  Developing Banking Infrastructure .........           ..     ..........          18
(a)   Establishing a Check Clearing System  ...............                      18
(b)   Establishing the National Banking Training Institute (IFBA)  .             19
(c)   Developing a Core of Financial Professionals  ..           .              20
This report is based on the fruWings of an apraisa mission to Angola in May 1992 tich consistd of Mes/Mmn
Hemansi Marte (AF3lE, Tak Maager, Mission Chief); John Omva. (AFTEF, Finau ial Advisor); Eduardo Talar
(ASTIF, Development Informaties Chief); Gerud Caprio (CECFP, Senior Finacnial Economist); Teresa QrG-Fons
(LECAF. Senior Counsel); Roy Kaoglan (CCMRT, Principal Banking Specialist); Stephen Gau", (Financial Analyst
Consult); Rodolfo Sanjujo (Architc Consultnt). Mr. Luis Derbez (AFTEF) and Mr. Caprio (CECFP) weoe lead
advisor and peer reviewer, rspectively. Ms. Mary MoGuinnew provided eorcaal upport in the preparation of the
report. Mr. Michael Sarris and Mr. Frmaisco Aguirrenacass anr the maaginS  Division Chief nd thL Departnent
Dirwtor, respectively, for the operaion.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
Of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



m.   1141E PROlECT (cont.)                                                   Page No.
3. Imnproving the Legal and Regulatory Environment for Financial
Operations ....................................                    20
(a)  'improving the Application of Banking Legislation .... ....   20
(b)  Developing Insurance Laws and Regulations ....    .......     22
(c)  Developing Accounting and Auditing  ....      ...........     22
4. Improving Mechanisms for Financing Private Investment .......       23
D. Project Costs  ......... ...........................                    24
E.  Project Financing          .................................           25
F. Project Implementat;n              .         .        ..........   25
G. Procurement                  . . .26
H. Disbursements                ..28
I.  Accounting, Auditing and Rteporting      ..29
J. Project Superv.sion             ..30
iV. PROTECT BENEFITS AND RISKS   ..31
A. Project Benefits .31
B. Project Risks .31
V.    AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS                                 33
ANNEXES
1.1    Statement of Financial Sector Reform
2.1    Consumer Price Inflation
2.2    Main Features of the Banking System
2.3    Angola: Monetary Survey
2.4    Summary of Basic Banking Legislation
3.1    Main Technical Assistance and Training Activities: Summary Description of First Year
Tasks
3.2   Informatics Program
Appendix A - Assistance to Informatics Committee
Appendix B - Assistance to Informatics Directorate on System Analysis/Pianning
Methods
Appendix C - Assistance for Information Systcrms Planning Study
Appendix D - Assistance to Prepare Information Requirements Studies
3.3    National Bank of Angola: Assistance in Improving BNA Accounting, Terms of Reference
3.4    National Banking Training Institute: Terms of Reference
3.5    Business Education: Assistance to Agostinho Neto University, Terms of Reference
3.6    Bank Group Initiatives in Higher Education in Angola
3.7    Establishment of'Standards for Accounting and Auditing, Terms of Reference
3.8    Legal Assistance Component (LAC): Detailed Description
Appendix A - Implementation of Key Aspects of LAC
3,9    Architecture and Civil Works
3.10   Project Costs
3.11   Estimated Disbursement Profile
3.12   Implementation Schedule for Key Components
3.13   Monitorable Actions under the Project
3.14   Project Supervision
4.1    Selected Documents Available in Project File
Map   IBRD No. 24089



ANGOLA
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS MODERNIZATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Boffower:    People's Republic of Angola
Bnficies:  National Bark of Angola (Barco Nacional de Angola, BNA), Ministry of Finance;
Agostinho Neto University (UAN); Bank of Savings and Credit (BPC); Bank of
Commerce and Industry (BCI); Agricultural and Fisheries Credit Fund (CAP); Ministry
of Justice.
Amount:      USS21 million equivalent
IIr=n:        Standard IDA termns with 40 year maturity
PrDect
Objectives:   The Project supports institution building and reform in Angola's financial system to help
stimulate resource mobilization, underpin private investment and promote economic
diversification. Specifically, the Project would assist in: (i) strengthening the central
bank so that it can perform its monetary policy and regulatory functions; (ii) developing
banking infrastructure; (iii) improving the legal and regulatory environment for financial
operations; and (iv) establishing institutional mechanisms for financing private
investment.
Prgieci
Description:  The Project consists of:
(a)    strengthening BNA, the central bank, principally chrough improvements in its
accounts and accounting practices, procedures and information systems, and in
its staff skills in administrative and functional areas;
(b)    development of banking infrastructure, including establishment of a national
check clearing system, a training center for financial sector personnel, and
training of a core of financial professionals;
(c)    disseminating and implementing laws and regulations affecting the banking
sector, ensuring their coherence; establishing tne legal and regulatory framework
for the insurance sector; md establishing accounting and auditing standards for
the enterprise sector; and
(d)   improving institutional mechanisms for financing private investrnent and studies
on access to credit by the private sector.
The Credit would finance technical assistance, training, equipment, vehicles materials and
supplies, as well as rehabilitation of two BNA properties to house the training center and
project consultants.



-ii-
Bene-fits:   An efficient, broadly-based financial sector, with an effective banking system at its core
is necessary for the development of a market-based economy. The Project would lay the
basis for the development of such a financial system in Angola, thus improving the
mobilization of savings and encouraging their investtmant by the private sector in
productive uses in support of economic growth. Establishing of sound financial
institut' )ns, strength enine the banking profession, introducing necessary regulations and
the effective supervision and surveillance of financial institutions will help improve
confidence in the system and facilitate the process of intermediation. The Project would
be the first vehicle for the Bank's dialogue with the Govornment on financial sector
issues, and, upon completion of the ongoing improvements in the macroeconomic
framework, would provide the basis for Bank lending to the productive sectors.
RWisk:       The Project faces sortie risks. First are those associated with the implementation
capability of a new member with a weak human resource capacity. However, BNA staff,
led by a Project Coordinator and Deputy Projecs Coordinator, both of whom hold sermor
positions have demonstrated considerable implementation capacity during project
preparation. Because of the heavy work load in the Project, the Project Coordinator and
Deputy Project Coordinator will be assisted by an experienced consultant in the
administrative aspects of the Project. Second, the sustainability of reforms in the
financial sector, and therefore the long-term success of the program, will depend on
reforms in the macroeconomic fra&nework, which could be delayed for political reasons.
The Bank will use all instruments available to help Angola prepare and implement the
needed reform program. Technical assistance financed under the proposed operation will
help influence decisions on the structure of the financial sector.



Estimated Project Cost:
Local        Foreign            Total
I. Si.rengthening BNA
A. Information Systems                        0.8             3.1             3.9
B. Improving Accounting                       0.1             1.3             1.4
C. Improving Skills                           0.1             1.4             1.5
D. Housing                                    0.1            Q0 8             0
Subtotal                          1.1             6.6            7.7
II. Banking Infrastructure
A. Check Clearing                             0.1              1.9            2.0
B. National Banking
Training Institute                          0.8             2.6             i.4
(IFBA)
C. Development of Core Pi:fessionals          Q,Q              2.             2.
Subtotal                          0.9             6.5            7 4
III. Legal & Regulatory Environment
A. Banking Legislation                        0.1             0.8             0.9
B. Developing Insurance Legislation           0.0             0.5             0.5
C. Accounting and Auditing Standards          QQ              06              a&
Subtotal                          0.1             1.9            2.0
IV. Support for Investment Financing            0.0             1.5             1.5
V. Project Coordination                                         21i95i         .L.
TOTAL BASE COSTS                              2.5            17.4           19.9
Physical Contingencies                        0.2             1.3             1.5
Price Contingencies                           0j 3j 19
Total Contingencies                           0.5            3.2             3.7
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                           3.0           20.6            23.6
Einacg&EPlan:
Amount                 Percent
(in milliors)
IDA                                              21.0                   89%
Government                                        2.6                   11%
Total                                            23.6                   100%
Estimated      FY 1993    1994    1995    1996    1997       1998   1999    2000
Disbursements:
Annual           0.6      1.5     3.4     3.4     5.0      3.4     2.5      1.3
Cumulative       0.6      2.1     5.5     8.8    13.8    17.2    19.7    21.0



ANG-OLA
FINANCIAL INSTIrUTIONS MODERNIZATION PROjECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
L. INTRODUCTION
1.1          In 1991, after following a socialist economic model for years, the Govrnmnent of Angola
initiated an ambitious program aimed at orienting the economy to a free market system. Decisions on
the economic front have coincided with the end of a fifteen year civil war and the opening of the political
system, with free elections scheduled for September 28 and 29, 1992. A key aspect of the economic
reform program is the establishment of a financial system to serve the private sector during the economic
recovery and beyrnd.
1.2          Significant improvements in the financial system are recognized as essential to achieve
greater savings molilization and a more efficient aliocation of financial resources to the most productive
uses in the economy in the pursuit of increased growth and sustainable external equilibrium. Financial
sector reform is thus a logical and necessary complement to the reforms in t!ie real sector.
1.3          The proposed Project aims at assisting the establishment of appropriate institutional
framework for financial sector development. Specifically, the Project would assist in: (i) strengthening
the National Bank of Angola (Etanco Nacional de Angola, BNA), the central bank, so that it can perform
its monetary policy and regulatory functions; (ii) developing banking infrastructure; (iii) improving the
legal and regulatory environment for financial operations; and (iv) establishing institutional mechanisms
for financing private investment.
1 .4         The proposed Project was appraised in May 1992 by a World Bank mission consisting
of Herminia Martinez (AF31E), Task Manager; John Graves (AFTEF), Eduardo Talero (AFTIF), Gerard
CapriJ (CECFP), Teresa Genta-Fons (LEGAF), Roy Karaoglan (CCMRT), Rodolfo Sanjurjo and Stephen
Gaull (consultants).



-2-
II. THE FINANCIAL SYSTEM
A.    Macro-Economic Context
1.    Background
2.1           Angol, the fifth largest African country south of the Sahara, has an area of 1.2 million
sq.km., a population of about 10.6 million (growing at 2.8 percent per year) and a population density
less than half the sub-Saharan African average. Gross national product (GNP) per capita in 1989, the
most recent available, is estimated at US$620. Fertile soils and abundant mineral resources hold great
promise for Angola's economic growth performance. The economy grew at an average annual rate of
8 percent between 1961 ind 1974. Growth was stimulated by the coffee boom (Angola was the world's
fourth largest coffee exporter) and by oil production (144,000 bpd by 1974). The-se developments
attracted Portuguese settlers, whose number increased from 40,000 in 1940 to 340,000 in 1974. A
cc0ony of Portugal for five centuries, Angola achieved independence in 1975, following 15 years of
armed struggle. After independence, the fighting continued between the Government and the opposing
Angolan faction during the independence war. The last 15 years have seen a drastic contraction of
economic activity. Non-oil GNP per capita has fallen, with petroleum and dimonds (bot}. organized as
economic enclaves) the only important exceptions to the general economic de.line. Despite 15 years of
centrally planned economic management, there is a history of entrepreneurship and private sector
activities are growing rapidly.
2.2           Poor economic performance since independence can be explained largely by three factors.
First, the war forced more than 600,000 people to dlee from the countryside to the cities; caused extensive
damage to infrastructure; disrupted internal trade and communications; required large military expenditure
(equivalent to 15-20 percent of GNP); and absorbed the bulk of the scarce supply of technicians and
skilled manpower. Second, the exodus at independence of about 300,000 Portuguese settlers, who held
virtually all administrative, managerial, skil!ed and semi-skilled jobs, created economic chaos. Third,
inappropriate economic policies, state interventionism and weak economic management encouraged
consumption at the expense of production and subsidized imports for the formal urban sector. The
resulting excess demand necessitated administrative controls of consumer prices and profit margins while
the purchasing power of public sector workers was protected through rationing of imported consumer
goods at subsidized prices. The growth in oil production -- reaching 480,000 bpd in 1991 - financed
this system until the increasing financial requirements and inefficiencies led to a.. unsustainably large and
rising budget deficit (about 25 percent of GNP on average in recent years). The budget deficit was
financed by money creation, with the ensuing inflationary pressure repressed by widespread price
controls, and heavy government borrowing from abroad, which caused expansion of external debt to
about 103 percent of GNP in 1991.
2.3           The war and inappropriate policies led to increased disparities between the formal urban
segment (about '5 percent of the population), employed largely in the public sector subsidized by oil, and
most of the remainder of the population. The structure of the economy became severely distorted as
investment dwindled, import-competing production dropped drastically, non-mineral exports virtually
disappeared and foreign exchange earnings came to depend almost exclusively on oil and diamonds.
Along witn the economic deterioration, social indicators have remained below African standards: iife
expectancy is estimated at 44 years; infant mortality, at 29 percent; adult literacy, at 41 percent (higher,
however, than before independence); and access to safe water, at less than 30 percent of the population.



-3-
2.4           At independence, Angola had a fairly developed banking system, with eight foreign banks
operating in the country. These banks had an extei.sive branch network (over 200 branches) with a wide
geographical coverage.  In addition, 12 foreign insurance companies were located in the country.
Financial institutions were attracted by the ccJntry's wealth and the large cornmunity of european origin.
Independent Angola, however, only had two banking inst'tutions: osie bank which had som3 central
banking and commercial banking functione. and a savings bank where the deposits of individuals were
placed. As most of the formal productive sector was publicly-owned, banks were used to channel savings
to public enterprises.  As in most socialist financial systems, decisions regarding the volume and
allocation of credit were made in the Ministry' of Planning, with the banking system acting as a bystander.
Thus, analysis functions associated with banks in market-oriented economies were not perlormed; banks
were not supervised; and bank credit assessment, regarded as largely irrelevant, was not developed. In
the insurance sector, all assets of private insurance companies were transferred to the Natinal Insurance
Company (Empresa Nacional de Seguros e Reasseguros de Angola, ENSA), the state insurance
organization which was created shortly after independence to provide insurance to new public enterprises.
2.     Recent Developments
2.5           Since 1987, the Government has formulated several economic reform plans, tout on the
whole, did not implement theia. In November 1991, however, the Government began enacting a far-
reaching package of reforms. Since then, the Government has devalued the exchange rate three times,
from NKz 60 per US$ in November 1991, to NKz 550 per US$ in April 1992. Banks have been
a*uthorized to trade foreign exchange at rates close to the parallel market rate; foreign exchange from oil
and diamond exports have to be surrendered to National Bank of Angola (Banco Nacional de Angola,
BNA), but those from other sources can be turned in at commercial banks. In addition, the cumbersome
system of in-kind subsidies to public sector employees was scrapped and wages were remonetized.
Substantial reforms also have been introduced in the price structure: producer and consumer price
controls were abolished except for utilities, petroleum products and bread, but administered prices on
these were more than doubled; and profit margin controls were removed from all but 25 goods and
services. Lastly, small public enterprises (e.g., restaurants, retail stores) have been privatized.
2.6           These reforms have altered radically the incentive framework and have had immediate
effects in reducing the large distortions in the economy. The exchange rate was devalued 95 percent in
steps from NKz 30 to NKz 550 to the US$. However, the parallel rate hag remained well above the
official rate, in the range of NKz 1,800 per US$ in the April-May 1992 period. The Government
recognizes the need to achieve genuine exchange unification at a realistic rate, and that its impact on
prices will be limited since most prices already reflect the parallel exchange rate (Annex 2.1), although
the price of petroleum is a notable except cn. The devaluation will help reduce the budget deficit because
the Government operates with a surplus in forjain exchange in its budget. Thus, this would reduce the
overall fiscal deficit and limit the Government -. need to draw on BNA advances; end the implicit tax on
private sector investment (enterprises ratio ied from the foreign exchange market); and reduce the
incentive to smuggle diamonds. The Government began to auction a limited amount of foreign exchange
to importers in May 1992, an action which represents a step in the move to a unified rate. Profits from
these sales are to be used as one source of deficit financing this year.
2.7           Pr.ce, exchange rate and wage reforms have not been complemented by the required fiscal
contraction and monetary restraint, and a major risk exists that the resulting inflationary impact will
nullify the benefits of the reforms. Accordingly, decisive fiscal and monetary stabilization is the most
urgent priority, followed by additional structural adjustment measures. The Government has requested
the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) to help prepare an adjustment program. A



-4-
key aspect of the economic reform program is the establishment of a financial system to serve the private
sector during the .ecovery and beyond.
2.8           Reforms on the economic front are being accompanied by political liberalization. In
March 1991, the Government opened the door to a multi-party system. A peace accord .vas signed ard
an internationally-monitored demobilization has begun. Elections are planned for September 28 ard 29,
1992, anc, a national army is being formed.
B.    The Financial Sector
1.     Financial Sector Stratea
2.9           The development of the financial sector is critical to the -. cessfidl transition from a
socialist to a market-oriented economy. An efficient financial system will facilitate iosvestment and spur
growth.  However, a precondition for tiie successful development of the flancial system  is
macroeconomic stability through fiscal prudence. Assuming fiscal control, the Government strategy for
the development of the financial sector over the next five years includes: (i) prudent management of credit
to the economy, in part through the rationalization of interest rates; (ii) opening the sector to new
institutions which can bring the required know-how and increase competition; (iii) restructuring and
privatizing existing financial institutions to make them more competitive and efficient; (iv) introduction
of sound regulatory and supervisory practices in BNA (for the banking system) and in the Ministry of
Finance (for the insurance sector); and (v) improvement in the legal, regulatory and ac-ounting
framework for financial operations, including their administration through the judicial system.
2.10          The key objective of the financial sector strategy is to create a sound policy environment
and institutional framework appropriate to the needs of both savers and investors in the private sector.
As part of this strategy, the Government will reduce its direct ownership of financial institutions and
promote greater competition among institutions. Strong and competitive commercial banks, one or two
investment banks and an efficient rural savings network are likely to meet the economy's needs for the
medium-term. Furthermore, because of its wealth, Angola is attracting a number of foreign banks. In
the longer term, once the banking and insurance sectors have developed, and as the Aagolan private
sector grows and diversifies, there also will be scope for the develor:ment of more sophisticated financial
instruments and institutions.
2.11          The proposed Credit will help in the implementp 'on of the sector strategy. It will support
the initial phases of reform in Angola's financial system by i wviding technical assistance, training,
equipment and supplies to strengthen the central bank. In addialon, it will meet basic training needs for
the whole system. Experience with adjustment programs elsewhere has demonstrated that there are
advantages to initiating institutior  reforms as early as possible, because of the time it takes to bring
them abou:. Having stronger in-...,utions is a precondition for the application of effective financial
policies and structural reforms in the sector. Tlbe principal institutional reforms to be undertaken are
spelled out in the Government's Statement of Financial Sector Reform (see Annex 1.1). Subsequent
operations will focus on the policy reform program and in providing financing for the pilvate sectcr.
2.12          lbe World iank began its involvement in the financial sector in 1991. The Government,
conscious of the need to establish solid financial institutions as a vehicle for private sector development,
requested assistance from the World Bank in preparing a series of operations designed to meet this
objective. The Project to be financed under the proposed Credit and described in detail in Chap:er m,



-5-
is the first of these operations. In doing preparatory work for this operation, considersble analytical
background work was done, some of which has been included in this Staff Appraisal Report.
2.     Recent DevelopDmex
2.13          Concunent with the changes in the price structure and the exchange rate, the Governmnent
has begun to implement a reform of the financial system by establishing a two-tier banking system. In
addition, the Government hae begun introducing monetary policy instrumants, which will enable policy
makers to better manage the economy and improve the mobilization and allocation of resources once the
budget is brought under control. The Government also is planning to open the insurance sector to
conmpetition.
2.14          The Angolan financial system began its transition from a socialist "monobanking' system
with the enactment of basic financial legislation and the conversion of BNA into the central bank. in 1991.
the basic outline of the banking system is contained in the new central bank statutes and a law governing
financial institutions (Annex 2.4). Both were prepared with technical assistance from the IMF and the
Bank of Portugal. In addition, the Government has establishied two banks - the Bank of Savings ard
Credit (Banco de Poupanga e Credito, BPC), and the Bark of Commerce and Industry (Banco de
Comercio e Industria, BCI) - and a specialized credit institution, the Agricultural and Fisheries Credit
Fund (Caixa de Credito Agropecuaria e Pescas, CAP) each with its own statutes. All three institutions
have begun to operate. During a transitional period, the conmmercial area of LNA will continue to
provide banking services to public enterprises and foreign trade operations. BNA plans to stop its foreign
trade financing operations in 1993.
2.15          Angola began the transition process with a small fin.cial sector and no monetary
overhang. Broad money -- M2 - is only about 7-10 percent of GNP, and deposits of the non-government
sector (i.e., households plus private enterprises) represent no more than a third of this already low figure.
Indeed, the non-government deposit base is so small, that even if there were no assets in the banking
system, the Government would only have to be concerned about protecting deposits amounting to about
2-4 percent of GNP, one-tenth the size of the deposit base in Eastern Europe. Furthermore, credit to the
private sector has been small, and in fact most lending of the banking system hould be viewed as intra-
government account transfers. However, lending to Government is growing rapidly.
3.    Financial Policies
2.16          The .eforr s to the price and exchange rate structure introduced in November 1991
rep.esent a transformation of the economic background to the functioning of the financial secto'. The
remonetization of wages and the application of more realistic exchange rates represent a decisive step
towards the rationalization of tradiig and price relationships, a precoddition for financial system
development. The Government is conscious of the importance of macroeconc.mic reforms for the healthy
development of the financial system.
2.17          On t.:e monetary policy front, the package of reforms includes: (i) a new schedule of
interest rates; (ii) the imposition of reserve requirements and credit ceilings for banks, and (iii) the
introduction of interest payments on government debt. These instruments do not yet perform a monetary
policy function, and are unlikely to play a meaningful policy role as long as there is an inadequate control
of the budget. In spite of this, their early introduction is useful as there will be a breaking-in period for
policy makers and financial institutions to become accustomed to their use.



2.18          As is typical at the early stages of transition from a socialist economy, BNA b still a
relatively passive bystander in the credit determination process. The central banking law provides for
automatic advances to the budget up to a limit of 10 percent of revenue. However, this limit can be
overruled by the Council of Ministers, and overshooting the credit limits carries no penalty. As part of
the refo-ms being introduced, the Government has begun paying interest on its borrowings from BNA.
This rate has been set at 6 percent per annum on the outstanding stock of central government debt (NKz
450 billion as of April 1, 1992) while the Government would compensate BNA for future advances
through six-month, tradeable, government bills paying 11 percent per annum. As long as there are no
tffective limits on these advanc=s, BNA will have no control over monetary policy. Since the private
sector is quite small, increases in credit to the Government will determine total domestic credit growth.
Large govermnlent borrowing is crowding out the incipient private sector. This problem is likely to
worsen as government measures to encourage private sector activities take hold, and limits to total credit
expansion are introduced to stabilize the economy.
2.19         BINA set the following ceilings for interest rates on deposits in November 1991:
Table 1
Deposit Rates Percent per Annum
90 to 180 days              8
181 days to 1 year          12
1 to 2 years                13
2 years or more             14
2.20          At the same time, BNA set a nm.aximum lending rate of 20 percent per annum. The rates
applied by the banking sector are 14 percent per annum for short-tern loans (less than one year); 16
percent per annum for medium-term loans - one to three years; and 20 percent per cent for long-term
loans (more than three years). These rates are significantly negative in real terms. In any event, with
the mihuscule amount of private sector credii there is little interest elasticity to the demand for credit, and
higher interest rates at present will do little to curb credit growth.
2.21          Once a more market-related exchange rate is adopted, the budget deficit reduced, and
privatization begins, the demand for private sector credit should expand and interest rate variations will
come to play more of a role in the determination of credit aggregates. At that point it would be essential
that interest rates on deposits be at least equal to or above the expected inflation rate in order to
encourage the mobilization of savings. Efficient allocation of savings in turn would require that lending
rates be positive in real terms so that financial intermediaries earn an adequate return for the risks they
bear  PNA intends to give priority to making interest rates positive in real terms as part of the
macroeconomic reform program (see Annex 1. 1).
2.22          BNA authorities also have set reserve requirements which, although not essential, will
help in the implementation of monetary poiicy. Given the underdevelopee money markets, reserve
requirements will facilitate the preCiction of reserve holdings by banks. These have been set at 20



-7-
percent on current and term accounts and are urwremunerated. This rate is quite high and constitutes a
significant tax on financial intermediation.
2.23          BNA has begun paying interest on excess reserves at a rate of 1I percent per annum.
The rate is calculated taking into account the average cost of deposits of the two commercial banks.
Given the high level of bank reserves at present, this represents the key interest rate in the system.
Effectively, BNA will sell the banks the new 11 percent bonds being issued to it by the Treasury and
allow the banks to pay with excess reserves. BNA will likely have to rely on bank-by-bank credit
ceilings as a way to achieve a global credit target for some time.
2.24         At present about one-half of all non-government deposits is in the commercial section of
BNA; less than 34 percent, with the BPC (mainly personal accounts); and about 15 percent, with the BCI
(mainly enterprise accounts). The breakdown of non-government credit is quite different: well over 90
percent is with BNA, since it still controls credit lines with foreign banks, and almost all of the remainder
with the BPC. Most of the private sector credit in kwanzas is with BPC. The potential for a credit boom
through the commercial banks presents challenges at the operational, prudential and monetary policy
levels. At the same time, the ability of the banks to draw on their excess reserves to finance a substantial
boom in credit means that monetary policy instruments must be deployed to prevent an excessive burst
of domestic demand. The technical assistance and training being provided by the IMF and through the
proposed Project should assist in addressing this problem.
C.    Te Banking System
2.25         As mentioned above, the Government began to introduce a two-tier banking system in
1991. In addition to creating a central bank, the Government established three financial institutions
(described below). Three Portuguese banks - Banco Portugufs do Atlantico (BPA), Banco de Fomento
e Exterior and Banco Totta e Acores - have established representative offices in Luanda, and recently
obtained authorization in principle to establish full-fledged branches in Angola. Banque de Paris et Pays
Bas, PARIBAS (Luxembourg), Standard Chartered Bank (South Africa) and Equator Bank (United
States), a subsidiary of Hong Kong and Shanghai Bank, have also established representative offices in
Luanda. Given Angola's rich resource base and attractive prospects, foreign banks appear interested in
entering the local banking market. It is therefore possible that the banking sector could be dominated by
private domestic and foreign banks in the next few years.
1.    National Bank of Angola (BNA)
2.26         The law creating BNA as the central bank gives it functions which are generally consistent
with those of modem institutions. In addition, its organizational structure is in line with that of central
banks elsewhere. BNA has received technical assistance from the IMF and the Bank of Portugal in
starting operations. The IMF has had an advisor to the Governor for three years, and has recently
appointed an advisor to the Supervision Department to begin setting up its organization. In addition, it
provided assistance in the separation of the central banking and commercial accounts and in setting up
monetary statistics. The Bank of Portugal and BNA have a cooptration agreement under which BNA is
able to draw on the Bank of Portugal's expertise. The Bank of Portugal assisted in the setting up of some
of the accounts, and has given short-term technical assistance on subjects which are determined on an ad-
hoc basis. Short-term assistance has included help on preparing directives on monetary policy instruments
such as BNA directives on rediscounting.



-8-
2.27           Although its statutes and formal organizational structure are generally in line with those
of central banks, BNA is ill-equipped to handle its new functions. BNA has an acute shortage of
personnel familiar with central banking activities; it lacks procedures and has little modern equipment.
The Project aims to address some of these problems. BNA administrative procedures need to be
structured along the lines of a central bank in a market-oriented economy. This requires a clarification
of functions of each department and a delineation of career streams, such as for economists, bank
supervisors, and information technology professionals. The current policy of little pay differentiation
with the civil service will need to be changed, as has happened in many developing and industrial
economies.' Otherwise, the better qualified staff will be lost to commercial banks, where there is also
a serious shortage of trained personnel.
2.28           Angola has few economists trained in modem macroeconomics, money and banking, and
econometrics, and none with experience in bank supervision or reserve management. Consequently, a
priority for BNA will be to ensure training and technical assistance in all of these areas. For the
immediate future, technical assistance is urgent, as it will take some time before locals have acquired
sufficient expertise to have sole responsibility for these functions. BNA staff will need to be trained
abroad, through fellowships for the pursuit of undergraduate and masters-level degrees in economics as
well as visits to other central banks for familiarization with implementation issues. This training will be
especially important in future years as BNA attempts to move to market-related methods of implementing
monetary policy. The approach to supervisory and reserve management issues should be similar. The
proposed Project would provide support for training of BNA staff in specialized areas.
2.29          BNA has established a timetable for divesting the activities of the commercial area and
transferring them to the newly-created commercial banks. This is being carried out first in Luanda. As
of September 1, 1991, BNA stopped opening new customer accounts both in local and foreign currency.
On October 1, 1991, BNA stopped lending in kwanzas. The last steps will be to transfer all foreign
exchange loans from BNA to the commercial banks, to cease new lending to state enterprises and to
transfer existing accourts. The last phase, which has been delayed because of the country's continuing
foreign exchange constraints, is expected to be completed in 1994.
2.30          The transfer of private sector accounts has run smoothly. However, the transfer of public
enterprise accounts is proving difficult because many have long overdue debts, or are likely to become
problem loans for banks. In fact, many public enterprises do not even satisfy the formalities for opening
an account with a commercial bank, because they were never legally constituted. The Govermment has
decided to retain these accounts until the enterprises are either liquidated or privatized.
2.31          Progress has been made in splitting the central bank and in establishing the three financial
instituitions, but BNA continues to have a predominant position in the banking sector, especially with
respect to credit, as shown in Table 2 below. This is largely because of the dependence of the
Government on BNA for financing the budget deficit. BNA would have accounted for about 91 percent
of domestic credit at the end of 1991 even if credits which were outstanding in the books of the
commercial area of BNA2' at that time had been transferred to the commercial banks.
1/     In countries a divere as Italy, Germany and more recently, the United States, centrml bank staff are paid at
a higher level than gm.neral civil ervice employees, reflecting private ector salaries.
NKz A4 billion, of which NKz 3! billion were to the private wector and NKz 13 billion wen to public
entorpriesm.



-9-
Table 2
Evolution of the Banking System 1985 - 1991
Share of BNA in Total
(in percentage)
198        1989       1990      1221"
Domestic Credit                  100.0      99.7        99.5       97.8
Deposits                         80.8       74.4        73.6       57.7
Total Assets                     89.3        87.1       87.0       86.9
*     End of yar figures
**    Provisional figums.
2.32         Outside the Province of Luanda, the commercial area of BNA has 31 branches and
agencies in 16 provinces, of which BNA intends to keep only five to conduct central banking functions.
BNA plans to sell the ofrices in the most attractive locations to the commercial banks. It also proposes
to negotiate with the commercial banks for the operation of banking services in the more remote areas.
BNA has indicated that all branches will be transferred or closed by the end of 1994 (Statement of
Financial Sector Reform, Annex 1.1).
2.    The Commercial Banks
2.33         Annex 2.2 gives highlights of the financial and portfolio position of the two commercial
banks, BPC and BCI. BPC was established in March 1991 as the successor to the Banco Popular de
Angola, which had been the Government's savings bank since independence. During the period 1975-
1990, Banco Popular de Angola did not lend to enterprises or individuals, but simply deposited its
resources at BNA. BPC is a full-fledged commercial bank. In May 1991, BPC had 29 offices located
in eight of Angola's 18 provinces. At present, with around 710 staff, BPC is overstaffed and a reform
of the bank will entail a reduction in staff.
2.34         In November, 1991, BPC signed a technical assistance agreement with BPA of Portugal.
BPA was a natural cnoice because it had owned the Banco Comercial de Angola, which became the
Banco Popular de Angola after independence. BPA and BPC also have formed a negotiating committee
to set the basis for a possible participation of BPA in BPC of some 25 percent of its capital. The
agreements also call for the opening of a branch in Luanda by BPA as a transitional measure. This
branch could be absorbed by BPC if BPA participates in BPC. Arthur Andersen (US) is auditing BPC's
1991 accounts.
2.35         BCI was created in March 1991 by government decree and started operations on July 1,
1991. Its initial subscribed and paid-up capital is NKz 1.0 billion, of which 91 percent is owned by the
Government and 9 percent by nine state enterprises (1 percent each). This initial capital comprises a
building valued at NKz 450 million and cash of NKz 550 million.



-10-
2.36          Preparatory work for setting up BCI was done by a Portuguese consulting firm owned
by the Espfrito Santo Group (the controlling interest in Banco Esplrito Santo e Comercial de Lisboa).
The consultants assisted the management of BCI in drawing up operational and information technology
plans, and the outline of a staff training program. BCI intends to conce,itrate on the corporate market
(including medium and small businesses). BCI has a main branch and 3 agencies, and currently has 71
staff who are well qualified. The Government intends to privatize BCI. As a new bank, without a heavy
cost structure inherited from the past, but with deposits transferred from BNA, BCI has the potential to
be an efficient and profitable operation. Initially, the method of calculation for remunerating excess
reserves will favor BCI as the system average is heavily influenced by term deposits at BPC.
3.    The Agricultural and Fisheries Credit Fund (CAP)
2.37          CAP also was established by government decree on March 11, 1991, as a fund which
provides financing for small enterprises, farmers, and the fishing industry. CAP is financed from
contributions from BNA profits; deposits (from the public); resources from the Government's
privatization program; foreign loans contracted by the r(overnment or CAP; and grants from bilateral
agenries.
2.38          The stated objectives of CAP are to promote the development of the agricultural, forestry,
livestock, fishing, and coffee sectors in Angola through loans to small enterprises and farmers. The
intention is to provide assistance to small clients who would not have access to normal credit from the
commercial banks. Although the general aim of making credit available to clients with no access to
commercial credit is in line with the country's needs, CAP's legal and organizational structure and
staffing are inadequate.
2.39          CAP was established as a quasi-bank with an initial capital of NKz 200 million provided
by the Ministry of Finance, and expects additional capital contributions. In addition, CAP took over a
BNA branch which was situated in its head office building. At present, CAP has customer deposits
totalling NKz 8 billion which have been mostly re-deposited with BNA pending a definition of CAP's
future. The capital funds of CAP have been lent to some 18 borrowers, mostly at medium and long term.
CAP has obtained authorization from BNA to open six regional offices covering the whole country.
2.40          The Government proposes to restructure CAP. As CAP's objectives are to finance clients
which would not have initially a credit record with commnercial banks, it is likely that CAP would be set
up as a fund, and managed professionally. Such a fund would be an entity under the Ministry of Finance
or would be assigned to a financial institution to manage. As the Government intends to encourage the
entry of foreign investment banks, it is also possible that CAP would be managed by such an institution.
The Project would provide assistance to restructure CAP.
D.    The Insurance Subsector
2.41          An immediate concern for financial sector development is the growth of the insurance
sector.  As is the case in transitional socialist economies, the insurance industry is even more
underdeveloped than the banking ,,ctor, as the State stood as the ultimate guarantor. Private sector firms
will require insurance for a variety of risks for which the Government should not be responsible. Since
the Government has no clear advantage in providing this service, private entry by domestic and foreign



-11-
firrr.s needs to be encouragedJ. The Government is conscious of this need, and haJ begun to study
changes aiming at modernizing the subsector.
2.42          As part of the reform of the financial system, an Insurance Supervisory Office has been
established within the Ministry of Finance. Its primary function has been to conduct a review of the
insurance subsector and to develop policy recommendations for restructuring it. The offlice's proposals
are contained in a draft law on insurance.  The objective of the proposed policy is to stimulate
development of a more compe:itive insurance subsector, effectively meeting consumer needs while at the
same time, providing a expartded source of long-term investment capital. The law is expected to be
enacted in early 1993.
2.43          The insurance subsector is now controlled by the state-owned ENSA, which was
established in 1978 as the monopoly insurer in Angola. In 1981, all the private insurance companies
were liquidated and their assets and liabiiities transferred to ENSA. ENSA always has shown a profit
because all the county's oil installations, both Angolan and foreign-owned, are obligatorily insured with
ENSA, as are all factories, machinery, aircraft and vessels. ENSA covers the whole range of insurance
prciucts, although its portfolio is heavily concentrated in property and civil responsibility risks with
relatively little life insurance. A high proportion of risks is reinsured abroad, notably in the Swiss,
German and British markets. Relatively little is reinsured in Portugal owing to the industry's limnited
capacity in that country. A problem which has plagued ENSA has been the arrears in payment of the
reinsurers.
2.44          Although ENSA has accounts with BPC and BCI, its considerable technical reserves and
cash surplus are mottly deposited in unremunerated sight deposits in BNA. The lack of income on these
reserves has been a chronic problem for ENSA, particularly because its agreements with reinsurers abroad
require it to pay them 4 percent per annum on their share of technical reserves. When the Government
opens the subsector, ENSA will face stiff competition, as new private insurance companies, mostly with
large sharenoldings by Portuguese companies established in Angola. These new entrants, with small
structures of highly trained staff, will chip away at the monopoly position of ENSA and bring a reduction
in the premiums charged.
2.45           ENSA has 620 employees, of which 480 are in Luanda and the remainder is in 15
provincial offices. Some 200 manage properties with limited value which ENSA inherited after the
nationalization of the foreign insurance companies. Only a small group of around 15 people has the
necessary technical expertise to manage a modern insurance business, and even these people's skills need
updating as much of their relevant experience was acquired before independence. ENSA is giving a
strong emphasis to foreign language courses to enable its core of proficient staff to attend courses in the
UK and Switzerlanid, and to benefit from seminars delivered in Luanda by visiting foreign experts.
ENSA staff would be eligible to participate in the training programs under the Project, including those
of the National Banking Training Institute.
E.    Legal Framework for Firancial Sector Operations
2.46          The legal framework for banking operations includes the banking legislation, circulars
and directives issued by BNA, and general legal pri.iciples embodied in the Civil and Commercial Codes.
The Government enacted on April 20, 1991, two main laws governing financial institutions: (the Financial
Institutions Law (Lei das Instituic6es Financeiras, Law No. 5/91), and the BNA Statutes (Lei Orgznica
do Banco National de Angola, Law No. 4/91). The main features of these laws are given in Annex 2.4.



-12-
Overall, this legislation provides an adequate framework for banking operations and includes the
fundamental aspects of a modem financial legislation. However, the law will need to be applied. The
main difficulties with the implementation of the legislation are the lack of some complementary
regulations, poor dissemination of the law and the weak institutiornal framework of the legal institutions
which need to apply it. The Project would provide assistance to begin addressing these difficulties.
2.47          In addition to the legislation enacted in 1991, the Civil and Commercial Codes define the
nature of contracts and the different guaranties for loans. The A4ngolan legal framework embodies
principles of civil law inherited. from Portugal. The regime is quite complex and antiquated, as it dates
from nineteenth century Portiguese legislation which does not contemplate many of the institutions and
modalities which exist today. In addition, there are problems with the law on mortgages resulting from
the uncertainty of ownership arising from the confiscation of property after Independence. Moreover,
certain types of guaranties, such as liens on assets, which are available in other Portuguese speaking
countries such as Brazil are not recognized under Angolarn legislation. The basic civil legislation needs
to be updated, a problem which is being tackled under the ongoing Economic Management and Capacity
Building Project (Credit 2274-ANG).
2.48          Many financial operations in Angola cannot be executed or enforced without the
intervention of ancillary institutions, notably the registries and pubic notaries, which report to the
Ministry of Justice. Timely registration and issuance of a number of documents, including property
certificates or titles, is essential to the functioning of the financial sector. The inadequacies of the
registries and notaries, both in terms of trained personnel and of material resources, render them
unoperational. The Project would provide initial support to address the key operational bottlenecks to
the banking sector, and assist in defining an action program for future reforms that can be supported by
the Bank through other operations and by other institutions. One of the main concerns of the Project
would be to design measures to stop irreparable damage to key documentation necessary for the efficient
delivery of financial transactions.
2.49          A new General Law on Insurance Activity has been drafted by the Insurance Supervisory
Office, with input from the Insurance Institute of Portugal, and is currently under review by the Council
of Ministers. Under the terms of the legislation, the national insurance monopoly is to be ended, and the
market opened to both domestic and foreign competition. Key ENSA functions are to be privatized, or
managed through joint venture arrangements. A regulatory framework for proposed new entrants and
activities is not yet defined and critical issues regarding entry criteria, property rights, investment
prerogatives, exchange allocation, and other institutional constraints must be resolved in order to
maximize the benefits anticipated in the proposed reforms. In addition, procedures for the adjudication
of commercial claims, maintenance of technical and other reserves, uniform reporting requirements,
setting of rates, and other functions usually the responsibility of prudential regulators must be provided
for. Given the lack of both experienced supervisory personnel and of qualified financial management,
as well as a shortage of technical skills, the Insurance Supervisory Office will be unable to comply with
its regulatory mandate without significant external support. Assistance in the initial work of the insurance
supervision body is contemplated under the Project.



-13-
m. THE pROJECr
A.    Prc Objectives and S=LI=
3.1           The Project supports institution building and reform of the financial system to help
stimulate resource mobilization, underpin private sector investment and promote economic diversification.
Specifically, the Project assists in: (i) strengthening BNA so that it can perform its monetary policy and
roglatory functions; (ii) developing banking infrastructure; (iii) improving the legal and regulatory
environment for financial operations; and (iv) establishing institutional mechanisms for financing private
invement.
3.2           The modernization of the financial system is expected to be a medium-term process. The
proposed operation would support priority institutional reforms during the initial period. The scope of
the Project, which would be supported by the proposed SDR14.8 million IDA Credit, is given below.
Tbe proposed Credit would finance technical assistance, training, equipment, vehicles materials and
supplies to achieve the Project objectives. In adlition, it would finance the rehabilitation of two BNA
properdes, one for the training center for financial sector personnel and the other to house project
consultants. The Project components are described in detail in paras. 3.4 - 3.50 below. The Project
consists of:
(a)    strengthening of BNA, principally through improvements in its accounts and
accounting practices; procedures and information systems; and in its staff skdils
in administrative and functional areas;
(b)    development of banking infrastructure, including establishment of a national
check clearing system, a training center for financial sector personnel, and
training of a core of financial professionals;
(c)    disseminating and implementing laws and regulations affecting the banking
sector, ensuring their coherence; establishing the legal and regulatory framework
for the insurance sector, and e-tablishing accounting and auditing standards for
the enterprise sector; and
(d)   improving institutional mechanisms for financing private investment and studies
on access to credit by the private sector.
B.    Rationale for IDA Involvement
3.3           The Bank's first strategic priority in Angola is to cement the relationship which began
only in 1989 when Angola joined the Bank. Principal objectives are to facilitate the transition to a
peaetime economy and to support the process of economic reform so that the country can get on the path
of sustainable growth. Tbe correct phasing of reforms in the financial and real sectors and appropriate
Institutional support for their effective implementation are critical elements in the transformation of
socalist economies. Support for a program of reforms in the real sector is provided under the Economic
Management Capacity Building Project, which provides substantial technical assistance to key ministries,



-14-
including Planning and Finance. The proposed operation, which would be the first of several operations
in support of the financial sector, would provide the necessary institutional strengthening to facilitate
reforms in the system.
C.    Project l;escgL Ripn
1.    Strengthening BNA
3.4           BNA was set up as a central bank only in 1991, and it lacks personnel, procedures, and
equipment, which limit its ability to function. To perform its role, BNA needs to substantially expand
its institutional capabilities during the next few years. Its operational role as a first tier bank, coordinator
of money and credit supply, and manager of foreign exchange resources needs increasing sophistication,
speed and accuracy. Functions such as bank supervision will need to expand in tandem with the banking
sector and BNA's analytical and policy formulation capabilities in All aspects of monetary management
need to be vastly increased.
3.5           The Project would support the strengthening of BNA to undertake its central-banking role
successfully. The activities included are those needed to improve BNA's own operations, such as
strengthening of procedures and the implementation of information systems, accounts and accounting
systems. The program also includes training for senior staff in functional areas. The Project would also
support the rehabilitation of a BNA building to be used by the Project's expatriate consultants.
3.6           Work under this component complements assistance being provided by the IMF and the
Bank of Portugal. The IMF provided assistance in preparing the basic legislation and in setting up the
organizational structure of the institution. In addition, it provided assistance in the initial split of accounts
into central and commercial areas, in setting up monetary statistics, and in organizing the supervision
department. The Bank of Portugal has a cooperative agreement with BNA to provide advice on specific
subjects, as required. In this context, it provided assistance in the basic legislation, and in the preparation
of a number of regulations relating to monetary policy instruments.
(a)    Strengthening Information Systems
3.7           The overall objective of the informatics program to be supported by the Project is to
develop new institutional capabilities at BNA through improvements in administration and information
systems. While computer technology will be useed for this purpose, the emphasis of the program is placed
not on the technology, but on the institutional improvements that can be achieved through its judicious
use. Annex 3.2 gives a detailed description of the informatics component.
3.8           The following objectives will be pursued through BNA's information systems program:
(a)    streamline and document work procedures, information flows, and information
systems of BNA directorates;
(b)    create an effective mechanism for the allocation and .nanagement mechanism of
informatics resources in the institution;



-15-
(c)    strengthen the management and modernize the work methods of the Organization
and Informatics Directorate (DOR);
(d)   install the computer application systems needed by each BNA directorate in
support of its business processes;
(e)   improve staff skills to use and manage informatics resources;
(f)    design information systems requirements and prepare strategic plan for systems
development and technology use; and
(g)   increase the productivity of selected professional staff through the use of personal
computing tools.
3.9           The introduction of BNA's informatics program will be paced, taking into account the
institutional readiness to absorb new technology and irrplement administrative and managerial changes.
The approach recognizes that modem computer technology - while flexible, ubiquitous, and relatively
inexpensive - requires orderly and well-informed management to yield expected benefits. It also
recognizes that investments in informatics will be successful only if BNA first improves its management
and administrative practices, informatics policies, and staff skills.
3.10          The first phase of the program has been designed to pursue objectives (a) through (d)
above in order tu build up BNA's capacity to absorb technological inputs planned for subsequent phases.
Phase 1 will determine the activities projected for subsequent phases. Phase 1 is targeted to last one year,
starting in late-1992, and to be financed partly under the PPF. How long BNA actually takes to complete
this phase is a function not only of its own management capacity in informatics, but also of several
factors which BNA does not control fully, such as availability of housing and the availability of
consultants to visit Angola. The objectives and expected outputs of this phase have been specifically
defined, and the terms of reference for related consulting nssignments prepared. The Project will provide
14 months of consulting services for the system requirements studies and about 18 microcomputers to
meet the pressing requirements of the operating divisions.
3.11          Two broad strategic choices will be available to BNA after Phase 1. BNA could pursue
an integrated informatics strategy based on common design. This strategy would result in the creation
of integrated information systems and the installation of homogeneous technology. It would be possible
only if all of BNA's units achieve fully the objectives of Phase 1. Alternatively, BNA would pursue an
informatics strategy which accommodates substantial differences in capabilities among the various
functional areas. This strategy would concentrate informatics resources on those areas most able to use
them and result in faster but less integrated systems for those areas and possibly in heterogeneous
technology. The bulk of the cost of the ir.ermatics component is in the training and technical assistance,
which would be similar irrespective of which strategy is followed.
3.12          Selection of the appropriate strategy would be made through a short Information Systems
Strategic Plan (ISSP) at the completion of Phase 1. Subsequent activities in the program would be guided
by the decisions emanating from  this plan.  The plan will also formulate appropriate systems
implementation, technology acquisition, and staff training plans, and thus attempt to minimize costs and
promote compatibility of technology. The plan will take about two months and require participation of
senior staff and consultants. The proposed Credit would finance five man-months of consulting services
to assist in carrying out the plan. Financing for the purchase of hardware and software and related



-16-
training and technical assistance for the BNA systems would be conditioned on the completion of the
ISSP. Terms of reference and a definition of the plan's outputs are given in Annex 3.2.
3.13         Once the detailed information systems plan is developed, further activities will procoee
under the guidance of that plan. Information systems will be introduced at BNA in two broad stage:
(a)    Stage I - High Priority Systems. The high priority information systems will be
identified by the strategic plan and put In place over a two-year period.
Administrative systems such as accounting, budgeting, and personnel, analytical
systems such as macroeconomic analysis, and operational systems such as bank
supervision, reserve management, and debt management will probably be among
this group. For this phase, the Project would finance 33 man-months of technical
assistance, 120 personal computing training courses, and computers for
approximately 56 BNA staff.
(b)    Stage 11 - Other Systems. The remaining information systems defined in the
ISSP would be put in place after completion of Phase I. Important systems may
be deferred for implementation during this stage simply because of limitlions in
the amount of change that the institution can absorb during a given period of
time. F.r this phase, the Project inc;udes 34 man-months of technicsl assistance,
180 perbr. z' computing courses, and c,mputers for another 62 BNA staff.
3.14         Project resources need to be matched by adequate BNA resources if the program iS to
succeed. In particular, for every month of expatriate consultant time funded by the Project,
approximately two months of staff time from Informatics Directorate staff are needed. This countepart
effort is needed both to complete project activities and to obtain effective transfer of technical sklils.
During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that BNA staff would work with project
consultants.
3.15         Prograin management will be provided by the Directorate of Organization and
Informatics. Overall direction of the informatics program will be exercised by an Informatics Committee
which is composed of the Directors of the user Departments and headed by a Vice Governor. This
Committee has existed for some time, although it was only made operational last year. Finally, a senior
informatics management expert will be contracted for the first 42 months of the Project to asist the DOR
director with Program management. A draft informatics program and budget would be prepared under
the Project, and submitted by September 30 of each year for review and approval by BNA's Informatics
Committee and the IDA. Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
(b)   Improving BNA Accounting
3.16         As is the case with most monobanks in former socialist countries, BNA does not have
tight financial controls or reliable financial data. Processing of data has been further complicated by the
separation of BNA into central- and commercial-banking areas. The existing systems do not produce
timely and accurate financial data, with the result that directorates wbich depend on accouni
information are hampered in their work. In addition, the accounts contain anomalies, particuarly in such
sensitive area as foreign exchange.
3.17         To improve the situation, the Project will provide: (i) assistance to BNA in preparn
auditable accounts as of 1991 and identifying accounting systems in need of strengthening; (iI) exteal



*17-
audits, which would identify measures which BNA should take to improve its internal controls; and (iii)
assistance in designing and establishing an Internal audit function, and (iv) training BNA staff in
accounting and internal audit. Terms of reference for the accounting consultants to perform the first of
the above Lssks are given in Annex 3.3. It is estimated that the strengthening meawures and training of
PNA staff, all of which will take place in Angola, will require the services of two full-time expatriate
consultants for a total of five consultant-years. The first e.xpatriate consultant is expected to start work
in the first vear of the Project, while the second, who will assist with the internal aud!t function, will start
work in thi second year of the Project.
(c)    IlmDroving Skills
3.18          BNA has prepared a program of technical assistance and training requirements for the
next three years which is the basis for the assistance provided under this component. The Project will
strengthen the administrative, managerial and policy making capabilities of BNA staff. The assistance
will involve both expatriate experts and specialized training abroad for senior BNA personnel. The
Project includes assistance in setting up the personnel management function in BNA. As in most socialist
economies, there is no central banking tradition, and central bank staff have no career paths. The Project
includes some 10 man-months of consultant services to develop and implement professional development
streams for BNA staff. Assistance in this area is expected to start towards the end of the first year of
the program.
3.19          The Project also would include support to BNA's SupervisionDepartment. The assistance
in this area was prepared taking into account the views of the IMF resident specialist, and complements
his work. It includes two special portfolio audits of the major commercial banks to assess the adequacy
of provisions and the potential impact of necessary write-offs on their financial condition (six man-months
of consulting services). These auaits will be carried out by international auditing firms under the auspices
of the Supervision Department of BNA in years two and three of the Project. In addition, assistance has
been included to support supervision department staff including internships for BNA staff in supervision
departments of other central banks. It is estimated that the program would involve a total of about ten
months of consultant services and training abroad for two supervision departmnent staff.
3.20          Given the shortage of qualified personnel, the program includes training abroad of senior
staff. This includes scholarships in macroeconomics for about 5 staff members and some 15 short term
courses abroad. Training for BNA staff also will be done in special courses in the National Banking
Training Institute (Instituto de FormaCao Bancgria de Angola, IFBA), para. 3.26 - 3.30 below. BNA will
assign staff receiving long-term fellowships abroad financed by the Project to positions where acquired
skills will be put to use, and will require such staff to commit themselves to working for a period two
times the duration olthe training period. The same will be true for the beneficiaries of other scholarships
under the Project. B., May 31, 1993, BNA in cooperation with other institutions involved in the Project
will establish and approve criteria for the award of the long-term fellowships under the Project.
Assurances on the arrangements for granting fellowships and for the employment of staff after returning
to Angola were obtained at negotiations.
(d)    Housing for Consultants
3.21         lTe lack of adequate housing is a major constraint to putting in place effective technical
assistance programs in Angola, because it complicates the recruitment of well qualified personnel. To
overcome this difficulty, the Project includes financing for the rehabilitation of a 1,142 m2 building (the



-18-
L2 building) to house about ten consultants employed under the Project. Detailed architectural designs
for the rehabilitation works are being carried out by a local architectural firm and were financed under
the PPF. The facilities being constructed under the Project are discussed in Annex 3.9.
3.22          Because of the acute shortage of housing in Luanda, there will be pressure to make the
Project housing facilities available for other purposes. During negotiations assurances were obtained that
housing financed by the Project would be used exclusively to hou. expatriate consultants financed under
the Project. The housing allocations would be discussed during the annual implementation review.
During negotiations assurances also were obtained that the IFBA facilities would be used exclusively for
IFBA-related activities.
2.     Developing Banking Infrastructure
(a)    Establishing a Check Clearing System
3.23          A major factor inhibiting commercial development outside the capital city in large African
countries is the absence of a system of communications which would enable banks to effect payment
between regions. Although the systems required are technically simple, they can take time to develop
because of the inexperience of financial system institutions. The issue of payments between regions is
expected to be a major problem in Angola, because of the distance uztween its economic centers and the
poor communications. Although the new kwanza began to be used widely as currency only in the last
six months, the number of checks is ir. reasing sharply. At present, it takes some six weeks for a check
issued in Benguela to clear in Luanda. This situation is likely to worstn as economic activity, and hence,
the number of transactions between banks, increases.
3.24          To address this issue, the Project includes the design and implementation of a nation-wide
check clearing system. The check clearing system is the first phase of a system which could enable in
the medium-term the transfer of information and other transactions between and within banks. When in
piace, the check clearing system will improve liquidity management, reduce floats and payment delays,
decrease administrative overheads, and improve customer service. The system could eventually handle
intra-bank communications, regulatory reporting, and dealing in foreign exchange. The system would
operate electronically to the extent feasible. It would depend nn air or ground transport for the transfer
of checks where telecommunications links are not feasible or available. The Credit would finance
technical assistance for establishing the system in Luanda and subsequently in the key cities, training of
staff to operate the system and the associated hardware and software.
3.25          The check clearing system will be self-financing after an initial breaking in period. It
would be managed initially by BNA, as an outgrowth of the existing system for Luanda. However, the
system will be designed so that the payments system, when put in place, can be managed as an
independent institution, if the users so desire. The detailed design and phasing of the program is based
on a study financed ui,dcr the PPF. In addition to the technical parameters of thc system, the study
includes implementation and staffing plans.



-19-
(b)    Establishing the National Banking ..raining Institute IDAjf
3.26           At present, there are no more than a dozen persons trained in modern practices of finance
in the whole financial system. Most ( these are in the BC' which set up an emergency training program
before starting operations. The Project will assist in the design and im..;ementation of IFBA'. strategy,
scope, legal status and training programs. IFBA would deliver courses to mid-level management and staff
of the country's banks, insurance companies and other financial institutions. l'he P-oject would include
support for the architectural design, construction supervision, and rehabiiitation of a building (the L4
building) for IFBA. IFBA would also administer a program of seminars for high-level management of
financial institutions.
3.27          IFBA is the successor to BNA's 'rraining Department. The Training Department was
managed by a veteran BNA employee, and its courses were oriented to the monobank regime which
existed prior to 1991. To serve the training needs of the emerging financial sector, IFRA would reorient
past programs and upgrade its course delivery. To accomplish these goals, a PPF-financed consulting
team from the Portuguese Banking Institute is finalizing arrangements regarding the stakeholding and
participation in IFBA of Angolan banks and the relationship of IFBA's program with the training
programs of each bank. In addition, the team is assisting IFBA in preparing the details of course
offerings.
3.28          In view of the shortage of skilled personnel in all banks, IFBA course offerings in the
initial years would emphasize focussed courses to be delivered on a part-time basis so as to minimize
disruption of banking operations. The IF3A program would lead to the eventual professionalization of
banking personnel by means of a program of examination and cer;ification of trainees; to the degree
possible, it would ir. the long run be integrated with secondary- and tertiary-level business education.
3.29           ro carry out its responsibilities, IFBA's staff will need to be trained. Some IFBA staff
will participate in the program to send senior financial managers abroad. as described below. To
substitute for instructors receiving training and to improve the quality of the IFBA staff, the Ins,iute wil;
contract a maximum of three expatriate instructors to prepare and deliver its course offerings. A total
of nine expatriate instructor-years is foreseen as necessary while Angolans are being trained. It is
possible that IFBA will make arrangements with a similar institute to provide these instructors. The
Project also includes financing two vehicles, office equipment (computers, photocopiers, and audio-visual
aids), and pedagogical materials (course-specific textbooks and teaching aids) to be identified by the PPF-
financed consultants. The Government is taking steps to cone ,lete the legal establishment of IFBA. IFBA
would be legally established prior to IDA disbursement for the rehabilitation of the physical installations,
teaching staff and equipment for the institute. The terms of reference for the consulting team are given
in Annex 3.4.
3.30          The main thrust of IFBA's program would be aimed at the training needs of staff and
mid-level management in the banking sector. A more specialized focuts is needed to strengthen higher
mlanagement levels (directors and general directors). The Project includes a series of short seminars and
courses designed to increase the exposure of Angolan bank management, which has been isolated from
developments in world finance by language and socialist orientation, to current developments in banking
and finance. The seminars would also serve to sensitize high-level management to the role of the central
banking function (e.g., instruments of monetary policy and supervision requirements) and on commercial
bank management requiremerts in respect of such subjects as risk management and exposure, lending
policy, cash management, accounting, and internal audit. The program, which IFBA would administer,
would bring authorities to Luanda, and, occasionally, sponsor participation of Angolan banking managers
in short courses abroad.



-20-
(c)    Developing a Core of Financial Professionals
3.31          One of the major requirements for the development of private sector activities in Angola,
both in the financial institutions and in industry and commerce, is a core of skilled managers with post-
secondary and post-graduate education in business administration, with emphasis on financial
management. The Project addresses this need by initiating a twinning arrangement between the Faculty
of Economics at the Agostinho Neto University (Universidade Agostinho Neto, UAN), which is
responsible for delivering business-administration education, and a foreign university. The ultimate
objective of this twinning arrangement is to enable UAN to deliver programs at both the bachelors and
masters levels of a quality comparable to that of the foreign twin. The Faculty of Economics would be
the initial Angolan twin.  It is possible that UAN would establish a separate faculty of business
adminis- ation some time during the duration of the twinning arrangement.
3.32          The core of the twinning arrangement in its early stages would be the interchange of
people and lecturers from the foreign twin seconded to the UAN for one or more academic years, and
management personnel and lecturers from Angola registering as full-time students at the foreign twin.
However, Angola's needs suggest the advisability of other modalities in addition to this interchange, such
as (i) a high proportion of courses taught locally (particularly the remedial ones) and (ii) other than full-
time courses of study, some examples of which would be: (a) executive education courses of a few
weeks's duration in specialized subjects; (b) weekend or evening classes directed to existing management
of Angolan enterprises; (c) short-term seminars and workshops on specific subjects for targeted audiences;
(d) business roundtables for enterprise managers, governmental officials, and expatriate staff to
interchange ideas; and (e) collaboration with other institutions in developing training programs. Although
the twinning arrangement is designed along traditional lines (six lecturer-years of secondment to the UAN
and 40 student-years at the foreign twin, foreign universities are encouraged in the Terms of Reference
(Annex 3.5) to propose alternative approaches to the country's business education needs.
3.33          Successful twinning arrangements last 20 years or more.  Because of the need for
sustaininig this component far beyond the implementation period of the proposed Credit, the TOR invites
prospective twins to indicate the finar -ing which may be available to continue the program after the initial
three-year period, which would berin with the 1993/94 academic year (starting in September 1993).
While the twinning program by itself would not begin to meet the country's business education needs,
individuals benefiting from the program would be expected to teach on at least a part-time basis at either
UAN, irWA, or one of Angola's two commercial institutes. The Project would also support the
acquisition of one vehicle.
3.    Improving-the Legal and Regulatory Environment for Financial Operations
(a)    Improving the Application of Banking Legislation
3.34          The law governing financial institutions and its regulations, as well as legislation which
applies to banking transactions, need to be disseminated and correctly implemented.  Appropriate
mechanisms need to be designed to facilitate access to banking regulations and documentary and
contractual practices by both government agencies and private sector operators. Also, banking staff need
to become familiar with these procedures to provide better banking services to the public. Lastly, key
ancillary institutions such as registries and notaries need to be improved so that they are ab!e to play their
role in banking.



-21-
3.35          The Project will assist in designing appropriate mechanisms to facilitate the
implementation of the recently-enacted banking legislation, including dissemination of the legislation and
strengthening of the legal, technical and administrative capabilities of the institutions responsible for their
implementation. These activities are summarized below and described in detail in Annex 3.8.
3.36          The Project will support the design and publication of a banking manual and the
compilation, harmonization and dissemination of the banking legal and regulatory framework in the form
of a legal inventory. In addition, it will train key lega' and paralegal personnel in the banking system.
Lastly, it will provide emergency assistance to improve registries and notaries in key areas. BNA will
prepare and periodically update an operational manual providing a description of banking operations and
the legal and administrative requirements to carry them out. The manual will also include standard
contractual forms required by the legislation in force. A loose-leaf version of the manual will be
designed, published and distributed to BNA's headquarters and branches. Manuals will be available for
sale to the private sector. BNA's legal staff will be primarily responsible for the coordination of this
work.
3.37          The banking legal and regulatory framework is not widely disseminated and consists of
diverse and not easily available legal and administrative instruments. These instruments have been issued
by different institutions, including BNA, and the Ministry of Finance; much of the legislation in fact
dates from colonial times. Banking staff and other public or private agents requiring banking services
have difficulty assessing the content and scope of the applicable legal framework. The Project will
support the compilation, harmonization, publication and dissemination of the banking legal and regulatory
framework which will be prepared in the form of a legal inventory.
3.38          Banking services cannot be carried out effectively without a qualified corps of legal and
paralegal banking staff. 'he Project will support the strengthening of the legal and technical capabilities
,i staff from BNA and other banking institutions through the provision of training activities, including
seminars on legal issues affecting the financial sector. In addition, BNA's legal and paralegal staff, which
have been isolated from modern banking practices and lack professional contacts in other countries will
be given training abroad in the form of study tours.
3.39          All banking instruments need to be executed through the public registers and public
notarial services. If notarial and registry serv:ces are left unattended, implementation of the banking legal
and regulatory framework would be hampered. It is envisaged that an initial package of emergency
measures will be implemented under the Project to allow the provision of the most essential services by
the registries and notaries public (e.g., copies of titles; registering companies). The Project will support
the provision of technical assistance, acquisition of essential equipment, computers and office supplies,
and provide in-service practical training to avoid serious bottlenecks for banking services.  The
preparation and implementation of this work will be the responsibility of the Legal Department of BNA
in coordination with the National Directorate of Registries and Notarial Services which will be assisted
by a professor of the Law School of UAN.
3.40          The Project will support the acquisition of emergency materials and equipment for the
National Directorate of Registries and Notarial Services and about ten registers and notarial offices,
geographically located where the pressure for banking services will be most acute (Luanda, Lobito,
Benguela, Lubango and Huambo).  An inventory of emergency actions, including equipment
requirements, is being financed under the PPF. The equipment to be financed includes security
mechanisms, photocopying equipment, typewriters, one personal computer and printer, and office



-22-
supplies. In addition, seminars will be held during project implementation to train the Registries and
Notarial Services staff in the practical aspects of their work in implementing the legislation and
regulations affecting bank.
(b)    DevI oping Insurance Laws and Regulations
3.41          The Government has begun to study reforms for the insurance sector, and, to this end,
has created an Insurance Supervisory Office, which has prepared a draft of a new insurance law. The
Project includes technical assistance to set up and strengthen the Office,and review and adjust the legal
and regulatory framework for the insurance industry. Regulations will need to be issued on such matters
as entry requilements, the adjudication of commercial ciaims, the determination of reserves, rate settings
and reporting requirements. A total of two man-years of consultant services have been assigned in the
Project to this task.
(c)    Developing Accounting and Auditing
3.42          Notwithstanding their importance in a market economy and an elment of financial
transactions, enterprise accounting and auditing in Angola are embryonic. In 1989, the Government
replaced a chart of accounts appropriate for centrally-planned economies with a new enterprise accounting
plan (Plano de Contas Empresarial-PCE), but this is not applied. In fact, about 80 percent of public-
sector enterprises and the bulk of Angolan private enterprises have no meaningful accounts. Except for
companies with foreign ownership, company accounts are not audited.
3.43          The solution to the problem is made more intractable by the lack of formal education in
accounting,which has not been offered since 1974. Only a handful of senior accountants, mostly trained
before independence, remain.  All auditing of multinational companies is conducted by expatriates.
There is an official register of accountants, but no academic achievement or professional experience is
required; anyone can register as an accountant.
3.44          The Ministry of Finance has jurisdiction over all aspects of both private- and public-sector
accounting.  Within the Ministry, the National Directorate of Accounting (Direcgao Nacional de
Contabilidade - DNC) is the responsible unit. Except for publication of the enterprise accounting plan,
the Ministry's efforts in improving accounting since 1989 have been in the public sector. With assistance
from five expatriate advisors financed under the IMF/UNDP project, the Ministry has produced detailed
budgets for governmental operations; prepare. an accounting pl tn for the Government; and improved the
performance of accounting and treasury operations. Under the proposed Project, the Ministry of Finance
will address the country's needs in respect of commercial accounting, auditing, and establishment of an
accounting profession. This work will be done with assistance from a full-time consultant (terms of
reference are given in Annex 3.7).
3.45          The Project would develop Angola's legal and regulatory framework in respect of
accounting and auditing. It would strengthen the Ministry of Finance's capabilities to (i) improve
commercial accounting; and (ii) publish national accounting and audit standards as well as model
accounting and audit manuals. The Project also would support the establishment of the accounting
profession and the acquisition of one vehicle. To improve commercial accounting, the DNC of the
Ministry of Finance would (i) publish accounting standards; (ii) review the enterprise accounting plan
to ensure that it is harmonized with national charts of accounts of industrialized countries, particularly
those of the European Community; (iii) publish a simplified chart of accounts for small and medium
enterprises (SMEs); and (iv) publish En accounting manual to serve as a model for public sector
enterprises.



-23-
3.46          After establishing the conceptual framework for the auditing of company accounts, the
DNC would publish national audit standards and a model audit manual. In its definition and publication
of accounting and auditing standards, the DNC would avail itself of similar standards of industrialized
countries and of international organizations responsible for such activities, namely, the International
Accounting Standards Committee (for accounting) and the International Federation of Accountants (for
auditing).
3.47          To establish the accounting profession, the DNC would determine the classifications of
accountants to be recognized (bookkeepers, technicians, fully-qualified). In addition, it would define the
academic, professional examination, and professional experience requirements for each classification; and
set standards and establish monitoring mechanisms for examinations.
3.48          To facilitate implementation of its work program, DNC will hold a series of workshops,
which would be supported by the proposed project, for all interested parties, such as financial managers,
registered accountants, the academic community, and government officials. The purpose of the initial
workshops will be to establish a framework for the DNC's activities and prioritize them; subsequent
workshcps will be the means of getting reaction to drafts and disseminating final versions of the
standards, manuals, and other papers for which DNC is responsible. At some future workshop, the topic
of shifting responsibility for the profession from the Ministry of Finance to an independent professional
body might be discussed, but that discussion would have to await the establishment of :, core of fully-
qualified professional accountants in Angola.
4.    Improving Mechanisms for Financing Private Investment
3.49          Private sector investment is expected to be the engine of growth of the Angolan economy
in the transitional period and beyond, and it is thus importane that adequate mechanisms be in place to
facilitate its financing requirements.  The problems that have plagued investment financing in
underdeveloped capital markets in Africa are even more acute in Angola. This is true not only because
financial institutions are in an embryonic state, but also because most private entrepreneurs are unknown
to financial institutions and have no credit history. It is thus inevitable that in a transition period, there
will be a need to establish institutional mechanisms which will permit financing to clients who are
unknown to the banking sector, and who will, in due course, become clients of commercial or investment
banks.
3.50          The Government, realizing that there is a vacuum in the institutional arrangements for
the financing of new clients to the banking system, created CAP. As discussed earlier, CAP faces serious
difficulties, including inadequate statutes and unqualified staff. The Government now intends to transform
CAP into an investment fund which manages lines of credit from abroad and budget resources. The fund,
which would have a transitional nature, would exist only as long as there is financing available. The
Government would like this fund to be professionally managed. The Project would provide technical
assistance and training to assist in the support for the design and implementation of the restructuring of
this fund and appointment of its key staff. Once CAP has been satisfactorily restructured, and qualified
staff have been appointed to it, the Credit would allow disbursements to finance: (i) technical assistance
and training of staff for the operation of the restructured CAP; (ii) acquisition of basic office equipment,
supplies and computer hardware/software; and (iii) technical assistance for the strengthening of the
banking and productive sectors' capabilities for financing private investment. The technical assistance
and training requirements, which are expected to be complemented by other institutions, are estimated
at one to two persons for approximately two years. The initial staff would include a General Manager
and a Director of Finance. The operating policies of the restructured CAP, would be defined at the



-24-
outset. These would include interest rates to be charged which will be positive in real terms. In addtidon,
as the financial system develops, some of the existi.j banks may be in a position to provide investment
financing. The Project includes some six months of consulting services to support banks in this area.
D.    Prgject Costs
3.51          Project costs are summarized below, and are given in detail in Annex 3.10. Total project
costs are estimated at US$23.6 million equivalent, with a foreign exchange component of US$20.6
million. Costs have been calculated excluding taxes and duties. Costs include expenses related to
consulting services for technical assistance and studies; training both locally and abroad; the parchase of
equipment, including hardware/software, furniture, vehicles, and teaching materials; and civil works
associated with the rehabilitation of two buildings and related professional services.
3.52          Technical assistance costs are based on recent costs for comparable technical assistance
being provided by the Bank under other projects and by other institutions, including UNDP. The costs
include transportation and housing allowance where needed, such as in the case of the short term
consultants and of travel abroad. The costs have been estimated as follows: (i) specialist services,
US$140,000 per annum; (ii) short-term consultants, US$20,000 per month; (iii) short-term seminars
abroad for high level staff, US$10,000; (iv) fellowships abroad, US$30,000. Scholarships abroad would
cover tuition and a flat fee for living expenses and books; the same system will be applied to short term
training abroad. The costs of civil works for rehabilitation are estimated to be US$450 per square meter
for the IFBA and US$602 per square meter for the housing unit. The difference in costs is due to the
type of facility.
3.53          Costs, especially those for construction, are relatively high compared with others in the
region, but reflect the isolation of Angola and the inadequacy of housing and other facilities in Luanda.
IDA reviewed the structure of construction costs with local and foreign construction firms during the
preparation of the First Education Project. The relatively high construction costs are due to several
factors: the high import content of construction materials, the high cost of customs operations, the high
proportion of foreign labor, and the poor payment record of the Government, which has led contractors
to inflate prices. The increased use of competitive bidding procedures as a result of World Bank
involvement in several key sectors requiring large civil works construction, such as education and road
construction, is expected to increase competition and reduce costs. The prices for equipment are based
on contracts awarded by other donorz and on direct discussions with suppliers. All items imported for
the Project would be exempt from direct customs duties and taxes, in line with the standard practice of
the Government. Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
3.54          The base costs for the Project are exp;essed in mid-1992 prices. Project costs include
physical contingencies averaging about 8 percent of base costs. Price contingencies have also been added,
with annual rates of foreign and local (expressed in dollars) price increases estimated at 4 percent during
project implementation. This approach has been used because suppliers of goods and services in Angola
quote prices in dollar equivalent.
3.55          The foreign exchange component is estimated as follows: (a) civil works, 85 percent; (b)
imported furniture, 100 percent; (c) equipment and vehicles, 100 percent; (e) teaching materials, 85
percent; (f) training abroad, 100 percent and (g) specialist services, 95 percent. The resulting foreign
exchange component, including contingencies, is estimated at about US$20.6 million.



-25-
E.    Project Financing
3.56         The proposed IDA credit of US$21 million equivalent, would finance 89 percent of total
costs. The Government would finance the tL '.iice of the Project costs (US$2.6 million). To permit BNA
to complete project preparation, including studies associated with IFBA, the rehabilitation of BNA
buildings to house project consultants, the accounting of BNA, two advances under the Project
Preparation Facility totaling US$1.2 million were authorized in December 1991 and June 1992,
respectively. They would be refinanced under the proposed Credit. To facilitate project implementation,
30 days after Credit effectiveness the Government will open and maintain in a commercial bank an
account, and make in this account an initial deposit of US$250,000 equivalent to finance its contribution
to the Project. Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
F.    Proiect Implementation
3.57         The Government has designated BNA as the executing agency for the Project. Project
activities will be coordinated by a Project Coordinator and assisted by a Deputy Project Coordinator, both
of whom are senior BNA staff. In addition, an expatriate Project Administrator has been appointed to
carry out day-to-day activities such as keeping project accounts, and preparing periodic reports on the
progress of the Project for the Government of Angola and the World Bank. Prior to effectiveness of the
Credit the Government and BNA will sign an Administration Agreement for the transfer of Credit funds
to BNA.
3.58          Responsibility for implementing the specific project components will rest with the Project
Coordinator and with the unit concerned with the component, which will participate in the selection of,
consultants, and the procurement of equipment, materials and supplies. For instance, the technical
aspects of the check clearing system will be the responsibility of the Director of Money Supply and Credit
while the information systems component for BNA will be the responsibility of the Director of
Organization and Informaticg. The external audits of BNA will be the responsibility of BNA's Audit
Committee. There is considerable commitment to the Project and 'ownership' of the Project is broadly
shared in BNA.
3.59         The Directorate of Organization and Informatics will receive policy guidance on the
information systems component from an existing Informatics Committee which consists of user
departments and is chaired by a Vice Governor. BNA's architect has been formally assigned on a part-
time basis (some 25 percent of his time) to the Project to supervise the civil works financed under the
Credit, and he will participate in the selection of consultants and contractors to carry out the civil works
component.
3.60         BNA Project Coordinator also will be responsible for the components which concern the
Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Justice and the UAN.  The technical responsibility for the
implementation of project components outside the BNA will rest with the National Directorate of
Accounting and the Insurance Supervision Office of the Ministry of Finance; with the Faculty of
Economics of the UAN; and with the Directorate of Registries and Notarial Services of the Ministry of
Justice, which would be assisted by the legal staff of BNA.



-26-
3.61         An Interagency Committee consisting of representatives of the Ministries of Plan and
Finance and of BNA, and including the Project Coordinator and the Deputy Project Coordinator also will
be established prior to effectiveness of the proposed Credit. The Committee will provide guidance to the
Project Coordinator and Deputy Project Coordinator on policy issues, monitor progress of the Project,
and address issues requiring interagency coordinadon. Representatives of the University, Ministry of
Finance and of other government agencies will be invited to some of the Committee meetings, as
required. These arrangements will ensure involvement in the Project of key government agencies
involved in financial sector development. A Project Implementation Review will be conducted annually
by the World Bank and BNA staff to monitor progress in project execution; update the project timetable;
identify implementation issues that may have arisen; and find appropriate solutions. The Project
Coordinator and Deputy Project Coordinator will make the necessary arrangements to prov.de the
required information and participate in the Annual Implementation Review. Key project actions to be
monitored at the Annual Implementation Reviews are given in Annex 3.13. Agreement on the Annual
Implementation Reviews and on the key actions was obtained at negotiations.
G.    Procurement
3.62         Bid packages for equipment amounting to more than US$125,000 would be procured
under contracts awarded following interrational competitive bidding procedures, in accordance with
"Guidelines for Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits," dated May 1992. Bid packages for
works for BNA's housing in an aggregate amount equivalent to US$850,000, and goods with an estimated
value below US$125,000, per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to US$400,000, would be
procured under contracts awarded though local competitive bidding procedures, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to IDA. The aggregate limit for local competitive bidding would
be the equivalent of US$1.2 million. Small contracts for equipment and office supplies to support project
coordination and IFBA, amounting to US$50,000 or less per contract, and up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to US$400,000, would be procured through local shopping with price quotations from at least
three local suppliers, in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA. Consulting services would be
selected in accordance with "Guidelines: Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency," dated May 1992. Under the PPF, the rehabilitation of the building to house
expatriate advisors is being procured in accordance with LCB procedures. Local competitive bidding will
allow for a faster rehabilitation of the building, which is urgently needed to house project consultants.
The contracts for rehabilitation of this building are unlikely to generate interest from companies which
are not already established in Angola. Bid packages for the rehabilitat.on of the IFBA building would
be procured following ICB procedures. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that BNA would
use World Bank Sample Bidding Documents for all international procurement of equipment and works;
and that contracts for consultants wculd be based on the World Bank Sample Form of Contract for
Consultants' Services. A summary of procurement arrangements is given in Table 3 below.



-27-
Table 3
Summary of proRosed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ Millions equivalent)
Procurement Mlvethod
Project Element             ICB             LCB             Other            NBF          Total Cost
1. Works
1.1 Buildings                  0.9            0.9                -.-             0.5             2.3
(0.8)          (0.8)              -.                              (1.6)
2. Goods
2.1 Equipment,                 0.5             0.3              0.2               -.-             1.0
Vehicles and                  (0.5)           (0.3)            (0.2)              -.-            (1.0)
Furniture
2.2 Informatics                2.1             0.1              0.2               -.-             2.4
(2.1)          (0. 1)            (0.2)                            (2.4)
3. Consultancies
3.1 Studies                     -.-             -.-              1.61             -.-             1.6
. -  - -      (1.6)              -             (1.6)
3.2 Design/                     -.0- -.-                                          -.-             0.2
Supervision                     -.-             -.-            (0.2)              -.-            (0.2)
3.3 Technical                   -.-             - -             4.8b             1.2e             6.0
Assistance                      -.-             -.-            (4.8)               .             (4.8)
3.4 Training                    -.-             -'              8.2b             0.7d             8.9
(8.2)             - -            (8.2)
4. Miscellaneous
4.1 Refinancing                 -.-             -.-              1.2              -.-             1.2
PPF                             -.-                            (1.2)              -.-            (1.2)
Total                              3.5             1.3              16.4             2.4             23.6
UJ4            (1.2)           (16.4)           -au (21,0)
Note: Figurs in parenthes  are the amounts frnanced by the IDA credit. N.B.P.: Not Bank-Thanced.
a Includea civil works for regional check clearing housa and for the Project coordination unit.
b   Service  should be selected in accordae with World Bani, GsdlhU,es: Use of Consuats by World Bank BorTwrn and
by dw World Bank as Executing Agency (Washington, D. C., Aigust 1992).
c   Includes  laries of projet gaff, local counterparts, nd supplies.
d   Includes salaries of local staff and supplies.



-28-
3.63         Procurement will be the responsibility of the Project Coordinaor and the Deputy Project
Coordinator at BNA, who will organize selection committea consiting of the relevant BNA Departments
and government agencies to review each tender offer.
3.64         IDA-financed contracts above a threshold of US$50,000 would be subject to IDA's prior
review for the first year of the Project, or until it is determined that BNA staff has sufficient experience;
at that point, a higher ceiling may be set. Under these procedures, IDA's prior review would cover
initially about 90 percent of total contracts; IDA's prior review, in any case, will be over 70 percent of
contracts in years two and three of the Project. To simplify the task of contract review, a standard letter
of invitation and contract for consultants will be prepared prior to effectiveness.
3.65         Comprehensive semi-annual reports wiJl be sent to IDA by the borrower in March and
September of each year, using a standardized reporting format, and indicating:
(a)    updated cost estimates for individual contracts and the total project;
(b)   the revised timing of procurement actions, including advertising, bidding,
contract awards, and completion time for individual contracts; and
(c)    compliance with aggregate limit on LCB.
H.    Disbursements
3.66         Disbursement under the IDA Credit would be made on the basis of categories and
percentages shown in Table 4 below. The Credit would be disbursed on the basis of fully documented
withdrawal applications except for expenses related to contracts valued at less than US$50,000 equivalent,
which would be reimbursed against Statements of Expenditures (SOEs), for which the documentation
would be retained at the office of the Project Coordinator for review by IDA supervision missions and
for annual audits. Applications for the replenishment of the Special Account also would include a bank
statement of the account transactions since the last applications, with the balance certified by the bank
holding the account. The disbursement profile reflects the experience with technical assistance projects
in Africa.



-29-
Table 4
Summary of Disbursements
Category                         Percentage Financed         Total
(1)  Civil Works                      85% of total
(a) Housing                                              0.6
(b) IFBA                                                 0.6
(2)  Goods, Vehicles and Services     100% of total
(a) BNA Informatics                                      2.8
(b) IFBA                                                 1.7
(c) Investment Financing Mechanisms                      0.9
(3)  Equipment, Vehicles, Materials
and Supplies                    100% of total            1.3
(4)  Consultants' Services and Audits    100% of total         4.6
(5)  Training                         100% of total            4.9
(6)  Refunding of Project Preparation
Facility                        100% of total            1.2
(7)  Unallocated                                               2A
TOTAL                                                         21.0
3.67         To facilitate disbursements under the PPF, BNA has opened a Special Account in Equator
Bank, which has a representative office in Luanda, and which is acceptable to IDA. A similar
arrangement will be made during project implementation. US$0.5 million equivalent would be advanced
from the IDA credit and deposited in the Special Account. That amount is estimated to cover about three
months of expenses for project expenditures, which will be paid out of the Special Account.
I.    Accounting. Auditing and Reporting
3.68         The Project Coordinator would maintain separate accounts for the IDA credit. These
accounts would be subdivided into expenditures for each component.  During negotiations, the
Government gave assurances that (i) IDA project accounts, including disbursements against SOEs, and
the Special Account will be audited annually by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA, and that the
audit report will be sent to IDA by June 30, of each year, beginning in 1993; (ii) the Project Director
will submit to IDA semi-annual reports on project implementation, including procurement information
and expenditures by March 31 and September 30 of each year, beg.,ning in 1993; and (iii) a Project
Completion Report will be submitted to IDA within six months of the Closing Date of the IDA Credit.



-30-
J.     Project Supervision
3.69          Given the multi-component nature of the Project, requiring specialized follow-up and
involving important institution-building efforts, project supervision input by Bank staff is expected to be
above average in the early stages of project impler'icntation. The organizational structure of the Project,
which includes an experienced expatriate administrator, will facilitate project implementation and
supervision. To ensure a clear understanding of project implementation requirements, a manual has been
prepared and will be finalized with the Angolan counterparts during the a project launch workshop in
October 1992. The workshop will include sessions on procurement and disbursement under IDA-financed
projects.



-31-
IV. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.    Project Benefit
4.1           An efficient, broadly-based financial sector vwith an effective banking system at its core
is necessary for the development of a market-based economy. At present, financial policies and financial
institutions are very new in Angola. The Project aims at laying the groundwork for the development of
a financial system in Angola which will facilitate the mobilization of savings and their investment in
productive uses. The Project will be the first vehicle for the Bank's dialogue with the Government on
financial sector issues. The establishment of sound financial institutions, support for strengthening the
banking profession, improvements in the legal and regulatory environment, and the effective supervision
and surveillance of financial institutions by BNA and the Ministry of Finance will increase confidence
in the banking system and facilitate the process of intermediation.
4.2           The Project is expected to contribute significantly to the establishment of the Angolan
financial system. On-going or planned policy reforms will facilitate the liberalization of the financial
system. However, the institutional strengthening and infrastructure arrangements required to allow the
system to benefit from the reforms have only now begun to be put in place. This will constitute a major
constraint to the system's development, as it takes considerable time for training and institutional
strengthening to show results. Nevertheless, the technical assistance and training to be provided under
the Project would benefit the financial sector irrespective of the pace or deta.led features of the reform
program.
4.3           Through the improved operation of financial institutions, the Project would contribute to
a better mobilization of financial resources, higher financial savings rate, and an improved allocation of
resources to productive activities along efficiency and profitability criteria. It would thereby help the
restructuring of the economy by making financial resources available to the most profitable activities.
4.4          It is widely recognized that the liberalization of financial systems places increased
demands on the legal and regulatory system for financial institutions. The absence of information and
the weakness in the legal administration is one of the key bottlenecks for the development of financial
transactions. Improvements in the dissemination of laws affecting the system, and in the operation of the
registries and notaries to be financed under the proposed Credit will assist in this area. The Project will
assist in the development of the regulatory framework for the insurance sector, thereby helping to ensure
transparent management, which, in turn, would increase the trust by the local population. It would also
assist in building up the supervision agency in the Ministry of Finance, thereby helping to overcome the
problem of a lack of qualified staff.
4.5           Finally, the improvements in the accounting and audit framework to be assisted under the
Project are indispensable to the further development of the financial system and the economy as a whole.
The improvements in the framework would help to bring Angolan standards in line with international ones
in the coming years. They would improve significantly the transparency and reliability of financial data
as well as to help decision making by investors. An improved financial disclosure framework would also
be highly beneficial for promotion of direct foreign investment in Angola.
B.    project Risks
4.6           First, there are risks associated with the slow implementation capability of a new member
with a weak human resource capacity. BNA staff, led by a Project Coordinator and Deputy Project



-32-
Coordinator, both of whom hold senior positions in the institution, have demonstrated the ability to carry
out a number of tasks associated with implementation during project preparation. Because of the work
load that the Project will generate, the Project Coordinator and the Deputy Project Coordinator will be
assisted by an experienced consultant, who will support the Angolan management in the administrative
and aspects of the Project, and provide support on procurement work. Moreover, the Bank has created
an implementation manual containing sample bidding documents, which has been distributed already to
the Angolan counterparts, and has also scheduled a project launch mission for October 1992. A furthc
risk is related to the possibility that a new government after the elections in September 1992 may not fully
agree with the objectives and scope of the Project. This risk is small, given the consensus among the
major political parties about the general direction of economic reform and the non-controversial nature
of the Project, with its focus on institution building. Experience elsewhere in Africa shows that
governmental changes have not affected materially projects aimed at institutional development and
capacity building.
4.7           Another set of issues relates to the speed of macroeconomic reforms. Reforms in the
financial sector, and therefore the long-term success of the program, will depend on reforms in the
macroeconomic framework, which could be delayed for political reasons. The Bank will use its lending
program to keep Angola on the reform course. Experience during project preparation has demonstrated
that the authorities appear willing to discuss key issues in the financial sector; technical assistance under
this operation will thus permit the bank to expand its dialogue on sector issues.
4.8           Another risk concerns the speed at which BNA and other project institutions can be built
up in light of the scarcity of qualified staff and the time required to implement thorough institutional
development programs. The introduction of modern banking concepts and related technology will test
the absorptive capacities of the institutions involved. In this respect, it should be recognized that
institution building will be a long-term process which will require the commitment from both policy
makers and managers of the relevant institutions. This Project will provide assistance for the first phase
of the modernization program of the financial system.



-33-
V. AQJtEZNN7 TO BE EAC  AND RCONDATONS
5. 1         DDuring N 1otatlons. the Government has given asurancM that it will:
(i)       apply IDA's guidelines for the procurement of civil works and
goods, and for the selection of consultants; use World Bank Sample
Bidding Documents for all international procurement of equipment
and works; and use World Bank Sample Contract for Consultants
(para. 3.62);
(ii)      open, 30 days after Credit effectiveness, and maintain in a
commercial bank an account (the Project Account) in d currency
acceptable to IDA, and maintain in this account an initial deposit
equivalent to US$250,000 to finance its contribution to the Project
(para. 3.56);
(iii)     have the Project accounts, including disbursements against Statements
of Expenditures (SOEs) and the Special Account, audited annually t.y
an independent auditor acceptable to IDA, beginning in 1993; (para.
3.68) and furnish to IDA audit reports, not later than six months
after the end of the fiscal year.
(iv)      submit to IDA semi-annual reports on project implementation,
including procurement information, and expenditures by March 31
and September 30 of each year, beginning in 1993, and a Project
Completion Report within six months of the Closing Date of the
Credit (paras. 3.66 and 3.68);
(v)       use the rehabilitated L2 building exclusively to house consultants
employed under the Project, and use the L4 building exclusively for
IFBA (para. 3.22);
(vi)      provide necessary information and participate in annual project
implementation reviews to be conducted by BNA and the WorLd
Bank staff to monitor progress in project execution; update the
Project timetable; identify implementation issues that may have
arisen; and find appropriate solutions (phra. 3.61);
(vii)    establish criteria by May 31, 1993, for the award of the long-term
fellowships; assign staff receiving long-term fellowships abroad
financed by the Project to positions where acquired skills will be put
to use, and require such staff to commit themselves to working for
a period two times the duration of the training period (para. 3.20);
(viii)    assign BNA staff to work with project consultants In the informatics
component in a ratio of two local staff to one consultant, and submit
a yearly draft informatics program and budget for approval by IDA
(paras. 3.14 and 3.15);



-34-
5.2           The following are Conditions of Disbursement for specific items under the Credit:
(i)       complete the Information Systems Strategic Plan (ISSP) prior to
disbursement for the equipment, training and technical assistance
associated with the information systems development program of
BNA (para. 3.12);
(ii)      legally establish IFBA prior to disbursement for the rehabilitation of
the physical installations, consultants' services, equipment and
vehicles for the institute (para. 3.29);
(iii)     restructure CAP and appoint qualified staff prior to disbursement for
technical assistance training and associated equipment (para. 3.50).
5.3           Prior to Effectiveness of the Credit, the Government will:
(i)      appoint an Interagency Committee to advise and provide guidance on
policy issues and overall project coordination (para. 3.61);
(ii)     sign with BNA an Administration Agreement for the transfer of
Credit funds to BNA (para. 3.57).
5.4           Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the Project constitutes a suitable
basis for an IDA credit of SDR14.8 million (US$21 mil!ion equivalent) to the People's Republic
of Angola.



Annex 1.1
Page 1 of S
ANGOLA - FINANCIAL INSIllONS MODERNIZATION PROQEC[
Statement of Financial Sector Reform
Background
1.           At the end of 1987, the Government of Angola began to implement a series of
institutional reforms intended to transform the economy into a market-oriented system, in which private
sector investment is expected to play a significant role. Among other measures, these reforms included
a substantial devaluation of the kwanza; the remonetarization of wages and the elimination of payments
in kind to civil servants; and, a reduction of price controls and privatization of some smali public
enterprises. At the same time, interest rates were increased and other monetary policy instruments, such
as the establishment of mandatory reserves, were introduced.
2.            Among the reforms that were begun, modernization of the financial system is one of the
Government's priorities, given its importance for mobilizing savings, allocating resources,
macroeconomic stabilization and the promotion of private sector activities. In order to achieve the desired
restructuring of the financial system, the Government has begun to change the legislative framework that
governs it and has set up new institutions to operate in the new context. The Government has also
recognized the need to establish an appropriate macroeconomic structure for promoting the development
of the financial system to enable the latter to play its role in fostering sustainable growth. This structure
is being developed with the support of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank.
Financial Sector Reform
3.            The Government intends to reform the financial system by making radical changes in
certain areas to achieve adequate levels of efficiency. In the banking sector, in particular, establishing a
two-tier system and opening it to competition constitute two principles already enshrined in the recent
legislation. The elimination of the state monopoly in insurance and the opening of the sector to private
insurance companies is the strategy which, in the near future, will guide the restructuring of the sector.
So that future adjustments will be consistent with those already made, macroeconomic policies that affect
the financial sector will be designed so as to maintain price stability and encourage financial intermediation.
An important factor in this area is the setting up of positive real interest rates.
4.            As noted, the Government has already approved legislation defining the basic structure
of the banking system. Law No. 4/91 of April 20, 1991 establishes the statutes of the central bank, the
National Bank of Angola (Banco Nacional de Angola, BNA), and enumerates its responsibilities. Law
No. 5/91 of April 20, 1991 sets out the conditions governing the operations of financial institutions. To
regulate this law, the Governor of BNA issued Notice No. 01/92 of April 3, 1992 defining the terms
applicable to requests for authorizations to open and operate new banks.
Thle CeralBank
S.            Like central banks in other economies in transition, BNA is making a significant effort
to develop its capabilities so that it can perform its central banking functions, particu.arly :ts capacity to



Annex 1.1
Page 2 of 5
formulate and implement policies and supervise financial institutions through a program of technical
assistance and wide-ranging professional training. In addition, in order to attract and retain qualified
personnel, BNA is working on the prepaiation and implementation of a career development program for
central bank personnel. BNA is already receiving technical assistance and training from the IMF and the
Bank of Portugal in support of these objectives. Tbe World Bank will provide support through the
Financial Institutions Modernization Project.
6.           In order to focus on its central banking functions, BNA is reducing its involvement in
activities of a commercial nature, which previously was one of its service areas. BNA has prepared a
timetable for the gradual transfer of all its commercial banking operations to the commercial banks. This
process has begun in Luanda and will be extended to the provinces in a second phase. Since the first
phase, which began on September 1, 1991, BNA has stopped opening new client accounts, including
foreign currency accounts, and on October 1, 1991, it ceased making loans in local currency to private
sector clients.
7.           BNA has retained the accounts of the public enterprises on its books during a transitional
period given the financial and legal situation of these enterprises, which makes the commercial banks
reluctant to accept them as clients. In compliance with Government guidelines to the effect that the
banking sector should operate in strict accordance with basic banking norms and standards, and until such
time as a more comprehensive set of measures is defined for restructuring the public enterprise sector,
BNA (Commercial Area) will continue to work with this type of client. The Government will take
measures to eliminate annually from BNA's portfolio the non-performing loans resulting from this
situation. Ibis portfolio enhanment process will be one component of the settlement of accounts
between the Government and BNA, and will be made through the Treasury account in BNA. The
Government is determined not to compel the commercial banks to lend to the public enterprises. Any
BNA loans to public enterprises made on non-commercial terms will be guaranteed by the Government.
8.           In Luanda, by March 31, 1992, 20 of the 21 offices and branches of BNA had been
closed; 2 had been transferred to the BCI; and 1, to the CAP. It is expected that the process of closing
BNA branches will be concluded in 1994. Outside the province of Luanda, BNA's commercial area is
still operating 31 branches.
9.            The termination of BNA's commercial activities outside the province of Luanda and the
closure or transfer of its offices depends, however, on the timing of the expansion of activities of the
existing and new commercial banks. Elementary prudence requires that BNA not withdraw its services
from regions not served by any other institution.
10.          The Government may grant incentives to encourage commercial banks to operate, to
acceerate the geogphical dispersion of the existing and new commercial banks, especially into certain
areas in which banking services must be mraintained during the economic recovery period, despite the lack
of any significant commercial activity. BNA is also studying measures to promote this dispersion of
banking operations by establishing guidelines (on location) when authorization is given to open new bank
branches.
11.          At the same time, as regards banking services in rural areas, the Government will
encourage the establishment of rural savings and loan associations of the type found in many African
countries. Under its statutes, BNA alone will be responsible for supervising these institutions and will



Annex 1.1
Page 3 of 5
if necessary issue pertinent regulations, taking into account the size of the institutions and the nature of
their activities, particularly to guarantee the security of rural savings deposits.
12.          The Government is firmly committed to establish an effective two-tier banking system
within a reasonable period.
13.          In this context, it is expected that in 1994, in addition to its Luanda headquarters, BNA
will retain only about five offices in the principal geographic regions of Angola to carry out its central
banking functions. BNA will negotiate the transfer of all its remaining branches to the commercial banks.
14.          BNA will also continue to reduce its international commercial banking activities; it has
begun to allocate foreign exchange to the existing commercial banks, which on this basis are issuing
letters of credit and other foreign payments instruments. This process will be refined in line with the
growth of competitiveness in the banking sector and BNA's increased efficiency in the management of
foreign assets.
15.          The final step in this process of banking system reform - the cessation of BNA's foreign
commercial operations - will largely depend on the solutions found to Angola's current foreign exchange
crisis, on the growth and consolidation of banking operators, and on implementation of an integrated
program to strengthen key sectors of BNA. BNA is undertaking a series of actions with a view to
ceasing to issue letters of credit by the end of 1993 at he latest.
Establishment of New Banking Institutions
16.          In addition to approving legislation authorizing a two-tier banking system, in 1991 the
Goverment also set up three financial institutions, all of which are now operational. The first two are
commercial banks, Bank of Savings and Credit (Banco de Poupanga e Cr6dito, BPC), and Bank of
Commerce and Industry (Banco de Comercio e Industria, BCI). The third Institution is the Agriculture
and Fisheries Credit Fund (Caixa de Credito Agropecuaria e Pescas - CAP).
17.          Under the legislation already approved, the Government will continue its gradual
withdrawal from commercial banking operations, and will take steps to turn over the participations it now
holds to economic agents with experience in providing banking services. To this end, the statutory basis
of the existing commercial banks would be revised as necessary, to remove any obstacles to the process
that has been started.
18.           Contacts and discussions have begun with a view to finding partners with technical skills
and recognized merits, to reduce the Government's present involvement in the commercial banks. To
this end, negotiations began in July 1992 on the first phase of the privatization of BPC (observing the
provisions of Law No. 20/91 of October 18, 1991, which stipulates the sale of 40% of the capital held
by the Governrment). The revaluation of BPC's assets, required by the privatization process, is already
under way. The second phase of privatization, which is expected to start during the current year, will
take into account the decision by the Permanent Committee of the Council of Ministers on December 3,
1991, regarding the requitement of public competition in respect of acquisitions of participations in the
capital of financial institutions. It is anticipated that the privatization of BCI will be started and completed
during 1993. In line with these projections, the Government intends to complete the process of
privatizing financial institutions by the end of 1993.



Annex 1.1
Page 4 of 5
19.          In addition to strengthening and privatizing the commercial banks, the Govermment also
intends to transform the CAP so that it can provide long-term financing for directly productive activities
which, during the period of economic transition, would probably not be financed by the commercial
banks. The Government is considering a number of options, such as conversion of the CAP into an
autonomous fund, with resources provided from the budget or by foreign donors, to finance specific
development activities. The final decision on the future of the CAP will be taken following the
conclusion of studies to be undertaken for this purpose, as part of the objectives of the technical assistance
planned in the Financial Institutions Modernization Project. Meanwhile, immediate action will be taken
to inrtiqte the prucess of transferring deposit accounts in the CAP to the existing commercial banks.
20.           Opening the banking system to private national and foreign investors is also seen by the
Government as a way of enhancing competition and efficiency in the sector. Therefore, the laws and
regulations already approved, as well as any further legislation that may be necessary, will not impose
specific discriminatory restrictions on foreign operators, whether as regards subsidiaries, branches of the
respective parent company or shareholders in the existing banks. Until the currency is stabilized, the
foreign banks will be authorized to convert their capital at a parallel rate, and consideration is being given
to their being authorized to keep part of their capital in foreign exchange, probably as a function of their
foreign commitments. Also under study is the possibility of issuing of an addendum to Notice No. 1/92,
concerning the procedure for converting the minimum capital required (US$4.5 million) for establishing
financial institutions; although this requirement will continue to be denominated in local currency, the
addendum would specify that the amount in question would be the local counterpart of foreign currency
transferred at the floating market rate on the date of the operation. The law on foreign investment which
permits the repatriation of dividends will be applied to the commercial banks.
21.           Responding to the principles of the Government's sector policy, a number of foreign
financial institutions have already submitted requests to establish branches in Angola. From among these,
dossiers have aiready teen prepared in respect of three Portuguese banks, and the Government is
committed to authorizing the opening of these branches by the end of the current year.
22.           The introduction and application to all banks, of prudential norms is required for the
banking system to function properly and perform effectively. In addition, if the banking system is to be
opened up and developed, the regulatory and supervisory functions need substantial strengthening, which
it is hoped would be achieved in part through implementation of the Financial Institutions Modernization
Project.
23.           Although short and medium-term efforts are focusing on upgrading the existing banking
system, the Government will encourage the establishment in the near future of a full-service private bank
with experience in investment financing. Should this bank also come to participate in the management
of specific-purpose government funds, consideration could be given to making it responsible for managing
the CAP when the latter is turned into a fund.
24.          'lhe Government intends to initiate exploratory contacts with certain institutions - such
as Portugal's Banco de Fomento e Exterior, the European Investment Bank and the International Finance
Corporation - in order to assess the feasibility and desirability of such a step.



Annex 1.1
Page 5 of S
Upgrading of the Insurance Sector
25.           Like banking, the insurance sector must be thoroughly restructured in order to introduc9
proper levels of competition and efficieiucy. The Government also intends to encourage diversification
of the products offered so as to invigorate the insurance market and modernize the financial system in
general.
26.           The General Law on Insurance Activities will shortly be presented to the Council of
Ministers for discussion and approval and is expected to come into force during the first half of 1993.
The opening of the insurance market to national and foreign operators and the disappearance of the state
monopoly will be the basic features of this law, which will also make reference to the agencies whose
subsequent task will be to regulate the matters mentioned and undertake other activities stemming from
the law.
27.           Recent preliminary studies made as part of the preparatory work for the Financial
Institutions Modernization Project indicate the difficulties which, given the lack of experience and scarcity
of resources, will be encountered both with regard to the establishment of a competent agency tO regulate
and supervise future activities and the necessary restructuring of the existing insurance company (ENSA).
The lack of specialists with adequate knowledge at many different levels also highlights the current
weakness of the sector.
28.           A series of actions, ranging from professional training to the preparation of specific
regulations, and designed to restructure insurance activities, is planned as part of the technical assistance
included in the Financial Institutions Modernization Project.
C~oncl us ions
29.           The action program set out above is evidence of the Government's determination to
establish conditions in which an effective restructuring of the financial system can be achieved; this will
contribute to the recovery of the economy, to the mobilization and productive use of private sector
savings and to a substantial improvement in the management of public savings.
30.           However, the ongoing reform program is part of a complex process resulting from the
interaction of a number of different variables, acting at times in opposite directions; preeminent among
these is Angola's present economic situation and, more particularly, the foreign exchange crisis.
31.           Furthermore, although the measures already taken have introduced a new vigor into the
activities of economic agents, the enormous difficulties stemming from the current lack of an adequate
number of qualified and experienced specialists still have to be overcome.
32.           In conclusion, it should be pointed out that, in the context of an economy undergoing
restructring after a long period of instability, assistance and support from the international community
will play an important role in bolstering the Government's efforts to achieve the targets set out in the
reform program outlined above.



ANGOLA - FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Consumer Price Inflation
35
30
25
*20
15
~15
5 
0                                                                I     I     I      I     I   iI
c ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ I ,    _I _J _I _                                                              C_d_         s f
a ,    X  X *      0  0        0 c          0     0      0     0     e     0      0     0     0
C | L0                                                                                  5L.t h<Z
-5                                                                                                             OQ  .0.S 60
0  U
0.



Annex 2.2
Pop 1 of 5
Main Features of the Bankj5gystem
Dominance of National Bank of An&ola (BNA)
1.            As is the case with most monobanks, BNA's dominance of the system was pronounced
before beginning the refor-m of the banking system. At the end of 1990, BNA accounted for 99.5 percent
of domestic credit, 76 percent of deposits and 87 percent of asets, which totalled NKz 655 billion. Even
after the establishment of the three financial institutions, PNA's positionremained considerable, especially
with respect to credit extension. Thus, at the end of 1991, BNA accounted for 98 percent of domestic
credit, 58 percent of deposits and 87 percent Of assets, which are provisionally estimated to have
approached the level of NKz 1,700 billion. At the enJ4 of 1991, BNA's credits totalled about NKz 669
billion, of which 87 percent were extended to the Government, 9 percent, to public enterprises and only
5 percent, to the private sector. Even if the credits which were outstanding in the books of the
Commercial Area of the BNA at the end of 1991, which stood at NKz 44 billion (of which NKz 31
billion were to the private sector and Nkz 13 billion to public enterprises), had been transferred to the
commercial banks, BNA would still have accounted for 91 percent of domestic credit at year end. This
reflects the excessive dependencts of the Government on BNA for financing its large budget deficit.
ExcessLig9Nk
2.            At present, the two commercial banks operate in 8 out of Angola's 18 provinces. Bank
of Savings and Credit (Banco de Poupanga e Cr6dito, BPC) operates 18 branches and 13 sub-branches
in 8 provinces, employs a staff of 710 and had total assets of NKz 137 billion at the end 1991. BCI
operates three branches in Luanda, has a staff of 110 and total assets of more than NKz 76 billion ct the
end of 1991. The combined growth and performance of the two banks in 1991 is summarized' in Tables
I and 2 below. Although customer deposits increased by 123 percent and assets, by 150 percent during
1991, the commercial banking system contracted in real terms, since the rate of inflation during the year
exceeded those levels.
3.           In view of the limited opportunidiee for lending in local currency, the commercial banks
have been very liquid. At the end 1991, the banbs aggregate loan portfolios fell short of NKz 15 billion,
equival6at to only 7 percent of assets. The bulk of the Li,,s' assets took the form of deposits with BNA,
which totalled NKz 150 billion at year end, equivalent to 90 percent of customer deposits. Only a portion
of the banks' balances with BNA are required reserves, which are currently set at 20 percent of curreut
and term deposits and are unreerated. In the past, both re uired and excess reserves with BNA
earned no interest. Given the limited investment opportunities  present, BNA recently decided to begin
paying interest on the banks' excess reserves at the rate of 11 percent per annum, thereby increasing the
banks' future net interest income. Effectively, BNA will sell the banm the new 11 percent bonds being
issued to it by the Treasury.
Caix do Cidto Agopecudris * P1m. (CAP) ha beeo eclded fom the above abmlyms boo... is Ia a oo_mIa
banu and ibs opmdou an limitd. It nploys aff of 37 uad opoA ou of its badqwutm in LuandJ. At dX and
of 1991, i had wltomw depost of NKz 6,276 million, loum of NKz 6E4 miland Manea of NKz 7,095 milon.
AlhouSh its omutomsr depoit rohed Xt level of NKz 10,977 millDi2 by May 20. 1992. its loan pofolio   _ ony
NKz 737 million. lb bulk of CAP'ases consisted of deposa with DNA, which amounted to NXz 6,595 min an
May 20, 1992.



Annex 2.2
Page 2 of S
LonPgrtfolios
4.            As mentioned earlier the banks' lending is exclusively in local currency. At the end of
1991, the banks' loan portfolios were equivalent to only 9 percent of customer deposits. Short-term loans
and advances account for almost four-fifths of the banks' loan portfolios, while medium and long-term
loans (i.e. loans in excess of one year) account for the remainder. About two-thirds of the short-term
lending goes to finance trade and commerce with the bulk of the rema,nder going to the industrial,
agricultural and transport sectors. Term financing is more evenly distributed among the sectors, with 21
percent accounted by car purchases, 15 percent by housing, 15 percent by trade and commerce, and 10
percent for each of agriculture, fishing and services, and 6 percent for each of industry and transport.
Even though during the first quarter of 1992 the banks' loan portfolios increased at a faster rate than their
customer deposits (i.e. by 55 percent as compared with 44 percent for customer deposits), the banks'
loans to deposits ratio was still a meager 9 percent at the end of March 1992.
Changing Composition of Customer Deposits
5.            At the end of 1990, about 94 percent of BPC's customer deposits came from the private
sector and more than 62 percent of total deposits were term deposits. During 1991, the composition of
the banks' customer deposits changed significantly due to two main factors: the inflationary pressures and
the entry of a new commercial bank offering faster and better services to its clients. The inflationary
pressures and the increasingly negative real interest rates, resulted in a major shift in deposits from term
accounts to current or savings accounts. Thus, at the end of 1991, term deposits accounted for only 8
percent of total customer deposits, with demand deposits accounting for 45 percent and savings accounts,
for 47 percent. The creation of Bank of Commerce and Industry (Banco de Com6rcio e Industria, BCI)
resulted in a significant increase in public sector deposits in both absolute and relative terms. At the end
of 1991, public sector deposits with commercial banks approached the level of NKz 44 billion, equivalent
to 26 percent of total customer deposits. By the end of March 1992, public sector deposits increased
urffier to about NKz 79 billion, equivalent to almost 33 percent of the banks' customer deposits.
Undercapitalization
6.            At the end of 1990, BPC's net worth was equal to only 1.5 percent of its assets. Article
20 of Law 5/91 requires that the capital and reserves of financial institutions (including branches of
foreign institutions) be at least equal to 10 percent of the institutions risk assets, but does not provide a
formula for the calculation of risk assets. At the end of 1991, the aggregate net worth of BPC and BCI
exceeded NKz 15 billion. This is equivalent to 7.15 percent of their total assets, and more than 10
percent of their risk assets, if their deposits with BNA are considered risk-free assets. However,
revaluation reserves (or tier two capital) accounted for about 68 percent of the banks' net worth at the
end of 1991. Consequently, if the Basle capital adequacy requirements were to be applied to the Angolan
banks, the inadequacy of their primary or liquid capital (or tier one capital) would become apparent. Ihe
pressure on the banks to increase their liquid capital will intensify with the growth of their risk assets (i.e.
their loan portfolios as well as their off-balance sheet assets).
7.            Although BCI started operations only on July 1, 1991, the two commercial banks
recorded a combined profit of NKz 2,981 million for 1991. This is equivalent to a return of around 2
percent on average total assets and about 36 percent on average net worth (or to 95 percent if revaluation



Anmax 2.2
Page 3 of 5
reserves are excluded). Given the small size of the banks' loan portfolios and the fact that balances at
dNA (both required and excess reserves) were unremunerated in 1991, net interest income accounted for
only 26 percent of the banks' operating income (or gross earnings margin). Actually, net interest income
did not cover operating costs in full. The bulk (i.e. about 70 percent) of the banks' operating income,
or NKz 3,389 million, consisted of foreign exchange income. This substantial windfall was the result
of BNA's policy of allowing the two banks to maintain positive net foreign exchange posidons. 'he
banks derived abnormal profits because of the substantial devaluation starting n November 1991.
However, without the abnormal net foreign exchange income, the banks would have recorded a combined
loss of NKz 408 million in 1991. More importantly, it shou'd be noted that although the Government
has in principle transformed the 'monobanking" system into a two-tier system, in practice the system is
not much different from that of 'monobanking". Until all foreign exchange operations with customers
are transferred from BNA to the banks, Angola will not have a well functioning two-tier banking system.



Annex 2.2
Page 4 of S
Table I
Argreiated Balance Sheet of the Commercial Banks in Angola. 1990/91
(in millions of kwanzas)
End                    End
Alsets
Cash                                                     1,239                  6,137
Balances with the Central Bank                          75,946                150,319
Items fbr collection                                        47                  7,184
Due from banks                                                                  7, 95
Current accouts                                           (-)                 (2,954)
Margins on L/Cs                                           (-)                   (175)
Term deposits                                             (-)                 (4,066)
Loan portfblio                                           2,136                 14,688
Short-trm                                              (1,546)               (11,659)
Medium & long-term                                      (405)                 (2,804)
Other debtors                                           (185)                  (225)
Equity investments                                          29                     29
Fixed assets (net)                                         128                 10,696
Order and regularization accounts                       5.742                  12.388
Total Assets                                            85,267                213,636
Liabilities
Deposits                                                75,153                167,726
Public sector                                          (4,741)               (43,759)
Private sector                                        (70,412)              (123,967)
Other liabilities                                        2,680                 21,037
Provisions                                                 199                    680
Order and regularization accounts                       5L2 924,911
Total Liabilides                                        83,956                198,354
Capil                                                      267                  1,267
Revaluation reserves                                         -                 10,323
Other reserves                                             870                    711
Profit for the year                                        174                  L2B.
Net Worth                                                1,311                 15,282
Total Liabilities & Not .jt. rh                         85,267                213,636
*    Thn  Wm caetd of oly one bank, DMC (z-Bmo Popuka de Anla) n 1990, and tw bank, inchadips DcI in
1991.
Source: Derivar from information obtained from the banks.



Annex 2.2
Page 5 of 5
Table2
Aggregated Income Statement of the Conunercial Banks in Angola for 1991
(in millioas of kwanzas)
Interest Income                                                  2,067
Interest Cost                                                      799
Net Interest Income                                              1,268
Commission Income                                                  173
Net Foreign Exchange Income                                      3,389
Other Operating Income                                              S2
Gs   Earnings Margin                                             4,882
Operating Costs                                                  1,322
Staff costs                                                     (952)
ftcvr operating costs                                            (M
Net Earnl&; Margin                                               3,560
other Costs                                                        579
Depreciation costs                                               (97)
Provisions for bad debts                                         NM
Profit for the Year                                              2,981
*     Includirg two banks, BPC (ex-Banco Popular de Angola) and BCI, whici. wu etablished in March 1991.
Source: Derived from information obtained from the banks.



Annax 2.3
Page I of 1
AN- LA - FiNANCIAL INSTITUTIONS MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Angzola: Mono=ar Survey
Billions of NKz
1986    1987     1988    1989    1990    1991
Net Foreign Asit                 -18.5    10.5       9.2     6.9     6.8      0.3
Net Domestic Credit              265.1   274.0    318.7   389.4  418.3   450.4
Government (Net)                158.3   227.9   274.3   326.5   373.7   349.3
Non-government                  106.8    46.2     44.5    62.9   44.6   101.1
Total                                     284.5    327.9   396.3  425.2   450.7
Wide money (M2)                  220.3   263.7    317.1   370.8   289.6   40'.2
Currency in circulation         92.3   117.0    137.4   151.9   21.8   111.5
Demand deposits                  128    133.0    167.4   185.3   161.8   203.3
Time deposits                            13.7      12.3    33.6   51.7    27.3
Compulsory securities                                              54.5    59.1
Medium/Long-term Foreign                   0.7      0.4      0.8     3.3    24.1
Liabilities
Other items net                   26.4    20.1      10.4    24.7   132.2    25.4
Wide money (M2A)                 220.3   263.7    317.1   370.8  235.3   342.1
Money (MI)                       220.3   250.0    304.8   337.2   183.6   314.8
GDP (interpolated)               196.3   203.4    223.8   254.3   327.7
% of Interpolated GDP                           Percent 
M2                              112.2   129.7    141.7   145.8   88.4
M2A                             112.2   129.7    141.7   145.8   71.8
Currency                        47.0    57.5      61.4    59.7    6.7
Domestic credit                  135.0   134.7    142.4   153.2   127.7
Domestic (Government)            80.6   112.1    122.6   128.4   114.1
Credit (Non-government)          54.4    22.7      19.9    24.7    13.6
NOTE: 1983-86 uses different methodology especially for Net Foreign Assets and Credit to
Non-government. Data for 1991 are for November.
*      Not including frozen "compulsory' securities



Annex 2.4
Page 1 of 4
Summar of Basic BankingLelalo
1. Central Bank Statutes (Lei Orgdnica do Banoo Nacional de Angola. BNA)
Overview
I.            The legal framework for the operations of BNA, the central bank, is contained in Law
No. 4/91 of April 20, 1991. These statues establish (i) BNA's level of capital (NKz 1 billion) and
reserves, (i) its right to issue money, (iii) its general functions, (iv) its relations with financial institutions
and the State, (v) its international relations, (vi) its internal organizational structure and administrative
procedures, and (vii) its accounts and balances.
2.            In addition to issuing money and acting as the State's only banker, the BNA executes
monetary and exchange policies and coordinates these markets. The BNA manages external reserves;
acts as the intermediary for the State's interuational financial relations; oversees the stability of the
financial system; acts as the lender of last resort; compiles monetary statistics; manages external debt;
and prepares the national balance of payments.
3.            General N     s - The BNA may issue securities in its own name and for its own account,
and may purchase, sell or negotiate them with the public. It may not, however, engage in certain
operations such as:
(a)    rediscounting securities from the commercial portfolio of financial institutions for
a period greater than six months;
(b)    lending to financial institutions for a period of greater than three months;
(c)    promoting the establishment of financial institutions;
(d)    owming real estate other than that needed to carry out Its essential functions; and
(e)    providing risk insurance.
4.            The restrictions on the term  of instruments that the DNA  can employ in market
itrerventions may in the future limit the central bank's ability to carry out its monetary policy functions,
such as through repurchase agreements.
5.            Relatigns with Financial Institutions - The BNA has the authority to supervise financial
istitutions, ecsure their solvency and liquidity, as well as open account and accept deposits from them.
'he BNA may constitute requirements for mandatory reserves and liquid asets based on financial
institutions' deposits and other liabiities. In addidon, the BNA may asess monetary penalides for non-
compliance.  The central bank may also establish operational pgidines regarding interest rates,
matrities, commissions, as well as implementing financial ratios relating to the financial institutions'
ar.%s, liabities and guarantees. With institutions that maintain accounts with the BNA, the central bank
may purchase, sell, discount, and rediscount:



Annex 2.4
Page 2 of 4
(a)    bills and promissory notes falling due within six months;
(b)    publicly issued treasury bonds and other instruments issued or guaranteed by the
State, falling due within one year; and
(c)   instruments issued by the BNA.
6.           Relations with the State - The BNA may extend credit to the Government in an amount
up to 10 percent of the latter's receipts, by transferring negotiable, interest-bearing public debt
instruments. The BNA may purchase and trade with the public instruments issued or guaranteed by the
Goverrnment. The Government may not borrow beyond a percentage of receipts to be defined by the
Council of Ministers; however, if it appears that the limit established by the Council of Ministers will
be exceeded, the central bank must make a report to the Council of Ministers regarding both the causes
and remedies for the situation. Stricter limits should be placed on the Government's ability to draw on
automatic advances from the BNA. Moreover, the Ministry of Finance, not the BNA, should be charged
with making the report if the Govermnent is overdrawing its limit.
7.                    1         - The BNA manages the country's international reserves, for which
It may discount instruments in its portfolio, as well as regulate and supervise the operation of non-
financial institutions in such markets. The BNA may purchase and trade gold, foreign exchange,
Government obligations and other instruments with institutions abroad.
8.           Inteal O ational Structur - The Governor of the BNA presides over the Board of
Directors, which is composed of an unspecified number of Vice Governors and five Directors. The
Governor and Vice Governors are sppointed by the President of the Republic, while the Directors are
appointed by the Council of Ministers. To allow more central bank independence, however, several
changes are necessary. The Governor should be appointed to a fixed and renewable term, such as the
five-year term stipulated for the Directors, and should be removable only by a sizeable majority vote of
Parliament. Terms of Board members should be lengthened to between 8-14 years, and should be
staggered to ensure that Board members are not all replaced at once.
9.           Votes in the Board of Directors are implemented by a majority, although the Governor
has a special 'casting' vote. Under Article 63, the Governor can also postpone the enforceability of any
Board decision for 30 days. The Governor should have no veto power, but should direct staff and set
the tone of the institution, with decisions being implemented only by consensus.
H. Legislative and Regullatory Frwnework of Bank SuRervision: Lei das Instituic8es Financeiras
10.          Mt. basic legal authority for banking operations in Angola is contained in the Law of
Finana Insdltitons, Law No. 5/91 of April 20, 1991. Only financial institutions - defined as banking
nsttio, special crodit institutions and parabanking institutions - may carry out credit and other
bking functis, with the exception of the Government when acting through specialized institutions.
The law asigns a contrl role to the National Bank of Angola (BNA) with respect to supervising the
aciviies of financl institutions and defiing operational norms. ITe power to authorize the operations



Annex 2.4
Page 3 of 4
of fiinancial institutions rests with the Minister of Finance, after hearing an opinion of the Governor of
the BNA. In the case of foreign institutions, the Council of Ministers grants such authorization.
11.          The banking law comprises: (i) an enumeration of different types of financial institutions;
(ii) the criteria for establishment and incorporation of both local and foreign financial institutions,
including the delegation of authority to the BNA to set minimum capital requirements; (iii) a framework
for the internal organization of financial institutions; (iv) the constitution of operating rules, which need
to be supplemented with the subsequent definition by the BNA of specific norms; (v) the financial
inspection and supervision rights of the BNA, as well as the obligations of financial institutions regarding
external auditing, accounting, furnishing of information; and (vi) an elaboration of the enforcement
powers of the BNA, including temporary direct intervention, warnings, actions akin to cease and desist
orders and monetary penalties.
Prudential Rule
12.          The prudential regulatory framework contained in the Law of Financial Institutions is
based on the following main components:
(a)    Solvency - Financial institutions must conform to ratios still to be defined by the
BNA regarding assets, liabilities and net worth. In addition, according to
Directive No. 1/92 of April 3, 1992, commercial and investment banks must
maintain a minimum capital of NKz 2.2 billion deposited with the BNA. This
amount may be reduced up to 40 percent in the event that the bank's
headquarters is located outside Luanda, or if the bank commits itself to opening
branches in areas of the country where there are no such installations.
(b)    Capital Adegay - Capital and reserves mus. be at least 10 percent of total
amount of risk assets, but no instructions have been issued on how to measure
this.
(c)    Liquidity - Banks must coniply with rules to be defined by the BNA regarding
the composition and amount of minimum cash.
(d)    Credit Concentration Limits - For a single borrower, banks may not grant credit,
including endorsements or guarantees, in excess of 10 percent of their capital and
reserves. Credit to the top ten largest borrowers may not exceed 30 percent of
a bank's capital and reserves.
(e)    Connected Lending - Banks may not lend to managers or directors. Banks may
lend or furnish guarantees to shareholders who own more than 10 percent of the
bank's c'rporate capital only if justified and with prior notification to the BNA.
(f)    Ownership of Non-financial Enterprises - The BNA will define limits on the
direct or indirect ownership of shares by banks of non-financial enterprises, as
well as the acquisition of obligations, whether or not convertible into shares,
issued by such enterprises.
(g)    Issuance of Debt Obligations - Tle BNA is empowered to authorize the issuance
of debt obligations by financial institutions.



Annex 2.4
Page 4 of 4
(h)   Investment in Real Estate - Banks may not invest in or possess real estate that Is
not essential to their operations, except that which results from non-payment of
their loans, in which case banks must divest themselves of such property within
two years.
(i)    Comnpulsory External Auditing - Banks are required to undergo an external audit
once every three years, or whenever required by the BNA. The periodicity
should be changed to a yearly basis in the regulations.
0)    Supervision - Banks are subject to the supervision of the BNA, which may
inspect books, records, documents or any other items it deems necessary.
(k)    Special Powers - If a bank's condition were such as to impair its smooth
functioning or to disturb that of the money, financial or exchange markets, the
BNA may intervene by:
(i)     suspending directors and appointing new management or a management
commission;
(ii)     granting temporary exemptions from compliance requirements;
(iii)     arranging for appropriate financial support; and
(iv)     freezing assets of the directors.
(1)    Duration of Intervention - The BNA would establish the duration of intervention,
during which the appointed management or management commission may take
any measures designed to rectify the situation, including freezing deposits for up
to two years.
(m)   Enforcement Powers - The BNA has the following punitive powers in addition
to those mentioned above:
(i)     give warnings;
(ii)     impose fines up to NKz 1 million;
(iii)     prohibit temporarily or permanently the performance of certain functions;
(iv)      require financial institutions to be jointly and severally responsible for
fines assessed on their directors, managers, employees, or consultants
Rules Which Need to Be Issued lbrough BNA Directives
13.          The Law on Financial Institutions lacks some fundamental aspects of prudential rules
which need to be issued through BNA directives. These areas include instructions regarding: (i) asset
classification, (ii) provisioning policy, and (iii) interest suspension policy.



Annex 3.1
Page 1 of 2
ANGOLA - FINANCIAL INSMITUTONS MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Main Technical Assistance and Training Activities
Summary Description of First Year Tasks
Strengthening BNA Information Systems
Assistance to Informatics Directorate on System Analysis/Planning Methods
1.           The objectives of this consulting assignment are fourfold: (i) to introduce a system
analysis methodology at DOR and (if available) supporting software; (ii) to train Informatics staff in the
methodology; (iii) to develop a plan and methodology for directorate-level information requirements
studies; (iv) to test the above methodology in the Informatics Directorate (DOR), and refine and document
the methodology; and (e) to introduce system developmentJtesting/maintenance methodology and at DOR
recommend supporting software.
Assistance to Informatics Committee
2.           The objectives of this consulting assignment are threefold: (i) to empower the Informatics
Committee (IC) of BNA through appropriate training in strategic management of informatics; (ii) to assist
the committee in making a few key policy decisions; and (iii) to create an effective secretariat function
to the committee by on-the-job training of the Informatics (DOR) Director.
Assistance for Information Systems Strategic Plan (ISSP)
3.           The objectives of the Information Systems Strategic Plan (ISSP), will be (i) to recommend
a long-term strategy for informatics development as outlined above; (ii) to develop information and data
architectures for the institution; (iii) to recommend a technology architecture; and (iv) to prepare long-
term system implementation, equipment acquisition, and staff training plans. The ISSP will be a
foundation upon which BNA's information systems will develop in an integrated, orderly manner to
support key institutional priorities.
Assistance to Prepare Information Requirements Studies
4.           The consultant will be responsible for providing technical leadership to a team of analysts
in the produ7ction of an information requirements study for each BNA directorate. The study team will
be managed by either the affected director or the DOR director, and be composed of (i) knowledgeable
Directorate staff, (ii) the consultant, (iii) a DOR systems analyst, and (iv) a DOR organizational analyst
(half time). Some of the components of each requirements study are: (i) business functions carried out
in the organizational unit; (ii) data classes required to carry out the business functions, and the source
from which those data can be obtained; (iii) critical success factors for unit management; (iv) streamlined
work and forms flow; and (v) systems requirements. This assistance is to be provided to BNA by senior
systems analysts for a period of up to eight months beginning on or about November 1, 1992.
Study on Improvements in Accountming
5.           The primary objective is to assist BNA in preparing auditable accounts (including balance
sheet, income statement, statement of sources and applications of funds, and such other subsidiary



Annex 3.1
Page 2 of 2
statements and explanatory notes as may be desirable) as at December 31, 1991. These accounts will be
audited by an external firm of auditors under separate TOR. The secondary objective is to help BNA
improve its internal access to and flow of accounts-related information, thereby facilitating the operations
of BNA departments which depend on such data.  Specific tasks to be undertaken include the
reconciliation of key accounts (short-term lines of credit from correspondent banks; foreign-exchange
deposits with correspondent banks; overall foreign-exchange position; BPC deposits in BNA; certain
accounts of Commercial Area) and recommendations for the strengthening of BNA processing (non-
coincidence of reporting data needed for preparation of monetary statistics from the Central Area and
Commercial Area).
Assistance in Developing Career Streams
6.            The objective of the consultancy would be to assist setting up the personnel management
function in the BNA. As in most socialist economies, there is no central banking tradition, and central
bank staff have no career paths. The consultancy would assist in organizing the BNA Personnel
Department, including the introduction professional development streams for BNA staff.
Banking Infrastructure: IFBA
7.            The purpose of the consultancy is to make recommendations in respect of: IFBA's
ownership and management; the training objectives and course offerings of IFBA; and the IFBA's
financial arrangements.
Establishment of Standards for Accounting and Audit
8.            While further improvements in public-sector financial management would continue to be
a priority of the Ministry of Finance, officials of the Ministry realize that a major effort is required for
the Ministry of Finance to undertake its regulatory role in respect of commercial accounting and auditing.
This effort embraces three activities for which the National Directorate of Accounting (DNC) is
responsible: accounting, auditing, and registry of accountants. Many of these activities have a direct
bearing on income tax matters and are therefore of interest to National Directorate of Taxes (DNI). The
consultancy would require the efforts of an individual to provide assistance to the Ministry of Finance
over a three-year period to establish standards for accounting, auditing, and education, examination, and
training of accountants.



Annex 3.2
Page 1 of 13
ANGOLA - FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Informatics Program
I - BNA Information Systems Program
1.           This Annex to the Staff Appraisal Report of the Financial Institutions Modernization
Project for Angola describes the informatics program of the project which comprises (1) the BNA
Information Systems Program, and (2) the Check Clearing System.
Present Situation
2.            Despite major resource constraints, weak national supply of parts and technical assistance,
long procurement lead times, and limited training opportunities for technical i:aff, BNA has made
progress over the years in the area of inforinatics.
(a)    There is growing staff awareness of the usefulness and flexibility of modern
microcomputer technology to facilitate day-do-day secretarial, analytical and
professional work.
(b)    There are on-going initiatives in several areas of the i.istitution to develop small
computer systems in support of critical internal functions.
(c)    BNA has a small cadre of resourceful analysts and programmers with some
experience in the development and maintenance of traditional computer
applications.
(d)    BNA has an aging but still functioning set of computer applications but these
support mainly its commercial operations. BNA also has a mainframe computer,
and approximately 60 microcomputers of which about half are lats models.
Obiectives
3.            To perform its role as a full-fledged central bank, BNA needs to expand substantially its
institutional capabilities during the next few years. The scope of functions such as bank supervision will
expand in tandem with the banking sector; its analytical and policy formulation capabilities in all aspects
of monetary management need to be vastly increased; its operational role as a first tier bank, coordinator
of money and credit supply and manager of foreign exchange resources, needs increasing sophistication,
speed and accuracy.
4.            The overall objective of the informatics program, therefore, is to contribute to the
development of the above capabilities by improving BNA's administration and information systems.
While computer tecl:nology can and will be used for this purpose, the emphasis of the programn is placed
not on the technology, but on the institutional improvements that can be achieved through its judicious
use.



Annex 3.2
Page 2 of 13
5.            Specifically, the following objectives will be pursued through BNA's Information Systems
(Informatics) program:
(a)    streamline and document work procedures, information flows, and information
systems of BNA directorates;
(b)   install the computer application systems needed by each of BNA's directorates
in support of their mainline business processes;
(c)    create an effective mechanism for the allocation and management of informatics
resources in the institution;
(d)    strengthen the management and modernize the work methods of the Informatics
Directorate (DOR);
(e)   improve staff skills to use and manage informatics resources;
(f)    develop a information systems strategic plan to guide BNA's informatics
activities during the duration of the project and beyond; and
(g)   increase the productivity of selected professional staff through the use of personal
computing tools.
Design Stratyg
6.            As a basic strategy, BNA's informatics program will be paced and conditioned to
institutional readiness to absorb new technology and implement administrative and managerial changes.
This strategy recognizes that:
(a)    modern  computer technology, while flexible, ubiquitous, and relatively
inexpensive, requires orderly and well-informed management to yield expected
benefits; and
(b)   investments in informatics will only be successful if BNA improves first its
management and administrative practices, informatics policies, and staff skills.
7.            Consequently, a preparatory phase (Phase 1) of the program has been designed to pursue
objectives 5(a), 5(c), 5(d), and 5(e) above, in an attempt to build up BNA's capacity to absorb
technological inputs planned for subsequent phases. Completion of Phase I should be a major landmark
in the informatics program, and technology investments and activities projected for subsequent phases
should be conditioned upon its success.
8.            More specifically, it is envisioned that two broad strategic choices would be available to
BNA depending on the outcome of Phase 1, BNA could pursue:



Annex 3.2
Page 3 of 13
(a)    an integrated informatics strategy based on common engineering design. This
strategy would facilitate the creation of integratod information systems, the
installation of homogeneous technology, and lower long-term costs. It would be
possible only if BNA is successful in achieving fully the objectives cf Phase 1;
(b)    a piecemeal informatics strategy which accommodates substantial differences in
capabilities among the various functional areas. This strategy would concentrate
resources on those areas more able to use them, and result in faster, but less
integrated systems for those areas and possibly in heterogeneous technology from
rather small, incremental purchases made over several years. It would probably
be implemented in an environment of decentralized nianagement of the
informatics resources of BNA.
9.            Selection of the appropriate strategy will be made through a short Information Systems
Strategic Plan at the completion of Phase 1 (shortly after project effectiveness), and subsequent activities
in the program will be guided by the decisions made during this study.
Implementation Activities
Phase 1 - Preparatory Phase
10.           Phase I is targeted to last one year, start in late 1992, and be financed partly under the
Project's PPF. How long BNA actually takes to complete this phase is a function not only of its own
management capacity in informatics, but also of several non-controllable factors such as availability of
housing and supply of consultants during a period of vacations in Europe and of presidential elections in
Angola. Nevertheless, the duration of Phase 1 and the quality of its outputs should be considered a
strong indicator of institutional capacity to absorb new technology investments. The objectives and
expected outputs of this phase are explained below:



Annex 3.2
Page 4 of 13
Table I - Objectives and Outputs of Phase 1
Objectives                           Outputs                       Terms of
Reference
1.  Create an effective    1.1  Deliver training seminar to members of     Appendix A
resource allocation and    Informatics Committee.
management
mechanism for          1.2 Develop  the  function  of Informatics
informatics resources.     Committee (IC) secretariat. Train DOR
director in this function.
1.3 Develop informatics management policies,
and a first year budget.
2.  Strengthen             2.1  Introduce a system analysis methodology     Appendix B
management and             and (if available) supporting software.
modernize work             Train  Informatics  staff  in  the
methods of the             methodology.
informatics function.
2.2 Develop a plan and methodology for
directorate-level information requirements
studies.
2.3 Test the above methodology in the
Informatics Directorate (DOR), and refine
and document the methodology.
2.4 Introduce system
development/testing/maintenance
methodology and recommend supporting
software.
3.  Define   information  3.1  Conduct information requirements study       Appendix D
flows and requirements     for each BNA directorate. Study team wil!
of all BNA                 be managed by either the affected director
directorates.               or the DOR director, and be composed of
a) knowledgeable Directorate staff, b) an
external system analyst, c) a DOR system
analyst, and d) and DOR organizational
analyst (half time).
11.          To achieve the objectives of Phase I the Project will provide the following resources:
(a)    Technical Assistance. (i) 10 staff months of expatriate system analyst to prepare
an information requirements studies for each BNA directorate; (ii) 3 staff months
of expatriate organizational analyst to support the DOR for the same studies; (iii)



Annex 3.2
Page 5 of 13
2 staff months of senior informatics management expert to design and introduce
modern work procedures in DOR; and (iv) I staff month of very senior
informatics management expert to train BNA Informatics Committee (IC)
members, and draft broad informatics management policies for BNA.
(b)    Technology. 18 microcomputers which are urgently needed by BNA directorates,
and desk-top-publishing equipment and software licenses for DOR.
Phase 2 - Information Systems Strategic Plan (ISSPI
12.           To decide oii a long-term informatics strategy (see para. 8) and plan its implementation,
a strategic Information Systems Strategic Plan (lSSP) will be conducted at the completion of Phase 1,
early after Credit Effectiveness. This plan will also formulate appropriate system implementation,
technology acquisition, and staff training plans, and thus attempt to minimize costs and promote
compatibility of technology. The plan will take about two months and require participation of senior
BNA staff, 2 high-level consultants, and one junior-level consultant. Terms of reference for these
consultants and definition of the plan's outputs are included in Appendix C.
Phase 3 - Information Systems Development
13.           Once an adequate information systems plan is developed, further activities will proceed
under the guidance of that plan. For design purposes, it will be assumed that an integrated strategy is
chosen as described under para. 8.(a) above. Information systems will then be implemented at BNA in
two stages:
(a)    Stage I - High Priority Systems. This group of systems will be identified by the
ISSP and implemented during the first two project years.  It may include
operational systems such as Bank Supervision, Reserve Management, and Debt
Management; analytical systems such as Macro and Monetary Policy Analysis;
and administrative systems such as Accounting, Budgeting, and Personnel.
Resources to be provided for this Phase are as follows:
(i)    33 months of TA from expatriate system analysts/programmers to work
on the development of priority information systems.
(ii)    24 months of TA  from  expatriate senior informatics management
specialist to assist DOR director in managing the informatics program.
(iii)   Training as follows: (i) 2 DOR management courses; (ii) 120 personal
computing courses for selected BNA staff; (iii) 3 microcomputer user
support courses; (iv) 2 system analysis courses; (v) 10 courses for DOR
staff on new data base/programming languages; (vi) 2 informatics project
management courses, and (vii) 1 special telecommunications course.
(iv)   Computers and their operating software as follows: (i) 26 micro
computers and accessories; (ii) 3 multi-user computers with capacity for



Annex 3.2
Page 6 of 13
appraximately 30 concurrent users, for the priority information systems
developed during this stage.
(v)    So'tware licenses to ensure that BNA  owns the latest version of
microcomputer software it uses, and that it gets access to proper
documentation and technical support.
(b)    Stage II - Other Systems. The remaining information systems defined in the
ISSP will be implemented during the last three years of the project.  Some
important systems may be deferred to this stage due simply to limitations in Lhe
amount of change that the institution can absorb during a given period of time.
The project will provide the following resources during this stage:
(i)    34 months of TA from expatriate system analysts/programmers to work
on the development of the remaining basic information systems for
BNA's directorates.
(ii)    18 months of TA  from  expatriate senior informatics management
specialist to continue assisting DOR director in managing the informatics
prograrn.
(iii)   Funding for two 20-hour-long personal computing courses for 90 selected
BNA staff; and for special overseas courses for DOR staff in
telecommunications and project management.
(iv)    Computers and their operating software as follows: (i) 42 additional
microcomputers and accessories; (ii) 2 multi-user computers with
capacity for approximately 20 concurrent users, for the information
systems developed during this stage.
(v)    Application software package licenses for software that can be bought
off-the-shelf instead of developed at BNA.
Implementation and Procurement Guidelines
14.           The following guidelines would be observed during project implementation:
(a)    Project resources need to be matched by adequate BNA resources if the program
is to succeed. In particular, for every month of expatriate consultant time funded
by the project, approximately two months of staff time from Informatics
Directorate staff are needed. This counterpart effort is needed both to complete
project activities and to obtain effective transfer of technical skills. While this
clearly within current BNA's staff capacity, it will only be possible through
careful work planning.



Annex 3.2
Page 7 of 13
(b)    Hardware, application software and technical assistance funds under the program
should be mutually fungible to accommodate strategy and priorities decided upon
during the ISSP.
(c)    Training should be followed within two months by on-the-job application of
subjects learned.
(d)    Unit costs of technical assistance contracts do not include management overhead
from contractor, since the project is financing a senior expatriate management
expert to assist DOR director with prograni management. Recruitnent services
companies should therefore be invited to bid for these contracts, as well as
informatics consulting firms.
(e)    The functional characteristics and throughput requirements of computer hardware
and software needed should be defined during the ISSP and submitted as the
technical basis of bidding documents. The bidders should be allowed to propose
the technical specifications of equipment which would meet these requirements.
Care should be exercised in the bid evaluation methodology to weigh heavily the
quality and reliability of after-sale maintenance and technical support service in
Luanda.
(f)    Computer equipinent should be scheduled for delivery only after utilization plans
are completed and application software is ready for use. Therefore, application
software should be developed in advance of equipment purchases using the
computer of DOR.
15.           The following is an indicative guideline on the contracts in the BNA Informatics Program:



Aninex 3.2
Page 8 of 13
Table 2. Summary of Contracts in BNA Informatics Program
Coract No.      Type'        Amount                Description                 Comments
IS          $143,000   TA for Information Systems     Alternatively, evcral
requirements tudies.          individual consultants
may be contracted.
2            IS           $30,000   TA for Informatics Directorate    May combine with
Contract I or 3.
3           IS            $25,000   TA for Informatics Committee
4          LCB           $107,000   Emergency microcomputer
equipment
S           IS           S12S,00C)  TA for Infornatics Systeus
Strategic Plan
6            IS          $429,000   TA for priority application    May be combined in
systems development or         whole or in part.
software purchase.
7           IS           $630,000   TA for Informatics
Management support during
years 1/4 of the project.
8          LCB           $120,000   Training for systems users in
&                      Angola, and selective technical
IS                    training in Portugal
9           ICB          $240,000   Computers and their operating    May combine with
software.                      Contract 11 or 14.
10          LCB          S145,000   Microcomputers & operating
software
11          lCB          $200,000   Application software licenses.    May combine with
Contracts 6 or 16.
12          ICB          $442,000   TA for application systems     May combine with
development or software        Contracts 6 or 16.
purchase.
13          LCB           $82,000   Training for systems users in  May combine with
&                      Angola, and selective technical   Contract 8.
IS                    training in Portugal
14          ICB          $160,000   Computers and their operating    May combine with
software                       Contract 15.
IS          ICB          $220,000   Microcomputer aMd operting
software
16          IS           $100,000   Application software Ucens.    May combine with
Contract 11
"IS, indicas that TA will be contracted through as wide as possible international competitive selection.



Annex 3.2
Page 9 of 13
Program Management
16.          Overall direction of BNA's informatics program will be exercised by the Informatics
Committee. Program management will be provided by DOR Director or other executive designated by
Informatics Committee. The Project Administrator will provide assistance to Iifnrmatics Program
manager on contracting and procurement. Finally, as noted above, a senior informatics management
expert will be contracted for the first 42 months of the project to assist the DOR director with Program
management.
17.          A yearly informatics program and budget should be prepared under the project, and
submitted for review and approval by BNA's Informatics Committee and the World Bank.



Annex 3.2
Page 10 of 13
-----------------------------------------------------------------------__----__---------
I                                               I               I   QUANTITY PER YEAR         I
I---------------------------I
ITEM                      I    Unit      I 1  2   3   4   5   6 TOTALI
!                                               I    Label    I                               I
! I.  BNA INFORMATION SYSTEMS                   I               I
!  -----------------------i                        
!                                   ~       ~      ~~~~~~~~~I  I                  I
A. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                      I              I
!    Bank Supervision                           lexp. St. mo. I 1   2   2   2   2  1   10 1
I    Monetary Policy, Statictics                Iexp. at. mo. I 1   4   2   2   2  2   13 1
I    Money Suppiy & Credit                      lexp. at. mo. I 1   2   2   2   2  1   10 1
!    Reserve Management                         lexp. at. mo. I 1   2   2   2   2  1   10 1
!    External Del,t                             lexp. et. mo. I 1   2   2   2   1  1    9 1
!    Accounting, b"dAgeting                     laxp. at. mo. I 1   1   1   1   0  0    4 1
I    Organization Planning/Informatics          Iexp. *t. mo. I 3   1   1   1   1  1    8 I
Facilities, Equipment, and Services        lexp. at. mo. I 1   1   1   1   1  0    5 1
I    Personnel Administration                   lexp. et. mo. I 1   3   2   1   1  1    9 1
!    Informatics Management                     lexp. et. mo. 1 2  12  12  12   6  0   44 1
Informatics Committee                      lexp. et. mo. I 1
Informatics Strategy Stud-                 lexp. st. mo. 1       5                       1
!                                   ~       ~      ~~~~~~~~~I  I                  I
!                                   i      ~       ~~~~~~~~~~ I                   I
!                                               I               I                             I
I   B. TRAINING                                                 I                             I
!    Management of Informatics                   Iperson/coursel      1   1   0   0  0    2 1
Personal Computing for BNA professionalsiperson/coursel    60  60  60  60 60  300 1
I    Microcomputer Support                       Iperson/coursel      1   2                 3 1
!    Systems/Organizational Analysis             Iperson/coursel      1   1   1             3 1
!    4th. Generation Data Base/programming   Iperson/coursel         10            4          1
System development project management   iperson/coursel          1   1   1
Lan/telecomunications                      Iperson/coursel       1        1
!                                               I               II
!                                                I              I                             I
!                                               I               I                             I
!   C. COMPUTER EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE            I
!    Informatics Strategy Study                 Imicro & *oft.1 0   3   0   0   0  0    3 1
!    Professional Productivity                  Imicro & soft.1 0   9   9   9   9  9   45 1
!    Main Inf. Systems - Multiuser computers ILan or Mini  I 0   2   1   2   0  0    5 1
!    Multiuser computer & operating software llump sum          I 0   2   1   2   0  0    5 I
!    Application software packages               llump sum      1     2   2        2        6 1
I    DOR Graphics & Documentation Equip.        Ilump sum       I 1                         1 1
I    M.in Inf. Systems - Workstations            Imicro & uoft.118         5   5   5  5   38 1
!    Spec. Microcomputer Software licenses   Ilump sum          1 7  10   5   5   5           1
-------------------------------------------------------------------------__--__---------



Annex 3.2
Page 11 of 13
II - CHECK CLEARING SYSTEM
19.           BNA operates at present a manual check clearing mechanism which functions adequai.ely
for the level of transactions currently processed. The project will finance the investments necessary to
replace the manual system with a computerized one, and to improve the transportation of physical
payment instruments initially to the national clearing center in Luanda and later to fegional centers in the
provinces.
20.           The design of the Check Clearing System (CCS) -- encompassing all the organizational,
regulatory, staffing, training, logistical, and technological aspects -- was done as part of project
preparation by an international consultant. The information below is supplemental to the design report,
and results primarily from discussions during the appraisal mission.
Design and Organization Guidelines
21.           The folkl -ing general guidelines have been agreed with GOA for the design, organization
and operation of the CCS:
(a)    A separate organizational entity will be set up to operate the CCS and evolve into
an iniependent, industry-owned organization operating Angola's payment system.
Initially, this organization will be setup within the Central Bank in under the
Directorate of Money Supply and Credit.
(b)    BNA will provide suitable office space, office equipment, and attendant services
to the CCS organ;zation. The project will finance the cost of office furniture and
computer technology.
(c)    A CCS manager will be designated by BNA to direot the activities of the new
organization. One of the key responsibilities of this individual will to organize
an efficient system for transportation of payment instruments country-wide,
through the use of existing commercial and private air transport facilities.
(d)    The goal of the CCS organization will be to become self-sustaining during the
project life. For this purpose, the organization will charge an increasing share
of its operational costs to client banks on a per transaction basis.
(e)    The project will finance a total of 25 overseas staff courses to train the technical
personnel who will operate the computer sys.em of the CCS organization. The
project will finance also two international trips in project year 5 for CCS
organization managers to visit payment systems organizations in other countiles.
(f)    The CCS system will operate as suggested in the CCS Design Study report,
which was financed under the PPF, except that clearing confirmation transactions
will not be required from participating banks, but rather items will be cleared
automatically by the system for which a rejection transaction has not been
received for a pre-specified time period, say three days.
P



Annex 3.2
Page 12 of 13
(g)     A  study will be done during Project year 5 to design the Angola Payment
System. This system will be a successor the CCS and will only be justified if the
Angolan financial sector has developed considerably.
Procurement
22.              The following is a summary of the procurement contracts for the CCS:
Contraet No.    Type'        Amount                   Description                  Comments
I           Is            S30000  TA for design of check clearing system    Done by Ken
Pfeiffer.
2            IS          S105,000   TA for CCS development
3            IS           $72,000   Overseas training on IT and
telecommunications.
4          LCB            $72,000   Computer equipment, accessories.
5          LCB            $43,000   Vehicle and office furniture.
6            IS           S39,000   TA for installation of CCS in         During years 2
provinces,                           through 4.
7            IS           S42,000   Overseas training on IT and
telecommunications
8           ICB          $360,000   Computers and their operating software   Deliveries
for provinces,                        phased over
ytars 3/4.
9          LCB           $132,000   Vehicles and office furniture for
provinces
10          IS            $60,000   TA for Payment System design.
11           IS           $52,000   Overseas training in It and
telecommunications.
' IS' indicates that TA will be contraeted through intemational competitive selection.
Costs and Schedule
23.              The table below shows costs and timing of project-financed CCS activities:



Annex 3.2
Page 13 of 13
I                                                 I              I   QUANTITY PZR YZAR           I
I                 ______-- -- -- -- --- -- -- -- --I
I                      ITEM                       I    Unit      I 1  2   3   4   5   6 TOTALI
I    Label     I                               I
I              I                               I
I II. FINANCIAL SYSTZX INFRASTRUCTURZ             I              I                               I
I    A. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCZ                      I              I                               I
I      Payment System Design Study                lexp.  t. mo. 1                       3    3 1
Check Clearing System (CC9) Design    lexp. *t. mo. I1                                   1
I      CCS Regulations & Organization             lexp.  t. mo. 1       2   0   0   0  0    2 1
CCS Software Development                  lxp. St. Mo. 1        4                      4 1
CCS Software Installation in Luanda   l-xp. at. mo. 1           1                      1 1
CCS Software Installation in Provinceslexp. mt. mo. I                1   1   1         3 1
I     .B TRAINING                                 I              I
I      Basic DP/Datacomm Concepts                 lot. course   1       2   1                 3 1
4th. Generation Data Base/programming lot. course   I 0   4              2             6 1
I      LAN design and support                     lot. course   I 0   4   2          2  2   10 I
Data communications design and supportlat. course   I 0   2                      4    6 1
I      ACCS Staff Travel                          IIntnl. Trip  1                       2    2 1
I                                                 I              II
I                                                 I              II
I                                                 I              I                              I
I    C. EQUIPMZNT                                 I              I
Computer Equipment - Luanda               1Small Comp.  1       2   0   0   0  0    2 1
Communications Equip. - Luanda            Ilump sum       I 0   1   0   0   0  0    1 1
I      Software Licences - Luanda                 llump sum      I 0  12                     12 1
I      Comp/Soft/Comm. Zquip. - Provinces    Ilump sum           I 0             2   2  2    6 1
Office Furniture                          llump sum       I 0   4        2   2  2   10 1
I      Office Equipment                           Ifaxhxerox    I 0   1          2   2  2    7 1
Vehicles                                  Ivehicle        I 0   2        2   2  2    a I
-------------------------------------------------------------------------__--__---------



Annex 3.2
Appendix A
Page 1 of 4
ANGOLdA FINANCIAL INSTITUMONS MODERNIZATION PROJC
Banco Nacional de Angola
Assistance to Informatics Committee
Terms of Reference (TOR)
1.           These TOR cover assistance to be provided to BNA by a senior information systems
management specialist for a period of one month beginning on or about July 1, 1992.
2.    -      Following Angoid's adoption of a two-tier banking system in 1991, the Banco Nacional
de Angola (BNA) began assuming the full regulatory and monetary policy responsibilities of a central
bank. To perform its new functions efficiently, BNA needs to develop new information systems,
modernize its computing technology, revamp its administrative procedures, and build up its staff skills
in using new informatics tools and work methods.
3.           Despite major resource constraints, weak national supply of parts and technical assistance,
long procurement lead times, and limited tiaining opportunities for technical staff, BNA has made
significant progress over the years in the area of informatics.
(a)    There is growing staff awareness of the usefulness and flexibility of modern
m-icrocomputer technology to facilitate day-do-day secretarial, analytical and
professional work.
(b)    There are ongoing initiatives in several areas of the institution to develop small
computer systems in support of critical internal functions.
(c)    BNA has a cadre of resourceful analysts and programmers with long average
experience in the development and maintenance of traditional computer
applications.
(d)    BNA has an aging but still functioning set of computer applications which
support mainly its commercial operations. BNA also has a mainframe computer
with at least half of its capacity unused, and approximately 60 microcomputers
of which about half are late models.
4.           BNA will use part of the proceeds of a credit from the International Development
Association to carry out a program of modernmation of its information systems. The overall objective
of this so called Informatics Programm, is to develop the institutional capabilities necessary for BNA to
fnction efficiently a a central bank. While computer technology can and will be used for this purpose,
the suais of the program is placed not on the technology but on the institutional improvements that
ca be achieved through its judicious use.



Annex 3.2
Appendix A
Page 2 of 4
5.            One of the key aspects of BNA's Informatics Program is the need to create an effective
resource allocation and management mechanism for informatics resources. An Informatics Committee
has been established to provide overall direction to informatics work in the baiik. This Committee is
headed by a Vice Governor and its members are the Directors of BNA's most important user areas.
Objectives
6.            The objectives of this consulting assignment are fourfold: (i) to empower the Informatics
Corrmittee (IC) of BNA through appropriate training in strategic management of informatics; (ii) to assist
the committee in making a few key policy decisions; (iii) to create an effective secretariat functinn to the
committee by on-the-job training of the Informatics (DOR) Director; and (iv) to transfer know-how to
BNA to enable it to address the subjects covered in para. 7, as well as other areas where strengthening
is needed, with its own staff resources.
outDUtS
7.            The consultant will be expected therefore to work closely with the IC members and with
the IC Secretary - the DOR Director - in cornpleting the following specific outputs:
(a)    A Training Seminar to Members of IC
BNA directors have little or no experience in making strategic and operational decisions
in the area of informatics. Although BNA has a very adequate organizational setup for
its informatics function, the IC does not routinely review and approve the long-term
plans, the budgets, and the operational plans of this function. The consultant will
therefore be responsible for organizing and delivering a residential (at BNA's training
facility) seminar to appraise IC members of the major strategic choices in managing
inforrratics resources, of the most important technological trends which may affect the
BNA, and of sound, real-life exarnples of how other, ideally similar institutions have
gone about making the right choices. Among the topics to be covered by the seminar
are:
(i) centralized/decentralized informatics management models and their
implications and requirements.
(ii)  budgeting and cost accounting for informatics resources.  Real and
nominal charge back schemes.
(iii)  investment decision making.   Methods to ensure that investment
decisions contribute to institutional ends.
(iv) buying versus developing software. The software development cycle and
its complexity and pitfalls. The need for sound requirements analysis
previous to either decision.
(v)  human resource management issues in informatics.



Annex 3.2
Appendix A
Page 3 of 4
(vi) dealing with the central MIS department as a user manager. What can
and cannot be expected.
(vii) major technological trends and their potential implications to BNA: end-
user computing, data administration, client/server architectures,
telecommunications, office automation, software industry development,
etc.
(b)        An Informatics Committee Secretariat Guideline
This short guideline document should define the objectives of the IC secretariat function
and provide advice on how to perform this function effectively. Of particular importance
will be to illustrate how to present technical issues in non-technical terms, how to frame
issues such that IC members are vitally interested in participating in their resolution, and
how to manage the agenda of the IC for greater effectiveness and clear direction to the
DOR Directorate. The contents of the guideline should be discussed extensively with the
DOR Director, and further work under these terms of reference carried out jointly in
such a manner as to provide on-the-job training to the Director in this new function.
(c)        A Set of Informatics Management Policies for BNA
These very short (one page) policy statements should define in the aggregate how
informatics resources are managed at BNA. Topics to be covered are, among others: (i)
duties and responsibilities of the IC, the DOR director, and the user managers (Directors)
with respect to informatics; (ii) budgeting and accounting for informatics resources; (iii)
data administration; (iv) training in informatics; (v) development of systems by end-users;
and (vi) security of equipment and data. The consultant will be responsible for drafting
the policy statements jointly with the DOR director and for obtaining IC approval for
them.
(d)        A First Year Informatics Budget for BNA
The budget should contain both an administrative and an investment budget, be
disaggregated by source of funds (BNA's regular budget or IDA credit proceeds), and
be approved by the IC.
Oualifications of the Consultant
8.            The consultant selected for this assignment must meet the following criteria:
(a)        be a senior informatics management expert with at least 10 years of
experience as a manager of the MIS function in a large institution,
preferably a central bank;
(b)        have extensive working knowledge of Portuguese;



Annex 3.2
Appendix A
Page 4 of 4
(C)        be thoroughly familiar with issues of informatics management, and with
technology trends;
(d)        be skilled in presenting complex issues to managers and in obtaining training
results through real-life examples;
(e)        have possession of adequate training materials for this assigment without
requiring extensive preparation time; and
(f)        have actual experience in the transfer of know-how.
Administrative Details of she Assiame
9.            BNA will provide the following at its own expense: (i) an office with appropriate
furnishings at BNA headquarters; (ii) a personal computer, Intel 80386-type, and printer; and (Oii)
secretarial support.
10.           A Project Preparation Facility funded by the World Bank will pay for: (i) the fees of the
consultant; (ii) round-trip air fare at less than first class between the consultant's home city and Luanda;
(iii) the costs of the consultant's lodging in Angola; and (iv) a per diem allowance of US$100 for all other
expenses of the consultant while in Angola.



Annex 3.2
Appendix B
Page I of 4
ANGOLA FINANCIAL INSIFIUTIONS MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Banco Nacional de Angola
Assistance to Informatics Directorate on System Analvsis/Planning Methods
Ter_m  of Reference (TOR)
1.           These TOR cover assistance to be provided to BNA by a senior information systems
development and planning specialist for a period of three months beginning on or about August 1, 1992.
Background
2.            Following Angola's adoption of a two-tier banking system in 1991, the Banco Nacional
de Angola (BNA) began the process of divesting itself of commercial operations and assuming the full
regulatory and monetary responsibilities of a central bank. To handle its new functions efficiently BNA
needs to develop new information systems, modernize computing technology, revamp administrative
procedures, and build up staff skills in using new tools and work methods.
3.            Despite major resource constraints, weak national supply of parts and technical assistance,
long procurement lead times, and limited training opportunities for technical staff, BNA has made
significant progress over the years in the area of informatics.
(a)    There is growing staff awareness of the usefulness and flexibility of modern
microcomputer technology to facilitate day-do-day secretarial, analytical and
professional work.
(b)    There are ongoing initiatives in several areas of the institution to develop small
computer systems in support of critical internal functions.
(c)    BNA has a cadre of resourceful analysts and programmers with long average
experience in the development and maintenance of traditional computer
applications.
(d)    BNA has an aging but still functioning set of computer applications which
support mainly its commercial operations. BNA also has a mainframe computer
with at least half of its capacity unused, and approximately 60 microcomputers
of which about half are late models.
4.            BNA will use part of the proceeds of a credit from the International Development
Association to carry out a program of modernization of its information systems. One of the key aspects
of BNA's Informatics Program is to strengthen management, modernize work methods, and improve the
system analysis skills of the Informatics Directorate (DOR) staff.



Annex 3.2
Appendix B
Page 2 of 4
Obiectiyes
S.             The objectives of this consulting assignment are fivefold:
(a)    to introduce a system analysis methodology at DOR and (if available) supporting
software and train Infot-matics staff in the methodology.;
(b)    to develop a plan and methodology for directorate-level information requirements
studies;
(c)    to test the above methodology in the Informatics Directorate (DOR), and refine
and document the methodology;
(d)    to introduce system development/testing/maintenance methodology and at DOR
recommend supporting software; and
(f)    to transfer know-how to BNA so that it becomes more self-sufficient in these
areas.
()utputs
6.             The consultant will be expected to work closely with DOR managers and technical staff
in completing the following outputs:
(a)    System Analysis Methodologv and Training
The consultant will develop a technical standard specifying the scope, symbols, and
structure of system analysis/requirements documents at BNA. The consultant will also
introduce software tools that she/he knows to be useful in producing these documents,
and train DOR analysts in the new standard. The following should be some of the
contents of system requirements documents about which the standard should provide
documentation guidelines:
(i)  business functions, operations and benefits written in user-oriented
language and standard format.
(ii)  essential system  activities', both fundamental (those that justify the
system), and custodial (those that acquire or maintain the information
needed by the former). Each essential activity consists of (i) a trigger
event (menu choice, transaction codes, etc.); (ii) a description, and (iii)
named critical outputs - reports or screens for fundamental activities,
and file updates for custodial activities. The documents should tell the
As defined in Stephen McMenamin & John F. Palmer, Essential Systems Analysis, Yourdon Press, Computing Series,
Englewood Cliffs, New Jerwey, pgs. 17-22.



Annex 3.2
Appendix B
Page 3 of 4
user what the system does but not hQM the system workl internally.
Thus, they should have little or no information on logical processing
design, only general identification of data entities needed, and be useful
regardless of the programming language in which the system is latter
written.
(iii) critical performance requirements, and other system requirements of
compatibility, extensibility, reliability, etc., reflecting user expectations,
or major performance constraints.
(iv) acceptance criteria, delineating conditions under which user will accept
the system as completed.
(v) data entity definitions of essential memory (information needed by the
system to carry out essential activities).
(b)        Methodology for Directorate-level Information Requirements Studies
The consultant will develop a technical standard specifying the s.ope,
symbols and structure of information requirements documents for
organizational umits within BNA. This standard should be an extension of
the previous one, including definition of:
(i) business functions carried out in the organizational unit.
(ii) data classes required to carry out the business functions, and the sources
from which those data can be obtained.
(-ii) critical success factors for unit management.
(iv)  streamlined work and forms flow.
(v) system requirements, defined as per the standard described in (1) above.
(c)        Test of the Above Methodology in the Informatics Directorate
The consultant will conduct a test information requirements study in the
DOR, and in the process refine and document the methodology. For this
purpose, the consultant will lead a team of one system analyst and one
organizational analyst of DOR trained in the defined methodology for the
study.
(d)        A System Development/Testing/Maintenance Methodology
The consultant will develop a straightforward technical standard for the
above functions of ar.alyst/programmers at DOR.



Annex 3.2
Appendix B
Page 4 of 4
Alternatively, the consultant may recommend a software-backed
methodology provided that it nrns on micro computers and does not cost
above US$5,000 per work station.
Oualifications of the Consultant
8.            The consultant selected for this assignment must meet the following criteria:
(a)        be a senior system development and planning specialist with at least 7 years
of experience as a professional system analyst and manager of large system
development projects;
(b)        have working knowledge of Portuguese and English languages;
(c)        be thoroughly familiar with system analysis methodologies, literature, and
practice;
(d)        be able to write clear, succinct guidelines in Pc.tuguese or Spanish;
(e)        have possession of adequate materials for this assignment without requiring
extensive preparation or research time;
(f)        have excellent professional references; and
(g)        have actual experience in the transfer of know-how.
Administrative Details of the Assignment
9.            BNA will provide the following at its own expense: (i) an office with appropriate
furnishings at BNA headquarters; (ii) a personal computer, Intel 80386-type, aid printer; and (iii)
secretarial support.
10.          A Project Preparation Facility funded by the World Bank will pay for: (i) the fees of the
consultant; (ii) round-trip air fare at less than first class between the consultant's home city and Luanda;
(iii) the costs of the consultant's lodging in Angola; and (iv) a per diem allowance of US$ 100 for all other
expenses of the consultant while in Angola.



Annex 3.2
Appendix C
Page 1 of 6
ANGOLA FINANCIAL iNsTITUTIONS MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Banco Nacional de Angola
Assistance for Information Systems Strategic Plan
Terms of Reference (TOR)
1.           These TOR cover assistance to be provided to BNA by two senior information systems
planning specialists and one assistant for a period of two months beginnirw on or about July 1, 1993.
Background
2.            Following Angola's adoption of a two-tier banking system in 1991, the Banco Nacional
de Angola (BNA) began the process of divesting itself of commercial operations and assuming the full
regulatory and monetary policy responsibilities of a central bank. To handle its new functions efficiently
BNA needs to develop new information systems, modernize computing technology, revamp administrative
procedures, and build up staff skills in using new tools and work methods.
3.            Despite major resource constraints, weak national s, pply cf parts and technical assistance,
long procurement lead times, and limited training opportunities for technical staff, BNA has made
significant progress over the years in the area of informatics.
(a)    There is growing staff awareness of the usefulness and flexibility of modern
microcomputer technology to facilitate day-do-day secretarial, analytical and
professional work.
(b)    There are ongoing initiatives in several areas of the institution to develop small
computer systems in support of critical internal functions.
(c)    BNA has a cadre of resourceful analysts and progremmers with long average
experience in the development and maintenance of traditional computer
applications.
(d)    BNA has an aging but still functioning set of computer applications which
support mainly its commercial operations. BNA also has a mainframe computer
with at least half of its capacity unused, and approximately 60 microcomputers
of wh:;h about half are late models.
4.            BNA will use part of the proceeds of the Financial Institutions Modernization Project
between the Government of Angola and the World Bank to carry out a program of modernization of its
information systems. The overall objective of this so called "Informatics Program", is to develop the
institutional capabilities necessary for BNA to function efficiently as a central bank. While computer
technology can and will be used for this purpose, the emphasis of the program is placed not on the
technology, but on the institutional improvements that can be achieved through its judicious use.



Annex 3.2
Appendix C
Page 2 of 6
5.            As a basic strategy, BNA's informatics program will be paced and conditioned to
institutionai readiness to absorb new technology and implement administrative and managerial changes.
Consequently, a preparatory phase (Phase 1) of the program has been designed to: (i) streamline and
document work procedures, information flows, and information systems requirements of BNA
directorates; (ii) create an effective allocation and management mechanism for informatics resources in
the institution; (iii) strengthen the management and modernize the work methods of the Informatics
Directorate (DOR); and (iv) improve staff skills to use and manage informatics resources.
6.           It is envisioned that two broad strategic choices would be available to BNA. Depending
on the outcome of Phase 1, BNA could pursue:
(a)    an integrated, comprehensive informatics strategy based on common engineering
design. This strategy would facilitate the creation of integrated information
systems, the installation of homogeneous technc'ogy, and lower long-term costs.
It would be possible only if BNA is successfua in achieving fully the objectives
of Phase 1;
(b)    a piecemeal, function by function, informatics strategy which accommodates
substantial differences in capabilities among the various functional areas. This
strategy would concentrate informatics resources on those areas more able to use
them, and result in faster but less integrated systems for those areas and possibly
in heterogeneous technology from rather small, incremental procurement made
over several years. It would probably be implemented in an environment of
decentralized management of the informatics resources of BNA.
7.            Selection of the appropriate strategy will be made through a short Information Systems
Strategic Plan (ISSP) at the completion of Phase 1 (shortly after project effectiveness), and subsequent
activities in the program will be guided by the decisions made during this study.
Objectives
8.            Therefore, the objectives of the ISSP and of this consultancy will be (i) to recommend
a long-term strategy for informatics development as outlined above; (ii) to develop information and data
architectures for the institution; (iii) to recommend a technology architecture; and (iv) to prepare long-
term system implementation, equipment acquisition, and staff training plans. The ISSP will be a
foundation upon which BNA's information systems will develop in an integrated, orderly manner to
support key institutional priorities. A further objective would be to enable BNA to address the subjects
covered in paras. 11 and 12, as well as other areas where strengthening is needed, with its own staff
resources.
Scope of the Information Systems Plan
9.            The consultants and the BNA ISSP working group will benefit from the following work
which would have been done during the Preparatory Phase of BNA's Informatics Program:
(a)    Assessment of the current situation of BNA's information systems, including
hardware and software utilization, organization, resources, staff skills, status of
current application systems, and ongoiag development activities.



Annex 3.2
Appendix C
Page 3 of 6
(b)    Diagnosis of data and information requirements necessary to carry out the
functions of all the major organizational units.
(c)    Formulation of major IS policies on matters such as responsibility for data
administration, budgeting and accounting principles for information resources,
responsibilities of functional managers and data processing department, and
securitv standards for data and systems.
10.          Consequently, the scope of the ISSP is reduced to:
(a)    Reviewing the outcome and outputs of Phase I and recommending a strategic
syst,ims development direction along the lines of para. 6 above, and obtaining
approval of this recommendation from BNA's Irformatics Committee.
(b)    Designing, on the basis of Directorate-specific information systems requirements
studies produced during Phase 1, an architecture of information systems and data
bases.
(c)    Recommending a technology architecture, and preparing procurement documents
tor its acquisition under international competitive bidding rules of the World
Bank. The consultants will be provided for this purpose with suitable guidelines.
(d)    Preparing detailed plans for technology acquisition, system development, staff
training, and system deployment.
(e)    Developing investment and operating cost estimates for IS during a 5-year
period.
3e1liverables
11.          The ISSP will consist of the following deliverables which need to be presented to, and
approved by, the Information Systems Committee of BNA:
(a)    A report assessing the outcome of the preparatory phase of BNA's informatics
program  and recommending a long-term  strategy for information systemas
development (see Para. 6 above).
(b)    A definition of broad data requirements, including the major categeries of data
to be collected, and a general specification of the institutional data bases where
these data will be stored. This deliverable will be based on analytical work made
during Phase 1.
(c)    A specificationt of thc major information systems needed by BNA, including their
functions, internal and exiernal data sources, outputs, estimated processing and
storage volumes, business benefits, cost estimates, priority and timing for
development, and recommendation as to whether the system software should be
developed or purchased. This specification must be comprehensive enough to



Annex 3.2
Appendix C
Page 4 Jf 6
permit implementation planning and invitation of bids, but need not have the
level of detail typical of a technical system design. Again, this deliverable will
consist more of compiling and normalizing the material in BNA's Information
Requirements studies developed durirg Phase 1, than on original analysis by the
consultants.
12.           Some of the systems to be considered are:
(a)    monetary policy formulation and monitoring, includiing interest and exchange
rates, credit allocation, liqu;dity management ard operation of the rediscount and
inter-bank markets;
(b)    economic analysis and research;
(c)    administration of the currency;
(d)    reserves and foreign debt (short- and long-term) management;
(e)    foreign exchange dealing, settlement and payment capability, possibly involving
interactive processing and SWIFr access;
(f)    balance of payments, annual and other financial reporting;
(g)    supervision of financial sector institutions: monitoring of liquidity, foreign
exchange dealings, domestic interest rates, compliance with prudential regulation;
(h)    checks, payments clearing and ccmpensation, interfaces to the Check Clearing
System (CCS), and, eventually to a full payments system;
(i)    import licensing;
()     government (national budget) treasury;
(k)    internal budgeting and accounting;
Q)     administration: personnel, payroll, inventory;
(m)   a technology acquisition plan defining the functional characteristics of equipment
and software needed, their cost, and a timetable for acquisition. A!so, the bid
solicitation documents for the major hardware software technology packages
defined;
(n)    a training plan specifying the types of training required (internal or external,
fellowships or short seminars and courses), target auJience, number of trainees,
timing and cos of courses;



Annex 3.2
Appendix C
Page 5 of 6
(o)    a systems implementation plar. specifying the precedence of activities, the cost,
the project management arrangements, the project milestones and the proposed
indicators of completion of all system development activities.
Resources and Management Oversight
13.          The ISSP will be prepared by the consultants with the assistance of a working group of
knowledgeable individuals from the various functional areas of the BNA. Staff in the working group will
be assigned to this task for a maximum of two meniths on a part-time basis.
14.          An Informatics Committee (IC) of the BNA will be responsible for the sponsorship,
supervision, and approval of the ISSP. This Committee will be formed with senior staff from all user
departments to approve major decisions regarding technology and systems in the Bank, and in particular
to sponsor and monitor the ISSP.
Workpian and Reports
15.          The consultants shall define a gene.4 workplan as part of their proposal, indicating the
proposed methodology of their work and the nature and timing of intermediate deliverables. Selection
will be made partially on the soundness of this workplan, which should be refined as the first task in the
study.
Oualification of the Corsultants
16.          The consultants selected for this assignment must meet the following criteria:
(a)    be a senior informatics management and planning expert with at least 10 years
of experience as a manager of the MIS function in a large institution, preferably
a central bank;
(b)    have experien:e in developing strategic information systems plans, ideally
acquired in part in banking institutions;
(c)    have extensive working knowledge of Portuguese;
(d)    be thoroughly familiar with issues of informatics management, and with
technology trends;
(e)    be skilled in presenting complex issues to managers and in obtaining training
resuits through real-life examples;
(f)    be in possession of adequate methodology materials for this assignment without
requiring extensive preparation time; and
!g)    have actual experience in the transfer of know-how.



Annex 3.2
Appendix C
Page 6 of 6
Administrative Details of the Assignment
17.          BNA will provide the following at its own expense: (i) an office with appropriate
furnishings at BNA leadquarters; (ii) a personal computer, Intel 80386-type, and printer, and access to
desk-top-publishing equipment; and (iii) secretarial support. The consultants must prov.de any specialized
software needed to document the ISSP, as vell as the necessary training to BNA support staff in the
operation of this technology.
18.          A Project Preparation Facility funded by the World Bank will pay for: (i) the fees of the
consultant; (ii) round-trip air fare at less than first class between the consultant's home city and Luanda;
(iii) the costs of the consultant's lodging in Angola; and (iv) a per diem allowance of US$100 for all other
expenses of the consultant while in Angola.



Annex 3.2
Appedix D
Page I of 2
Banco Nacional de Ango1a
Assistance to Prepare Information Requirements Studies
Terms of Reference aTOR)
1.           These TOR cover assistance to be provided to BNA by senior systems analysts for a
period of up to eight months beginning on or about November 1, 1992.
2.           Following Angola's adoption of a two-tier banking system in 1992, the Banco Nacional
do Angola (BNA) began the process of assuming the full regulatory and monetary policy responsibilities
of a central bank* To handle its new functions efficiently, BNA needs to develop new information
syem, moderize computing technology, revamp administrative procedures, and build up staff skills
in using new tools and work methods.
3.           BNA will use part of the proceeds of a credit from the International Development
Association to carry out a program of modernization of its information systems. One of the key aspects
of BNA's Informatics Program is to define information flows and requirements of all BNA directorates,
in preparation for conducting a strategic information systems planning study.
xbjectives
4.           The objectives of these consulting assignments are to carry out infornation requirements
studies in each of BNA's directorates following a methodology developed with assistance from other
consultants under separate terms of reference (Appendix B, attached).
5.           Tho consultant will be responsible for providing technical leadership to a team of analysts
be manaed by either the affocte director or the DOR director, and be composed of (i) knowledgeabie
Dirorae stff, (li) the consultant, (iii) a DOR systems analyst, and (iv) a DOR organizational analyst
auo tn).
6.           Some of the components of each requ;rements study are:
(a)    busines functions carried out in the organizational unit;
(b)    data cluses required to carry out the business functions, and the source from
which those data can be obtained;
(c)    critical success factors for unit management;



Annex 3.2
Appendix D
Page 2 of 2
(d)    streamlined work and forms flow; and
(e)    systems requirements, defined as per the standard described in the attached terms
of reference (Appendix B).
Oualifications of the Consultant
7.            The consultant selected for this assignment must meet the following criteria:
(a)    be a professional system analyst with at least 5 years o' experience and exposure
to system development project management;
(b)    have working knowledge of Portuguese language;
(c)    be thoroughly familiar with at least one established system analysis methodology;
(d)    be able to write clear, succinct documentation in Portaguese or Spanish;
(e)    have excellent professional references; and
(f)    have actual experience in the transfer of know-how.
Administrative Details of the Assinment
8.            BNA will provide the following at its own expense: (i) an office with appropriate
furnishings at BNA headquarters; (ii) a personal computer, Intel 80386-type, and printer; and (iii)
secretarial support.
9.            A Proje,.t Prr aration Facility funded by the World Bank will pay for: (i) the fees of the
consultant; (ii) round-trip L. iare at less than firet class between the consultant's home city and Luanda;
(iii) the costs of the consultant's lodging in Angola; aid (iv) a per diem allowance of US$100 for all other
expenses on the consultant while in Angola.



Annex 3.3
Page 1 of 3
ANGOLA - FINANCIAL INSTITTIONS MODERNIZATION PRO
National Bank of Angola (BNA)
Assistance in Improving BNA Accounting
Terms of Reference (TOR)
1.           These TOR cover assistance to be provided to BNA by a group of three accountants for
a period of six months beginning on or about January 2 1992.
Dnkg nn
2.           Until early 1991 all banking in Angola was carried out by BNA and the closely-associated
Banco Popular de Angola (BPA), which served as a deposit-taking institution. Under legislation enacted
in 1991, the banking sector has undergone conversion from that described above to the structure generally
encountered in market-oriented economies, with a central bank and a number of commercial banks.
three banking institutions have been established and begun operations: Bank of Commerce and Industry
(Banco de Comercio e Industria, BCI); Bank of Savings and Credit (Banco de Poupanca e Credito,
BPC), which took over the business and facilities of BPA; and Agriculture and Fisheries Credit Fund
(Caixa de Cr6dito Agropecuaria e Pescas, CAP). BNA has begun to transfer its commercial operations
to the three commercial banks, which process is expected to be substantially completed in 1992.
3.           As an interim measure, BNA management separated its central- and commercial-banking
operations in August-September 1991 into what is now known as "Area Central" and "Area Commercial".
Each Area has responsibility for managing its own affairs. However, there remain some activities where
the distinction between the two areas remains somewhat blurred or for which one Area depends on the
services of the other e.g. information systems.
Objective of the Consultancy
4.           The primary objective is to assist BNA in preparing auditable accounts (including balance
sheet, income statement, statement of sources and applications of funds, and such other subsidiary
statements and explanatory notes as may be desirable) as at December 31, 1991. These accounts will be
audited by an external firm of auditors under separate TOR.
S.           The secondary objective is tJ help BNA improve its internal access to and flow of
accounts-related information, thereby facilitating the operations of BNA departnents which depend on
such data.
Specific Tasks to Be Undertaklen
6.           BNA management has identified certain accounts, or groups of accounts, where anomalies
exist in BNA records, such as:



Annex 3.3
Page 2 of 3
-      short-term lines of credit from correspondent banks
-      foreign-exchange deposits with correspondent banks
-      overall foreign-exchange position
-      BPC deposits in BNA
-      certain accounts of Commercial Area.
7.            BNA  management has also identified certain operations where strengthening BNA
processing would benefit other departments or result in better overall management. Some examples are:
(a)    non-coincidence of reporting data needed for preparation of monetary statistics from the
Central Area and Commercial Area;
(b)    need for greater coordination in respect of data flows and information processing:
between the two Areas and among the various Directorates of Central Area;
(c)    inaccuracies and lack of timeliness in data flows between branches and headquarters;
(d)    need for more frequent (in some cases, daily) availability of key data.
8.            In the first iwo weeks of their assignment, the consultants will prepare a work plan, which
they will present to BNA management for approval and send via fax to the World Bank for comment.
The work plan will:
(a)    address the subjects covered in paras. 6 and 7 if these TOR but will not be limited to
those subjects; the consultants should also address whatever other needs they find from
discussions with BNA management and staff and from their own investigations;
(b)    identify the output(s) which the consultants will produce to address the subjects described
under subpara. (a);
(c)    estimate the consultant-weeks of their own effort and the input fromn BNA needed to
produce each output identified in subpara. (b);
(d)    propose a completion date for each output identified in subpara. (o), including as
necessary the time required for BNA review.
The consultant will propose a training program which will enable BNA to address the subjects covered
in paras. 6 and 7, as well as otl.-r -reas where strengthenirng is needed, with its own staff resources.
9.            BNA wili be expected to review and conmment on the consuitants's work plan in one
week. While waiting for BNA comments, the consultants will begin work on one or more subjects
identified in para. 6 (a). They will undertake a work plan agreed on with BNA so as to produce outputs
in accordance with the work plan's time schedule.
10.           Of primordial importance is the requirerrent that BNA produce auditable accounts in a
timely manner. As BNA management has decided that its 1991 accounts must be ready for submission
to the external auditors by June 30 1992, it -will be necessary for the consultants to finish all related work
by April 15, 1992.



Annex 3.3
Page 3 of 3
Qualifications of the Consultants
11.          The accounting consultants selected for this assignment must meet the following criteria:
(a)    all three must have at least ten years's experience in accounting or financial management
in banks;
(b)    all three must be fluent in Portuguese;
(c)    at least two of the three must have a working knowledge of English;
(d)    at least tw, must have at least five years's experience in accounting or financial
management in a central bank;
(e)    at least two must be fully-qualified accountants, i.e. equivalent to 'revisor official" in
Portugal or "chartered accountant" in Commonwealth countries, Ireland, or South Africa.
Administrative Details of the Assignment
12.           The consultants will select one person to act as their spokesperson. They will report to
[the name and title of the injdividual to be completed by BNA] at BNA ic respect of all aspects of the
assignment.
13.           BNA will p-ovide the following at its own expense: (i) an office with appropriate
furnishings at BNA headquarters; arid ("i) 'ucal transport, including: the driver and all running costs of
the automobile mentioned in para. 14, and airfare between Luanda and other cities mutually agreed on
by BNA and the consultants.
14.           BNA will arrange for: (i) the acquisition of one small automobile and two personal
computers with appropriate software, which will be for ihe exclusive use of the consultants during the
assignment and will become the property of BNA after its completion; and (ii) lodging for the consultants
during their entire assignment.
15.           A Project Preparation Facility funded by the World Bank will pay for: (i) the fees of the
consultants; (ii) round-trip air fares at less than first class betwc&n each consultant's home city and
Luanda; (iii) the automobile, personal computers and software mentioned in para. 14; (iv) the cost of
the consultants's lodgiirg in Angola; and (v) a per-diem allowance of US$100 per consultant for all other
expenses while in Angola. All disbursements from the PPF will be made in accordance with World Bank
procedures; in this respevt, the consultants will submit their claims for fees, reimbursement of lodging,
and per-diem allowances mentioned in this para. on a monthly basis to BNA.



Annex 3.4
Page 1 of 4
ANGOLA - FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS MODERNIZATION PROJECT
National Banking Training Institute
Terms of Reference (TOR)
Background
I .          Under legislation enacted in 1991, the banking sector of Angola has undergone conversion
from a single bank to the structure generally encountered in market-oriented economies, with a central
bank and a number of commercial banks. Three banking institutions have been established and have
begun operations; they are Bank of Commerce and Industry (Banco de Comercio e Industria, BCI), Bank
of Savings and Credit (Banco de Poupanga e Credito, BPC), and Agriculture and Fisheries Credit Fund
(Caixa de Credito Agropecuaria e Pescas, CAP). The National Bank of Angola (Banco Nacional de
Angola, BNA) has begun to transfer its commercial operations to the three commercial banks, and this
process is expected to be substantially completed in 1992.
Objective of the Consultan
2.           The Nation Banking Training Institute (Instituto de Formagao Bancaria de Angola, IFBA)
is bting established to serve the training needs of the banking sector. Formerly the training center of
BNA, IFBA is also in the process of conversion from a single-bank situation to a service orientation.
The overall objective of the consultancy, therefere, is to assist IFBA in adapting to its new orientation
as rapidly and effectively as possible. To accomplish this, the consultant will have extensive interviews
with the General Directors, Personnel Directors, and training officers of each of the banks as well as the
General Director and staff of IFBA.
3.           As detailed below, the consultant will make recommendations in respect of: IFBA's
ownership and management; the training objectives and course offerings of IFBA; and IFBA's financial
arrangements.
Ownership and Management
4.           To be fully responsive to the needs of its clients, it is expected that IFBA will require
their active participation in its management. Based on discussions with the participants identified above,
the consultant will make recommendations on each of the following subjects:
(a)   the participation of each bank in the ownership and voting rights of IFBA; in
particular, whether or not BNA's role as central bank implies a leadership role
at IFBA;
(b)   the constitution of IFBA's governing body, including its membership,
chairmanship, responsibilities, and frequency of meetings;
(c)    whether or not IFBA should have a training advisory council and, if so, its
membership, chairmanship, responsibilities, and frequency of meetings; in
particular, whether or not organizations outside the banking sector - e.g. the
Faculty of Economics at the Agostinho Neto University (Universidade Agostinho
Neto, UAN) and the two commercial institutes - should participate;



Annex 3.4
Page 2 of 4
(d)    whether or not IFBA should establish a formal link (sometimes called a twinning
arrangement) with a similar institution in another country, and whether such a
link should include (i) investment (of money, courses, or services of individuals)
in IFBA and (ii) participation in its governing body and .raining advisory council
(subparas. (b) and (c) above);
(e)   the duties and responsibilities of IFBA's day-to-day management; and
(f)    provision for access of new banks to the IFBA's including participation in the
areas identified above.
Training Obie~,tives
5.            The consultant will establish and prioritize the training objectives of IFBA, focussing on
the following aspects:
(a)    the shortage of management and skilled staff presently employed in the banking
sector and the consequent inability of any bank to release key employees for
extensive periods of time;
(b)   the link between the IFBA program, which by its nature will offer generalized
courses, and the individual training programs of each bank, which will instruct
the bank's staff in its specific methods and procedures; in particular, the degree
to which IFBA should offer courses on various central-banking functions;
(c)    the types of training to be offered by IFBA in the short-, mediuni-, and long-
term: e g remedial education; formal courses with examination and certification
(including the possibility of gaining equivalency credit for secondary and tertiary
education requirements); short-term courses and seminars; or other types;
(d)   the levels of employees to be reached by the different types of IFBA offerings;
and
(e,    whether IFBA's course offerings should be limited to banking-specific subjects
or should include more generalized subjects such as management, business
mathematics, economics, and English language.
Training Modalities
6.            In addition to the instructional requirements, an important objective of much, if not all,
training is to permit the employee to continue his/her work assignment and minimize the disrupticn of
the activities of the sponsoring bank. A further factor to be considered is thb   ,e and growing number
of bank employees located outside of Luanda. Consequently, the consu'a n will propose:
(a)    the number of trainees from each level at each bank who can be released for
training under each of the conditions identified in para. 6 (b);



Annex 3.4
Page 3 of 4
(b)    the scheduling arrangements for each type of training:  block-release for
maximum of three months; day-release (either one or two days per week or half-
day); evening; weekend;
(c)    whether courses could be arranged in modules so as to accommodate the wor c
requirements of the trainees; and
(d)    arrangements for employees from outside Luanda.
7.            The consultant will propose the number of instructors on a year-by-year basis (for the
five-year period 1993-97) which IFBA will need to meet the recommended objectives. 'The consultant
will determine whether the existing training staff of IFBA has the required academic skills, banking and
teaching experience to deliver quality courses. To the extent that strengthening of the IFBA staff is
required, the consultant will propose:
(a)    specific programs for upgrading each instructor; and
(b)    on a year-by-year basis, the number of expatriate instructors needed to substitute
for the IFBA staff receiving training, and the desired qualifications of such
expatriate instructors.
Course Offerings
8.            Based on all the above, the consultant should prepare a comprehensive proposed training
program of IFBA over the five-year period 1993-97. This program should include the schedule of course
offerings on a week-by-week basis and show the assignrment of instructors to each course. A full
description of each course included in the program should be provided. Such course description should
include: the level and number of employees to receive the course; specific subjects to be included and
proficiency to be attained; textbook or other reference or teaching material required.
C ost and budge
9.            The consultant will prepare a tear-by-year estimated cost of IFBA for 1993-97, separated
between local costs (expressed in NKz) and f.i,.gn costs (expressed in US$). The costs will be presented
to show at least the following level of detail:
(a)    purchase of equipment (with identification and itemized cost of each item of
equipment);
(b)    administration and management expenses, with separate identiflcation of salaries,
rent, and other significant expenses;
(c)    salaries and other remuneration paid to instructors, identified by each instructor;
(d)    other training costs, identified for each course proposed in para. 8; and
(e)    costs of instructor-upgrading program, identified by each instructor.



Annex 3.4
Page 4 of 4
10.           The consultant will propose the method by which the participating banks will pay for
IFBA's operations and will prepare estimated contributions based on such participation.
11.           Based on the above, the consultant will pkepare a year-by-year estimate of IFBA's income
and expenditure and its year-end balance sheet for 1993-97.
Schedule for Study Preparation
12.           The consultant will begin his/her assignment on  . He/she will present draft reports to
each of the participating banks and (via fax) to the World Bank according to the following schedule:
(a)    ownership and participation (para. 4 of these TOR): one month after beginning
assignment;
(b)    training objectives (para. 5): one month after beginning assignment;
(c)    course offerings (paras. 6-8): two months after beginn!ng assignment; and
(d)    costs and budget (paras. 9-1 1): three months after beginning assignment.
13.           The participating banks will have two weeks to comment on each of the consultant's draft
reports, after which the consultant will finalize the draft report and complete the draft of the next report.
At the begitLiing of the assigmnent, the consultant will notify each participating bank in writing: of this
time requirement; and that comments not received within the specified two-week period will not be taken
into account in the subsequent steps.



Annex 3.5
Page 1 of 4
ANGOLA - FINANCIAL INSTITr        ONS MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Business Education
Assistance to Agostinho Neto University
Terms of Reference (TOR)
Background: Business in Angola
1.           Officially, Angola has about 3,000 private- and more than 1,800 public-sector commercial
enterprises, including a large proportion (on the order of 50 percent in the public sector) of out of
business firms. While most large enterprises are now public-sector, privatization has begun to take place
on a case-by-case basis. The Government's Gabinete de Redimensionamento Empresarial (GARE) has
undertaken a number of studies on the problems of public-sector enterprises and has proposed general
guidelines on privatization and restructuring, but it does not provide training or other services to the
enterprises, nor does it participate directly in the privatization process.
2.           More than 200 of Angola's larger private sector enterprises belong to the Angolan
Industrial Association (Associacao Industrial Angolana, AIA), which is one of two such associations in
the country (the other represents commercial enterprises). While AIA provides some services to its
members, it does not have the capacity to provide training, business-advisory, or consultancy services.
3.           According to representatives of the private sector, private enterprises in Angola have
become decapitalized in every sense, and studies of GARE reach the same conclusion in respect of public-
sector enterprises. Financially, most have had insufficient profits or sustained losses. 'Their capital
investment is outmoded or poorly maintained. Their management personnel, already severely depleted
by emigration after independence, have been totally occupied by inmmediate problems and have not had
the r oportunity to acquire or maintain needed skills. The management situation in public-sector
enterprises is reportedly worse, as most management personnel have had no exposure to the incentive
structure of market-based economies.
4.           The banking sector consists of (i) the National Bank of Angola (Banco Nacional de
Angola, BNA), which is the central bank and retains some commercial banking operations, (ii) three
government-owned banking institutions, two of which are in the process of being partially privatized, and
(iii) branches of foreign banks, three of which are now being established.
Background: Business Education
5.           Post-secondary education and training in business administration in Angola is carried out
at two types of institution: two institutos medios, in Luanda and Lubango, which offer technician-level
commercial courses; and the Agostinho Neto University (Universidade Agostinho Neto, UAN), whose
main campus is in Luanda but also has campuses in Huambo and Lubango. At UAN, the Faculty of
Economics is responsible for delivering courses in business administraticn. From independence until
1991, course offerings of the Faculty of Economics, including business administration courses, reflected
the socialist orientation of the country; most of the Faculty's lecturers were from countries with centrally
planned economies. Both the personnel and course offerings have been changed to respond to the market
orientation of Angola's economy. The Faculty offers a five-year program, which includes three years



Annex 3.5
Page 2 of 4
of basic courses in economics and a two-year specialization, either in economics or in business
administration. This program may need to be revised to place more emphasis on business administration
courses.  The lecturers in business administration, moreever, do not have extensive education or
experience in business administration in market-oriented economies.
6.            Several initiatives funded in part by World Bank credits are under way to review selected
aspects of business-related education and training and, where advisable, propose improvements or
remedial measures. Principal among these initiatives are:
(a)    a study to define the country's requirements for training and education in
accounting;
(b)    strengthening of the National Banking Training Insititute (Instituto de Formagco
Bancaria de Angola, IFBA), formerly the training unit of BNA but now with
responsibility for providing training to the banking sector; and
(c)    assistance in establishing accounting and auditing standards and norms for
examining and registering accountants.
Obiective
7.            The objective of this endeavor is to establish a twinning arrangement for education in
business administradon between UAN and one or more foreign university(ies). It is recognized that
successful twinning arrangements have a duration of 20 years or more, while the implementation period
of the proposed project (please see para. 16) is only three years; hence, UAN will have to seek funding
trom other sources to continue tho arrangement after the project's conclusion. It is also recognized that
Angola's needs with regard to education in business administration vastly exceed the resources available,
particularly when the needs of existing management personnel are taken into account.
8.            While the traditional core of a twinning arrangement in its early stages would be the
interchange of peopie - le;turers from the foreign twin seconded to UAN for one or more academic years,
and graduates (including lecturers at the Faculty of Economics) from Angola registering as full-time
students at the foreign twin - Angola's needs may suggest the advisability of other modalities instead of
and/or. in addition to this interchange, such as (i) a higher proportion of courses, particularly remedial
course.s, taught locally and (ii) cther than full-time courses of study. Examples of such possible variants
are the following:
(a)    executive education courses in specialized subjects, with durations measured in
weeks;
(b)    weekend or evening courses directed to existing management personnel;
(c)    establishment of "business roundtables" to enable enterprise managers, UAN
staff, and - as applicable - goverrunent officials to interchange ideas;
(d)    short-term seminars to targeted audiences; and



Annex 3.5
Page 3 of 4
(e)    collaboration with other institutions, c.g. AIA and IFBA, in developing training
programs.
9.            Collaboration with other institutions in presentation of the activities listed under (a)
through (d) above may also be considered.
The Proaram
10.           Short-listed foreign universities will be expected to propose a program for education and
training in business administration in collaboration with UAN for three academic years beginning
September 1993. The proposal will itemize with all possible detail the components of the program,
including but not limited to the modalities mentioned in para. 8; this will be based on the proposing
university's assessment and prioritization of the needs as determined from its meetings with
representatives of Angolan organizations (please see para. 17). The proposal will identify the costs of
each component, itemizing the costs as follows:
(a)    salaries of full-time lecturers seconded by the foreign twin to UAN (lecturers will
be expected to meet all living costs except housing and transport from their
salaries);
(b)    fees and daily expenses (not including lodging) of less-than-full-time personnel,
e.g. seminar leaders, sent by the forei,n twin;
(c)    round-trip air fares at less than first class between the location of the foreign twin
and Luanda for each person under (a) and (b);
(d)    tuition fees for students sent by UAN, who would normally be UAN graduates,
to the foreign twin, with identification of number of students and number of
student-years;
(e)    room, board, and other living expenses for students under (d);
(f)    round-trip air fares at economy class between Luanda and the location of the
foreign twin; and
(g)    equipment and teaching material required for the program, with identification and
cost of each item.
11.          All the above costs, up to a maximum of US$_  million, would be financed by a
proposed World Bank credit for a Financial Institutions Modernization project. The BNA, which would
be the executing agency under the project, would provide: housing for all personnel sent by the foreign
twin to UAN; the use of an economy car for each full-time lecturer seconded by the foreign twin for the
duration of his/her secondment; and t-ansport of all personnel involved between Luanda and other
locations in Angola. BNA and UAN/Faculty of Economics would have a formal agreement in respect
of these arrangements.
12.           Language presents an obstacle. Few Angolans at any level are fluent in a language other
than Portuguese, but it is recognized that the majority of texts and training material in business education



Annex 3.5
Page 4 of 4
is not available in Portuguese. Consequently, UAN will have the responsibility of ensuring that its
students - both those who will receive instruction from lecturers seconded by the foreign twin and those
who will be sent to the foreign twin - have attained at least a working comprehension of a foreign
language. This will require instructicn in Angola. In the initial stages of the twinniing arrangement,
however, all short courses and roundtables conducted ia Angola must be in Portuguese. The foreign twin
may wish to propose ways of assisting UAN in providing foreign-language training and testing to its
students, but the proposed World Bank credit will not finance such assistance.
13.           Tho proposing university will be responsible for determining the capacity of UAN
graduates in business-administration subjects. Based on this determination, the proposing university will
present three course programs for UAN graduates - for one, two, and three years's study at its campus -
and describe the expected achievement level, including a comparison with academic achievement levels
in its country, for each of the three course programs. The proposing university will indicate the number
of UAN graduates it expects to enroll in each of its programs (one-, two-, or three-year) on a year-by-
year basis.
14.           The proposing university will identify and provide the resume of each lecturer to be
seconded and will indicate his/her program and responsibilities, including but not limited to course
offerings to be taught.
15.           A further conside!ration to be taken into account is UAN's three campuses. It must be
determined at what time and to what degree business-administration courses and related educational efforts
should be offered outside Luanda.
16.           A final, and perhaps vital, consideration is the sustainability of the twinning operation.
Because the intention of the proposed project is only to initiate the twinning arrangement (para. 7), short-
listed universities are requested to indicate other sources of finance which may be available to them to
continue the program after the initial three-year period and what degree of commitment, if any, they may
have from such sources.
17.           To assist the short-listed universities in making their proposals, BNA and UAN will
conduct a five-day orientation session from _  to _, 1993. The session will be conducted entirely in
Portuguese. During the session, representatives of the foreign universities will have the opportunity:
to assess UAN's course offerings and the proficiency of its students and graduates in business
administration; and to meet with officials of key government ministries (including education, finance,
and planning), industry, and the banking sector to determine the prioritization of needs. The proposed
World Bank credit would finance for one representative of each short-listed iniversity: the round-trip
air fare (at less than first class) between the short-listed university's location and Luanda, and US$1,250
to cover all living expenses during the session. BNA and UAN will provide the following services: all
transport in Angola, includ ng airport pick-up and delivery; booking hotel reservations; and arranging
meetings. Because of the mary demands on the time of their staff members, BNA and UAN will not be
able to provide information or the proposed twinning arrangement other than at the orientation session.



Annex 3.6
Page 1 of 1
ANGOLA - FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Bank Group Initiatives in Higher Education in Angola
Sumrnary
1.           To facilitate Angola's move from a centrally planned to a market-oriented economy, the
Bank Group has identified several policy issues and remedial areas which ought to be addressed in the
ambit of higher education. In the Training and Manpower Development Sector Report (Report 10662-
ANG), the Bank recommends that Angola's principal need in the post-secondary technical education and
professional training sub-sector is to develop policies and a long-term strategy which reflect national goals
and address the specific issues of performance, efficiency, equity and finance. The immediate task for
the Agostinho Neto University (Universidade Agostinho Neto, UAN) - the sole institution of higher
education in Angola, with campuses in Luanda, Huambo and Lubango - lies in institution building. The
Bank's recommendation is to emphasize strengthening UAN's undergraduate program, while increasing
student enrollment without sacrificing quality, before embarking on a post-graduate program.
2.           Bank Group financing for higher education to support Angola's shift in economic
orientation is contemplated under three IDA projects -- the Economic Management and Capacity Building
Project (Credit 2274-ANG), the First Education Project (Credit 2375-ANG) and the proposed Financial
Institutions Modernization Project. The objectives of the first two with regard to higher education are
summarized below.
Economic Management and Capacity Building Project
3.            The initial emphasis tnder the Economic Management and Capacity Building Project is
essentially remedial in nature in such key areas as macroeconomics, public investment and accounting,
with a subsequent focus on job-specific skills building. Training needs are targeted for three groups: (i)
the small number of trained economists operating at the "Director" level in the key Ministries who need
to be familiarized with economic policy and management issues; (ii) recent graduates recruited for junior
positions in the key Ministries who require additional training in macroeconomic analysis and in such
basic professional tracks as development planning and fiscal management; and (iii) technical level staff
in the key Ministries who are responsible for the execution of rudimentary economic management tasks
that require training in accounting skills and general administration. This training would include courses
aiAd seminars both in Angola and abroad.
First Education Project
4.           This project aims at correcting the major inefficiencies in the education sector and
preparing a strategy for its overall rehabilitation, revitalization and progressive expansion. In the area
of higher education, which represents a small component of the overall project, the project seeks to
improve the quality of inputs at the Faculty of Economics and enhance the management information
system at the UAN.
5.           The objectives of the First Education Project regarding the Faculty of Economics are to
(a) undertake a program to upgrade the qualifications of existing professors; (b) provide training for the
Faculty's administrative staff; (c) reorganize the Faculty library and provide relevant books in econoniics
and management, subscribe to international journals, and develop a computerized d;ita-processin
capability; and (d) provide furniture and equipment.



Annex 3.7
Page 1 of 7
ANGOLA - FINANCIAL INSTTTONS MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Establishment of Standards for Accounting and Auditing
1. Standards for Accounting and Auditing
Terms of Reference (TOR)
1.           These terms of reference (TOR) describe the assistance required by the Ministry of
Finance of Angola in respect of establishing standards for accounting, auditing, and registry of
accountants.
Background
2.           The accounting profession in Angola is embryonic. There are very few accountants in
professional practice; there is no institute or similar association of professional accountants; education
and training in accounting was neglected during the years of the country's socialist orientation. By law,
the Ministry of Finance is responsible for accounting and taxation matters. Within the Ministry, the
Gabinete de Estudos (GE) is responsible for policy guidance, and the Direccao Nacional de Contabilidade
(DNC) and Direccao Nacional de Impostos (DNI) are the directorates responsible for accounting and
taxation, respectively.
3.           Under the Government's Programa de Saneamento Econ6mico e Financeiro (SEF), the
Ministry of Finance published a Piano de Contas Empresarial (PCE) in 1989. Except for the standards
which are implicit in the PCE, no other accounting standards have been published; some reportedly have
been drafted by the Ministry of Finance. Many enterprises in Angola, especially small and medium
companies, do not maintain accounts; of those that do, compliance with the PCE is believed to be only
partial.
4.           Except for multinational companies, neither external nor internal auditing in the generally
accepted sense is normally practiced in Angola, where the term 'audit' is usually associated with
inspection of tax returns.
5.           Formal education in accounting has not been offered in Ango'i since 1974. While some
accounting courses are now offered - at the Ministry of Finance's training center and as part of
commercial and business administration programs at the institutos medios and at the university - none of
these is designed specifically to produce professional accountants. The DNC maintains a register of
individual accountants, but there are no requirements for academic achievements or professional
experience associated with that register.
6.            Especially considering the low priority which accounting received during Angola's period
of socialist orientation, the Ministry of Finance has achieved a great deal since 1989. Highest priority
has been given to improving public sector budgets, accounting, and treasury operations. As a result, the
Ministry of Finance has produced detailed budgets for governmental operations (the Orgamento Geral do
Estado), prepared a plan of accounts for the Government and improved its perforxrvnce in accounting and
treasury operations.



Annex 3.7
Page 2 of 7
Obiectives
7.            While further improvements in public sector financial management would continue to be
a priority of the Ministry of finance, officials of the Ministry realize that a major effort is required for
Ministry of Finance to undertake its regulatory role in respect of commercial accounting and auditing.
This effort embraces three activities for which DNC is respons'ble: accounting, auditing, and registry
of accountants. Many of these activities have a direct bearing on income-tax matters and are therefore
of interest to DNI. The consultancy would require the efforts of an individual to provide assistance to
Ministry of Finance over a three-year period to establish standards for accournting, auditing, and
education, examination, and training of accountants, as detailed in subsequent paragraphs of these TOR.
Organizational Arrangements
8.            Officially, the consultant will report to the Minisver of Finance or his designate, the
director of GE, wno will arrange an intra-ministerial working group consisting of representatives of at
least the three offices most directly related to the objective of the study, viz. GE, DNC, and DNI. On
a day-to-day basis, the consultant will report to the Dire:ctor or DNC; in addition, he/she will maintain
close liaison with the Director and staff of DNI. The consultant will, with the assistance of GE, make
contact with responsible officials or representatives of the Ministry of Commerce, Ministry of Plan,
Gabinete de Redimensionamento Empresarial, Faculty of Economics at the University, National Bank of
Angola, and in the private sector, the Associagao de Industrias Angolanas (AIA) and practicing
accountants. To carry out the study, the consultant will also visit a representative sample of private- and
public-sector companies of all sizes.
Ihe  tud
9.            The consultant's study, which will be written in Portuguese, will begin with a diagnostic
analysis of the present situation in Angola (para. 9). Subsequently, the consultant will prepare a series
of individual papers, described in paras. 10 through 14.
10.           In the diagLiotic andyljv, the consultant will review all factors which relate to accounting,
auditing, and the training of accountants in Angola. These factors include:
(a)    all laws, decrees, or other official notices regarding accounting, auditing, and the
training, examination, and registry of accountants in Angola;
(b)    the PCE and any accounting and audit standards which have been outlined,
drafted, or published;
(c)    the state of accounting at representative enterprises (small and medium as well
as large), especially adherence to the PCE; what standards or other bases for
decisions on accouiting matters are used; existence of methods and procedures
and other means of internal control; the use of internal audit.
(d)    the extent to which enterprise accounts are audited by independent auditors;
(e)    course offerings in accounting, auditing, and all related matters at the University,
Angola's two institutos medios, and the Ministry of Finance rraining Center; and
(f)    the registry of accountants and all related records.



Annex 3.7
Page 3 of 7
11.           The consultant will draft a series of papers on the general subjects of accounting, auditing,
and training, examination, and registry of accountants, as detailed in the following paras. The consultant
will prep.re a work plan which specifies the date he/she expects to finish each draft, in accordance with
priorities established with the directors of GE, DNC, anid DNI; the work plan should be reviewed by
the consultant and the three directors every six months and changed as conditions warrant. After
preparing each, draft, the consultant will discuss the draft with the parties identified in para. 8 both in
private meetings and in at least one public forum. After consultation with the three directors, the
consultant will prepare a final paper, which Ministry of Finance will pub!ish, disseminate, and distribute.
The consultant will be prepared to participate in the dissemination process by discussing the papers in
private or public meetings with interested partles.
12.           Acc)unting. There are two fundamental documents which form the framework for
accounting:  the chart of accounts, which identifies the individual accounts and prescribes their
presentation in financial statements; and the statement of accounting standards, which defines such
concepts as when transactions are to be recognized and how assets and liabilities are to be valued. The
consultant will draft papers on the following:
(a)    national accounting standards, which will have reference to the international
standards of the International Accounting Standards Committee and those of
industrialized countries;
(1)    review of the PCE to ensure that it is harmonized with the country's accounting
standards and with the charts of accounts of other countries, particularly
members of the European Community (EC);
(c)    a simplified chart of accounts for small and medium enterprises (SMEs);
(d)    based on the above, an accounting manual (as well as a simplified manual for
SMEs) to serve as a model for state and private enterprises in the country.
13.           Auditing. Without a strong tradition in auditing, Angola requires increased awareness
with regard to: the purposes and benefits of auditing; how audits are carried out; and the differences
between internal and external audit. Concurrently, it needs to establish auditing standards. The
consultant will draft the following on auditing:
(a)    a conceptual framework paper on the requirements and benefits of internal and
external audit;
(b)    (i) national auditing standards with reference to international standards as
determined by the International Federation of Accountants and those of other
countries and (ii) a model audit manual;
(c)    definition of the enterprises for which external audits are required.
14.           Rgjgisy  Because of the lack of euucation and training in accounting (para. 5), Angola
will face a critical shortage of accountants and auditors foi a number of years. While initial efforts to
provide more training have begun, DNC has the responsibility of maintaining a registry of accountants
and ensuring that individuals in the accounting profession are properly qualified. To assist DNC in
fulfilling this responsibility, the consultant will draft papers which:



Annex 3.7
Page 4 of 7
(a)    determine the classifications of accountants and auditors - bookkeepers,
technicians, fully-qualified professionals - to be recognized;
(b)    define the academic, professional examination, and professional experience
requirements for each classification;
(c)    from (b), define the curriculum requirements for courses of study leading to
recognition of each classification of accountant; and
(d)    establish a mechanism to (i) set examinations for candidates for accountants
directly or (ii) se, standards for and monitor such examinations given by others.
Qualifications of the Consultant
15.           The consultant for this assignment must meet the following criteria:
(a)    be a fully-qualified accoulntant with at least ten years's experience in both
accounting and auditing;
(b)    have extensive experience in teaching, training, and examining accountants;
(c)    have extensive experience with  administration  of income-tax  laws and
regulations;
(d)    have extensive experience with accounting and auditing standards, charts of
accounts, and accouradng and auditing manuals;
(e)    speak and write in Portuguese with fluency; and
(f)    have experience in the transfer of know-how.
Administrative Details of the Assignment
16.           Ministry of Finance will provide at its expense: (i) an office with appropriate furnishings;
(ii) secretarial support, including photocopying, fax, telephone, telex; and (iii) costs of transport between
Luanda and any other location in Angola. While Ministry of Finance has some computer facilities, the
consultant is advised to uring his/her own personal computer and printer. Ministry of Finance will make
arrangements with the Banco Nacional de Angola, for which the proposed World Bank credit related to
the project will finance the provision of housing for consultants, for the consultant's use of one housing
unit during the duration of his/her assignment.
17.           The World Bank credit will pay for: (i) tie consultant's fees; (ii) round-trip air fare at
less than first class between the consultant's home city and Luanda; and (iii) a compact car which will
be for the exclusive use of the consultant during his/her assignment and will revert to the Government
of Angola at the end of the assigrnent.



Annex 3.7
Page 5 of 7
II. Assistance in Asset Revaluation Methods
Terms of Reference (TOR)
18.          These terms of reference (TOR) describe the assistance required by the Ministry of
Finance (Ministry of Finance) oFAngola in respect of establishing methods and procedures for enterprises
in the country to revalue their long-term assets.
Background
19.          The accounting profession in Angola is embryonic. There are very few accountants in
professional practice; there is no institute or similar association of professional accountants. Education
and training in accounting was neglected during the years of the country's socialist orientation. By law,
Ministry of Finance is responsible for accounting and taxation matters. Within the Ministry, the Gabinete
de Estudos (GE) is responsible for policy guidance, and the Direcgao Nacional de Contabilidade (DNC)
and Direcgco Nacional de Impostos (DNI) are the directorates responsible for accounting and taxation,
respectively.
20.           Under the Govermnent's Programa de Sanearnento Econ6mico e Financeiro (SEF),
Ministry of Finance published a Plano de Contas Empresarial (PCE) in 1989. Except for the standard!
which are implicit in the PCE, no other accounting standards have been published; some repo.Eedly have
beex. drafted by Ministry of Finance.
21.           Until 1991, the Government maintained an official exchange rate of about NKz
30=US$1, although this was wi-le!y regarded as unrealistic in market terms. In several steps beginning
in 1991, the new kwanza has been devalued to a present official exchange rate of about NKz 550=US$1,
while the market rate at end-May 1992 was on the. order of NKz 1,600=US$1.
Objectives
22.           Although Angola has not developed a full set of accounting standards, there is an obvious
need to establish standards with regard to asset valuation, and particularly revaluation c f l'ne-term assets.
The objective of the consultancy, therefore, is to recommend a standard for such revaluation and
methods, procedures, rules, and formulas for enterprises to put the standard into practice.  Ihe
recommended standard, if adopted by Ministry of Fiiance, will eventually be incorporated in the
country's accounting standards. The recommended methods, procedures, rules, and formulas, if adopted,
will be included in, Angola's income-tax regulations, and a national accounting manual to be published
by Ministry of Finance.
Qrganizational Arrangements
23.           Officially, the consultant will report to the Minister of Finance or his designate. On a
day-to-day basis, the consultant will report to the director of GE, who will arrange an intra-ministerial
working group consisting of representatives of at least the three offices most directly related to the
objective of the stuly, viz. GE, DNC, and DNI. The consultant will, with the assistance of GE, make
contact with responsible officials or representatives of the Ministry of Commerce, Ministry of Plan,
Gabinete de Redimensionamento Empresarial, Faculty of Economics at the University, National Bank of
Angola, and in the private sector, the Associaqio de Industrias Angolanas (AIA) and practicing
accountants. To carry out the study, the consultant will also visit a representative sample of private and
public sector companies of all sizes.



Annex 3.7
Page 6 of 7
24.           The consultant's study, which will be written in Portuguese and subsequently translated
into r.   sh, will consist of three main sections: a diagnostic analysis of the present situation in Angola;
an e, ,nination of the different methods of asset revaluation and related calculations; and
recommendations.
25.           In the diagnostic anaivx, the consultant will review all factors which relate to asset
revaluation in Angola. These factors include:
(a)    all laws, decrees, or other official notices regarding valuation of and accounting
for assets, including depreciation, and the audit thereof, in respect of both
enterprise books of account and income taxes;
(b)    the PCE and any accounting and audit standards which have been outlined,
drafted, or published;
(c)    the state of accounting at representative enterprises (small and medium' as well
as large), especially the availability of data on original cost and date of purchase
of all long-term assets in their asset registers; their details of accounting for
depreciation; and their related methods and procedures;
(d)    the availability and capability of Angolan engineering firms to determine the
current value of buildings, equipment, and other long-term assets; and
(e)    the availability, validity, and promptness of price indices, including industry-
specific and general (producer, wholesale, and retail) price indices.
26.            In the examination section of the study, the consultant will first identify the difference
between the 'going-concern" and "liquidation" conventions; explain why the former is generally
employed in presenting enterprise accounts; and specify the alternatives which are availahle to enterprises
which are to be liquidated or sold, as is the case for many of Angola's nublic-sector enterprises.
27.           There are four different rrocedures for revaluing assets: (i) asset-specific valuation based
on physical inspection and consequent determination of value; (ii) revaluation based on indices specific
to a type of asset, e g buildings, or industry; (iii) revaluation based on general price indices; and (iv)
revaluation based on exchange rates. The consultant will explain in detail how each procedure works,
using Angolan examples to illustrate each procedure. The consultant will: ti) describe the asset
revaluation procedures used in countries where inflation has been a significant economic factor, e.g.
Argentina, Brazil, and Chile; (ii) indicate whether the same revaluation procedures are used for enterprise
books and for income tax purposes in those countries; and (iii) summarize experiences, especially
problems, which have been encountered in each country.
28.           With regard to accounting for depreciation, the consultant will (i) describe in general
terms the purpose of and procedures used in such accounting and (ii) illustrate for each of the fc" r asset
revaluation procedures: the resultant calculations for adjusting the related accumulated depreciation and
for determining the annual provision for depreciation of the revalued asset. The consultant will also
summarize the practice in other countries in respect of: (i) selection of useful lives ior determining
depreciation calculations, i.e. whether enterprises are free to choose the useful life for each asset based
on a reasonable estimate or whether enterprises are required to utilize a useful life determined by an



Annex 3.7
Page 7 of 7
independent agency (usually a governmental bodv), and (ii) the extent to which useful lives, methods and
procedures of calculation, and other matters pertaining to depreciation differ for enterprise accounting
and income tax purposes.
29.           Asset revalcat;on generally results in an increment to the book value of the enterprise's
equity. The consultant will discuss the various accounting treatments of this iicrement, using the same
four examples, in general use and in the context of Angola's PCE.
30.           Based on the above, the consultant will draft recommendations:  which of the asset-
revaluation procedures is to be utilized; a related accounting standard; methods, procedures, rules, and
formulas for enterprise books of accounts and income tax purposes related to asset revaluation,
depreciation, and increment to the equity of the enterprise; amendments to income tax laws and
regulations; and amendments to the PCE. The consultant will discuss the recommendations with the
parties identified in para. 6 in private meetings and, to the extent possible, in a p,nblic forum. After
consultation with Ministry of Finance, the consultant will prepare a final set of recommendations (
copies in Portugue-cs, _   copies in English) to be distributed by Ministry of Fir.nce.
Qualifications of the Consultant
31.           The consultant for this assignment must meet the following criteria:
(a)    be a fully-qualified accountant with at least ten years's experience in a country
with persistently high inflation and where asset revaluation is a normal event;
b)     have extensive experience in accounting for and auditing asset revaluation and
depreciation calculations;
(c)    have extensive experience with administration of income tax laws and
regulations, particularly in respect of asset revaluation and depreciation
calculations;
(d)    speak and write in Portuguese with fluency; and
(e)    have experience in the transfer of know-how.
Administrative Details of the Assignment
32.           The Ministry of Finance will provide at its expense: (i) an office with appropriate
furnishings at its headquarters; (ii) secretarial support, including photocopying, fax, telephone, telex; and
(iii) costs of transport between Luanda and any other location in Angola if it is determined that the
consultant should leave Luanda for purposes of the study. While Ministry of Finance has some computer
facilities, the consultant is advised to bring his/her own personal computer and printer.
33.           A Project Preparation Facility funded by the World Bank and re!ated to the Financial
Institutions ModeLnization Project will pay for: (i) the consultant's fees; (ii) round-trip air fare at less than
first class between the consultant's home city and Luanda; (iii) the costs of the consultant's lodging in
Luanda; and (iv) a per diem allowance of US$100 for all other expenses of the consuliant while in
Angola.



Annex 3.8
Page 1 of 5
ANGOLA - FINANCIAL INSTITUrIONS MODERNIZATION PROJECT
I.                  Leeal Assistance Component (LAC): Detailed Description
Ob,ectives of the LAC
The LAC has a two-fold objective: (i) to assist in designing appropriate mechanisms to
facilitate the dissemination and implementation of the recently enacted banking legislation; and (ii) to
strengthen the legal, technical and administrative capabilities of the Borrower's institutions which are
responsible for the implementation of the legal and regulatory framework for the banking system.
Facilitating the Dissemination and Implementation of Banking Legislation
2.            The recently enacted banking legislation needs to be effectively implemented and widely
disseminated among the institutions responsible for its administration.  In additicn, appropriate
mechanisms and procedures need to be designed to facilitate access to banking regulations, and
documentary and contractual practices by both government agencies and the private sector, Furthermore,
it is essential to familiarize banking staff with the day-to-day execution of these mechanisms and
procedures in order to provide better banking services to the public. To this end, the Project will support
(i) the design and publication of a banking manual; and (ii) the compilation, harmonization and
dissemination of the legal and regulatory framework for the banking system (the legal inventory).
(a)    Banking Operational Manual
3.            With the help of foreign technical assistance, BNA will design, and periodically update,
an operational manual which describes, banking operations and the legal and administrative requirements
to enforce them. The manual would also include standard contractual forms which need to be drafted
and adjusted in accordance with legislation in force.
4.            A loose-leaf version of the manual will be edited, published, and distributed to BNA's
headquarters and branches. Tne Project would also provide support to start an experimental system
where a certain amount of manuals, and their respective updates would be sold to other banking
institutions and the private sector. BNA's Legal and Money Supply and Credit Directorate will be
responsible for the coordination of the design, editing, publication and periodic updating of the manual.
(b)    Leeal Inventory
5.            The legal and regulatory framelw;rk for the banking system is not widely disseminated,
and consists of diverse and not-easily-avail, .e legal and administrative instruments issued by the
legislative bodies, the BNA, the Ministry ot Finance and other relevant government agencies. It is
therefore difficult for banking staff and other public or private agents requiring banking services to assess
exactly the contents and scope of the applicable framework. For this reason, the Project will support the
compilation, harmonization, publication and dissemination of the legal and regulatory framework for the
banking system.
6.            In view of the complexity of this task, the legal inventory will be caraied out in three
phases. 'Me first phas will consist of the organization of a local workshop (Jornadas de Direito Bancario)
where legal and banking experts form  abroad and Angola will meet to discuss their technical



Annex 3.8
Page 2 of 5
.nterpretation of the existing legal and regl.atory framework. During two to three days, the local
participants will prioritize the existing legislation and admiListrative instruments regulating the sector,
which need to be included in the inventory. At the same time, aspects and regulations not covered by
the legislation in force will be identified for further consideration. The Angolan professionals wil benefit
from comparative views on modern banking iegislation and practices provided by high-level gl-est experts
from similar legal traditions (e.g. Brazil and Portugal). The results of the woekshop will be published
and made avL ilable +o all banking institutions and other relevant institutions. BNA will coordinate and
organize this ev.nt with the assistance of professors of the Law Scrool of Agostinho Neto University,
who would be employed as local consultants.
7.       he secon_phas will provide the background niaLerials to prepare the legal inventory, taking
into account the recommendations o' the workshop. It is of utmost importance that the local legal
professionals provide a classification of the materials with the respective commentary and assessment of
their completeness and technical contents.
8.     fl& third phase will include the production and final editing of the inventory. A. this stagc, the
participation of foreign legal experts will be necessary to finalize, jointly with local consultants, the
collect-on of relevant legal and regulatory instruments, including cross-references to other areas of the
law (inter alia, in the Conunercial, Civil or Procedure Codes). The consultants preparing the inventory
will workl closely with the respective departments and officials of BNA to familiarize them with editing
ttechniques, so that BNA staff would be able to update it on its own. Besides ensuring the transfer of
know-how, the consultants will be responsible for providing, where necessary, editorial comments on the
relevant legal texts to facilitate their understanding by non-legally trained persons, since the rnain
objective of the invento:y is to proviue an user-friendly text for easy reference, and not a scholarly legal
treatise.
Strengthgning Intitutional Legal. Technical and Administrative Capabilities
(a)    Training
9.              Providing efficient banking services in Angola will be hampered without a trained,
qualified corps of legal and paralegal banking staff, without the timely and accurate intervention of
ancillary institutions, such as the registers and notarial services. The Project will support the strengthening
of the legal and technical and adrministrative capabilities of staff from BNA and other institutions
responsible for implementing the legal and regulatory framework ofthe banking system through different
training activities.
10.            First, there will be a series of short-term, local seminars to discuss relevant legal banking
issues including, inter alia, banking p<--tices and procedures applicable to the private sector; banking
supervision me-hanisms and regulatioi. , uesign, implementation and enforcement of new banking legal
instruments and securities; and legal and technical aspects of C9 -tal markets activity. it is expected that
these would be complemented by an annual senminar throughout project implementation. To facilitate and
ensure that cost-effectiveness of these events, a joint-venture contractual arrangement betwfien a local
consu!ting firm and a foreign training institution may be explored.
11.            Second, BNA's legal and paralegal staff have been isolated from other modern banking
realities and practices and lack professional contac' in other nations, with the exception of Portugal. In
order to provide access to knowledge available in other countries, the Project will finance short-ternm



Annex 3.8
Page 3 of 5
study-visits; practical internships at relevant inctitutions; and attendance at legal profcssional conferences
foe financial services.
(b)    Ancillary Institutions,
12.            The intervertion of the Registries and Notarial Services is required to execute and enforce
all banking instruments, This Project, however, does not constitute the appropria.e vehicle to provide
meaningful long-term solutions to the extremely precarious, decadent physical status of the Registries and
Notarial Services. Therefore, only a token package of emergency measures will be financed in order to
facilitate the operation of the .nost essential institutional aspects, which, if left unattended, may impede
the implementation of the legal and regulatory framework. In defining the emergency measures, the
National Directorate of Registries and Notarial Services has expressed great concern regarding the
inability of its human and mateiial resources to cope with the potential new demand from the private
sector. In effect, it is evident that the new banking regulation will burden the already weak and obsolete
systems in place. Therefore, the Project will provide technical assistance, in-service practical training,
and essential office equipment, to avoid serious bottlenecks which could paralyze the normal delivery of
banking servicei. This component will be the responsibility of the National Directorate of Registries and
Notarial Services with the assistance of a qualified professor of th  Law School of UAN.
13.            First, an inventory will be carried out to identify and prioritize the imrnediate legal and
administrative measures which need to be enforced to assist in rendering registry and z. tarial services.
Second, the main legal instruments and regulations needing immediate attention will be drafted and
submitted to the relevant legislative bodies for approval. Third, the Project will finance a study to define
the feasibility of salvaging the decaying registries' books through the transfer of the information to
microfilm. A pilot implerientation phase will include the property registry (Registo Predial e da
ronservatoria) and one of the Notarial Services.
14.            The Project will finance the acquisition of emergency materials and equipment for the
National Directorate and about ten Registries and Notarial Services offices, geographically located where
tnie pressure for banking services wiil be most acute (Luanda, Lobito, Benguela, Lubango, Huambo,
Malanje, and Cabinda). The basic package will include the following items: secu-;ty mechanisms; one
heavy-duty photocopying machine with spare parts, paper and tone;; two typewriters; one personal
computer and a laser jet printer; paper and materials necessary to print the standard registry forms;
publication of bound volumes; and office supplies;
1.5.           The Project will support the training of the Registries and Notarial Services staff through
an eventual twinning arrarxgeme-t with the Portuguese Directorate for Registries and Notarial Services,
which wK1 provide short-term seminars during project implementation.
II.Terms of Reference C(OR) for tne Diagenostic Consultancy for the Registries -ind Notarial Servi es
Background
16.            The cr,tical situation of the Angolan Registries and Notarial Services affects the effective
delivery of support for banking services, in particular, those related to creditor-debtor rights and
enforcerrent of guaranties.



Annex 3.8
Page 4 of 5
17.           The People's Republic of Angola has requested assistance from  the International
Development Association (IDA) to strengthen the Registries and Notarial Services to overcome the most
immediate needs which, if left unattended, may hamper the efficient implementation of the legal and
regulatory framework for the banking system. Part of the funds of a proposed IDA Credit for a Financial
Institutions Modernization Project would be allocated to providing this assistance. Therefore, it is
essential to prepare a detailed action program ard timetable to effect the actions under the proposed
Project, for which reason a consultant will be employed by People's Republic of Angola in accordance
with the following terms and conditions.
Description of Tasks
18.           The responsibilities of the consultant include, inter alia, the foilowing:
(a)    identify, prioritize and design the most important actions to be undertaken under
the Project to strengthen the Registries and Notarial Services, taking into account
the preliminary findings of the May 19)2 mission;
(b)    define legal, administrative and institutional mechanisms to perform these actions;
(c)    prepare an action program and a timetable to carry out the actions financed under
the Project, identifying any relevant issues which may arise and delay
implementation;
(d)    draft clear recommendations and implementation guidelines to be made available
to Registries and Notarial Services staff;
(e)    identify, contact, negotiate and coordinate training activities, including the
eventual introduction of a twinning arrangement with a relevant foreign
institution; and
(f)    assist the National Directorate of Registries and  Notarial Services in
implementing Project preparation activities.
Reporting Requirements
19.           In executing the above-mentioned tasks, the consultant will report directly to the National
Director of Registries and Notarial Services. Throughout the assignment, the consultant will keep the
National Director and the Project Coordinator and Deputy Coordinator at BNA permanently informed
of the developments which may affect the Project. In particular, BNA should be alerted of any special
circumstance which may have an overall impact on other Project components.
20.           The consultant will liaise with, inter alia, the following public and private institutions at
the central and provincial level: Ministry of Justice, BNA and other banking institutions, Law School,
professional associations (e.g. industry, commerce), Chamber of Commerce and Colectivo/Ordem dos
Advogados.



Annex 3.8
Page 5 of 5
Qualifications
21.           The consultant will be a qualified legal expert with sound experience academically,
professionally, and in the transfer of know-how. The consultant will also have recognized technical
abilities to provide an assessment of the Registries and Notarial Services situation.
22.           This consultancy is expected to take a minimum of six person-months of actual work and
will be paid on a lump sum basis to cover all costs and fees without any other kind of remuneration.



ANGOLA - FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS MODERNIZATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION OF KEY ASPECTS OF LAC
PROJECT ACTIVITY                            ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN                                TIME TABLE
I.  Design and Publication of Banking      (a) Identify existing manuals and other relevant
Operational Manual                          documentation to be compiled and analyzed by
local consultant in coordination with BNA's
Directorate of Money Supply and Credit and
prepare terms of reference for the assignment
(i) Contract local experts in banking area    September 1992
through direct contacts or competitive procedure
(ii) Start-up                                 December 1992
(iii) Complete iniitial phase after 2-3 months of  March 1993
work
(b) Complete design phase and recommend steps for   September 1993
publication to be discussed at the annual project
review
o X



2.  Legal Inventory                         (a) Carrying out a legal workshop on banking
issues:
(i) Define agenda
(ii) Identify and select experts              December 1992
(iii) Coordinate with local experts
(iv) Organization of seminar                 June 1993
(b) Review recommendations of workshops and
selection of main legal materials to be included
in the inventory
(i) Select local consultant                   Sept/Oct 199J
(ii) Complete assignment in draft             April 1994
(iii) Finalize inventory with support of foreign  September 1994
legal banking expertise
3.  Local Training Seminar                  (a) Oroanize one local seminar with support of
BNA's Personnel Directorate and Deputy Project
Coordinator
(i) Prepare agenda, budget and identify legal  December 1992
experts to deliver seminar
(ii) Conduct the seminar                      March 1993
4.  Practical Training Study Visit and      (a) (i) Identify 2 candidates to undertake practical
Internships                                 internships abroad in relevant banking/legal
institutions
(b) Contact and negotiate with institutions       March/April 1993
(c) Departure                                     Sept/Oct 1993
O D
o x
0 X-



5.  Registries and Notarial Services        | 'a) Complete diagnostic consultancy and recommend   January 1993
actions to be financed
(b) Prepare of list equipment and materials for     March 1993
Registries and Notarial Services office t be
procured under the Project
(c) Microfilm Feasibility Study
(i) Prepare terms of reference                 January 1995
(ii) Identify firms
N DD
o X 



Annex 3.9
Page 1 of 3
KNGOLA - FINANCIAL INSTITUIONS MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Architecture and Civil Works
Backgrround
Local Construction Industry
1.           The construction industry in Angola and especially in Luanda presents special features.
The war, government ownership of land and the low rent paid for the government-owned housing and
offices have resulted in low levels of maintenance of existing properties and little private construction in
the last 15 years. In most properties rehabilitation costs are as high as the cost of new construction
because of the had maintenance. As a result of this situation, there is a virtual lack of rental properties.
2.           There are state owned as well as local and foreign private construction companies. Some
local firms are joint ventures with foreign, maiiily Portuguese, firms. These benefit from technical
expertise as well as from the possibility to import manpower and materials. M:st of the construction
companies have their own design units, and supply all the construction materials needed by importing
when necessary (in some cases everything except cement, sand and gravel). Basic elements like cement
blocks, carpentry elements, concrete, etc, are produced locally by the construction companies in their own
installations from imported materials.
3.           The distribution of local and foreign labor varies with the dimension and legal status of
the company. In the foreign, mixed and local companies, foreign labor represents fifty, twenty and about
five percent respectively. These conditions result in extremely high construction costs, especially in the
case of the foreign construction companies. Quality and hand-in dates, however, are assured with
foreign companies. This is one reason why the foreign companies have access to foreign currency, which
is necessary for the materials that have to be imported. On the other hand, local companies have
difficulties meeting schedules due to the fact that materials and goods are purchased locally (with
unreliable and insecure provision of materials and goods), and have limited access to foreign currency
to import goods and materials.
4.           During the project appraisal, construction costs were calculated on the basis of average
unit prices for each category of works, as given by different construction companies at previous biddings
for state works. The present exchange rate of NKz 550/US$ has been applied to local expenses, namely
labor and a small part of construction materials as they appear in the prices of the mixed companies
(average of 15 percent of the total cost in US$).
Project Components
National Banking Training Institute (Instituto de Formacgo Bancaria de Angola. IFBA)
5.           The facilities of IFBA would be located in a building owned by BNA. The buildings
were constructed before the beginning of the century and bought by the BNA in 1927. They are located
in the downtown area, a short, walking distance fror1i BNA, in the intersection of Largo Governador
Bressane Leite and Rua da Alfandega. Due to its construction period it has formal as well historic value.



Annex 3.9
Page 2 of 3
6.            The buildings consist of three sectors of which for the IFBA academic center only two
are appropriate. The third (and back) sector is to be used as h )using for the IFBA expatriate consultants
under the project (see para. 9). The proposed areas for the IFBA consist of a building in three levels
(main, first floor and attic) and an inner yard. Overall, the IFBA complex, with a covered area of 1,453
m2, would be rehabilitated at an average unit base cost of US$450/m2.
7.            The distribution of spaces takes into consideration the basic present floor plan so as to
modify as little as possible its formal aspects, and maintain low costs. The total covered area for the
academic facility is 1,203 m2, and includes the following main features: a conference room, a library,
3 classrooms, 5 seminar rooms, a canteen, an open living area, an administrative sector and public and
private bathrooms.
8.            The third building of the IFBA complex to be rehabilitated into 2 two-bedroom housing
units would have direct access from the street. Each unit could accommodate from two to four
consultants as each bedroom has its own bathroom. The total area of the housing unit is 250 m2 including
back open spaces for each unit.
Housing Units
9.            There is an acute shortage of housing units for rent in Luanda and houses are not for sale,
because the Government has not yet decided on their disposition on the ones it holds or on the land. The
housing component includes the rehabilitation of a 1,142 m2 property of the BNA to house consultants
under the project, which would involve subdividing the property into eight dwelling units. The building
was constructed around 1920 and it was bought by the BNA in 1927. It is located in the downtown area,
between the Avenue Neves Ferreira No. 45 and Rua Pereira Forjaz. The site is richly arbored. Due to
the hnusing shortage, it will be specified under the Credit that the building will be used exclusively for
the project consultants.
10.          There would be two and three bedroom units, each with kitchen, bathrooms and direct
access to the common garden area. The average unit base cost is of US$602/mn2 (due to a higher
incidence of bathrooms, toilets, kitchens, sewerage and water installations) amounting to a total of
US$688,000. This housing would be let in two contracts: US$563,000 are for the housing units and
US$125,000 for exterior works, open circulation and covered parking lot for 8 cars. Fifteen percent of
total costs would be paid in kwanzas amounting to NKz 66,043,346 and 15 percent of physical
contingencies is considered. Basic furniture and equipment amount to US$155,500 for the eight units
as well as for comnmon services which include washing room, generator, security etc.
Procurement
II.          All goods and services to be financed by the Bank/IDA will be procured in accordance
with the Bank's procurement guidelines. To facilitate -ompliance and expedite project implementation,
the Project Coordinator, the Project Administrator and the Project Architect will prepare all bidding
documents, contracts and evaluate all consultant and procurement bids.
12.          Draft LCB documents and contracts will be submitted to the Bank prior their use. In
these terms, separate draft of all bidding documents for civil works, furniture, equipment, as well as
contracts for the consulting firms for design and engineering services have to be prenRred by the above-
mentioned persons.



Annex 3.9
Page 3 of 3
13.         Tle BNA consultant housing is suggested to be contracted by LCB for the following
reasons: (a) the time factor is of great importance considering the urgency for housing in Luanda; (b) the
amount of work to be undertaken is small and is a rehabilitation of an existing degraded building which
is not especially attractive for foreign firms; and (c) foreign construction firms interested in participating
in this bid will be able to do so, through their local representations.
Consultancies for Designs and Supervision
14.          Consultants should be contracted in accordance with World Bank, "Guidelines: Use of
Consultants by Word Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency", August, 1981.
Local architects have to be contracted to prepare the final designs of the housing units and supervision
of works according to the following datelines: final designs to start the bidding process for the
procurement of civil works by August 15, 1992. By November 1, 1992, start of supervision of civil
works by consultants during the construction process (during 8 months).
15.          Local architects have to be contracted to prepare the final designs of the IFBA and
supervision of works according to the following program:
(a)  by August 1, 1992, invitation by short list of consultants;
(b)  by September 1, 1992, selection of consultants and contract discussions;
(c)  by October 1992, commencement of final designs to start the bidding process for the
procurement of civil works by December 1992; and
(d)  by March 1993, supervision of civil works by consultants during the construction
process.
Supervision and Follow-up
16.          The BNA has one staff architect working in the Department of Patrimony who is capable
of carrying out follow-up and supervision of the civil works components of the Project. Provisions have
been made by the Project Coordinator with the Department of Patrimony so that the architect can work
exclusively for the Project on a weekly basis (1 day per week) and have adequate office space within the
Project office area.



Annex 3.10
Page 1 of 5
ANGOLA
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS MODERNIZATION PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS
(USS THOUSANDS)
1992-1997
PROJECT TOTAL                        I Local  Foreign  Total
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                1,337    6,022  7,359
TRAINING                              784   6,815  7,598
CIVIL WORKS                           265   1,561  1,826
EQUIPMENT                             170   2,983  3,153
TOTAL BASE COST                   2,556   17,380 19,936
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                171   1,323  1,495
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                   310   1,902  2,212
TOTAL PROJECT COST                3,038   20,605 23,643
  = == = =    = = = ==  = =_ = =  = = = = =   - - -= = = = = ---- -= = = = = =   =    =   =    =    = =   =



Annex 3.10
Page 2 of 5
l  l    1992-1997
II. STRENGTHENING BNA                    Local  Foreign  Total
A. INFORMATION SYSTEMS
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                  791    1,733  2,524
TRAINING                                 0      202    202
CIVIL WORKS                             0         0      0
EQUIPMENT                               0    1,172  1,172
SUBTOTAL                            791    3,107  3,898
B. IMPROVING ACCOUNTING
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                   36       684    720
TRAINING                               35       665    700
CIVIL WORKS                             0         0      0
EQUIPMENT                               0         0      0
SUBTOTAL                             71    1,349  1,420
C. IMPROVING SKILLS
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                   43       817    860
TRAINING                                12      578    590
CIVIL WORKS                             0         0      0
EQUIPMENT                               0         0      0
SUBTOTAL                             55    1,395  1,450
D. HOUSING
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                     5       86     91
TRAINING                                 0        0      0
CIVIL WORKS                           103       585    688
EQUIPMENT                               0       156    156
SUBTOTAL                            108       826    934
TOTAL COMPONENT                          1,025    6,677  7,702
====  ama... mm    aaaaam===-==m=am========5=== mma= =ma=a====



Annex 3.10
Page 3 of 3
._====s======-l=sg=    s==s= ===:w:-t===5==w
1992-1997
II.  BANKING INFRASTRUCTURE             Local  Foreign  Total
--   ---=   ==
A. CHECK CLEARING
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                  12      222    234
TRAINING                               0      836    836
CIVIL WORKS                           45      255    300
EQUIPMENT                              0      607    607
SUBTOTAL                            57    1,920  1,977
B. IFBA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                   3       62      65
TRAINING                             668    1,283  1,950
CIVIL WORKS                          102      636    738
EQUIPMENT                             30      624    654
SUBTOTAL                           803    2,604  3,407
C. CORE PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                   0        0       0
TRAINING                              42    1,998  2,040
CIVIL WORKS                            0        0       0
EQUIPMENT                              0        0       0
SUBTOTAL                            42    1,998  2,040
TOTAL COMPONENT                          902    6,523  7,424
========    == ===   = ======   ========         = ===  =  =====



Annex 3. i
Page 4 of 5
III. LEGAL & REGULATORY               |       1992-1997
ENVIRONMEiNT                     Local  Foreign  Total
A. BANKING LEGISLATION
T = TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                   40       385    425
TRAINING                                0      260    260
ClVIL WORKS                             0        0      0
EQUIPPMENT                              0      188    188
SUBTOTAL                             40      832    873
B. INSURANCE LEGISLATION
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                   20      380    400
TRAINING                                0       60     60
CIVIL WORKS                             0        0      0
EQUIPMENT                               0       50     50
SUBTOTAL                             20      490    510
C. ACCOUNTING & AUDITING
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                    3       57     60
TRAINING                               27      513    540
CIVIL WORKS                             0        0      0
EQUIPMENT                               0        0      0
SUBTOTAL                             30      570    600
TOTAL COMPONENT                            90    1,892  1,983
s==s=ssssuB==t=g ==a:t=== ======== === = = = = = = = = = =



Annex 3.10
Page 5 of 5
IV. SUPPORT FOR FINANCING              |        1992-1997        l
PRIVATE Ih'VESTMENT               | Local  Foreign  Total
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                    51       969  1,020
TRAINING                                 0       420    420
CIVIL IORKS                              0         0       0
EQUIPMENT                                0       100    100
SUBTOTAL                              51        1,489  1,540
TOTAL COMPONENT                              51    1,489  1,540
II      1992-1997
IV. PROJECT COORDINATION                  Local  Foreign  Total
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                   333       627    960
TRAINING                                 0         0       0
CIVIL WORKS                             15        85    100
EQUIPMENT                              140        87    227
SUBTOTAL                             488       799  1,287
|TOTAL COMPONENT                            488       799  1,287
-mammmmmmammmminaammminmmaummmmammmmmmaumuumammmmumumammmmas



Annex 3. 11
rage 1 of 1
ANGOLA
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS MODBRNlZATION PROJECT
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT PROFILB
------------------------------
IDA                                                   Cumulative
Fiscal                                Amount             Amount
Year                              (US$ Million)      (USe Million)       Percent */
FY93  January       1993               0.6                0.6                   3%
FY94  July          1993               0.6                1.2                   6%
January      1994                0.9                2.1                  10%
FY95  July          1994               1.7                3.8                  18%
January      1995                1.7                5.5                  26%
FY96  July          1995               1.7                7.1                  34%
January      1996                1;7                8.8                  42%
FY97  July          1996               2.5               11.3                  54%
January      1997                2.5               13.9                  66%
FY98  July          1997               1.7               15.5                  74%
January      1998                1.7               17.2                  82%
FY99  July          1998               1.7               18.9                  90%
January      1999                0.8               19.7                  94%
FY00  July          1999               0.8               20.6                  98%
January      2000                0.4               21.0                 100%
*/ The standard disbursement profile for Africa-wide technical assistance projects,
except first year.



ANGOLA
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS MODERNIZATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE FOR KEY COMPONENTS*/
_ I91            19A2              1994              3995               )96      1        97
Ql Q.  Q3_~Q  Q2 t,?Ql Q4  Ql Q2_ Ql Q4  Q1  Q2 Q3   4Q    2p    vQ2 Q4                       -QL24
1. STRENGTHENING BNA
A. INFORMATION SYSTEMS
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE.
Information Systems Requirements Studies
Informatics Directorate                                          _
Informatics Committee                                            _
Information Systems Plan Study v
Priority Application Development                                                       __
Informatics Management Suppor
Applications Systems Development                                                     I
TiRAINING
EQUAIPMENT                                                                           
Emergency Equipment                                              _                        
Computers/Software 
Microcomputers/Software 
Applicatiorms Software lilcenses_ 
B. EKPROViNG ACCOUNTilNG
TEC'HNICAL ASSISTANCE
Im1xoving Accounts Study
Audits                                                                      -
TRAiNING
Accounting Improvements 
Intenal Audit Funtlion
C. IMPROVING SKILLS
TECHNICAL. ASSISTANCE l TRAINING                                                                               :
D. HOUSING
CIVIL WORKS I EQUIPMENT                                                   -
Cortstruction Design I SupervLtont                                                                                                                                  OI _  X
O I
0*



ANGOLA
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS 1"ODERNIZATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDUL L FOR KEY COMPONENTS*/
1992             1993              1994              1995              1996              1997
QI  Q2 Q3  Q4  Q_ Q2 Q3  Q4  QI  Q2  Q3  Q4  Ql Q2  Q3  Q4  Q: Q2 Q3Q4Q    Q2Q3  Q4
11. BANKING INFRASTRUCTURE
A. CHECK CLEARING
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Design                                                  m
Check Clearing System (CCS) Development                                              _
Imstallahon of CCS in Provinces
Payment System Design                                                                I                 I                 I
TRAINING
EQUIPMENT                                                                                 I
Computers/Accessones                                                                 -
Vehicles/Office Fumniture 
C omputer.stApplicafions for Pro--ince-1                                                                     0     0;
Vehcles/Office Furniture for Provinces                                               I
CIVIL WORKS: Luanda and Regional (learing Centers
B. IFBA
TF.CHNICAL ASSISTANCE. Study
EQUIPMENT
Equipment for Classrooms h OtTicersI
Teaching Materials
TRAINING
Core Teaching taffofT Tree Instruiclors
Training for DfBA tnstructors
CIVIL WORKS I EQUIPMENT                                                                   I
[FDA Crnter Civil Works                                                       -
Coiistruction Design/Supervision                                                      __ ___            _
C. DEVFELOPMENT OF CORF PROF FSSIONAI S
TR AtNING
Professors in Angola                                                              l                    I                 I
Student Trainung RE
t'3
0
i-th-



ANGOLA
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS MODERNIZATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE FOR KEY COMPONENTS*/
1992           1993            1994           1995            1996            1997
_____Q2_Q3_______Q_Q3_Q4____Q2_Q3_Q4QQ Q2  Q3 Q'                  Q2 Q3 24l            L      Q  Q2 Q3 Q4 QlLQ.QL24 Ql Q2 Q3 Q4
I11. LEGAL & REGULATORY ENVIRONMENT
A. BANKING LEGISLATION
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Savit & Lomi Coopuitves ReplaUu-
Batin Operliond Mms
Legal Jnvatoy
Pfodw&FEd Legal Invatma*                                                          -
Nyiy/Rqhsty Inva-"y                                      _                 |              I
h(rofilm Feasibility S"dy                                  I      .        I
T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. . ..-               ... ---:
T'RAININ. ...                                                                                        . ..  ..
EQUIPMENT                                                       I
Baing Operaional Mmals
Eagency EquipM    Pa&ages         .   ' .' '     .'           '  ' -'-                     '  . -'-'''--     __.
IL DEVELOIG INSURANCE LEGISLATION
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
T R A IN IN G                                                                          . ..... . . .. .............   .    ..   .....   .   ..    .... . -. : -   - .
EQUIPMENT                                              _                            .                                             _ _ _
C ACCOUNTING & AUDnrING STANDARDS
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE /TRAINING
Account & Audit StrIIds
Asnt RevakaStudy                                                             _
>>
00 0
OQ 
0*
I- tD,
Xs.



ANGOLA
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS MODERN1WATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE FOR KEY COMPONENTS*/
1992         1993           1994          1995          1996           1997
Ql Q2 Q3    Q4 Ql Q2 Q3                              Q4l0  QQ Q2 Q3 Q4 Ql  L2 Q3    2Ql Q2 Q3 04
IV. SUPPORT FOR FINANCING PRIVATE INVESTMENT
IA1NECL ASSISTANCE I TRAINING
Feisbliy Std                                                     -       _
Tam FNmuu   in Bankig kIsfit  Ii-
Suppt for bweaoma Fmiang Fund.
Shb&es Ren to Pnvue Sector  .C.                                                ..
EQUIPMENT. InetmaF Facincg Fvd- 
P12           1993              i         1995           1996 1        1997
Q2 Q Q2Q3                                 Q4Q2Q3   Q
V. PROJECT COORDINATION
FROJECT ADMINISTRATOR
CIVIL WORKS- 
EQPMENT                                               -                            -
'1 Solid bar indicabts continuous implementation during the period. Shaded bar indicates non-continunus implementation.
OQ :3
O -
x
0*
413



Annex 3.13
Page 1 of 3
ANGOLA - FINANCIAL INSTIT"TIONS MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Monitorable Actions under the Project
1992
BNA
-appoint information committee
-account reconciliation completed
-1991 accounts completed
Banking Infrastructure
-IFBA study completed
Legal and Regulatory Framework
-strategy for improvements in operations of Registries and Notarial Services designed
1223
BNA
-long term consultant to supervise implementation of informatics plan appointed
-strategic plan completed
-equipment procurement started
-consultant on accounting systems appointed
-housing for consultants completed (L2 building)
-L2 building being used exclusively to house project consultants
-audit of 1991 accounts completed; 1992 accounts completed
Banking Infrastructure
-revised IFBA program introduced
-cure business program starts after proposals evaluated
-check clearing technical assistance contracted
Legal and Regulatory Framework
-first workshops audit and accounting standards conducted
-accounting/audit long-term technical assistance contracted
-workshop on legal issues affecting banking conducted
-consultants to prepare legal inventory and banking manual recruited
-program of emergency measures for registries and notaries public approved by the
World Bank by April, and emergency program started
Financing Private Investment
-legislation on CAP redrafted
-transfer CAP deposits to commercial banks



Annex 3.13
Page 2 of 3
1294
BNA
-work on design of priority information systems started
-internal audit and systems improvement advisor recruited
-1992 accounts audit completed; 1993 accounts completed and audited
-L2 building housing BNA consultants exclusively
Banking Infrastructure
-complete check improved check clearing in Luanda
-complete IFBA building
-successful startup of second year for IFBA and core professional program
-L4 building being used exclusively for IFBA
Legal and Regulatory Framewcrk
-complete core accounting standards; revise national chart of accounts;
-credit manual published and distributed;
Financing Private Investment
-contract consultants for reformed cap and select staff
1995
BNA
-other information systems started
-1994 audit completed
-audit commercial banks
-L2 building housing BNA consultants exclusively
Banking Infrastructure
-extend check clearing to Lobito/Benguela, Cabinda, Huambo, and other cities as
required.
-L4 building being used exclusively for IFBA
Legal and Regulatory Framework
- national accounting manual completed;simplified chart of accounts for SMEs completed;
educational and examination requirements for registering accountants developed.
- prepare manual and audit standards
-legal inventory published and distributed
-diagnostic work on microfilming records completed
Financing Private Investment
-start operations of restructured CAP



Annex 3.13
Page 3 of 3
1996
BNA
-complete procurement of equipment for information systems of BNA
-L2 building housing BNA consultants exclusively
Banking Infrastructure
-completion of program review of IFBA. by independent consultants
-L4 building being used exclusively for IFBA
Legal and Regulatory Framework
-assess implementation of progress of legal framework



Annex 3.14
Page I of 3
ANGOLA - FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS MODERNIZATION PROJ.ECT
Project Supersion
Approximate Dates                   Activity                    Expected Skill      Staff
L - __________________    __________________________________________  Requirem ents  W eeks
October 1992         Project Launch Mission: (a) Review study  Task   Manager;        8
of  IFBA;  (b)  prepare  TOR   for  Accounting and
implementation phase of IFBA; (c) review  Informatics
bidding documents of IFBA, and supervise  Specialists;
start-up of construction of BNA housing;  Lawyer; and
(d) assess reconciliation of BNA accounts;  Architect
(e) review  design of action plan for
improvements in Registries and Notarial
Services; (f) start preparations for banking
operational manual, training component,
and emergency equipment packages; and
(g) review  progress  in  initial BNA
informatics component.
January 1993         Supervision  Mission: (a) Tender civil  Task   Manager;          6
works for IFBA; (b) review progress in  Training and
design of informatics requirements; (c)  Informatics
search  for  BNA  accounting  systems  Specialists
consultants; and (d) review progress in
invitations for core professionals.
March 1993           Supervision   Mission:  (a)  Supervise  Task   Manager;          5
progress of construction of BNA housing,  Accounting   and
and start-up of IFBA  civil works; (b)  Informatics
review  progress in selection of BNA   Specialists;   and
accounting consultants; (c) review progress  Architect
in improving BNA accounting; and (d)
evaluate proposals for development of core
_  professionals.                                    _
July 1993            Supervision   Mission:  (a)  Supervise  Task   Manager;          4
completion  of construction  of  BNA   Accounting  and
housing, and progress of IFBA  civil  Informatics
works; (b) review progress in improving  Specialists;   and
BNA  accounting, and  appointment of  Architect
accounting consultants; and (c) review
preparation  of  bidding  process  for
computer  equipment  for  priority
information systems.                                                  l



Annex 3.14
Page 2 of 3
September/October   Annual  Implementation   Review:  (a)  Task   Manager;            6
1993                 Review draft strategic plan and budget of  Accounting and
BNA informatics comp( lent; (b) review  Informatics
progress in improving BNA accounting,  Specialists;  and
and  review  latest BNA  accounts; (c)  Lawyer
review  banking operational manual and
preparations for legal inventory; and (d)
l__________________ supervise other project components.
January 1994         Supervision   Mission:  (a)  Review   Task   Manager;            4
developments in check clearing system and  Training and
plans for its installation in provinces; (b)  Informatics
review latest BNA accounts, and search  Specialists
for internal audit consultant; (c) review
progress of core professionals program;
(d) review  completion of IFBA  civil
works; and (e) follow up on conclusions of
Annual  Implementation  Review,  and
supervise other project components.
March 1994           Supervision Mission: (a) Review  latest  Task   Manager;         4
BNA  accounts; and (b) foliov up on  Accounting and
conclusions of Annual Implementation  Informatics
Review, and  supervise  othec project  Specialists
components.
July 1994            Supervision Mission: (a) Review  latest  Task   Manager;         4
BNA  accounts; (b) review  progress in  Accounting and
installation of check clearing system; and  Informatics
(c) follow up on conclusions of Annual  Specialists
Implementation Review, and supervise
other project components.
September/October   Annual  Implementation  Review:  (a)  Task   Manager;    6
1994                 Review draft strategic plan and budget of  Training/AccGunting
BNA informatics component; (b) review   and Informatics
development of high priority information  Specialists; and
systems; (c) review latest BNA accounts;  Lawyer
(d) supervise implementation of reform of
Registries and Notarial Services; (e)
review progress of legal inventory and its
publication; (0 search for consultants for
microfilm feasibility study; and (g)
supervise other project components.
1995                 Three Supervision Missions and Annual  Task   Manager;    20
Implementation Review                   Training/Accounting
and Informatics
Specialists; and
Lawyer



Annex 3.14
Page 3 of 3
1996                 Three Supervision Missions and Annual  Task   Manager;    20
Implementation Review                     Training/Accounting
and Informatics
Specialists; and
---I                              I ~~~~~~~Lawyer        II



Annex 4.1
Page 1 of 1
ANGOLA- FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS _M;ODERNIZATION PROJECT
Selected Documents Available in the Project File
1.           FYnancial Institutions Modernization Program for Angola, Financial
Legislation, Augusto de Athayde and Luis Branco, March 1992.
2.           Macroeconomic Issues in Angolan Financial Sector Reform, Patrick Honohan,
25 November, 1992.
3.           Architecture and Civil Works Considerations, Rodolfo Sanjurjo, February
1992.
4.           Cheque Clearing System for the People's Republic of Angola, LKP Associates
Inc, April 6, 1992.
5.           Sistema Interbancdrio de Pagamentos (SIP) for the People's Republic of
Angola, LKP Associates Inc, April 14. 1992
6.           Bank Regulation and Supervision Issues, Report prepared during Pre-appraisal
mission, Victor Constancio, November 1991
7,           Review of Empresa Nacional de Seguros e Reasseguros de Angola, Gerard
Peck (Consultant), February 1992.
8.           Update on Financial Institutions Reform Programme (Banking Institutions),
Gerard Peck (Consultant), February 1992.
9.           ijformatics program - Appraisal mission Report, Eduardo Talero (ASTIF),
June 11, 1992.
10.          Conservatoria do Registro Predial e Comercial da Comarca de Luanda,
Certificate of ownership of L2 and L4 buildings by the Banco Nacional de
Angola.
11.          Relatdrio; Balanco e Contas, Exercicio de 1990, Banco Nacional de Angola,
12.          Organizational Chart of the Banco Nacional de Angola, November 1990.
13.          Detailed Cost Estimates.



MAP SECTION



I\RD 24089
WAON                                                  NV
/ b~~~~~ZANDA; 
ANGOLA
P    4--i          ZAIRE       |   ~~~TANZANIA
ZAIRE              MANALNIW                        FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
/ 5  >'                   MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Ar~~~
ZAMBIA          jD                                     SELECTED TOWNS              +      AIRPORTS
_,    PROVINCE CAPITALS           4,    PORTS
NA.M131A              <  Zli^3A3W                                        NATIONAL CAPITAL                   PROV,NCE BOUNDARJES
MAIN ROADS                         INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
2     o   CONGO                                  '0                            -           C
CAINNA                                                                           m'LES  0                 00               200                300
CA  A    *                                                                             I_                 I 
K)LOMETERS  0                                                        Soo 200  300  4  500
5          ~M"3ANZA                                      __  _  __  _  _  __   _  __  _  _  __  _  _  __  _  __   _  _  __  _  __  _  _  __   _ _
Z.AIRF     +        /                  t      l20                                                                                       4
C    O N G O'c          '_                        _  _ _ _  _ _  __, ,_     _  _ _  _ _ _  _  _ _ __)_     _  _  _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _  _
/    <           ' /    \    ~~~ZAiRE 
_ P(s rT,o p hos b.r, pr.poa.d
by Th. Wo,ld go,,ks etaf
l CAXITO    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ t ~~~~LLCAPA                                                       f.,*xSzzl  tidhe Coks rrOff
3*, NDA',,TA N DOr(>,_4NDA                                                                                     f -60r  ord  S    the
LUANDA                            0-9 h                              ^                                                           d. Dot-ply, unh.
LUANDA                                         MALANJEZ                                             SM                           .91 ndrmet or acho'c o
ATIANTIC
N'GUNZA,                              X)                  \~     
OCE:ANLEN
12
BENGUELRJ-   RUAM3O;UITO                               /                8 DX eC xITO
16 ~ ~      ~       ~      ~       c
\   \   t7 P; K~ /;  ENONGUE                                                 1942
/   ;%   A  \  + drcs Z^~~~~~Z MBIA
NAMIUR3A~NGO tC 
\CK Cosunde           CLJANDO\
- I d  (  _ 2 _                  ' . N F \1-                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~       ~ ~~~~~~~~CtJ 8A N G O    .6fJ
NAA1 @BE    g                                   
TaWndhek      NAMIBI                
I?                                    sA                                              20                                        >    24JToW;dh_



