Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24825
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-24210)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 14.6 MILLION (US$20.6 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA
FOR A
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS MODERNIZATION PROJECT
NOVEMBER 20, 2002
Financial Sector Division
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective )
Currency Unit = Kwanza (Kz)
Kz 1 = US$ 0.020576
US$ 1 = Kz 48.6
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ATM              Automatic Teller Machines
BCI              Bank of Commerce and Industry (Banco de Comercio e Industria)
BNA             Banco Nacional de Angola
BPC             Bank of Savings and Credit (Banco de Poupan,a e Credito)
CAP             Agricultural and Fisheries Credit Fund
DEC             Direc,ao de Emissao e Credito
DEE             Direc,do de Estudos e Estatistics
DMFAS           Debt Management and Financial Analysis Systems Program
DOR             Department of Organization and Information Technology
EFTPOS          Electronic Financial Transactions at the Point-of-sale
EMIS            Empresa Interbancairia de Serviqos S.A.R.L.
EMTA            Economic Management Technical Assistance
ENSA            National Insurance Company
FINSEC          Financial Institutions Modernization Project
GoA             Government of Angola
IAS             International Accounting Standards
IDA             International Development Agency
IFBA            National Banking Training Institute
IMF             International Monetary Fund
MOF             Ministry of Finance
MPLA            The Popular Movement for the Liberation of Angola
NGO             Non-Governmental Organizations
PREGE           Economic Management Capacity Building Project
RTGS            Real Time Gross Settlement System
SADC            Southern Africa Development Community
TA              Technical Assistance Project
UN              United Nations
UNCTAD          United Nations Conference on Trade and Finance
UNITA           National Union for the Total Indepence of Angola
WBI             World Bank Institute
Vice President:  Callisto E. Madavo
Country Manager/Director:  Darius Mans
Sector Manager/Director:  Gerard Byam
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Charles Schlumberger



ANGOLA
Financial Institutions modernization project
CONTENTS
Page No.
I Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3 Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                           5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            15
6. Sustainability                                                                16
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 17
8. Lessons Learned                                                               19
9. Partner Comments                                                              19
10. Additional Information                                                       20
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matnx                              21
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             25
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             26
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            30
Annex 8. Governmenfts Contribution to the ICR                                    31






Project lD: P000044                                      Project Name: Financial Institutions modernization
project
Team Leader: Olivier J. Lambert                          TL Unit: EASFS
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: November 19, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: Financial Institutions modernization project  L/C/TFNumber: IDA-24210
Country/Department: ANGOLA                                              Region. Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: Banking (75%); Law andjustice (10%); General
finance sector (8%); Central government
administration (7%)
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   04/15/1991                             Effective: 10/06/1992
Appraisal:  07/15/1992                               MTR:
Approval:  09/03/1992                              Closing: 04/30/2000         04/30/2002
Borrower/Iniplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT/Banco Nacional de Angola (BNA)
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto E. Madavo                        Edward Jaycox
Country Manager      Darius Mans                               Aguirre-Sacasa
Sector Manager:      Gerard Byam                               Michael Sarris
Team Leader at ICR:  Olivier Lambert                           Herminia Martinez
ICR Primary Author:  Charles Schlumberger
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlkely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Htghly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substanfial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact. SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: S                      S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The Financial Institutions Modernization Project or "FINSEC" (Credit No. 2421-ANG) for Angola was
approved by the Board on September 3, 1992, for a credit amount of SDR 14.8 million or US$20.6 million
equivalent. Total project costs were US$23.6 million, of which the Government would contribute US$3
million. The credit became effective one month after Board approval, on October 6, 1992. FINSEC was the
third World Bank ("the Bank") project approved by the Board after the People's Republic of Angola joined
the Bretton Woods institutions in 1989.
FINSEC was prepared during a promising period. In May 1991, after fifteen years of civil war, the two
rival political parties (UNITA and MPLA) signed a peace agreement, and a Joint Political-Military
Commission was established to oversee a peace process. But this agreement did not hold, and in 1992
Angola slipped back into civil war. Another peace initiative was attempted in 1994, but peace did not really
take hold. It was during the last month of this 10-year project that a new peace agreement was signed and
civil war ended. The prospects for lasting peace appear to have improved following the death of the armed
opposition leader in early 2002.
At appraisal, the main objective of the Bank's support to Angola was to facilitate the transition to a
peacetime economy and to support the process of economic reform, in order for the country to establish a
path of sustainable growth. As Angola had joined the Bank in late 1989, no formal Country Assistance
Strategy document had been prepared at the time. However, the Memorandum of the President for the
project describes the Bank strategy in the initial period. The Bank approach was to nurture trust between
Angola and the Bank in order to develop the type of mature partnership that the Bank has with other
borrowers: to help strengthen the country's weak institutions, to assist in the rehabilitation of infrastructure
by carrying out pre-investment studies aimed at reconstruction, and to initiate a dialogue on policy reform
priorities. The "startup" assistance strategy called for a lending program of limited scope with emphasis on
capacity building and studies. The Financial Sector Modernization Project, which focused on technical
assistance, fit well in this strategy.
In the context of preparation of the project, the Bank identified the sequencing of reforms in the financial
and real sectors to enable the transition from a socialist economy to a more market oriented one. This
transformation was expected to lead to sustainable economic growth supporting poverty reduction goals.
Bank support for the reform program in the real sector was provided under the Economic Management
Capacity Building Project (PREGE), the Bank's first project in Angola. FINSEC, on the other hand,
focused on providing the necessary institutional strengthening to support financial sector reforms.
FINSEC's original objective was defined as "to assist in institution building and reform in Angola's
financial system to help stimulate resource mobilization, underpin private investment and promote
economic diversification". In defining the project objectives, the appraisal noted that the modernization of
the financial system was expected to be a medium-term process. The proposed operation was expected to
support priority institutional reforms during the initial period.
The project had clear objectives. These objectives were ambitious but were strongly linked to urgent
priorities identified by the Government and the Bank during project preparation. The project emphasized
capacity building, and institutional and legal reforms which were not especially controversial. The
implementation arrangements placed the coordination of the project in the Central Bank and were
straightforward. Key risks were identified, although the Staff Appraisal Report did not discuss the
possibility of return of civil war, as discussed below.
- 2 -



The project included four components which were directly related to the project objectives. The
project addressed: (i) strengthening the Central Bank so that it can perform its monetary policy
and regulatory functions; (ii) developing banking infrastructure; (iii) improving the legal and
regulatory environment for financial operations; and (iv) establishing institutional mechanisms for
financing private investment.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The original objectives were formally revised and the amendmefit submitted to the Board was approved in
March 2000 (IDA R/2000-30, dated March 17, 2000). A new component was added relating to the
financmg of an oil sector study. The objective of this study was to assess the financial flows linked to oil
revenues and support the Government of Angola in developing an effective tool for forecasting revenues
derived from petroleum resources in order to produce a more accurate budget. This additional objective is
considered a major step towards enhancing fiscal transparency, as well as towards a possible future IMF
program and adjustment lending from the Bank.
3 3 Original Components:
Initially, the project had four main components: (i) strengthening the Central Bank; (ii) developing banking
infrastructure; (iii) improving the legal and regulatory environment; and (iv) improving mechanisms for
financing private investment. Each component had several subcomponents:
(i)    Strengthening the Central Bank
a.     Strengthening BNA's information systems
b.     Improving BNA's accounting capabilities
c.     Strengthening of BNA staff banking skills
d.     Building rehabilitation for consultants
(ii)   Banking infrastructure
a.     Establishing check clearing and payment system
b.     Establishing a Banking training institution (IFBA)
c.     Developing a core of skilled financial professionals
(iii)  Legal and regulatory environment
a.     Improving application of banking legislation
b.     Developing insurance legislation
c.     Developinmg accounting and auditing standards
(iv)   Mechanisms for financing private investment
a.     Restructure and operate CAP
b.     Strengthen banking and private sectors' capabilities for financing of investments
The project's components were designed to address a range of critical and necessary institutional measures
to facilitate reforms in the financial sector. As in most socialist countries, Angola had a mono-bank
financial system where BNA was the mam institution in the country providing financial services until 1991.
BNA was at the same time a Central Bank, a development bank, a commercial bank and the Government's
financier. A second bank, Banco Popular de Angola, was a government-owned savings bank. FINSEC
focused correctly on BNA.
The initial duration of the credit was seven years, a common length for a technical assistance project (TA)
at the time. The credit was subsequently extended from an initially closing date of April 30, 2000, to a final
closing date of April 30, 2002.
The Government of Angola (GoA) designated BNA as the executing and coordinating agency for all project
- 3-



components, which was charged with all project procurement and administration. The responsibility for the
technical follow up of activities relating to insurance and accounting was assigned to the Ministry of
Finance and that of University level training to the Universidade Agostino Neto, respectively. A senior
BNA staff member was appointed Project Coordinator and remained in the position during project
preparation and implementation. The day-to-day operations of the project was entrusted to project
administrators. FINSEC had three dedicated and capable administrators over the 10 year project
implementation period.
Table 1: Original Project Components, Cost, and Rating
Cwomponent                                          'Cost (n US$)         Rating
BNA Information Systems                                 3,900,000           S
Improving BNA accounting                                1,400,000           S
Improving BNA skills                                    1,500,000           S
Building rehabilitation for BNA consultants               900,000            S
Check clearing and payment systems                      2,000,000           S
Banking training institute                              3,400,000            5
Core professional development                           2,000,000           U
Banking legislation                                       900,000            S
Insurance legislation                                     500,000            S
Accounting and auditing                                   600,000            S
Support for financing private investment                1,500,000           U
Project coordination                                     1,300,000          HS
3.4 Revised Components:
As mentioned earlier, the project was restructured in 2000 to include a study on financial flows of the
petroleum sector ("Oil Sector Study"). This amendment was approved by the Board. This and other
changes which fell within the original project objectives and description and did not require Board
approval, are discussed in the following paragraphs.
In 1996, the check clearing component was broadened to become a payment systems component. First, it
had become apparent to BNA, that the establishment of a reliable interbank electronic data communication
network was of paramount importance for the functioning of the country's financial system. Second,
Angola was anxious to participate m the Southem Africa Development Community (SADC). One key
reason for Angola's interest in SADC was to participate in the development of a modem and compatible
regional payment system, which is an important element of regional integration. This initiative was also
supported by a Bank IDF grant.
The activities associated with the Caixa de Credito Agro-Pecuaria e Pescas (CAP) in the component
dealing with Financing Private investment were not implemented. As discussed in the section on outputs
below, CAP was not restructured as planned, and in 1999, the government decided to liquidate the
institution. The component of "Development of Core Skilled Professionals" was never given the sustained
-4-



attention it required by the University and the twining arrangement envisaged under the project never
materialized. The component was not pursued and resources were focused on other components which
could deliver results within the time frame of the project. In practice, training, for financial professionals
was carried out by the banking institute, IFBA, which was also supported under the project.
In early 2000 the Oil Sector Study was added as a component. There were three main reasons why this
activity was added to FINSEC. First, a review of the financial situation of the petroleum sector with a view
to manage revenues and expenditures transparently within the budgeting process has been a prerequisite for
any potential program with the IMF, and supporting Angola in its dialogue with the IMF was a priority.
Second, IDA involvement enhanced quality control of the process of the selection of consultants and the
outputs of the study. Third, FINSEC was the best instrument available with an efficient executing agency
and sufficient resources.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry for this project is satisfactory. It is important to note the overall context under which the
project was designed. Angola had just experienced a devastating 15-year long civil war, and was about to
face the challenge of transitioning to a market economy. In the financial sector the challenge was to evolve
from a mono-banking system to a modem diversified sector. FINSEC was one of the Bank's first projects
in Angola.
Against this background, the Bank assembled a strong team of senior experts and defined a long term
vision of a liberalized and broadly-based financial sector with an effective banking system. This translated
into the specific project objectives of an improved legal and regulatory framework, with strengthened
institutions and capacity building. Furthermore, most of the reforms supported by the project were not
controversial, which is appropriate for a stand alone technical assistance project. The project was intended
to provide support to the reform of the financial system which was expected to be a medium term process.
During appraisal, several risks were identified, such as weak project implementation capacity, slow
macroeconomic reforms as a result of political problems, and insufficient institutional capacity for the
introduction of a modem banking system. While these risks were addressed in the design of the different
project components, the risk of a return to civil war was not discussed. The civil war, which reemerged in
1992 and ended only in 2002, nearly brought the project to a standstill and to its cancellation during
1995-1996. Despite the ambitious objectives and the various risks associated with the project, the design
proved resilient and the quality at entry was satisfactory. As discussed below, the project objectives were
met, even if the objectives had only been partially met. In such a case, the changes supported by the project
still would have made an important contribution towards financial sector reform.
The project pre-dates the introduction of the logical framework approach and, therefore, it was not included
in the SAR. However, objectives to be achieved by the project were listed in the SAR. These objectives
were useful performance indicator proxies and were used to prepare the logical framework matrix
presented in Annex 1, as well as to evaluate quality.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective.
The overall project outcome is satisfactory, as the project has clearly contributed to the strengthening of
financial sector institutions, to building up capacities in the financial system and facilitating sector reforms.
The changes in the financial sector introduced in connection with the project are not easily reversible and
likely to be sustainable. During the ten year duration of the project, Angola's financial sector underwent an
- 5-



impressive transition from a purely government-run financial sector, to a multi-banking sector operating
with a much improved legal and regulatory framework. The reforms introduced under the project will
allow sector institutions to play a more effective role in the formulation and implementation of government
macroeconic reform policies.
When the project was designed during 1991, Angola's financial system was rudimentary. The Government
had only begun the process of transforning the financial system from a mono-bank system to a two-tier
system. At approval, Angola had two state-owned banks, and BNA provided practically all financial
services. The more favorable operating environment then contributed to investment, including foreign
investment, in the financial sector. At the end of the project, in addition to the two state-owned commercial
banks, Angola had seven new private banks (see table 2), and the banking sector now employs about 3,000
persons. BNA ceased all conmmercial banking operations. In the insurance sector, a new insurance company
was recently created, "AAA Servicos Financeiros ': ending the de facto and de jure monopoly of the
National Insurance Company (ENSA). The establishment of financial institutions in the banking and
insurance sector during the project can be partly attributed to the more favorable operating environment to
which the project reforms contributed.
The banking system is well capitalized and highly liquid. Five of the seven new private banks have equity
participation of well-known international banks. Intemational banks have controlling interest in four of the
seven banks, accounting for about half of total banking system deposits. These banks are managed
conservatively. The main financial services provided by the banking sector are linked to trade and export /
import finance.
The project addressed requirements for creating a more favorable operating environment. First, the project
contributed to an improved legal and regulatory framework. The following key laws were prepared or
revised: the Central Bank Law, the Commercial Banking Law, the Insurance Law, and the Accounting
Law. Second, key institutions were strengthened or created, and capacity developed to ensure the provision
of adequate services (e.g. BNA, the National Banking Training Institute (IFBA), the Insurance Supervision
Institute and a National Service Provider for the Payments System). Third, the physical and technological
infrastructure has begun put in place, primarily in payment systems. Fourth, good govemance was
promoted through improved disclosure at stricter standards. Examples are the audit of BNA's 150
correspondent accounts and of its fixed assets, as well as the publication.in the Annual Report and the
establishment of a central credit bureau.
-6-



Table 2: Angola's Banking Sector as of 31 December 2001
(Exchange rate AON (Angolan New Kwanza) to USD = 16.818 / AON&USD in 1000)
Insitiktfoi     :' BPC       sd ITA                BCP        BFE   I     aAl       9. '      -30. f.       A  TOTAL
Founded          1976        1991       1992       1993       1993       1997       1999      2000       2002
Capital (in
USD)   4.701,00               4,704      6,86       4,08        4,181       406        58      4,00       5,51     30,612
Deposits
(AON)            876.000    586,000    109,00      76.000     462,000    294,00 4900           2.0      2260001 2.126.000
Deposits
(USD)            908.00     1.376.000  1.625,000  396,00     3.439.000  3.538.000  150,000    42.000    629.00  12,104.30
Total
Deposits (In
AON)            1,764,000  1,962,000  1,734,000   472,000    3,901,000  3,833,000  199,000    44,000    856,000 14,785,00
Toiai
Deposits (in' ,
USD}':'      '   106,0000  :117.000    103,00      28,00t     232;000    228.000   .12,090     3.00      5t.00     980,000
Loans (AON)      290000     224,000    111,000     34.0001    114000     197.,000   39,000         0     20.000  1,029,000
Loans (USD)                              1,00t      1.000      890       547,000     3,000     5.00                646,000
Total Loans
(In AON)         290,00     224,000    112,000     36,000     203,000    745,000    42,000     S,00      20,000  1,677,000
Total Loans
(In USD)          17,000    7130        .7000        MO        12,00      44,00      2,500       300    1,000       99.000
Employees          1.342        878        159         30        138         124       27         39         38      2.775
Shareholder'          2          10          3          5          5         23         5          5          5
Intl.                                   80%        90%        99%         25%                            99%
Shareholder       no          no       Portugal   Portugal   Porlugal   Portugal     no        no       Portugl 
Source: Central Bank ofAngola
4.2 Outputs by components:
I. Strengthening the Central Bank (US$7.7 million SAR, US$14.7 million actual)
(a) Strengthening BNA's.information systems (US$3.9 million SAR, US$4.7 million actual)
The strengthening of BNA's infomnnation systems consisted of three parts: (i) definition and implementation
of an internal organization and policies for information systems; (ii) design of system requirements and
strategic information technology (IT) plan; and (iii) development and implementation of essential
information systems.
At the closing of the project, BNA had established a bank-wide intemal network (intranet), which consists
of 400 terminals, an e-mail application, and an extemal website. About 15 software applications have been
developed, and the system      has migrated to an Oracle database platform.         Further, BNA     has installed a
SAP/R3 modular system, which serves four operational domains (financial management, human resources,
reserve management, and fixed assets). Finally, the commercial banks are now linked to BNA via an X25
network, which allows the electronic transfer of data from banks to BNA. The Department of Organization
and Information Technology (DOR) was in charge of development and maintenance of the information
system.
BNA's infornation systems have been modemized and can now provide support for the Central Bank's
operational requirements. Two activities, the debt management system (DMFAS), a component for which
- 7-



UNCTAD is providing support, and the IT Disaster Recovery Plan had not been completed at project
closing. BNA has strengthened the DMFAS implementation team and the GoA has broadened the system
requirements to ensure that MOF and the Ministry of Plan have access to the data base located in BNA.
The debt management system should be in place by the end of 2002. The IT Disaster Recovery Plan, which
was not included in the original project, has begun to be put in place and will continue to be supported
under the proposed Economic Management Technical Assistance (EMTA) project.
(b) Improving BNA's accounting capabilities (US$1.4 million SAR, US$2.6 million actual)
The strengthening of BNA's accounting capabilities was an important element for the Central Bank's
operations. The project supported the introduction of the electronic accounting system (SAP/R3) and
trained BNA personnel. Much effort went into this component, and today BNA has auditable accounts.
Emst and Young completed the first audit ever of BNA on their 1999 accounts. This audit was published in
the 1999 Annual report in spring 2002. The 2000 accounts are also being audited by the same firm. BNA's
objective is to publish the 2000 accounts and to audit the 2001 accounts before the end of the 2002
calendar year. BNA awaits the signature of a protocol between the MOF and BNA under which MOF
assumes responsibility for quasi-fiscal expenditures that DNA incurred in the past few years (for instance,
with respect to CAP). This adjustment should have a major positive impact on BNA's accounts. Despite
the progress made, the many delays in preparing and publishing past accounts renders the outcome of this
component only marginally satisfactory.
Notwithstanding significant improvements in the competencies of key accounting staff with support from
the project, the average skill profile of BNA accounting staff is still low. This is not surprising considering
that at the inception of the project there were very few accountants trained in modem accounting practices
in Angola, and none in BNA. The project and the Bank of Portugal supported the training of BNA staff in
accounting and intemal audit.
However, it should also be noted that, despite the fact that the project did not finance BNA audits, the
Project Coordination Unit was asked to help with the process of selection of auditors, as it had become
apparent that Bank procurement procedures resulted in a transparent selection process.
(c) Strengthening of BNA staff banking skllls (US$1.5 million SAR, US$5.9 million actual)
Over the course of the project, there were several training initiatives for strengthening BNA staff banking
skills. In addition, BNA's Human Resources policy was reviewed, a new merit-based remuneration system
was introduced, and a bank-wide training system established. This component's cost of US$5.9 million also
included the financing of the project implementation unit.
The training efforts at BNA can be summarized as follows: 597 BNA staff attended an Institutional
Training Program ("Nivelamento " by Promatica of Portugal), BNA staff attended 2,422 courses at IFBA,
and five post-graduate scholarships were granted to senior BNA staff. Further, several short training
courses were offered during the duration of the project some of which were carried out under bilateral
agreements with the Bank of Portugal, the South Africa Reserve Bank, the Banque de France in Paris, and
the World Bank Institute (WBI) in Washington DC. Participating staff of BNA were selected in a
competitive process.
An important focus of this sub-component was the improvement of BNA's Supervision Department
(Direccao de Supervisdo Bancaria -DSB) which aimed to ensure the Central Bank's effective supervision
of the financial sector. The capacity building at DSB took place through a combination of the presence of
- 8 -



long term consultants and training. This was coordinated with the Monetary and Exchange Affairs
Department of the IMF. In addition to training activities, the project supported special audits to verify
specific aspects at the two major banks, which also served as a training ground for BNA staff. In 2001,
DSB initiated the first on site inspections of public and private banks, and carried out numerous off-site
inspections of financial institutions (42 in 1999, 28 in 2000 and 21 in 2001), exchange bureaus (17 in
1999; 18 in 2000), and other non-financial institutions (3 in 1999).
Another important focus for strengthening BNA was given to the Central Bank's Economic Research
Department (Direc,do de Estudos e Estatisticas - DEE). Starting in 1996, the DEE has periodically
published a Statistical Bulletin which includes key economic statistics for the country. In addition, it has
published reports containing historical data, including those on the balance of payments. Lastly, DEE has
produced the Annual Reports of BNA, the latest of which included the extemal audit carried out by Ernst
and Young (US). The increased competency of DEE, in the area of research and data gathering,
strengthens the Government's capacity in policy design, and BNA's capacity to formulate monetary and
exchange policy.
The training activities carried out under the project contributed to strengthening the competencies of BNA
staff. As another indicator for outcome, it can be noted that, of the five staff that received scholarships, one
person was promoted to Director and another became Managing Director. DSB has begun to conduct on
site and off-site bank inspections. However, as was expected given the time it normally takes to establish a
fully operational supervision body, it does not yet carry out all its functions to the required level. In spite of
marked improvements during the life of the project, the general skill level at BNA remains rather low. In
view of a growing and more complex financial sector, the current average skills of BNA staff must still be
strengthened to meet both the traditional tasks and new challenges of the financial sector (e.g. payment
systems, anti-money laundering, and reserves management).
(d) Building rehabilitation for consultants (US$0.9 million SAR, US$1.5 million actual)
In 1992, during the preparation phase, there was only one hotel in Luanda and an acute housing shortage.
The project created a large demand for hotel accommodation. To address the needs of the large numbers of
consultants expected to reside in Luanda for extended periods, the project included the rehabilitation of a
building (L2 Building) owned by BNA. The building could house up to 19 consultants simultaneously.
The rehabilitation of the building was completed in 1995 and has housed numerous consultants since then.
Despite a 59 percent cost overrun, the financial rate of return of this component was very positive. As of
April 2002, the building has accommodated about 10,600 nights. A conservative analysis, based on the
cost of accommodation of a typical current mid-class hotel in Luanda, evaluates the cost savings at
approximately US$1.5 million. In other words, the saved expenses for consultant accommodations have
fully paid for the renovation of the building.
The L2 Building continues to serve BNA for housing consultants, thus lowering accommodation expenses.
For the future, however, BNA is considering alternative and self sustainable arrangements, since managing
housing is not part of the core business of the Central Bank.
-9-



II. Banking infrastructure (US$7.4 million SAR, US$5.9 million actual)
(a) Establishing check clearing and payment systems (US$2.0 million SAR, US$2.8 million actual)
The original objective, the design and implementation of a nation-wide check-clearing system, was revised
and extended to include the development and implementation of a suitable national payment system to
satisfy the evolving needs of the economy.
Early in the project, a study helped define the procedure of clearing checks between commercial banks via
their reserve account at BNA. For the transaction, banks send diskettes to BNA, which credits and debits
the different accounts. But this initial objective to establish a nationwide system, which would have
included all banks in the 18 provinces, had to be scaled back due to the civil war. At closing, three
provinces and the capital Luanda were part of the check clearing system. However, these three provinces
and the capital account for the major part of the formal private sector activity. Further, the work on the
new check clearing system laid the groundwork for a nationwide payment system. The participating
institutions shifted strategy and instead of focusing on largc geographical areas which was not possible,
focused on achieving a quantum leap in technology laying the infrastructure for the future. The outcome of
this component is satisfactory.
The project further supported the development of a comprehensive multi-year strategy for the development
of a payments system which was prepared by all stakeholders. The objectives of the strategy, which was
published in January 2001, has been coordinated with the SADC payment system initiative. The strategy
calls for a multi-phased approach, which includes modules for low value payments, large value payments
and government securities transactions. FINSEC concentrated on supporting the low value payment module
to allow electronic debit and credit transactions, including automatic teller machines (ATM) and electronic
financial transactions at the point-of-sale (EFTPOS). The technical commission charged with the payments
system work, was transformed in 2001 into an interbank service provider corporation called EMIS
(Empresa Interbancaria de Servicos S.A.R.L). The shareholders are the commercial banks and BNA (51
percent).
A total of 37 ATMs and over 150 EFTPOS have been set up and 2,300 cards have been issued. As the
system is currently being tested, only two ATM's were operational at closing. Some delays occurred due to
the reorganization of the consultancy firn providing the services and due to technical problems linked to
software and data transmission, but the system has now been launched.
In parallel, BNA issued in November 2001 the regulatory framework (Aviso No. 3/2001) for the payment
subsystem "Multicaixa", the ATM and EFTPOS network, which is operated by EMIS. BNA also created
a division within DEC (Direcgdo de Emrssao e Creditos) to be in charge of the development and
supervision of payment systems.
The government securities module is being developed with support from the Bank of Portugal. To complete
the establishment of a well-functioning payment system, a safe, secure and efficient clearing and settlement
system is needed for large and time-critical transactions: the Real Time Gross Settlement (RTGS) System.
With the support of the Bank, DEC has produced a draft of the detailed description of the scope and
acquisition strategy of the required RTGS system. However, the acquisition and introduction of such a
system require more work and the scope goes beyond FINSEC. It was therefore decided to include this
activity in the proposed Economic Management Technical Assistance Project (EMTA).
Furthermore, DEC developed a central credit bureau (Central de Riscos), where banks can inquire about
- 10 -



the creditworthiness of clients requesting loans. Inquiries were processed manually until 2002 (351 requests
in 2000; 529 requests in 2001), when the system went online. This new feature will increase the quality of
service and use, which will contribute to better loan portfolios of the commercial banks. According to
management of a privately held commercial bank, housing loans have finally started to develop in Luanda
and the possibility of the bank to consult the central credit bureau, represents now an important element for
the credit decision.
(b) Establishing a Banking Training Institution (IFBA) (US$3.4 million SAR, US$2.8 million actual)
The National Banking Training Institute (IFBA), as a successor to BNA's internal training department,
was successfully established under the project. At the closing of the project, IFBA had trained a total of
about 1,750 students in 6,812 classes. This implies that every student at IFBA took an average of four
courses. Given that the financial sector consists of about 3,000 persons, about 58 percent of all sector
professionals were trained at IFBA.
IFBA offers today five different types of courses: (i) basic banking; (ii) a distant learning course in
banking; (iii) English language; (iv) microcomputer skills; and (v) management. The training center has
adequate facilities, a permanent staff of professional teachers, and is currently considering expanding its
curriculum to other areas, such as insurance and financial management. The institution currently recovers
85 percent of its costs, and it expected to fully recover costs in the near future.
The outcome of this sub-component is satisfactory, as IFBA has become a sustainable central contributor
for capacity building in the financial sector. The fact, that commercial banks and other financial institutions
recognize IFBA as the main financial training institution of the country, and support it by sending an
continuously increased number of staff for training, underlines IFBA's sustainability.
(c) Developing a core of skilled financial professionals (US$2.0 million SAR, US$03 million actual)
The objective of this component was to train a core of skilled managers with post-secondary and
post-graduate education in business administration with emphasis on financial management. At the time of
the inception of the project, in 1992, this was an urgent priority, given that most professionals were trained
on the principles of planned economies and did not know the principles of the market economy. It was
expected that the Faculty of Economics at the Agostinho Neto University would have entered into a twining
arrangement with a foreign university, which could have lasted 20 years or more.
The outcome however is disappointing. Partly, due to the security problems of the country, but also
because of lack of adequate leadership at the university, it was not possible to find a foreign university as
partner. Subsequently, the twining arrangement concept was abandoned. Instead, an economics refresher
course for professionals, trained under the planned economy principles was initiated in Luanda with the
Department of Economics of the University of Rio de Janeiro. However, while initially planned for 100
participants, only 25 attended the training, which took place between October 1997 and August 1998. This
program was subsequently discontinued with no driving force at the University.
In practice, a part of the training on fnance and financial sector issues which was expected to be done at
the university is being done in the highly successful banking institute discussed above.
- 1 1 -



mH. Legal and regulatory environment (US$2.0 million SAR, US$1.6 million actual)
(a) Improving application of banking legislation (US$0.9 million SAR, US$0.5 million actual)
The activities under the component included: (i) publication of a loose-leaf banking operational manual; (ii)
dissemination of a legal inventory of the harmonized banking legal and regulatory framework; (iii)
strengthening of the legal and technical capabilities of staff from BNA and other banking institutions; (iv)
strengthening of Registries and Public Notary Services; and (v) the review and development of banking
legislation and regulations. The overall objective was to ensure the dissemination and correct
implementation of the law governing financial institutions and its application, as a key element for the
development of the financial sector.
The overall outcome of this component is satisfactory. While little progress was made during the first years
of the project, the status at closing was encouraging: BNA produced a full collection of all its directives
(Avisos) between 1998 and 2002. These documents were disseminated to commercial banks and served as a
basis to clean up and harmonize banking regulations. Registries of real estate property in the Public
Notary Office have been recovered: 6 books in 1998; 20 books in 1999; 16 books in 2000; and 30 books in
2001. As a result, several commercial banks have confirmed to the Bank that they have successfully begun
to develop their mortgage business to fmnance domestic and commercial real estate.
In the area of reforms of the laws and regulations for banking, the project supported the drafting of the
new Central Bank Law (Lei Organica do BNA, approved in 1997) and the new Law for Financial
Institutions (approved in 1999). The Bank also supported BNA's effort to assess Angola's banking
regulations by comparing them to intemational standards.
(b) Developing insurance legislation (US$0.5 million SAR, US$0.6 million actual)
In order to support the development of the insurance sector (the country had only one state-owned
insurance company), the project supported the establishment of the Insurance Supervisory Institute and the
drafting of a new market- oriented legal and regulatory framework.
At closing, the Insurance Supervisory Institute had 12 trained staff and is operational. A new insurance law
was approved by the National Assembly and became effective in February 2000. Subsequent implementing
decrees were issued on various topics such as reinsurance (June 2001) and co-insurance (February 2002).
Some new decrees and the irnplementing executive decree were also approved by the Minister of Finance in
December 2001 and they are expected to be published soon.
The establishment of the Insurance Supervisory Commission and the revised legal and regulatory
framework have created a new open regulated market. A new insurance company was created by the
national oil company shortly after approval of the law: AAA Servi9os Finangeiros. However, while the new
legislation allows insurance companies to operate freely, their market remains restricted to domains that are
not considered "special regimes". These "special regimes" domains inclade the highly profitable insurance
business of the oil sector, the diamond industry, and aviation insurance. They remain reserved to the
existing state-owned insurance companies on a mandatory co-insurance basis. This design of the insurance
legislation aims at protecting the state-owned insurance company and may be justified as an intermediary
step. However, in the long run, the market will need to be further liberalized.
- 12 -



(c) Developing accounting and auditing standards (US$0.6 million SAR, US$0.5 million actual)
The project aimned at strengthening the Directorate of Accounting in the Ministry of Finance (MOF)
capacity to improve commercial accounting and to publish national accounting and auditing standards, as
well as to support the establishment of an accounting and auditing profession.
The new Accounting Law and General Accounting Plan was approved in 2001 by the National Assembly
and became mandatory in 2002. The standards of the new accounting plan are very similar to international
accounting standards (IAS). With respect to the accounting and auditing professions, three laws were
published in 2000 and 2001, which regulate the professions. As a consequence, accountants and auditors
must now be officially registered, which should ensure minimum standards of qualification. The process of
licensing has not started yet, as the "Installation Commission" is being formally established. Reflecting the
expected impact of the new legislation, the first 3,000 copies of the accounting plan published by the MOF
were quickly sold and more are being published.
The outcome of this component is satisfactory, as accounting and auditing standards are established and
became mandatory as of 2002. Providing adequate enforcement, this will certainly contribute to improving
the quality of the financial'information in commercial enterprises, which in turn should facilitate financial
intermediation.
IV. Mechanisms for financing private investment (US$1.5 million SAR, US$0.03 million actual)
(a) Restructuring and operating CAP
The Agricultural and Fisheries Credit Fund (CAP) was established in 1991 by spinning off the agricultural
portfolio of BNA, as a quasi-bank, to promote the development of the agricultural, forestry, livestock,
fishing, and coffee sectors. In 1992, GoA decided to restructure CAP and establish a fund which would not
take deposits from the public, and which would be managed professionally. Bank support was narrowly
defined to support the restructuring.
CAP was not restructured as envisaged at appraisal, and continued to operate as a department of BNA. By
1994, it had become apparent that the restructuring of CAP would not be possible. Discussions with
Government on this component enabled the Bank to support the government's decision in 2000 to liquidate
CAP. This decision is boti appropriate and courageous, as CAP has 1,125 employees, but it came later
and at a higher cost than would have been desirable (Decree from the Council of Ministers no. 28/00 dated
May 26, 2000). CAP has a portfolio of more than US$70 million, about 97 percent non-performing loans,
and no proper accounting. A Liquidation Commission was created to last 18 months. To address the
concern of access to fnancial services outside Luanda, the GoA transferred some CAP branches to the
other two publicly owned banks: BPC and BCI. Initial estimates (February 2001) of the liquidation costs
amounted to approximately US$50 million equivalent. Costs associated with CAP operations were funded
by BNA. The MOF has agreed that these are budget expenses and it will reimburse BNA, which will
significantly strengthen BNA's balance sheet.
The outcome of this component is unsatisfactory. CAP was not restructured and its activities were not
limited as expected at appraisal, instead it continued to operate. It is now being liquidated, but this decision
came much later than it would have been advisable and at a much higher cost. The liquidation of CAP will
ultimately result in a stronger financial system. As the GoA actively pursues the recovery of the loans,
financial discipline will improve, which is a fundamental issue for a sustainable financial system. A press
campaign in newspapers and on radio was initiated in June 2000 seeking CAP debtors to repay their loans.
- 13 -



Furthermore, the "Central de Riscos" will include all available credit information from CAP and clients
who are delinquent on their payments to CAP will find it difficult to borrow from any bank. Finally, some
cases (less than 10 according to the Commission) have started to be processed by the judicial system.
(b) Strengthen banking and private sectors' capabilities for financing of investments
The sub-component intended to launch a study on the legal status and on the instruments to create
incentives for small and micro-enterprises to formalize, instead of remaining in the informal sector.
However, despite of a non-objection from the Bank for proposed terms of reference, the study was never
initiated.
Subsequently, another initiative was supported to analyze the microfinance sector. While a study was
proposed but never initiated, the project financed two study tours for officials to Maputo and to the
microfinance summit in Abidjan. One of the participants subsequently became responsible for operating a
microfmance entity at the Ministry for Promotion of Women. Capacity was built through those study tours,
as terms of reference were drafted and by engaging BNA on the policy framework during supervision
missions. However, in a high inflationary environment, the development of microfinance was not seen as a
priority, despite the fact that there are now of about twenty microfinance entities in the country. Most of
these were established by NGOs and target different beneficiary groups.
V. Study on financial flows of the petroleum sector (new component, US$0.8 million actual)
The project facilitated the adoption of the politically and technically complex terms of references for the
study on financial flows of the petroleum sector "Oil Sector Study", by the GoA, the Intemational
Monetary Fund, and by the World Bank. Further, the project ensured a fair and transparent procurement
process.
Several versions of the initial technical report, as well as planned quarterly reports about the status of the
study and comparisons between forecasted and actual flows, were produced. An initial draft technical
report was submitted in 2001, and the consultants are finalizing the initial report describing the financial
flows linked to oil revenues. While it was anticipated that the project would close before the completion of
the Oil Sector Study, the project ensured quality control through close supervision of the consultants
outputs with the IMF and supported GoA in its dealings with the consultants.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.5 Institutional development impact
The overall institutional development impact is substantial, as a number of key institutions in the financial
sector were either created or strengthened. These include the Central Bank, the banking institute, the
insurance supervisory commission and the payments system enterprise. Reforms carried out in connection
with the project also contributed to the expansion of the financial system.
The main development impact can be seen at the Central Bank. BNA has sharpened its focus on its Central
Bank functions with supportive IT, better trained staff, auditable accounts and has become increasingly
proactive in carrying out its mandate with respect to monetary and exchange policy and banking
supervision. BNA needs now to restructure and adapt decisively its organization to its evolving functions
- 14 -



and mandate. The need to restructure BNA was recently publicly acknowledged by the Governor. The
improvements at BNA and the willingness to restructure and adapt its organization are a direct result of the
project. This impact will be felt in the future, as BNA internal training will now continue on a regular
basis.
In addition, the project supported the creation of the National Banking Training Institute, which already
recovers 85 percent of costs. It is expected to be fully self-financing in the near future. EFBA has become
the principal center for training in financial matters in Angola. At project closing, some 58 percent of all
banking sector personnel had been trained at IFBA. The project also supported the establishment of the
Insurance Supervisory Commission, and of the institution which will manage the payments system, EMIS
(Empresa Interbancaria de Servi os S.A.R.L).
The modern legal and regulatory framework for banking and insurance supported by the project has also
had an impact on the institutional structure of the Angolan financial system. Seven private banks and one
private insurance company, were established during the 1990's, partly as a result of the reformed
framework.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The main factor was the civil war. At the project inception in 1992, the opposing parties (MPLA and
UNITA) had just signed a peace agreement. However, one year latter, the civil war had resumed until a
second accord was signed in 1994. Thereafter, a UN Peacekeeping Force was able to maintain peace until
1998, when tensions escalated again.
Another factor affecting the project outcome were the trends of the oil price. Wide fluctuations of the oil
price substantially affected the macroeconomic situation during the project implementation period. For
instance, in 1991, the price of crude oil was US$25 per barrel. In 1994, the price was US$12; then, in
1997, US$24; in 1999 US$10; and in 2000 US$25.The dependence on oil underscores the importance of a
strong financial system that can withstand the effects of oil price fluctuations on the economy.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
During the implementation of the project, the turnover of Ministers of Finance and Governors of the
Central Bank was quite frequent (see table 3). The changes in leadership resulted in changes of the
technical staff, which were moved within the Central Bank and therefore slowed down project
implementation. The effects of the changes in personnel in BNA were mitigated by the stability of the
project team in BNA. BNA appointed an outstanding project coordinator who remained in charge during
the life of the project.
Also affecting project implementation were frequent shifts in economic policies. Between 1990 and 1996,
the GoA issued a total of nine economic programs, with different policies meant to stabilize the economy.
On average, this resulted in 1.3 programs per year, with each lasting less than 11 months. Following each
new plan, the project objectives were reevaluated against the new Government priorities. If the project
objectives were not perceived to be aligned with these priorities, the Central Bank Govemor would typically
not actively support the project, and the project implementation stalled, until new prionties were set or a
new Govemor appointed. It should be noted, however, that despite the changing priorities and different
Governors, the project had in general the support of the management of BNA, which retained the senior
staff in charge of it during its full duration.
-15 -



Table 3: Ministers of Finance and Governors of BNA during project
Year            Governor of BNA                  Minister of Finance
1992    Fernando Teixeira                Aguinaldo Jaime
1993  Generoso de Almeida                Salomao Xirimbimbi
1995  Ant6nio Gomes Furtado              Augusto Tomas
1996  Sebastiao Lavrador                Alcantara Monteiro
1999    guinaldo Jaime                  Joaquim David
2000    Aguinaldo Jaime                  Julio Bessa
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The implementing unit in BNA was stable, well organized, and staffed with competent staff. As mentioned
earlier, there was one Project Coordinator for the duration of the project implementation period, which was
a senior staff member of BNA and had considerable authority. The stability and seniority of the project
coordinator contributed to a low turnover of administrators in charge of the day to day management of the
project (only three administrators in ten years). The combined strengths of the coordinator and
administrators contributed significantly to the positive outcome of the project
There were no issues or problems concerning counterpart funds.
5 4 Costs andfinancing.
The original cost of the project was estimated at preparation at US$23.6 million, including an IDA credit of
US$20.6 million (see tables in Annex 2). The project closing date was extended twice from April 30, 2000
to April 30, 2002. At closing, disbursed funds represented 99 percent of the total IDA credit. The sum of
US$800,000, or 4 percent of the IDA credit, was reallocated to the Oil Sector Study.
The Government of Angola's contribution to total project cost was estimated to be US$3 million at
preparation of the project, which represented 13 percent of the total project cost. At closing, the GoA had
disbursed US$3.4 million, slightly more than initially planned. The total project cost at completion was
US$23.8 million. This increased amount was financed by the GoA.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating.
Sustainability of the project is likely as long as peace remains and a reform program is sustained. As
indicated earlier in this report, key institutions in the financial sector have been created or strengthened, a
significant number of financial professionals were trained, and a modem legal framework was put in place.
The reforms which were introduced have created a more conducive operating environment for financial
operations. The newly established or improved institutions and their operational capacity led to an
improved, broader, and more competitive financial sector. In fact, the changes which were introduced in the
financial system and which are not likely to be reversed, will facilitate the adoption of policy reforms that
need to be introduced to bring in a stable macroeconomic framework and reduced inflation. The
development of the financial system in the long term in fact hinges on these reformns. In the end,
sustainability and continued progress on the institutional modemization program supported by the project
will depend on the government's willingness to allow the Central Bank to carry out its supervisory and
monetary and exchange policy functions. A test of the effectiveness and sustainability of the institutional
modernization program will be the performance of sector institutions when the government undertakes a
- 16-



sustained macroeconomic reform program. There is the expectation that the environment is now conducive
for the government to embark in a macroeconomic program of this nature.
There are various examples that point to the commitment of the GoA, BNA, and other institutions in the
financial sector to continuing the process of modemnization. One such example was the recent organization
(without support from the Bank) of an international three-day seminar in Luanda in June 2002 on
"Importance of IT in Central Banks", which aimed at sharing experiences with other Portuguese speaking
countries (Portugal, Cape Verde, Mozambique, and Sao Tome and Principe).
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
As most of the project components have been completed or are sufficiently well established (e.g. IFBA), no
formal transition arrangements are necessary. Agencies and departments in the government which were
associated with key project activities have the mandate to carry on these activities past credit closing as
part of their regular mandate. In the case of the Central Bank, the departments responsible for accounting,
information systems, and supervision will continue the work initiated under the project. In the case of new
or revamped agencies, such as IFBA and the Insurance Commission, the necessary institutional
arrangements were put in place during project implementation, which will allow continuity of activities
after the closing of the credit. The mechanism of the follow-up of the payment systems work is also in
place. The financing of the remaining component of the payment systems (RTGS) will be included in the
proposed EMTA project.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance during the identification, preparation, and appraisal was satisfactory. The project
was well prepared and in line with the objectives of Bank support in the initial period of Angola's
membership in the Bank. Key risks were identified such as inappropriate macro policies, as a result of
political problems. The Bank further correctly identified weak human resources capacity and the need for
reforms in the macroeconomic framework. Finally, the Bank must be credited for its willingness to look
forward and to address the development issues of the financial sector, especially at an early stage of
Angola's membership in the Bank and IMF. The risk of a reemerging war, which would have been assessed
as part of an overall country strategy, was not discussed. As a result, there was no explicit contingency
plan in the event that war resumed. With the resumption of war supervision became ad hoc (see below).
7.2 Supervision:
Overall, supervision is rated satisfactory, even though there was a period in the mid-nineties when
supervision was limited. Supervision during the first years of the project was satisfactory. During the first
two years of the project, in 1992 and 1993, the supervision missions took place in Lisbon, as Bank staff
had restrictions on travel to Luanda when armed hostilities reinitiated. The UN security rating for Angola
was Phase 2 for the duration of the project.
Between 1993 and 1998, the project experienced a quick turnover of task team leaders (over five TTLs in
five years), before the project was taken over by the final TTL in 1998. During that period, lack of
adequate communication and only a few missions, resulting in part from the difficult political and security
situation in the country, led to mistrust of the Bank, and contributed to a slow down in project activities.
The Bank considered closing down the project, although it did not do so in large measure because progress
was being made in project implementation despite the political problems that constrained both
implementation and supervision. Also, the project was one of the few projects still in execution and
represented a vehicle for dialogue between the govemment and the Banlc In 1998, the newly appointed
- 17 -



Bank team agreed with BNA on an action plan to complete the key reforms envisaged under the project.
The team was proactive, pressing for reformns and supervising the project closely from headquarters and in
the field. Field supervision missions were done every six months between 1998 and project closing.
In spite of the progress achieved between 1998 and 2000, the supervision team did not upgrade the project
status in the Bank. The team noted that it would not upgrade the project status until all agreed actions had
been completed. The rating of the project at the Bank was discussed openly with the authorities. This
approach, combined with intensive supervision, probably contributed to the project's ultimate success. This
experience and the intensive supervision highlights the key role which task teams can have on project
implementation and outcome.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, the Bank performance is satisfactory, especially in light of the positive final outcome of the
project. The project was well designed and proved resilient in a period of political turmoil, and supervision
was appropriate given the period of political difficulties and security problems. Given outcomes, the
decision not to close the project was in hindsight correct. Supervision in the last two years of the project
greatly contributed to the project's outcome.
Borrower
7 4 Preparation.
The overall borrower performance at preparation was satisfactory. The government assigned high level
government officials to participate in the preparation. This demonstrated the GoA's high expectations and
commitment to reform the financial sector. The project was the first Bank project addressing issues in the
financial sector.
75 Government implementation performance:
The government's overall performance during implementation was satisfactory given the results. The
stability, endurance, and precision of the implementing agency contributed greatly to the positive outcome.
While in general the leadership in the BNA supported project objectives, the frequent changes at the top of
these institutions slowed implementation. During the 1994 to 1998 period, frequent policy changes and
instability at the top of MOF and BNA did not create a supportive environment to implement the
institutional reforms envisaged in the project.
During some instances of implementation, government agencies involved in the project found Bank
procedures too rigid. This led to a decreased sense of ownership and slowed implementation. However, as
FINSEC was one of the first projects in Angola, it took time for the project institutions to understand the
reasons for some Bank procedures. Today, BNA often uses Bank procurement procedures, even when
contracts are not financed by the Bank.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
As stated above, the strength of the project unit within BNA contributed greatly to the positive outcome.
The agency prepared a yearly implementation report and submitted quarterly progress reports. All
procurement was done in accordance with Bank procedures. Regular annual financial audits were done,
which never revealed any major deficiencies but only smaller weaknesses, which were corrected during
project implementation. The team was led by the same Project Coordinator, who was a senior BNA staff
member. Day-to-day management of the project was the responsibility of project administrators. During
the ten years of the project, there were three experienced and highly qualified administrators.
7.7 Overall Borrowerperformance-
While the implementation agency remained the stable pole, frequent changes at high level of the borrower
- 18 -



made implementation difficult at certain stages. However, towards the end of the project, the combination
of only a few changes of GoA officials, improved macro policies and TTL stability, led to an upgrade of
the rating after a long period of being unsatisfactory.
The overall borrower performance is satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
* The risk of a reemerging war remains a dominating factor when assessing a project in a
post-conflict country. In post conflict countries the need of a socio-political analysis as part of an
overall country strategy is paramount. For projects in the financial sector, as for those that involve
capacity building in other areas of economic management, the reemergence of a civil war represents
considerable risk. The effects were economic instability, uncertainty, and high inflation. Further, the
introduction of necessary reforms are often delayed due to shifts in priorities.
* A strong implementing agency can maintain the project during difficult times. The strong element
of the project was the commitment and stability of the implementation agency throughout the duration
of the project. The project coordinator at the implementation unit remained the strong pole while Bank
staff did not visit Luanda, task team leaders changed and Government officials rotated frequently. In
fact, the project coordinator, who also participated during preparation, maintained its position for the
duration of the project. This ensured that institutional memory was maintained at the GoA and it was
an important argument against closing the project early.
* Ambitious goals for a post-conflict country with a transition economy may require more time
than initially planned. The project had an overall duration of ten years, which allowed it to reach
ambitious goals, even after years of difficulties. This implies, that sufficient time is paramount and that
objectives can be ambitious. However, intensive supervision by a capable task team improves the
chances of a satisfactory project outcome.
* With a TA project, the Bank can stay engaged in the policy dialogue beyond the immediate
project objectives. As an example, Bank staff involved in supervising FINSEC, was able to support
GoA's efforts to privatize one of the two state-owned-banks (BCI) by helping articulate the objectives
of the privatization, by contributing to the TORs for the financial advisor, and by helping selecting a
long list of potential advisors.
* Bank project ratings can be used effectively as a tool in supervision. During the last two years of
the project, the task team discussed candidly with the Government the importance of project
performance, as reflected in project ratings, in defining future Bank support for a country. This helped
accelerate critical government actions that helped ensure project outcomes.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Government has reviewed and commented on the draft version of the ICR These comments have been
considered and incorporated into the final version. Further, the Government has submitted its report with
considerations about the implementation and completion of the project. This report confirms and outlines
most of the findings of the ICR task team. It is included in the ICR Annex 8.
(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A
- 19 -



(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A
10. Additional Information
N/A
- 20-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
'   IicatorIMatrix'                 Projected In last PSR       - 1,Actual;est Estimat                 .
Finanaal System Modemized                                                     BNA Has competencies to carry out
Central Bank strengthened.                                                    monetary, exchange and supervision
functions Has ceased all commercial
banking functions.
Two-Uer banking system established;                                           Nine private commercial banks and one
insurance sector opened                                                       insurance comipany operabng
Capabilities for training finance professionals                               Banking institute established and virtually
put in place and professionals trained                                        self-financing More than half the banking
sector personnel trained
Check clearing system put in place and                                        Check clearing in place covering key
payments systems work initiated                                               regions. First phase of payments system
implemented.
Laws and regulabons goveming financial                                        Legislation relabng to the Central Bank, and
system modemized.                                                            the banking and insurance Sectors in place
Legislabon regulating accounting and sethng
standards put in place.
Regulatory institutions for banking and                                       Supervision Department in the Central Bank
insurance established/strengthened.                                           strengthened and Insurance Supervisory
Commission put in place.
-21-



Output Indicators:
'Indicator/Matrix                 'Projected in last PSR  -            Actual/Latest Estimate
Central Bank (BNA):                                                      BNA 1999 and 2000 accounts audded and
Reliable BNA accounts publicly available in a                            published, 2001 soon
tmely manner
Regular provision of timely economic data                                Since 1996 regular and frequent publications
of economic data.
Adequate procedures and information                                      BNA inbranet established and four SAP/R3
systems                                                                  modules operabonal
Banking skills of BNA staff developed                                    Training system introduced, staff attended
2,422 courses at IFBA and 5 scholarships
granted.
Housing of consultants ready and                                         Building accommodated 10,600 nights and
operabional                                                              savings paid for renovabon.
Bank Infrastructure.                                                     37 ATMs and 150 EFTPOS established,
Efficient and secure payment systems                                     launch of EMIS pending
(including check clearing)
IFBA has trained 1750 students in 6812
Training center for financlal sector personnel                           courses, has a 85% cost recovery
operational
Legal & Regulatory                                                       New banking law and new law for financial
Adequate banking law and regulation                                      institutions established.
established
Collection of all CB Instructions from
Implementation of financial sector regulation                            1998-2002 disseminated.
Insurance legislation for pnvate partidpabon                             New insurance law and regulation framework
established                                                              introduced.
Accounting and auditing regulation adopted                               New accounting law and accounting plan
and enforced                                                             introduced and mandatory since 2002
Private Insurance companies established                                  One new insurance created.
Investment Financing:                                                    CAP liquidated.
Restructuring and support to CAP Fund
End of project
- 22 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate     Estimate       Appraisal
P9 ,project cost By. Cdmponent        US$ million  US$ million
Strenghening BNA                                   7.70          13.46           1.91
Banking Infrastructure                             7.40           5.87           0.79
Legal & Regulatory Environment                     2.00           1.55           0.77
Support for Investment Financing                   1.50           0.03           0.2
Project Coordination                               1.30           1.30            1.2
Contingencies                                      3.70           0.00             0
Petroleum Sector                                                  1.60             0
Total Baseline Cost                               23.60          23.81
Total Project Costs            23.60         23.81
Total Financing Required            23.60         23.81
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Ex~pendlture Category F. ,  ICB  - -Procurement Method
E xo 6 fi dlt u r   C at e_ory ,_ _ "  C B. ! C BT                       o a  C o s t
; _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 9 _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __   A   O th e r  _ _ _ _A _u _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
1. Works                    0.90         0.90         0.00         0.50         2.30
(0.80)       (0.80)      (0.00)        (0.00)      (1.60)
2. Goods                    2.60          0.40        0.40         0.00         3.40
(2.60)       (0.40)       (0.40)       (0.00)      (3.40)
3. Services                 0.00          0.00        6.60         1.20         7.80
(0.00)       (0.00)       (6.60)       (0.00)      (6.60)
4. Training                 0.00          0.00        8.20         0.70         8.90
(0.00)       (0.00)       (8.20)       (0.00)      (8.20)
5. Miscellaneous           0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
6. PPF Refinancing          0.00         0.00         1.20         0.00         1.20
(0.00)       (0.00)       (1.20)       (0.00)      (1.20)
Total                     3.50         1.30         16.40        2.40        23.60
(3.40)       (1.20)      (16.40)       (0.00)      (21.00)
- 23 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
-  w     I ~Procurement -Metho d --"o
ExpenditureCategory-      IAC1 3e 'NB2F                                        . Total Cost
ry-                          NC                         'N B..     To-i Cost-erl 
1. Works                       0.00          0.00          0.26          0.00          0.26
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.07)        (0.00)        (0.07)
2. Goods                       0.70          0.13          0.28          0.00          1.11
(0.65)        (0.00)        (0.06)        (0.00)        (0.71)
3. Services                    0.00          0.00          10.62         0.00         10.62
(0.00)        (0.00)        (6.80)        (0.00)        (6.80)
4. Training                    0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
________ __  (0.00)   (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
6. PPF Refinancing             0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                        0.70          0.13         11.16          0.00         11.99
(0.65)        (0.00)        (6.93)        (0.00)        (7.58)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
x1  t                       >               4 -  E  -'     < < ~r+ ,' t i ~ ' '' z ~ S ' . ~ , ~ IPercentage of Appraisal
Component             Appraisal Estimate- -       Actual/LatestEEstimate _-_l   ___'__ -    K
f)A,     Govt      CoF.i      DA'        v      _CoF.,   IDA    Govt.  CoF.
Strenghening BNA         6.60     1.10               11.50      1.96             174.2  178.2
Banking and              6.50     0.90                5.50      0.37              84.6   41.1
Infrastructure
Legal & Regulatory       1.90     0.10                1.40      0.15              73.7  150.0
Environment
Support for Investment   1.50     0.00                0.03      0 00              2.0    0.0
Financing
Petroleum Sector         0.00     0.00                0.80      0.80              0.0    0.0
Project Coordination     0.90     0.40                0.90      0.40             100.0  100.0
ContingencIes            3.20     0.50                                            0.0    0.0
Total                   20.60     3.00               20.13      3.68              97.7  122.7
-24 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
N/A
- 25 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                     Progress     Objective
Identiflcation/Preparation
Oct. 1991                   3    1 Sr. Operations Officer, I
Economist, I Analyst, I
Financial spec., 2 Consultants
Appraisal/Negotiation
June 1992                   8    1 Sr. Operations Officer, I
Economist, I Operations
Analyst, I Financial
Advisor, 1 Lawyer; I
Telecoms spec., 2
Consultants
Supervision
Nov. 1992                   2    1 Sr. Operations Officer, 1       S             S
Financial Advisor
Apnl 1993                   2    1 Sr. Operations Officer, 1       S             S
Financial Advisor
July 1993                   2    1 Sr. Operations Officer, I       S             S
Financial Advisor, 1 Pr.
Information spec.
Nov. 1993                    3   1 Sr. Operations Officer, 1       S             S
Financial Advisor, 1 Pr
Infornation spec.
July 1994                   2    1 Sr. Operations Officer, 1       S             S
Financial Advisor
Nov. 1994                    4   1 Sr. Operations Officer, I       S             S
Financial Advisor, 2 Consultants
Aug. 1995                   2    1 Economist, I Pr. Financial      S             S
spec.
Nov. 1995                    5   1 Economist, I Pr. Financial      S             S
spec., I Sr. Operations Officer, 2
Sr. Financial sect. spec., I
Consultant
March 1997                  3    1 Economist, I Operations         S             U
Analyst, I Consultant
March 1998                  4    1 Sr. Financial Economist, I Sr.  S             U
Financial Analyst, I Operations
Analyst, I Private Sector spec.
Dec. 1998                   2    1 Sr. Financial Analyst, I        S             U
Payment Systems Spec.
July 1999                    1   1 Sr. Financial Sector spec.      S             U
March 2000                   1   1 Sr. Financial Sector spec.      S             U
July 2000                   2    1 Sr. Financial Sector spec., I   S             S
Payment Systems spec.
- 26 -



Jan. 2001                    2    1 Sr. Financial Sector spec., I    S             S
Payment Systems spec.
June 2001                    2    1 Sr. Adviser, I Sr. Financial     S             S
Sector spec.
Oct. 2001                    1    1 Sr. Financial Sector spec        S             S
April 2002                   1    1 Sr. Financial Sector spec.       S             S
ICR
June 2002                    2    1 Sr. Financial Sector spec,       S             S
1 Sr. Financial Sector spec.
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle  {                 Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation               60.5                         69.7
Appraisal/Negotiation                    34.9                         42 1
Supervision                             240.6                        430.4
ICR                                       16.9                         8.9
Total                                   352.9                        551.1
- 27 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
OMacro policies                       O H  OSUOM      * N O NA
FSector Policies                      OH   *SUOM ON O NA
Iii Physical                          OH   OSUOM      ON   *NA
F Financial                           O H  * SU O M O N O NA
F Institutional Development           0 H  O SU O M   0 N  0 NA
El Environmental                      O H  OSUOM O N       * NA
Social
D Poverty Reduction             O H OSUOM O N        * NA
Li Gender                       OH   OSUOM      ON   *NA
L Other (Please specify)        OH   OSUOM      O N  * NA
O Private sector development          0 H O SU O M 0 N 0 NA
O Public sector management            0 H  * SU O M 0 N 0 NA
O Other (Please specify)              OH   OSUOM      ON   * NA
- 28 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperforrnance                                Rating
I Lending                                           OHS *S       OU    OFHU
 Supervision                                       OHS OS       O U   O HU
Z Overall                                           OHS IDS      O U   O HU
6 2 Borrower performance                            Rating
 Preparation                                       OHS OS       O U   O HU
 Government implementation performance             O HS O S     0 U   0 HU
3 Implementation agency performance                 OHS OS       O U   O HU
F Overall                                           OHS *S       O u   O HU
- 29 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Staff Appraisal Report
Development Credit Agreement
Aide-memoire and Project Status Reports
Project Audits
Borrower's Evaluation Reports
Progress Reports
- 30 -



Additional Annex 8. Government's Contribution to the ICR
To make a realistic evaluation of the objectives attained by the Project and real impact in the financial area,
we must take into consideration the difficult period the country went through from the date of the Credit
Agreement (September 1992) until the end of the Project. This period was characterized by the accentuated
decline in the economy and the return to war after the election that compromised the implementation of the
significant economic reforms in the various sectors of the economy.
These are summarized as follows:
*   Delay in the credit effectiveness, caused by delay in the negotiations with the World Bank (WB)
because this was a new area to the country;
*   Lack of experience and knowledge of World Bank project implementation procedures by the national
party, since this was one of the first WB projects financed in Angola;
*   Inexistence of a WB resident mission in Angola;
*   Lack of confidence of the initial task managers in the national experts and managers, responsible for
project implementation;
*   Component Coordinators that had little time available because they were already working in urgent
tasks in their own institutions;
*   Difficulty in hiring intemational consultants due to the instability period the country was living.
Looking at the disbursement curve we can conclude that these initial difficulties were overcome and the
project experienced a considerable rhythm in the disbursements during the three initial years, even
surpassing the estimated disbursements. Between 1995 and 1998 the project lived a slowdown period
caused by, on one hand, the lack of priority attributed to the implementation of measures and reforms in the
financial sector and, on the other hand, the intransigent refusal of the WB in financing some activities that
would not present evident results in the short term.
Although some results were only attained in the final phase of project implementation, we can globally
consider the project impact very positive, reinforcing BNA's role as Central Bank, in the modemization of
the financial sector and in the legal and regulatory framework. The present development in the sector makes
it extremely difficult to turn back and any tentative of abandoning the reforms would be catastrophic to the
sector and the country.
The results are summarized as follows:
1.     Strengthening BNA
With the revision of BNA and Financial Institutions Laws the role of BNA as Central Bank and the
creation of a two tiers banking system was consolidated.
For that purpose, the Government reformulated the laws that regulated the system, namely, the law that
defines BNA statutes and responsibilities as Central Bank - Law 4/91 April 20, that creates a two tier
banking system, with the Central Bank in the role of issuing bank, and supervisor and regulator of the
banking activity, as well as opening the sector to competition in the commercial area. Law 5/91 of April
20, 2001 - Financial Institutions Law, defined the conditions in which the financial operations could be
performed. In April 1999, a new Financial Institutions Law was approved - Law 1/99. The new BNA Law
that replaced Law 4/91, was approved July 7, 1997 - Law 6/97.
-31 -



The monobanking system ceased to exist in 1991, when BNA was transformed in a Central and Issuing
Bank, Banco Popular de Angola that was converted in Banco de Poupanca e Credito and BCI was
established, both public banks. The first branches of foreign banks were established in 1993 and in the
following years several new branches of foreign banks and national private banks were created. Today the
system comprises nine banks, two of these are public (BPC and BCI) and seven private (BAI, BCA,
BESA, BCI, BCP, BPC, BFE, BTA, and SOL).
At the end of 2000, 75 branches and agencies existed in Angola, as well as a subsidiary in Lisbon of a
private Angolan bank, BAI. More than half of this network belongs to Banco de Poupanca e Credito, and
they are mainly located in Luanda and in the coastal area.
Mainly because of the war and lack of security, that restricted the freedom of movements of people and
goods during the period, this network is not yet sufficient for the country dimension so only the capitals of
the eighteen provinces have banks and the services provided are reduced.
In 2000, 2,143 people worked in the commercial banks, but the tendency is for this number to grow due to
the new peace perspectives that will lead to the establishment of new banks and the increase in branches of
the old ones.
1.1    Strengthening Information Systems
In 1992 the Direccao de Organizacao e Informnatica (DOR) initiated the implementation of several activities
to increase the capacity of BNA information systems. The strategy adopted was the development of several
individual applications for the most prepared departments, instead of defining a strategic plan covering the
needs of the entire bank.
This was probably the best approach considering the circumstances of that moment and the level of
development of information systems at that time, allowing a moderate growth in the first couple of years. A
more ambitious strategy could have had extremely high costs and would most probably not produce very
significant results.
Since 1998, with FINSEC support, BNA reinforced the implementation of its information systems
infrastructure, namely the network that presently connects more than 400 working stations to BNA servers
and the Internet; the integrated management system SAP/R3 gives support to the accounting, reserve
management, human resources and fixed assets areas. The implementation of SAP/R3 reduced significantly
the amount of time required for the performance of the various tasks in 50% (this reduced also considerably
the necessity of overtime), increased the reliability of the operations and allowed for the informatization of
the tasks in general in more than 75%, as well as improved the consistency of the information in the various
user areas.
The option for a Client/Server data responsibility at users level presently allows that most operations are
executed in real time.
The training plan adopted, including two post-graduate courses, allowed BNA to guarantee in-house
maintenance of the whole infrastructure.
- 32 -



1.2    Improving BNA' Accounting
The weaknesses in BNA accounts affected its capacity to produce reliable monetary data, as well as the
management of daily operations.
With international technical assistance it was possible to recover, consolidate and improve the quality of the
accounts, and make them according to the generally accepted international accounting standards.
However, the auditing of BNA accounts persisted as a crucial problem that always required special
attention and was solved with prionty.
With technical assistance the accounts were recovered and new accounting systems introduced. The
implementation of SAP/R3 modules SIIF and SIGR (Financial Information Integrated System) allowed:
*   A better control of the accounting operations, nature and balance of the accounts, and real time
informnation;
*   Greater speed in documents received and sent to the Accounting Department by the BNA Regional
Delegations;
*   Optimization of information circulation between BNA areas and the Accounting Department, avoiding
the circulation of paper and the inherent reduction in costs (the circulation of paper was reduced in
approximately 90%);
*   Simplification of control procedures for documents and accounting;
*   Centralization of the operations in a common diary in real time.
The recovery of the accounts made possible the first external audit of 1999 accounts. This audit was
performed in 2001, and the audit report was published in May 2002, including the opinion of the auditors.
According to BNA statutes external audits will be performed annually. BNA is hoping to have the years of
2000 and 2001 audited during 2002.
1.3    Improving Skills
A) Strengthening of BNA's Human Resources
BNA implemented management policies of human resources, and used the methodologies and instruments
designed by the consultants. The work was concluded and approved and BNA now has at its disposal:
*   A human resources policy applicable to the entire institution;
*   A Personnel Department capable of answering the needs of the institution in that particular area;
* A human resources management grounded in modern criteria and instruments technically adequate and
internationally accepted.
BNA now has at its disposal new instruments for (i) recruitment and selection; (ii) career management and
remuneration; (iii) performance evaluation; and (iv) several levels of training needs for all the functional
areas. These instruments were: approved by BNA Board of Directors and are being fully implemented.
From the implementation results of the new policies and SAP/R3 Human Resources it is possible to
highlight the following:
- 33 -



*   The area is now automated in approximately 35%;
*   Reduction of approximately 50% in forms and paper archives;
*   Positive expectations that the personnel currently used to process the salaries will be reduced from 28
to 8 people (as soon as the rules and design of packages for redundant personnel are in place);
*   The 2001 performance evaluation report was completed with the help of SAP/R3 and is directly linked
to the new policy of variable remuneration according to performance;
*   No more unnecessary recruitment. In 2001, ten positions were filled using intemal bidding.
The Project financed an Institutional Training Program, concluded in September 2000, called "Formag5o
de Nivelamento". Its main purpose was to give BNA staff basic Central Bank knowledge and culture. The
curse had a duration superior to twelve months and was lectured in three stages corresponding to three
levels.
The course was generally considered positive, in spite of some skepticism related to the timetable. The three
stages totalized 597 participants.
B) Banking Supervision
The Department of Banking Supervision has reinforced its role as supervisor of the Angolan banking
system. During the last three years, 1999 to 2001, thirty off-site supervisions were made annually to the
banks operating in the Angolan financial market and eighteen to the exchange bureaus.
The 2000 annual report of the financial system was elaborated comprising an analytical approach to the
characteristic system indicators and was developed in the optic of Nominal Valorimetria, fulfilling one of
the main functional attributions of any banking supervision entity.
The report presents the balance sheet and the main financial indicators of the consolidated data activity of
the credit institutions in 2000, and it allowed a better understanding and evaluation of the Angolan financial
system growth, variations by comparison with the previous period, and the participation of the credit
institutions in the structure of the main indicators of banking activity.
The training has been permanent and supported by existing cooperation agreements between the BNA and
the Bank of Portugal, other banks in the region and regional institutions, namely, SADC, ESAF and other
multilateral institutions like IMF or World Bank.
C) Training
The Project paid five scholarships for post-graduate studies and masters.
The main impact of this action, was Dr. Celestino Kanda being appointed as BNA Director and Dea Laura
Monteiro being appointed Head of Studies and Statistics, after the studies financed by the Project.
1.4    Housing for Consultants
This component was quite controversial in the identification phase of the Project, however, the cost-benefit
analysis shows that the existence of these apartments provided until April 2002, approximately 15,474
lodging nights to the consultants who worked for the Project. The savings in hotel accommodation were
approximately US$2.1 million if these are compared with the costs of rehabilitation and furnishing,
approximately US$1.1 million it clearly shows that the decision to include the rehabilitation was good and
- 34 -



timely.
2.     Developing Banking infrastructure
2.1    Establishing a Check Clearing System
This component suffered several changes during Project implementation. The main purpose identified at
appraisal was the installation and regulation of a national clearing system, this was latter enlarged to
comprise the design and implementation of the Angolan System of Payments (SPA).
The need to harmonize the Angolan System of Payments with the SADC System of Payments determined
DEC restructuring and the creation of a Sub-Directorate to deal exclusively with the system of payments;
the conclusion of the SPA conceptual design; and its implementation strategy in April 2000.
Some changes were made to the initial conceptual design, one activity was suspended and three new ones
were included, representing twenty-one new actions to execute. These twenty-one actions will be completed
in 2006 (i) nine have been concluded; (ii) three, related with information and clarifications to the
population, were started in 2000 and are still going on; (iii) five are in a testing phase; (iv) two are for
approval; and (v) one is at the final preparation phase and almost ready for procurement.
Building on top of the Task Force experience the CTSPA (Technical Board of the Angolan System of
Payments) was created in May 2000. All areas with an interest in the system of payments are represented
(banks, insurance, post, Ministry of Finance, etc ...).
The preparation for document exchange in the new clearing system was reduced from three hours for each
bank to thirty minutes, and is now much more reliable. This referring to Luanda, in the other provinces it
now takes approximately forty minutes instead of the previous two hours. The setflement in Luanda is fully
automated, with the settlement of debits and credits in the respective banks accounts, immediately after the
multilateral netting of exchanges and retums made during the session.
Now, with this new routine, the settlement is completed before l0.a.m. every day and the reentry of data
was eliminated.
Most legal diplomas have been drafted, approved and published, and the System of Payments Law is bemg
debated.
In 2000 a database, "Centiral de Riscos", was made available to the banks. This allows the banks to obtain
information on the debt level of individuals and companies. In 2000 the commercial banks made 351
information requests. The following year, till September, the number augmented to 529, representing a
150% increase in the number of requests made. The impact of this database will be more visible as soon as
it is possible to evaluate the reduction in credit default through analysis of statistical information.
With the inauguration of EMIS in Apnl 18, 2002, the first phase of implementation of the small value
electronic payments network is complete, the "Multicaixa" network. Although the software is still being
tested, a network of 39 teller machines (ATM) is already in place and more then 150 point of sale terminals
(POS) have been requested. For plastic cards the number of requests was 500% bigger than the estimated
in the business plan (2,300 cards have already been requested).
The payment of civil servant salaries in bank accounts is being tested as well as a new automated solution
-35 -



for the book entry system.
These actions will boast the credibility of banking operations, to dematerialize the currency and decrease
risks.
2.2    Establishing the National Banking Training Institute (IFBA)
IBFA was created by Decree 26/93 and initiated its operations in 1996. Since it started operations it trained
1,750 people and lectured 6,812 courses, this means that approximately 58% of Angola banking staff was
trained at the Institute at some time.
A performance evaluation was made, including a survey to the users relating to 1995 to 1999. The results
showed a satisfaction of over 75%, reflecting the great importance given to the training offered to the
banking sector.
IFBA offered courses in four different areas (generic banking course; distant learning courses in banking;
specialized banking training; English; and computers). The Angolan Ministry of Education recognized the
generic banking course as equivalent to completion of high school.
IFBA capability of independence is evident, not only because of the contributions made by its associates
(the banks), but also because of the training it is providing to other entities, example, insurance sector that
is initiating its activities.
2.3    Developing a Core of Financial Professionals
Since it was not possible to find a partner for the planned twining agreement and the first refreshment
course in economics planned for students who did their courses in a centralized economy had a small
number of students, the component had unsatisfactory results and was terminated.
3.     Improving the Legal and Regulatory Environment for Financial Operations
3.1    Improving the Application of Banking Legislation
Although the legal listing of diplomas made in 1993 was not concluded, BNA Legal Department (DJtJ)
bought software to create a database containing all the Angolan laws. The last 30 years will be included,
but at present twenty are already available. This database is already a valuable instrument daily used by the
legal staff for the performance of their duties.
The Banking Supervision Department (DSB) made a collection of all the "directivas, avisos, etc" published
by BNA between 1998-1999 and 2000, this task was ready in November 2002, this made it easier for the
banks to be familiar with the legal diplomas in use in the sector. This collection is dynamic and revised
whenever new regulations are published, this facilitates the comparison with the twenty-five Basle Norms.
The three people that benefited from short term training abroad are permanently involved in debt
negotiations, and drafting of new banking laws and regulations, for instance the Angolan System of
Payments Law.
Although it is not yet being fully implemented, the simplification of the registries law is a contribution to
the reduction in time and paperwork required for the initial registry and subsequent alterations.
- 36 -



The effort made in the recovery of the books of the property registry (Conservat6ria do Registo Predial)
approximately seventy-two, was very relevant, specially with the increase in financing housing. BAI (an
Angolan Bank) granted, in 2002, approximately seventy-one credits to buy homes, in the average amount
of US$75,000 and eight years return. Banco de Fomento, granted with the same purpose 305 credits
totaling US$14,6 million, in July 2002.
Indirectly, through training, the Project supported the drafting of the new BNA Statutes, approved m April
1997 as well as the Financial Institutions Law approved in April 23, 1999 (Law 1/99).
3.2    Developing Insurance Laws and Regulations
FINSEC support was essential to the opening of the insurance sector in Angola. The creation of the
Insurance Supervision Institute, entity responsible for the supervision and regulatory framework of the
insurance activity in Angola and the approval of Law 1/2000 Insurance Activity Law (Lei Geral da
Actividade Seguradora) and its regulatory framework, gives a better transparency to the operation of the
entities operating in the sector and a better efficiency to the supervision.
With the approval of these diplomas, and the regulatory framework of the Law, new entities duly
authorized started their operations, namely AAA, Seguros, SARL (insurance); AAA Corretores de Seguros
Lda (brokers); and AAA Pensoes SARL (Pension Funds).
3.3    Developing Accounting and Auditing
The Decree 82/01, dated November 16, 2001, establishes the new Chart of Accounts m accordance with
the intemational accounting standards and is an important instrument to guarantee a better understanding
of the true financial situation of public and private enterprises in Angola and facilitate the granting of credit
to the economy.
It defines that after 2002 all the accounts of public and private enterprises operating in Angola must
comply with the new accounting standards and certified accountants must prepare the balance sheets.
The Ministry of Finance is working with great urgency in the creation of the Accountants Order (Ordem
dos Contabilistas) and of its installation Committee that will initially certify accountants and auditors and
define the rules for the exercise of the profession.
4.     Project Coordination Unit
Nationals managed the Coordination Unit in the last three years of FINSEC implementation, a proof that
the country already has national specialists in project management, procurement and disbursements that
will be very useful in the future that hopefully will be short term, management of World Bank Projects.
5.     Sustainability
In an analysis of the operational phase by component we observe the following:
*   The majority of people trained during the Project are part of technical support groups helping the
economy managers at the highest level. However, the growth that the financial sector in Angola is
experiencing, requires that staff will be in permanent trained;
- 37 -



* The institutions created with Project financing already have a certain autonomy (IFBA, ISS) so their
survival in the long run is not a concem in the post-Project period. BNA is considering a change in the
management philosophy for the L2 building, which consists in renting the apartnents whenever they
will not be necessary for BNA consultants, with the objective of ensuring the maintenance of the
building without great financial effort.
*   The restrictions in OGE may represent a concem for the conservation and maintenance of goods
acquired during Project implementation, because up till now this maintenance was guaranteed by credit
funds;
*   BNA routines and procedures have been implemented in such a way that they are currently normal
practices both in BNA and in other institutions that benefited from the Project. There is no possible
going back in the development and modemization attained by the financial sector. Although FINSEC
are not presently self-evident they will be measurable pretty soon;
*   The picture of the Legal Reform may be considered grimmer, because most probably the Ministry of
Justice will experience some difficulties in gathering the necessary funds to continue with the
implementation of the Simplification Law and the training.
6.     Lessons Learned
*   It is necessary that projects with the dtmension of FNSEC, have a closer supervision by World Bank
technical experts. We believe, that in this type of situations a closer and more direct approach of
component work, using more supervision missions would help to improve implementation performance;
*   It was evident that the main success factor was the existence of very well drafted Temis of Reference
for the Components at the time of Credit Approval. This prevented the definition of unrealistic
objectives, which may have affected the success of the project;
*   The fact that the Component Coordinators were also heads of the various implementing agencies
reinforced the continuous implementation of Project objectives;
*   Frequent replacements by the World Bank of Task Managers without adequate care with pending
issues or briefings on current matters;
*   On the other hand, the frequent turnover of directors (responsible for components) did affect the normal
development of Project activities in the beginning of the Project, because the ones that were starting
were not familiar with the projects that were done or being implemented, obliging a permanent effort of
information and sensitization to Project objectives;
*   It would be important that the administrative staff working in the Project would be familiar with the
World Bank mechanisms and rules from the beginning, PPF phase, not leaming as the Project
develops;
*   It was crucial for the Project the maintenance of the same coordinator throughout.
- 38 -






Report No.:        24825
Type:    ICR



