CREDIT NUMBER 2421 ANG
Development Credit Agreement
(Financial Institutions Modernization Project)
between
PEOPLE' S REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                                 , 1992


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2421 ANG
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                            , 1992, between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF ANGOL (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)   the Association has received a Statement on Financial
"                Sector Reform (the Statement), dated August 7, 1992, from the
Borrower describing its policies and action plan to reform the
financial sector of the Borrower and declaring the Borrower's
commitment to the implementation of said Statement; and
WHEREAS (C) the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section  1.01.   The  "General  Conditions   Applicable  to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02 Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "BNA" means Banco Nacional de Angola, the Central Bank
of the Borrower, established and operating pursuant to Law No. 4/91
dated April 20, 1991;
(b)   "CAP" means Caixa de Credito Agro-pecuaria e Pescas, the
Borrower's Agricultural and Fisheries Credit Fund, established and
operating pursuant to its Statutes approved by Decree No. 8-B/91
dated March 16, 1991;


﻿-2-
(c)   "IFBA" means Instituto de Formag&o Banc-ria de Angola,
the banking training institute of the Borrower, to be established
under the Project and referred to under Part B.2 of the Project;
(e)   "MOF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance;
(f)   "UAN" means Universidade Aqostinho Neto, the Borrower's
University;
(g)   "Administration Agreement" means the agreement entered
into between the Borrower and BNA pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and
such term includes all schedules to the Administration Agreement;
(h)   "Project  Preparation  Advance"  means   the  project
preparation advances granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to: (i) Letter of Agreement dated December 6, 1991, and
countersigned by the Borrower on December 17, 1991; and (ii) Letter
of Agreement dated June 17, 1992, and countersigned by the Borrower
on July 6, 1992;
(i)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
(j)   "fiscal year" and "FY" mean the Borrower's fiscal year
which runs from January 1 to December 31.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to fourteen million eight hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 14,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreemenc and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.


﻿3
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
through BNA, open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account
in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be April 30, 2000 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.


﻿- 4 -
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each March 15 and September 15
commencing September 15, 2002 and ending March 15, 2032. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on March 15,
2012 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
(b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due con-
sideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.


﻿-5-
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through BNA
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
banking, financial and administrative practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.
(b)   The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
available to BNA under an Administration Agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and BNA on terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Association.
(c)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause BNA to carry out the
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(d)   The Borrower shall exercise and cause BNA to exercise
their respective rights under the Administration Agreement, in such
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, except as
the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not take
or concur in any action which should have the effect of assigning,
amending, abrogating or waiving the said Agreement or any provision
thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause BNA to, not later than
thirty (30) days after the Effective Date: (a) open and maintain an
account in dollars, local currency or such other currency as may be
acceptable to the Association, in a commercial bank (the Project


﻿- 6 -
Account), on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association;
(b) promptly thereafter, make an initial deposit into such account,
in dollars, local currency or such other currency as may be
acceptable to the Association, in an amount equivalent to two
hundred fifty thousand dollars ($250,000) to finance the Borrower's
contribution to the Project; and (c) deposit every four months, into
the Project Account such amounts in dollars, local currency or such
other currency as may be acceptable to the Association, as shall be
required to timely replenish the Project Account.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause BNA to: (a) carry out,
jointly with the Association, not later than October 31 of each
year, until the completion of the Project, an annual review of
Project implementation. The review shall cover, inter alia, the
following: (i) monitoring of progress in achieving Project objec-
tives; (ii) updating Project implementation timetable; (iii) identi-
fying of implementation issues that may have arisen and finding
appropriate solutions; (iv) assessing reforms carried out by the
Borrower in accordance with the terms of the Statement; and (v)
actions taken by the Borrower to carry out Parts A.4 (b) and B.2 (c)
of the Project;
(b)   furnish to the Association, for its review and comments,
four weeks prior to such review but not later than September 30, of
each year until completion of the Project, a report in such detail
as the Association shall reasonably request, including an evaluation
of progress achieved in carrying out the Project; and
(c)   promptly after completing said annual reviews, carry out
those recommendations arising out of said reviews as agreed between
the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, and shall cause BNA, to:
(a) maintain, during the execution of the Project, the staff
responsible   for   Project   implementation,   with   experience,
qualifications,   terms   of   reference,   and   responsibilities
satisfactory to the Association and set forth in Part A of Schedule
5 to this Agreement; (b) take all necessary measures to appoint, and
thereafter maintain, qualified BNA counterpart staff in a ratio
satisfactory to the Association to work with, and receive training
from consultants employed under the Project, in accordance with the
provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause BNA to maintain
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in
respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause BNA to:
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing prin-
ciples consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of
the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)   furnish to the Associat ion such other information
concerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall cause BNA to:
(i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)   retain, until at   least  one year after the
Association has received the audit for the fiscal
year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,


﻿-8-
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)   enable  the  Association's  representatives  to
examine such records; and
(iv)   ensure that   such  records  and  accounts  are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
auditors as .to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the Borrower or BNA shall have failed to perform any of
their respective obligations under the Administration Agreement;
(b)   as a result of events which have occurred after the date
of this Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that BNA will be able to perform any
of its obligations under the Administration Agreement;
(c)   the Borrower, BNA, or any other authority having
jurisdiction shall have taken any action concerning the Borrower's
Statement that would materially affect the objectives of the
Project;
(d)   the Borrower or BNA shall have taken any action
concerning the action plan prepared by the Borrower in reference to
the completion and distribution of housing facilities referred to
under Parts A.4 (b) and B.2 (c) of the Project, in a manner that
would materially affect the ability of BNA to perform any of its
obligations under this Agreement;
(e)   Lei Orq&nica do Banco Nacional de Angola (Law No. 4/91
of April 20, 1991) or any other legislation governing the operations


﻿-9-
of BNA shall have been amended, suspended, repealed or waived so as
to affect materialiy and adversely the ability of BNA to perform any
of its obligations under this Agreement; and
(f)   the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of BNA or for the suspension of its operations or any substantial
portion thereof.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   any of the events specified in paragraphs (a), (b), (c)
or (d) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall
continue for a period of 30 days after notice thereof shall have
been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)   any of the events specified in paragraphs (e) or (f) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the Association has received from the Borrower satis-
factory evidence to it that the Interagency Committee referred to
under Part A.1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement has been legally
established with staffing, functions and responsibilities agreed
with the Association; and
(b)   the Administration Agreement has been executed on behalf
of the Borrower and BNA on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, witY'; the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:


﻿- 10 -
(a)   that this Agreement has been duly ratified by the
Borrower's Council of Ministers and is legally binding upon the
Borrower in accordance with its terms; and
(b)   that  the Administration   Agreement  has  been  duly
authorized and is legally binding upon the Borrower and BNA.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Governor of BNA is designated as repre-
sentative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Banco Nacional de Angola
P.O. Box 1243
Luanda
People's Republic of Angola
Cable address:                Telex:
BANANG                     3123
Luanda                     3321
3144
3005
Facsimile:
390579


﻿- 11 -
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INDEVAS                    197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA),
64145 ('4UI) or
82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By       L (              - r-    c     o
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Cateciory              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)   Civil Works under:                       85%
(a) Part A.4               420,000
(b) of the
Project; and
(b) Part B.2               420,000
(d) of the
Project
(2)   Goods, vehicles                          100%
and services under:
(a) Parts A.1 (c)        1,970,000
and A.1 (d) of
the Project;
(b) Parts B.2 (c);       1,200,000
B.2 (f); and
B.2 (g) of the
Project; and
(c) Parts D (b);           640,000
D (c); and D (d)
of the Project
(3)   Equipment, vehicles,       920,000       100%
materials and supplies


﻿- 13 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Ecuivalent)     to be Financed
(4) Consultants' serv-        3,230,000        100%
ices and audits
(5) Training                  3,440,000        100%
(6) Refunding of                850,000        Amount due pur-
Project Prepara-                           suant to Section
tion Advance                               2.02 (c) of this
Agreement
(7) Unallocated               1,710,000
TOTAL                    14,800,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "training" means
the costs of fellowships, workshops, seminars, study tours,
including travel and per-diem and other costs strictly related to
training activities carried out by the Borrower under any of the
training programs financed under the Project.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;
(b)   expenditures under Category (2) (a) unless the Borrower
has completed the strategic plan referred to under Part A.1 (b) of
the Project and has submitted its recommendations to the Association
for its review and comments;
(C)   expenditures under Categories (1) (b) and (2) (b),
unless the Borrower has submitted to the Association documentary
evidence, satisfactory to it, certifying the legal establishment of
IFBA; and
(d)   expenditures  under  Category  (2)   (c) unless   the
Association has received documentary evidence, satisfactory to it,


﻿- 14 -
certifying the Borrower's completion of actions referred to under
Part D (a) of the Project, in a manner acceptable to the
Association.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) strengthen BNA's
capabilities to perform its monetary policy and regulatory
functions; (b) develop banking infrastructure; (c) improve the
legal and regulatory environment for financial operations; and (d)
establish institutional mechanisms for investment financing by the
private sector.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives.
Part A:     Strengthening of BNA's monetary policy and regulatory
capabilities
1.    Strengthening of BNA's information systems:
(a)   improvements to internal organization and policies for
information systems and carrying out initial training programs;
(b)   design  of   information  systems   requirements  and
preparation of a strategic plan for system development and
technology use;
(c)   development and implementation of essential information
systems and related acquisition of computers and software; and
(d)   strengthening and provision of training to assist BNA's
management and staff in the implementation of the actions described
above.
2.    Improving BNA's accounting capabilities:
(a)   preparation of auditable accounts and identification of
accounting systems in need of strengthening;
(b)   strengthening of accounting systems;
(c)   carrying out external audits and identification of
measures to improve BNA's internal control mechanisms;


﻿- 16 -
(d)   design and establishment of an internal audit function;
and
(e)   training of BNA staff in accounting and internal audit
techniques.
3.    Strengthening of BNA staff banking skills:
(a)   setting up the personnel management function in BNA,
including the development and implementation of professional
development streams for BNA staff;
(b)   supporting BNA's Supervision Department in, inter alia:
(i) carrying out two portfolio audits of the major commercial
banking institutions; and (ii) provision of internships for BNA
staff to visit supervision departments of other central banks;
(c)   long- and short-term training abroad for BNA senior
staff;
(d)   local training for BNA staff at IFBA;
(e)   strengthening of BNA's administrative, managerial and
policy-making capabilities; and
(f)   acquisition of about four vehicles.
4.    Building rehabilitation:
(a)   architectural design and construction supervision;
(b)   rehabilitation and equipping of one of BNA's buildings
to provide housing to about ten expatriate consultants employed
under the Project; and
(c)   complete building rehabilitation and distribute housing
facilities to expatriate consultants financed under the Project.
Part B:     Developing banking infrastructure
1.    Establishing a check-clearing system:
design and implementation of a nation-wide check-clearing
system.


﻿- 17 -
2.    Establishment of IFBA:
(a)   design and implementation of IFBA's strategy, scope,
legal status and training programs;
(b)   architectural design and construction supervision;
(c)   carrying out and administering training activities for:
(i) mid-level management and staff from banking institutions,
insurance companies, and other financial institutions; and (ii)
high-level management of financial institutions;
(d)   completing building rehabilitation for IFBA's head-
quarters and distribute: (i) teaching facilities to training
programs relevant to the objectives of the Project; .and (ii) housing
facilities to expatriate consultants financed under the Project;
(e)   upgrading training skills of trainers;
(f)   supporting twinning arrangements with relevant foreign
training institutions; and
(g)   acquisition of about two vehicles, office equipment and
pedagogical materials.
3.    Developing a core of skilled financial professionals:
(a)   supporting a twinning arrangement between the Faculty of
Economics of UAN and a relevant foreign academic institution; and
(b)   acquisition of one vehicle.
Part C:     Improvement of the financial legal and regulatory
framework
1.    Improving the application of banking legislation:
(a)   design, publication and distribution of a loose-leaf
banking operational manual, including: (i) a description of banking
operations; and (ii) standard contractual forms required by the
legislation in force;
(b)   compilation, harmonization, publication and dissemi-
nation of the banking legal and regulatory framework in the form of
a legal inventory;


﻿- 18 -
(C)   strengthening of the legal and technical capabilities of
staff from BNA and other banking institutions through short-term
practical training, locally and abroad;
(d)   strengthening of the National Directorate of Registries
and Notarial Services, including: (i) carrying out an inventory of
priority actions and equipment requirements; (ii) acquisition of
office equipment, materials, supplies and security systems for about
four services in the City of Luanda and about six services in
selected provincial cities; and (iii) carrying out short-term
practical training for staff of Registries and Notarial Services;
and
(e)   review and develop banking regulations.
2.    Developing insurance legal and regulatory framework:
(a)   setting up and strengthening of the Insurance Super-
visory Commission; and
(b)   review and adjustment of the legal and regulatory
framework for the insurance industry.
3.    Developing the Borrower's legal and regulatory framework in
respect of accounting and auditing:
(a)   strengthening of MOF's capabilities to: (i) improve
commercial accounting; and (ii) publish national accounting and
audit standards and model accounting and audit manuals;
(b)   assisting the Borrower with the establishment of the
accounting profession; and
(c)   acquisition of one vehicle.
Part D:     Improvement of mechanisms for financing of investment
(a)   design and implementation of the restructuring of the
CAP and appointment of its key staff;
(b)   operation of the restructured CAP;
(c)   training of staff for the restructured CAP;


﻿- 19 -
(d)   acquisition of basic office equipment, supplies and
computer hardware and software; and
(e)   strengthening of the banking and private productive
sectors' capabilities for financing of investments.
The Project is expected to be completed by October 31, 1999.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Oection I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part D hereof: (a) goods; and (b) works
referred to under Part B.2 (d) of the Project shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
2.    Goods shall be exempted from pre-shipment price inspection by
a third-party inspection firm.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Angola may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix thereto.
Part D:     Other procurement procedures
1.    Local competitive bidding. (a) Works referred to under Part
A.4 (b) of the Project, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$850,000; and (b) goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $125,000
or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$400,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.


﻿- 21 -
2.    Local shopping. Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
$50,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent
to $400,000 may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part E:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist BNA in carrying out the Project, BNA shall
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and


﻿- 22 -
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the term   "Authorized Allocation" means an    amount
equivalent to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower  shall   furnish  to  the   Association
requests for deposits into the Special Account at
such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the


﻿- 24 -
documents and other evidence required pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
shall have requested and as shall have been shown
by said documents and other evidence to have been
paid out of the Special Account for .eligible
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Arti-
cle V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to the eligible Categories of the Project, less the amount of
any outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have


﻿- 25 -
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
Part A:     Project Management
1.    Interagency Committee (IC)
(a)   The Borrower shall establish an interagency committee
with the following members: (i) representative of the Ministry of
Plan; (ii) representative of MOF; (iii) representative of BNA
(Chairperson); (iv) the Project Coordinator; and (v) the Deputy
Project Coordinator. Representatives of Ministry of Justice and UAN
and other entities relevant to Project implementation, may be
invited to participate in the IC meeting, as necessary.
(b)   The IC shall provide guidance to the Project Coordinator
and Deputy Project Coordinator, as hereinafter defined, on: (i)
policy issues related to the Project; (ii) overall monitoring of
progress achieved in Project implementation; and (iii) addressing
issues requiring interagency coordination.
(c)   The IC shall meet at least once every semester.
(d)   The representative of BNA shall be responsible for the
Secretariat of the IC.
2.    Project Coordination Staff
(a)   The Governor of BNA shall appoint, two senior-level
staff, with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the
Association, to carry out overall Project coordination, as follows:
(i) Project Coordinator (PC); and (ii) Deputy Project Coordinator
(DPC).
(b)   The PC shall be responsible for the implementation of
all Parts of the Project in close coordination with: (i) the
respective unit or department of BNA; or (ii) Ministry or agency,
concerned with the carrying out of the technical aspects of that
specific Part of the Project.
(c)   The DPC shall assist the PC in discharging his/her
Project implementation responsibilities.


﻿- 27 -
(d)   The Project Coordination staff shall be assisted by an
expatriate consultant employed by BNA as Project Administrator (PA),
with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association.
The PA shall be responsible, inter alia, for: (i) the carrying out
of day-to-day Project activities; (ii) ensuring that Guidelines and
procedures referred to under Schedule 3 to this Agreement are
complied with; and (iii) preparing periodic progress reports of
Project implementation, to be submitted to the Borrower, BNA and the
Association.
3.    Other staff
BNA shall assign:
(a)   an  Architect, with   qualifications  and  experience
satisfactory to the Association, to carry out on a part-time basis
the following: (i) supervise the carrying out of civil works
financed under the Project; (ii) participate in the identification,
selection and contracting of consultants' services employed under
the Project to assist BNA in carrying out Parts A.4 (b) and B.2 (d)
of the Project; (iii) coordinate all measures to implement the
actions referred to under Part A.4 (c) of the Project; and
(b)   other high-level technical staff and administrative
support staff, in adequate numbers, to facilitate Project
implementation.
Part B:     Institutions responsible for Project implementation
1.    Part A of the Project:
(a)   (i) Part A.1 of the Project shall be managed by the Head
of the Organization and Informatics Directorate of BNA; and (ii) The
Informatics Committee (IC) composed of Directors of user Departments
and chaired by one of BNA's Vice-Governors, shall be responsible for
the overall direction of the informatics program referred to under
Part A.1 of the Project.
(b)   Parts A.2 (a), A.2 (b), A.2 (d); and A.2 (e) of the
Project shall be implemented by BNA's Accounting Directorate.
(c)   Part A.2 (c) of the Project shall be implemented by
BNA's Conselho de Auditoria.


﻿- 28 -
(d)   Part A.3 of the Project shall be implemented as follows:
(i) Part A.3 (a) of the Project, by BNA's Personnel Directorate;
(ii) Part A.3 (b) of the Project, by BNA's Supervision Department;
and (iii) Parts A.3 (c), A.3 (d) and A.3 (e) of the Project, by all
BNA's relevant departments under the coordination of the PC and DPC.
(e)   Part A.4 of the Project shall be implemented by BNA's PC
and DPC in close coordination with the Architect of DirecgAo de
Patrimonio e Servigos.
2.    Part B of the Project:
(a)   Part B.1 of the Project shall be managed by BNA Direcgao
de Emiss&o e Cr6dito.
(b)   Part B.2 of the Project shall be implemented by IFBA.
(c)   Part B.3 of the Project shall be implemented by BNA, in
close coordination and under the technical supervision of the
Faculty of Economics of UAN.
3.    Part C of the Project:
(a)   Part C.1 of the Project shall be implemented by BNA's
Legal Advisory Services, in close coordination with MOF, Ministry of
Justice, National Directorate of Registries and Notarial Services
and the Law School of UAN.
(b)   Part C.2 of the Project shall be implemented by the
Borrower's Insurance Supervisory Office.
(c)   Part C.3 of the Project shall be implemented by MOF's
Accounting National Directorate and National Inspectorate of
Finance.
4.    Part D of the Project:
Part D of the Project shall be implemented by BNA in
collaboration with MOF.


﻿- 29 -
Part C:     Schedule of Actions to be carried out by the Borrower
and BNA during Project implementation
Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall carry out and shall cause BNA to carry out
the following actions:
1.    Not later than September 30 of each year, prepare and furnish
to the Association, for its approval, draft annual informatics
program and budget as referred to under Part A.1 of the Project.
2.    Not later than May 31, 1993, establish and approve criteria
for the award of long-term fellowships financed under the Project.
These criteria shall include, inter alia, the following:
(a)   having worked, on a full-time basis for the respective
institution, for one year before starting the training program; and
(b)   having provided a formal commitment to full-time working
for the respective institutions, for a period at least equivalent to
twice that of the training, upon return.
3.    Not later than March 31 and September 30 of each year during
Project implementation, prepare and submit to the Association, for
its review and comments, semiannual reports, including: (a) updated
cost estimates for individual contracts and the total Project; (b)
revised timing of procurement actions, including a detailed descrip-
tion of advertising, bidding, contract awards and completion time
for individual contracts; and (c) reference to compliance with
procurement procedures described under Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


