Document of
The World Bank
Report No. T-6924-ME
TECHNICAL ANNEX
MEXICO
RURAL FINANCE
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND PILOT PROJECT
September 16, 1996



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(September 16, 1996)
Currency Unit         =       Mexican Peso (N$)
US$I                   =      N$7.55
N$1 million            =      US$132,450
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BANRURAL   National Rural Bank (Banco Nacional de Credito Rural)
BORUCONSA  Rural Warehouses, S.A.
CETES          Treasury Bills Rate
CNBV           Comisi6n Nacional Bancaria y de Valores
GOM            Government of Mexico
CONSASUPO  National Food Supplies Company
(Compania Nacional de Subsistencias Populares)
DGDB           Director General of Development Banking
FERTIMEX       Mexican Fertilizer Company (Fertilizantes de Mexico)
FIRA           Trust Fund for Agriculture
FOBAPROBA  Trust Fund for the Protection of Deposits (Fondo de Protecci6n al
Ahorro)
FOCIR          Trust Fund for Shared Risk (Fideicomiso de Riesgo Compartido)
GATT           General Agreement in Trade and Tariffs
GOM            Government of Mexico
IBRD           International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
INEGI          National Institute for Statistics, Geography, and Informatics
MOP            Memorandum of the President of the IBRD to the Executive Directors
NAFTA          North American Free Trade Agreement
NGOs           Non-government Organizations
PROCAMPO   Producers' Income Support Program
PROCAPTE    Temporary Capitalization Program
PRONASE        National Seed Production Company
REs            Rural Entrepreneurs
RFM            Rural Financial Markets
SAPs           Savings and Loan Association (Sociedad de Ahorro y Prestamo)
SDI            Subsidy Dependence Index
SHCP           Ministry of Finance (Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito
Puiblico)
SMU            Specialized Management Unit
UCs            Credit Association (Uni6n de Credito)



MEXICO
RURAL FINANCE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND PILOT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
1. SECTION A: DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
A. PERFORMANCE OF RURAL FINANCIAL MARKETS ..............................................I
B. MEXICO'S   RURAL   SECTOR  .........................................................3
C. THE REMAINI NG AGENDA  .......................................................S5
D. PROJECT DESIGN ........................................................            .8
E. PROJECT   DESCRIPTION                     ..........................................................  .9
2. SECTION B: PROJECT ADMINISTRATION AND IMPLEMENTATION                                   .................... 15
Th. de          d the a                    di  f thPmed.1    a      cd  ....on the findi...... . dt
.--an.d p.-r-ati.a.mi~i~n~ - hieh vi~i~edWxie  duA . ns                            i
..Sects .L..d .. cxa e.iv. .i.     .. J. .:i~ -pn. .         -
- F X i, , ;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .. ...    .......... ...... ..






MEXICO
RURAL FINANCE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND PILOT PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
1. SECTION A:    DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
A. PERFORMANCE OF RURAL FINANCIAL MARKETS.
I.    The Govemment of Mexico has long recognized that the functioning of rural financial
markets (RFMs) greatly affects agricultural growth, income distribution, rural poverty, and the
management and conservation of natural resources. Unfortunately, the empirical evidence
available indicates that the performance of RFMs has been poor in terms of aggregate
efficiency and fairness. 1 In particular, RFMs are very shallow in that rural entrepreneurs (REs)
have only limited access to financial services. The markets are also highly segmented because
types of borrowers and lenders are so clearly matched that funds do not flow across regions or
groups of individuals, even though there are gains from such a flow. These markets are either
not competitive or highly inefficient: observed ex post interest rates imply abnormal retums, or
ex ante risk premia charged by some lenders are socially inefficient because of their inability to
diversify geographically.
2.    Rural entrepreneurs have little opportunity to participate as borrowers in these markets
because of the weak supply and demand of credit. Supply has been hindered by a combination
of factors: an underdeveloped institutional infrastructure, which permits borrowers and lenders
to take undue advantage by not honoring credit contracts; the small local markets, which cannot
support the large fixed costs connected with traditional banking technologies; and massive
govemment interventions, which crowd out private lenders by allowing poorly run govermment
institutions to lend at low rates. In addition, govemment intervention has prevented the
development of informal sources of funding (such as supplier and crop purchaser credits) by
severing market linkages between credit markets and input and commodity markets.
3.    On the demand side, the majority of REs do not even apply for loans because of the
process involved or because borrowing is too risky. This weak demand for credit is due in part
to the high collateral required for loans and the non-institutional techniques used to enforce
credit contracts. Also some borrowers face such high interest rates that they would demand
credit only if absolutely necessary.
See: "Mexico: Rural Financial Markets." World Bank Report No. 15599-ME (August, 1995). All
references made below regarding the performance of RFMs are based on the findings of the study which
included a specially designed survey conducted in three regions.



2
4.     Another factor affecting the flow of resources is that the current legal framework
makes it difficult and expensive to use tangible assets (real estate and movable goods) as
collateral. Under these circumstances, borrowers and lenders are motivated to engage in
financial contracts only with those counterparts they trust or with whom they are likely to incur
"reasonable" costs. As a result, borrowers and lenders tend to match up in almost mutually
exclusive groups, with little interaction among them and with large interest rate differentials
that are not arbitraged by other lenders. Although the rural financial markets are highly local,
which is a symptom of segmentation, they are not meticulously segmented by geographic
region only; they are also set apart by the fact that some REs are excluded from specific
segments while other REs are not.
5.     Competition in RFMs is limited because only those lenders who already know
borrowers can provide credit services effectively-given the general lack and effectiveness of
collateral. This condition limits the entry of potential lenders and reduces competition among
incumbent lenders. It also implies that some lenders have an advantage over others because it is
more expensive for borrowers to establish their creditworthiness with other lenders. Also it is
more costly for other lenders to screen new potential borrowers. These circumstances allow
lenders to arbitrage profitably on such cost differentials by charging noncompetitive rates of
interest.
6.     The differences in interest rates charged by lenders are not justified by ex post risk of
default or transaction costs of lending. Indeed, delinquency problems have been more severe
for formal sector lenders than for their informal counterparts, who charge much higher rates. At
the same time, groups of lenders with very similar transaction costs charge significantly
different rates. The current situation could be improved even if excessively high interest rates
corresponded to legitimate risk premia (i.e., no ex ante economic profits) arising from the
inability of creditors to diversify their portfolios. There are other lenders who can diversify and,
hence, charge lower rates.
7.     The performance of RFMs is also poor in terms of faimess because the disadvantaged
segments of the population have reduced access to RFMs. When they do have access, they
receive credit in very negative conditions in terms of, for example, interest rates and maturity
structures. The more favorable conditions of credit market participation on the part of well-off
individuals persist after controlling for the relevant variables; namely the borrower's socio
demographic factors, characteristics of the credit contracts, wealth and enterprise variables, and
attributes of the borrower's locality of residence.
8.     The inefficient and unfair performance of RFMs has negative effects on rural growth
and poverty. Because of the shallow financial markets, the rural economy will have difficulty
adjusting to the major policy reforms of recent years and the aftermath of the exchange rate
crisis of early 1995 (see below). These events will require rural entrepreneurs to adjust factor
proportions, modify output mixes, change their scale of operations, and invest in new
technologies. Their success in this endeavor will depend on the performance of all factor
markets, particularly financial markets. Segmentation, however, will force rural investors to
rely mainly on local resources, which are often limited. Therefore, local negative income shocks
or low initial endowments of resources in a locality would have long-term negative effects on
wealth accumulation and hence on poverty. Not only are extreme interest rates excessive but



3
also peculiar collateral requirements carry negative distribution consequences. The evidence
suggests that traditionally disadvantaged groups of the rural population may be trapped in low-
risk/low-return investment strategies that in the long run will probably widen the income
distribution gap. The lack of access to rural financial markets may be contributing to this state
of affairs.
9.     Unfortunately, the performance of these markets is likely to deteriorate even further
before it improves. In the short term, the informal sector is unlikely to expand because the
retiring state institutions (see below) have not been completely replaced by endogenous market
organizations with an interest in developing financial interlinkages; at the same time, contracts
may be difficult to enforce in rural areas because the structural adjustment has weakened
traditional enforcement mechanisms, which in tum have not been supplanted by formal legal
structures or similar informal mechanisms. The predicament of the banking system following
the exchange rate crisis of early 1995 suggests that the formal sector may be unable to expand
its operations to the country's rural areas. Thus, struggling banks can be expected to downsize
by closing branches, among other things.2
B. MEXICO'S RURAL SECTOR.
10.    Mexico's rural sector has been greatly affected by policy reforms introduced since
1988, the devaluation of the nuevo peso in early 1995, and rural poverty. In the wake of these
policy reforms and the exchange rate crisis, rural entrepreneurs are being forced to adjust
factor proportions drastically, modify output mixes, change their scale of operations, and invest
in new technologies. Whether REs can adjust will depend on the performance of all factor
markets, particularly financial markets.
11.    Recent Policy Reforms. Apart from the well-known general macroeconomic reforms
and fiscal stabilization measures undertaken since 1988, the principal policy reforms affecting
rural areas have been those in agriculture. These have included increasing price trade
liberalization, privatization of agricultural-related parastatals, the reduction or elimination of
agricultural input and price subsidies, and constitutional changes to allow the privatization of
ejido land.
12.    Price Policies. Before 1990, the main goal of Mexico's agricultural policy was to keep
prices low for consumers yet ensure high prices for producers. Prices were guaranteed for 12
major crops: beans, wheat, barley, rice, sorghum, soybeans, safflower, cottonseed, copra,
sunflower, and sesame. Recently, guaranteed prices were replaced with agreement prices for
sorghum, soybeans, wheat, and rice, while guaranteed prices were retained for maize and
beans. Beginning in the late 1980s, the govemment began pursuing reforms to reduce general
food subsidies and direct those remaining to the poor. Products currently benefiting from
targeted consumption subsidies include maize flour and tortillas
2  In any event, the geographical coverage of the banking system is limited, for less than a third of the country's
municipalities have banking offices, including those of development banks.



4
13.   International Trade Policies. Two international accords -the North American Free
Trade Agreement (NAFTA) and the General Agreement in Trade and Tariffs (GATT)
(Marrakesh Agreement)- have altered agricultural trade policy in Mexico. Under NAFTA, 42
percent of tariff codes were liberalized, with tariffs on foodstuffs and cotton to be phased out
over a period of 15 to 20 years. The expected phaseouts are consistent with GATT agreements
regarding reduced agricultural protection for developing countries.
14.   Income Support and Government Investment Programs. To compensate for the
reduced protection implied by NAFTA and GATT and the anticipated elimination of producer
price supports, the govemment of Mexico has introduced a producer income support program
(PROCAMPO). It is to replace price support with income support by providing fixed payments
per hectare cultivated instead of guaranteed prices. Under the definitive PROCAMPO
program, the details of which are yet to be defined, guaranteed and agreement prices are to be
eliminated. Instead, farmers will only receive PROCAMPO payments on the basis of historical
hectarage planted.
15.   Another recent initiative, the National Solidarity Program, finances poverty-targeted
investments and transfers through more than 34 separate programs. Solidarity programs
support infrastructure investment through grants to municipalities and communities for basic
infrastructure in poor communities (e.g., Fondos Municipales); the financing of state-managed
investments in rural roads, water supply, and other public infrastructure; and joint ventures
with small rural and urban entrepreneurs (e.g., Fondos Nacionales de Empresas de
Solidaridad).
16.   Government Parastatal Companies. Since 1988 the government has reduced the
role of the agricultural parastatals involved in the production, processing, and marketing of
agricultural inputs and products. For example, the fertilizer industry was completely
deregulated, the parastatal FERTIvEX was privatized, and fertilizer prices were increased
from 50 percent to 85 percent of their import/export parity. All restrictions on private sector
competition with the national seed production company (PRONASE) were eliminated. The
government is considering privatizing some of the affiliates of its national foodstuff company's
(CONASUPO), including its rural and urban grain storage facilities (BORUCONSA and
ANDSA), in anticipation of an eventual privatization of CONASUPO's marketing functions.
17.   Property Rights and the Markets for Land and Water. Steps have also been taken
to improve property rights on land and water. In early 1992, Article 27 of the Constitution and
the Agrarian Reform Laws were modified to give land ownership directly to residents of
agrarian communities (ejidos and communal lands) and to allow them to develop new forms of
economic association.3 The reform allows for transactions such as renting and selling ejido
land, pledging land as collateral for loans, and contributing land to joint ventures. The reform
also provides for faster resolution of land disputes and reduces the risks of expropriation.
The Mexican land tenancy regime was based on Article 27 of the 1917 Constitution, which states that
all land and subsoil resources are ultimately the property of the nation. Approximately 52 percent of
Mexico's total land area and half of the country's cropland fell under the ejido syslem.



5
18.    Policy changes in the irrigation subsector have coincided with the broader changes in
economic policy. Thus irrigation policy has begun to encourage efficient water use through (a)
reforms in the legal basis of land tenure; (b) reforms in the legal structure of water rights; (c) a
major increase in irrigation water fees to make operations self-sufficient and pay for the upkeep
of the irrigation infrastructure; (d) a transfer of irrigation districts to water users' organizations;
(e) changes in economic policy to promote a shift away from basic grains production; and (f)
more private sector participation in decisions and investment.
19.    The Devaluation of Early 1995. In late 1994, the nuevo peso was devalued from 3.3
to 6.9 to the U.S. dollar, in March 1995. This move precipitated a massive economic
adjustment, which included drastic changes in the relative prices of tradable and non-tradable
goods, a sharp increase in interest rates, and a reduction in the availability of credit. These
changes have occurred in the midst of the ongoing agricultural liberalization program.
20.    Rural Poverty. Extreme poverty is primarily a rural phenomenon in Mexico, and
unlike poverty in urban areas, it has increased over the past decade.4 In 1992 the incidence of
rural poverty was twice that of urban areas, while the incidence of rural extreme poverty was
more than six times that of urban areas. Although the rural population makes up only 41
percent of Mexico's total population, it accounts for 57 percent of the country's poor and 84
percent of its extreme poor. Between 1984 and 1992 extreme poverty decreased from 2.4 to
2.2 percent in the urban areas but increased from 12 to 16 percent in rural areas. In absolute
numbers, the rural population living in extreme poverty increased by 71 percent, while the
urban extreme poor actually decreased by 0.3 percent.
21.    Social indicators of poverty-including illiteracy rates, primary school enrollment and
access to running water-also indicate great urban-rural disparities. Adult illiteracy is more
than three times as high in rural areas as in urban areas, and the average years of schooling for
rural adults is about half that of urban adults (3.3 year versus 5.8 years). Access to running
water and sanitation is more than twice as common in urban as in rural areas.
C. THE REMAINING AGENDA
22.    GOM recognizes that, although the shortcomings of RFMs are due largely to the
institutional underdevelopment of the regions surveyed and to its massive interventions in the
rural economy, some form of govemment participation may still be desirable because such
problems may be ameliorated (even overcome) if the govemment endeavors to arrive at a
better understanding of the issues at hand and formulates viable strategies for dealing with
them. The great concem, however, is that any potential improvements in efficiency and faimess
may be eroded by significant agency costs. Such costs have arisen in the govemment's past
efforts to participate in rural financial markets, notably in the form of (a) excessive
4      "Extreme poverty" is defined as the proportion of the population whose expenditures fall below the
extreme poverty line, defined as the amount required to purchase minimum food needs. "Poverty" refers
to the proportion of the population whose expenditures (used as a measure of income) fall below the
poverty line, defined as the amount required to cover minimum food needs plus typical nonfood
expenditures of the poor.



6
administrative costs and delinquency within public development banks, (b) the widespread
strategic default promoted by disguised debt-forgiveness programs, (c) worsening income
distribution resulting from interest rates subsidies, and (d) regulatory problems regarding
special private organizations promoted to increase access to financial services in rural areas.
23.    The govemment also recognizes that its objective should be to increase the availability
in rural areas of viable, competitively priced, and untargeted deposit and credit services from
formal financial intermediaries. This objective is tantamount to increasing the outreach and the
sustainability of formal financial intermediaries in rural areas. Such an effort would increase
overall access to rural financial markets and change the composition of that market niche by
including entrepreneurs whom the formal sector would not currently serve.
24.    The government will focus in its primary responsibility: to provide an environment in
which property rights, contracts, and financial services can prosper. Such an environment
would consist of an improved legal framework for enforcing contracts and making use of
collateral, as well as networks for sharing information between lenders (e.g., credit checks). In
particular, it is necessary to (a) have a more efficient legal framework for lending secured by
real estate, equipment, inventory receivables, and consumer goods; (b) make the system of
public registries efficient; and (c) introduce mechanisms for expeditious recovery of collateral.
These required legal changes and institutions may take generations to evolve, however. Thus,
other complementary strategies should also be found to increase access to institutional financial
services in rural areas over the shorter term and in a self-sustainable and appropriate manner.
25.    The government is considering to fund experiments in developing sustainable
technological packages for delivering financial services to small rural entrepreneurs. The
objective should be to establish general guidelines for providing financial services to medium
and small entrepreneurs in rural areas on the basis of the success stories of informal lenders in
the regions surveyed and in other countries. One important lesson already learned is that
financial services in rural localities must follow sensible business practices if they are to be
self-sustaining. That is to say, the services offered and the technologies used must be
appropriate, and the people involved must act on a proper set of incentives within a conducive
policy framework.
26.    GOM efforts will be directed at improving the functioning of all organizations -public
and private- involved in providing financial services in rural financial markets. In particular,
the government of Mexico wants to ensure that the incentives faced by managers and owners
are consistent with the financial health of their intermediaries. In the case of specialized
government organizations, their highest authorities are interested in achieving self-
sustainability, even if this entails privatizing existing institutions.
27.    Above all, government policies should be aimed at protecting the financial viability of
participating organizations. Thus, adequate rates of interest would be needed, because in the
current policy environment of fiscal discipline, low-subsidized interest rates suggest that an
organization will not have a prolonged existence. Such an outlook weakens incentives for
borrowers to repay and for managers to protect the organization, since it may not be around for
long.



7
28.    GOM has requested a technical assistance loan from the World Bank to: (a) assist in
the implementation of an integral policy towards the sector; (b) review its direct participation in
the sector, and (c) develop a package of appropriate financial products, lending technologies,
and incentive schemes to provide sustainable financial services to low income rural population.



8
D. PROJECT DESIGN
29.    Project Objectives and Approach. The ultimate goal of the project is to augment the
participation of REs in RFMs, especially of the poor; overcome the segmentation of these
markets; and increase competition in the sector. The project would, in the short term, contribute
to the achievement of this objective by providing the govemment of Mexico with the necessary
technical assistance and applied research to formulate an adequate policy for RFMs-including
an improvement of the govemment's current direct participation in the sector.5 That is, the
project would assist govemment in undertaking the analytical work to develop policies towards
RFMs, to test such policies, and to underpin the sector's improvement.
30.    Additionally, the experimental component of the project would demonstrate that it is
possible to supply financial services to small and micro-entrepreneurs in small rural localities-
in a sustainable matter. Such evidence is required to guide decision makers in the adoption of
an adequate policy towards the sector and to induce increased private sector participation in
RFMs.
31.    A very important innovation of the proposed project is that it would allow to
empirically test-on a pilot basis-the key policies suggested by its technical assistance
components. This experimentation is essential because any mistakes in the design and
implementation of large scale reforms in RFMs may be extremely expensive. The lessons
leamed and the evidence gathered during project implementation would be the mainstay of the
future integral improvement of the sector.
32.    Another important innovation of the proposed project is that it would cover a broader
set of issues than those covered by traditional RFMs projects. The project would assist
government to address the entire spectrum of necessary conditions for developing RFMs and
improving the market-based provision of financial services to small and micro rural
entrepreneurs. In contrast, traditional RFMs projects have mostly focused on transitory
increases in the availability of agricultural credit.
33.    Institutional Framework. The improvement of RFMs is complex and wide-ranging,
addressing issues of, for example, the legal environment for financial transactions on rural
areas, GOMs direct participation in RFMs through specialized intermediaries, and the
regulation of rural financial intermediaries. SHCP has been chosen as the agency in charge of
steering the reform process. Project implementation would be the responsibility of the office of
the Director General of Development Banking (DGDB) within the Undersecretariat of Finance
and Public Debt (see organizational chart below).
This Government participation in RFMs has been characterized by (a) excessive administrative costs and
delinquency within public development banks, (b) the widespread strategic default promoted by disguised
debt-forgiveness programs, and (c) worsening income distribution resulting from interest rates subsidies and
disproportionate concentration of services in the hands of mostly well-off individuals. The project seeks to
reverse these shortcomings.



9
34.    The Undersecretariat of Finance and Public Debt represents an ideal institutional
setting for the project because its functions include a wide set of relevant issues regarding
RFMs. In particular, SHCP is charged with: (a) providing GOM's main specialized rural
financial institutions -FIRA, BANRURAL, FOCIR, and FINA- with: (i) general policy
guidelines (i.e., cabeza de sector), (ii) operating budgets, and (iii) annual fiscal transfers; (b)
drafting and final approval of all legislation and regulations relating to financial institutions and
markets (Banking and Auxiliary Credit Institutions, Insurance and Securities); and (c) holding
within its structure the supervision of all financial intermediaries in the system as the
corresponding supervisory agencies (CNBV, CNV, CNSF, CONSAR) are legally part of the
Secretariat.
*    Secretory ofForaince   |
......   !....
UnderscretryofRevenues  Underoecrcryof Finince  Undersecretary of Expendtres
and Pub5c DeN
Btdeng nd Anuliary Creditlrdcrmc6arin   Public Deb  Developmmnl Bin]ng  Insurance and Securities  Fiscal Plnmnig
Dueclor Ceneral    Director Gencral    Director  G neral  Director Grenera   Direcor Gencril
.-------- .----                    ..........  -------- -- -- ---  ------------ -  ... -. .... .-......... ....
E. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
35.    The project would consist of two substantive components: (A) Direct Technical
Assistance, and (b) Pilot Experimentation with Financial Technologies and Policies.
(A)    Direct Technical Assistance (US$ 10 million, 9.7 percent of project costs).
36.    This component will support SHCP policy making and dialogue by financing
expenditures incurred in -inter alia: (a) hiring external consultants to assist in the
development of policies, (b) secondment of special long term consultants to strengthen specific
activities of SHCP, (c) commissioning and conducting applied research, (d) sponsoring and
participating in seminars, (e) organizing study tours, and (f) providing technical assistance to
financial non-government organizations (NGOs). The Project Implementation Plan-
Attachment to the Memorandum of the President (MOP)- provides a complete description of
this component's forms of assistance, activities, expected outputs, and timing. The following
topics and objectives, inter alia, are key to successful improvement of the sector:
37.    Business Environment for Financial Transactions in Rural Areas. The specific
objectives of the activities on this subject are to: (a) reduce the transaction costs involved in: (i)



10
creating, (ii) perfecting, and (iii) enforcing security interests on real state and movable goods
when used as collateral for loans; (b) increase the flow of investment capital to rural areas
through non-credit instruments (e.g., leasing of capital goods); (c) induce better market
enforcement of credit contracts by introducing system wide borrower reputation effects (e.g.,
credit rating mechanisms); (d) reduce the general risk of rural credit transactions by improving
the supply and quality of private insurance services in rural areas; (e) augment private sector
interest in providing rural credit (specially for long term capital investments) by improving the
functioning of technical assistance markets.
38.    Government's Direct Participation in RFMs. The specific objectives of the
activities on this subject are to improve the: (a) efficiency, (b) development impact, (c)
sustainability, (d) consistency, and (e) outreach of GOMs direct participation in RFMs through
its specialized rural financial intermediaries.
39.    Applied Policy Analysis. Activities will be aimed at supporting the formulation of
adequate policies regarding RFMs -including: (a) interest rates policies, and (b) the role and
need for government guarantees of rural credit transactions.
40.    Support to Financial NGOs. The main objective of these activities would be to
increase the quality and outreach -through technical assistance- of the financial services
being provided by non-government organizations (NGOs) to microentrepreneurs in rural areas
-specially the poorest segments.
41.    Policy Dialogue and Research Dissemination. The objective is to build the necessary
consensus regarding the need and suitability of the resulting package of adequate policies for
RFMs. These efforts will be aimed at key decision makers. Proposed activities would include
seminars, study tours, and workshops.
(B)    Pilot Experimentation with Financial Technologies and Policies (US$ 93 million,
90.3 percent of project costs).
42.    This component would support the development and testing of appropriate
technologies of financial intermediation in rural areas (see below) and the experimentation with
innovative policies by disbursing against incremental expenditures incurred -inter alia in
the: (a) development of suitable technologies to provide financial services to small and micro-
entrepreneurs in small rural localities, (b) establishment and operation of a network of pilot
experimental banking offices, (c) functioning of a Specialized Management Unit (SMU) to
administer and monitor the (i) pilot experiment and (ii) Direct Technical Assistance component
described above, (d) dissemination of the results of the pilot experiment. The component would
also finance an initial working capital endowment for the experimental units. This initial
working capital is required for the units to provide a limited number of subloans to rural
entrepreneurs and thereby test the services and technologies to be developed by the project.
43.   The central idea of the pilot is to establish a series of very small branches of private
banks located in rural localities of various sizes that do not have formal financial intermediaries
to demonstrate that the provision of financial services to small and micro rural entrepreneurs
may be profitable if appropriate technologies are used to do so. The component will also serve



I1
as a show-case for innovative policies- such as the provision of untargeted and market-priced
financial services by the experimental units.
44.    This component is justified as technical assistance because the development of
sustainable technologies for delivering financial services to small REs requires extensive local
experimentation on how to implement such new technologies. The problem is that the
investment in experimentation may be inadequate unless the government provides the
necessary stimulus. Since no single lender can capture a significant portion of the social value
of improved lending, the rational strategy is to wait for someone else to assume the risks and
costs of experimentation and, in case the technologies were successful, to copy them. It is also
justifiable for the government to invest in this pilot experimentation because government
interventions in financial markets are extremely costly. Any mistakes may be extremely
expensive. Hence, the component will underpin policy development.
45.    Appropriate technologies for financial intermediation  in  rural areas. The
relevant stylized facts of Mexico's rural financial markets include: (a) formal intermediaries are
generally absent from medium and small rural localities -two thirds of the country's municipalities
do not have offices of financial intermedianres; and (b) formal intermediaries rarely provide credit to
small and microentrepreneurs in rural localities. One very important factor contnbuting to this
performance is the technology of financial intermediation (TFI) used by the country's formal
financial intermediaries.
46.    A TFI is defined, in the context of the proposed project, as the general method used by
financial intermediaries to: (a) raise funds and (b) to allocate and recover loans. This method
requires: (a) a business component including -inter alia- (i) physical infrastructure, (ii)
management information systems, (ini) intemal control procedures, and (iv) asset and liability
management techniques; and (b) an information component comprising (i) screening of loan
applicants, (ii) monitoring of borrowers, and -to certain extend- (iii) enforcing credit contracts.
These two components determine the fixed cost structure of a bank branch and the average cost of
providing financial intermediation services respectively.
47.    The traditional TFI used by Mexican formal financial intermediaries is inappropriate to
provide financial services in rural areas because: (a) the TFI's business component implies high
fixed costs (expensive physical infrastructure, numerous employees) that could not be supported by
comparatively small financial markets in most rural localities, (b) the TFI's information component
(e.g., screening of loan applicants using feasibility studies or audited financial statements) implies
costs of lending that render small loans (the majority of the potential demand) non-economical.6
48.    The proposed project is aimed at developing and testing altemative TFIs based on: (a) low
fixed-cost structures; (b) screening borrowers on the basis of their character and reputation; (c)
conducive incentive schemes for employees; and (d) adequate intemal control mechanisms. The
following is a summary of the altemative methodology that would be adopted and tested by the
expenmental branches.
6      For example, only 16 percent of rural entrepreneurs in surveyed areas keep accounting records of any
kind. See "Mexico: Rural Financial Markets." World Bank Report No. 14599-ME. August, 1995.



12
49.    The fixed costs of the branches would be proportional to the size of the markets they would
serve. These costs would be reduced by -inter alia: (a) minimnizing investment costs (e.g., renting
office space); (b) providing few - easy to manage and control-financial services, namnely: (i)
passbook accounts and (ii) certificates of deposit with 3, 6, and 12 months maturities, (iii) few types
of short term loans; (c) having from two to four employees per unit; (d) paying personnel two-tiered
salaries with a relatively low fixed monthly payment and quarterly incentive bonuses based on
performance (i.e., variable cost); (e) hiring local residents, rather than professional bankers, who may
perform effectively for low salaries. For example, it is estimated that the average investment to
establish a traditional bank branch in Mexico is about US$500,000. The investment to establish one
of the experimental branches is estimated at US$ 25,000.
50.    The average (variable) cost of allocating credit would be minimized by screening loan
applicants on the basis of their character and reputation. Such information will be gathered by
hiring local managers who already know applicants and by requiring references from well
respected members of the community (e.g., teachers, traditional leaders) as required by
managers acting on appropriate incentives (see below). The use of local information reduces
the costs of providing credit to small borrowers because such information could be generated at
a very low marginal cost by, for example, the ordinary daily interactions among residents of the
same locality. The monitoring of borrowers would be carried-out in the same fashion.
51.    The recruitment of local managers implies an agency problem that would require a
system of incentives to induce them to exert an appropriate amount of effort in borrower
screening, monitoring, and enforcement; and to make collusion with borrowers and other forms
of corruption unattractive options. The most direct method to avoid this collusion would be by,
somehow, making managers residual claimants of the profits/losses of their branch. In this way
managers would not only be rewarded because of positive profit realizations but would also be
punished when losses or other irregularities occur.7 Managers would be given incentives to
behave properly (as if they were co-owners) by means of paying them salaries substantially
higher than their opportunity cost; thus they would regard the present value of the difference
between their opportunity cost and the efficiency wages they would receive as part of their
wealth endowments. This wealth, however, would be contingent upon employment in the
branch, which implies that being fired would cause a significant loss for managers. The
possibility of being fired because of negligence or malfeasance would be maximized (so the
incentive effects) by the intemal control mechanisms that would be supported by the proposed
project.
52.    These general ingredients: (a) simple financial products, (b) low fixed costs, (c) use of
local information to screen and monitor borrowers, (d) conducive incentive schemes, and (e)
adequate internal control mechanisms are the common ingredients of all successful rural
The ideal would be to make managers co-owners by requiring them to invest their own resources in the
intermediary's equity. The problem is, however: Because managers should be recruited among local
residents, it is likely that they will be wealth-constrained or too averse to risk to invest sufficient
resources. Consequently, altemative mechanisms must be implemented. Over time, managers could be
made shareholders by paying them their share of profits with some sort of stock option.



13
financial intermediaries. The experiences of these intermediaries are well documented in the
professional literature and in World Bank publications.
53.   Support to participating banks. The proposed project would support four private
commercial banks to: (a) adopt and test alternative TFIs and (b) to explore, on a pilot basis, the
market opportunities in rural localities with no financial intermediaries and less than 20,000
inhabitants. Each of the selected participating banks would establish at least 30 branches. The
project would provide grants to cover: (a) up to 50 percent of the set-up investments required
to establish the experimental branches; (b) up to 50 percent of the cost of incorporating the
experimental branches into the participating banks' existing accounting and internal control
systems; (c) the cost of monitoring and supervising branches: (i) up to 50 percent in year 1 of
project implementation, (ii) up to 33.3 percent in year 2 of project implementation, (iii) up to
16.6 percent in year 3 of project implementation; and (d) the fixed operational cost of the
experimental branches: (i) up to 50 percent in year I of project implementation, (ii) up to 33.3
percent in year 2 of project implementation, (iii) up to 16.6 percent in year 3 of project
implementation.
54.   The total (per branch) cost estimates for the categories mentioned above are: (a) set-up
investments required to establish one experimental branch: US$ 25,000 (one-time-only
expenditure); (b) average cost of incorporating one branch into the participating banks' existing
accounting and intemal control systems: US$ 1,250 (one-time-only expenditure); (c) cost of
monitoring and supervising one branch during a year: US$ 8,100; and (d) fixed operational
cost of one experimental branch during a year: US$ 40,000.
55.   These cost estimates and the limnits set above for project-financed expenditures imply
that the maximum of grants per branch established under the project would be US$ 65,000.
56.   Allocation of grants. Participating private commercial banks would be selected
through competitive bidding. Pre-selected banks, chosen on the basis of their financial situation
and their interest in the project (see below), would submit bids for the lowest amount of grant
financing they would require to establish and operate 30 experimental branches. The reference
amount would be US$ 1.9 million. The four banks requesting the lowest grant amount would
be selected. If competing banks submitted the same bid the selection would be made on the
basis of their financial situation and their commitment to carry out the project.
57.   Each selected participating bank would receive the same amount of grant financing:
the largest amount bid by any of the four winning banks. The disbursement percentages by
category of expenditure for the proposed loan (see para. 68) were calculated to insure that the
resulting grant amount would be transferred to participating banks to finance: (a) 20 percent of
the investments required to establish the experimental branches; (b) 3 percent of the costs of
incorporating the experimental branches into the participating banks' existing accounting and
intemal control systems; (c) 13 percent of the costs of monitoring and supervising the
experimental branches; and (d) 64 percent of the fixed operational costs of operating the
experimental branches.
58.   In order to be invited to bid for the award of financial support to participate in this
component, privately owned and controlled banks must be in compliance with all banking laws,



14
capitalization requirements and regulations and must not be intervened, or expected to be
intervened, by Mexico's banking authorities.
59.   SHCP would suspend or terminate the participation of any commercial bank in the
project in case one such bank: (a) failed to perform any of its obligations under the Participation
Agreement, (b) failed to maintain the eligibility criteria set forth in the previous paragraph, or
(c) were the subject of dissolution or disestablishement actions by any authority having
jurisdiction. Upon termination of a commercial bank's participation in the project, SHCP would
be able to substitute the excluded commercial bank with another commercial bank which meets
the required eligibility criteria. The substitute bank would participate in the project on terms
identical to those of the remaining non-substituted commercial banks. SHCP shall require that
the substituted bank repay immediately to SHCP all grant proceeds received and the
outstanding principal of said Commercial Bank's Intermediary Loan -as described
immediately below- together with all interest and charges accrued.
60.   Initial liquidity for the units. The banking experimental branches supported by the
project would require an initial endowment of liquidity to provide subloans before they have
mobilized enough deposits. SHCP would make funds available to participating private
commercial banks at a market interest rate of at least CETES. The maximum amount of initial
liquidity available to any single branch would be US$75,000. Participating banks would
assume the entire credit risk involved in the subloans granted with project funds. The exchange
rate risk would be assumed by Government. This risk would be compensated by the interest
rate differential between the World Bank's standard rate and the market rate paid on project
funds by participating banks. At the moment this differential is equivalent to 28 armual
percentage points.
61.   Eligibility criteria for borrowers and subloans. Borrowers eligible to obtain
subloans with project funds would comply with all of the following conditions: (a) they would
be small and micro rural entrepreneurs (e.g., small scale farmers, cottage industry producers,
sharecroppers, artisans, service providers, and small traders and merchants) with at least one year of
experience, (b) they would be residents of the localities where the expenrmental units would be
established, and (c) they would be individuals (personasfisicas) -although their enterprises may
be incorporated as legal entities (persona moral).
62.   Only short and medium-term investments to expand existing rural enterprises would be
eligible to be financed with project funds. Short and medium term investments are those whose
cash flows would allow repayment of subloans within 30 months. Land, existing buildings and
other assets previously used within the rural sector (except breeding livestock) would be
ineligible. The maximum combined amount of all the subloans granted to a single borrower
would be US$ 5,000 equivalent and the maximum repayment term for subloans would be 30
months. All other subloan conditions (e.g., interest rate, collateral) would reflect prevailing
local market conditions and would be freely negotiated between borrowers and participating
private banks. Subloan appraisal and approval would be the responsibility of participating
commercial banks.



15
2. SECTION B: PROJECT ADMINISTRATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
63.   Project Organization. The project would be carried-out under the overall
responsibility of SHCP in very close collaboration with participating private banks, other
ministries (e.g., agriculture), and relevant government agencies and institutions (e.g., congress,
judiciary, specialized intermediaries). Responsibilities within SHCP would be allocated to the
Office of the Director General of Development Banking -under the direction of which a
Specialized Management Unit (SMU) for project implementation will operate. To support the
Office of the Director General of Development Banking (DGDB) in implementing the
proposed project, consultants would be hired with the proceeds of the Loan to support the
SMU in administrative procedures and procurement (see Schedule B of the MOP). The pilot
experimental units will be managed by the corresponding participating private banks. The
SMU would also: (a) monitor the economic sustainability, outreach, and general operation of
these units, (b) promote coordination and sharing of lessons learned among participating
banks, (c) observe and evaluate the socio-economic profile of the customers of the
experimental units.
64.   SHCP may explore the possibility of executing the project trough a trust (fideicomiso)
established by SHCP (acting as grantor) in NAFIN (acting as trustee). This trust would operate
under the direction of a comite t&nico -or its equivalent. This comite recnico would be under
the complete control of DGDB and supported by the SMU. In the event that the project is
executed through such a trust, SHCP would be still explicitly identified as the party on behalf
of which Participation Agreements would be entered into with Commercial Banks.
65.   The project is anticipated to be implemented over the course of roughly three years.
Project completion is schedule for December 31, 1999 and the project closing date will be June
30, 2000.
66.   Project Costs and Financing. Estimated project costs are detailed in Schedule A of
the MOP. Total project cost is estimated at US$ 103 million of which US$ 10 million
correspond to direct technical assistance and US$ 93 million to pilot experimentation of
policies and financial technologies -including physical and price contingencies. The IBRD
loan (US$30 million) would finance 100 percent of the direct technical assistance component
(US$ 10 million) and 22 percent of the pilot component (US$ 20 million). SHCP and private
financial intermediaries would finance the corresponding local counterparts.
67.   Retroactive financing in an amount not exceeding US$ 3.0 million (10 percent of the
Bank loan) would be available for eligible expenditures made after March 1, 1996.
68.   Disbursements. Proceeds of the proposed Loan would finance -by category of
expenditure  (a) goods -except materials included in categories (c) and (d) below: 85
percent; (b) consultant services, 100 percent; (c) training and related expenses, 100 percent;
(d) incremental operating costs of the experimental rural branches: (i) 50 percent until
withdrawals under this category have reached an aggregate amount equivalent to $2.4
million, (ii) 33 percent until withdrawals under this category have reached an aggregate



16
amount equivalent to $4 million, (iii) 17 percent thereafter; (e) incremental operating costs
of the SMU, 70 percent; (f) subloans granted by experimental rural branches, 100 percent of
disbursements made under eligible subloans. The described disbursement percentages and
disbursement conditions for subloans would insure: (a) that private participating banks would
finance at least 83 percent of the equilibrium loan portfolios of the experimental rural branches
and (b) that rural branches would have enough liquidity to provide a limited number of loans at
the beginning of their operation. The disbursements expected to be made under the loan are
summarized in Schedule B of the MOP.
69.   To facilitate the efficient and timely implementation of the project, the Bank would
authorize a maximum allocation of up to US$ 2.5 million to set up a Special Account in
accordance with Bank guidelines. After loan effectiveness and at the request of SHCP, an
initial deposit of US$ 1.5 million would be made in US dollars into a Special Account at Banco
de Mexico to finance eligible expenditures and subloans. Separate accounts for all expenditures
financed by the Project would be maintained by the Borrower, the Executing Agency, and
participating financial intermediaries.
70.   Withdrawal applications would be fully documented, except for: (a) contracts smaller
than the following levels (i) goods not subject to prior review (see para. 84), (ii) US$ 50,000
for individual consultants other than lawyers, (iii) US$ 100,000 for consulting firms other than
law firms; (b) training services; (c) reimbursements for incremental operating expenses; and
(d) reimbursements to participating banks for subloans granted to rural entrepreneurs.
71.   In the case of contracts and amounts specified above, participating banks and the SMU
would prepare certified Statements of Expenditure (SOE) to be used as the basis for
disbursement. Supporting documentation for SOEs would be retained by the SMU and
participating banks and made available for examination by Bank staff during supervision
missions and by the project auditors -as indicated below.
72.   Accounts, reports, and auditing. The Borrower, the Executing Agency, and private
participating banks would maintain adequate records to reflect all outlays and expenditures
made under the project in accordance with sound accounting practices. These records would
form the basis for generating quarterly financial statements of the SMU and of the pilot
experimental units. The accounts and statements of expenditures would be audited each year
by auditors satisfactory to the Bank, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied. The audit report would be submitted to the Bank no later than six months
following the close of the fiscal year.
73.   Banco de Mexico, which would be the depository for funds in the Special Account,
would provide the SMU with statements reflecting the deposits to and withdrawals from the
Special Account and any related sub-accounts. The SMU would forward each statement to the
Bank in conjunction with their respective Withdrawal Applications soliciting funds from the
Loan Account to replenish the Special Account. These Special Account statements and
Withdrawal Applications would be submitted regularly (preferably monthly, but no less often
than quarterly) or when the amounts withdrawn equal 50 percent of the initial deposit.



17
74.   Private participating banks would maintain all accounting records necessary to judge
the performance and viability of the pilot experimental units that they would establish under the
project. These records would be available to the SMU and Bank staff. Private participating
banks would also prepare a quarterly financial report of their units that would be reviewed
during the quarterly Bank supervision missions.
75.   Participating banks would agree to provide all necessary information to the SMU and
to Bank staff to monitor the success -in terms of outreach and economic sustainability- of
the experimental branches supported by the project. This information would include all
required data to compose financial statements (e.g., income statement, balance sheet, statement
of uses and origins of funds) for each individual experimental branch and for their consolidated
operation. Participating banks would also assist the implementing agency in monitoring the
socio-economic profile of the customers of the experimental branches.
76.   The exact content, format, and periodicity of the reports that would be provided by
participating banks would be an integral part of a Participation Agreement to be signed by such
banks and SHCP. All reporting and auditing requirements would be detailed in the bidding
documents issued to pre-selected private banks.
77.   Procurement. All project components financed by the Bank loan would be procured in
accordance with the Bank Guidelines for Procurement (as revised in January 1996). Five types
of procurement would be undertaken under the Loan: (a) goods, (b) consultant services, (c)
training and dissemination, (d) incremental operating costs, and (d) subloans.
78.   Goods. The executing agency and the four participating private banks would procure
the necessary goods to execute the project independently and according to the above mentioned
Bank guidelines. Decentralized procurement of goods is required because of the specificity of
the goods required by private participating banks (e.g., standard appearance for a given bank's
branch, standard security equipment). Goods and non-consultant services estimated to cost less
than US$ 100,000 equivalent per contract or per bid package may be procured either (a) under
contracts awarded in accordance with National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures, using
standard bidding documents satisfactory to the Bank; or (b) under contracts awarded on the
basis of national shopping procedures. Goods and non-consultant services estimated to cost
more than US$ 100,000 equivalent per contract or per bid package would be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with Intemational Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures. All
goods procured under the project are expected to aggregate to about US$ 3.6 million.
79.   Consultant services. Selection and engagement of consultants for studies, technical
assistance, and support of project execution -which are expected to aggregate to about US$
11.4 million- would be carried out in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981. For complex, time based assignments, such contracts
would be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank.
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard
forms acceptable to the Bank would be used.



18
80.   Training and dissemination expenditures. These expenditures, expected to aggregate to
about US$ 3.3 million, would be allocated among (a) fees of consultants employed as trainers;
(b) reasonable travel and per diem expenditures incurred by trainees in connection with their
training; (c) course fees charged by academic institutions; (d) costs of pre-printed publications;
and (e) reasonable costs incurred for printing and for consumable materials and space and
equipment rentals in connection with the delivery of training and the dissemination of lessons
derived from Project experience. Selection and engagement of consultants for training would
be carried out in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981. The remaining services would be procured by direct contracting in view of their
scattered nature and small individual amounts.
81.   Incremental operating costs. These expenditures, expected to aggregate to about US$
18.9 million, would consist of (a) in the case of commercial banks: (i) branch staff
remuneration, (ii) branch space and equipment rental costs, (iii) branch utility and
transportation costs, (iv) branch costs for consumable office supplies, (v) branch costs for
cleaning and maintenance, (vi) branch costs for insurance, and (vii) other Commercial Bank
operation and maintenance costs which would not have been incurred absent the establishment
of branches under the Project; and (b) in the case of the SMU: (i) non-consultant personnel
remuneration, (ii) space and equipment rental costs, (iii) utility and transportation costs, (iv)
costs for consumable office supplies, (v) costs for cleaning and maintenance, and (vi) other
SMU operation and maintenance costs which would have not been incurred absent the
establishment of the SMU. Incremental operating costs would be procured by direct
contracting in view of their diversity and recurrent nature (except to the extend such costs are
incurred for goods).
82.   Subloans. It is expected that during project implementation the rural branches of
participating banks would allocate about US$ 65.7 million in loans to rural entrepreneurs.
Project funding for this category, expected to amount to US$ 9 million, would be allocated
among participating banks according to the bidding process described in paragraph 58 of this
technical annex. The eligible expenditures made by rural entrepreneurs with subloans from
participating banks would be procured under normal commercial practices for goods and
works.
83.   To support the Office of the Director General of Development Banking in
implementing the proposed project, experienced consultants would be hired with the proceeds
of the Loan to support the SMW in procurement and administrative procedures. These services
would insure an adequate procurement capability for the implementation agency.
84.   Bank review of procurement procedures would be as follows: for consulting
services, the Bank would conduct prior review of all contracts for lawyers and law firms and
of all contracts of more than US$ 50,000 equivalent for individuals and more than US$
100,000 equivalent for firms. For these contracts, the Bank would require prior review of (a)
budgets; (b) letters of invitation, including short lists; (c) terms of reference; (d) selection
procedures; (e) evaluation reports; and (f) contract forms. The Bank would only carry out prior
review of the terms of reference of contracts below US$ 100,000 for consulting firms and
below US$ 50,000 for individual consultants. For procurement of goods the Bank would



19
review ex ante documentation pertaining to each ICB and the first two contracts or bid
packages procured under NCB procedures. All other procurement documentation would be
subject to expost review. The Bank would also carry out prior review of all legal
consultancies. The prior review thresholds described above will result in the prior review by
the Bank of about 75 percent of the total Bank financed contracts.
85.    Monitoring and Evaluation. The innovative nature of the project-technical
assistance and pilot testing of financial technologies and policies-would require of frequent
monitoring and supervision. The Executing Agency and the World Bank would conduct a
Project Implementation Review on a semi-annual basis. During the first year of project
implementation, these Implementation Reviews would be carried out quarterly. These reviews
would include: (a) assessment of project implementation, (b) evaluation of the work plan for
the next six months, (c) meetings with participating private banks, rural users of financial
services, and SHCP to obtain feedback on (a) and (b) above and to agree on any required
modifications to the originally proposed program. Additionally, GOM has requested frequent
and substantive support by World Bank staff during project implementation. This request
would be met by quarterly supervision missions with participation of Bank staff and extemal
consultants.
86.    The performance of the Direct Technical Assistance component would be measured by
the timely completion of its activities. On the other hand, the Pilot Experimentation component
would be deemed successful if the following indicators are met (a) outreach: (i) participation
of four private banks, (ii) the establishment of at least 80 experimental banking units in
localities with less than 20,000 inhabitants with no bank offices to date, (iii) disbursement of
4,000 subloans to small and micro rural entrepreneurs, (iv) establishment of savings accounts
and certificates of deposit with an aggregate of at least 5,000 accounts; and (b) sustainability:
(i) Subsidy Dependence Index that has decreased every quarter and with a value of less than 40
percent after a year of operations -for each individual experimental unit,8 (ii) break even point
after 24 months of operation -for each individual experimental unit. The calculations of the
Subsidy Dependence Index and of break-even points would take into account general
supervisory costs incurred by the corresponding private participating banks.
8  The Subsidy Dependence Index is a sensitivity measure which indicates the degree of financial sustainability
of financial intermediaries. This index would be the key indicator of the management information system
used to monitor the experiment. The index will be periodically calculated for each of the experimental units
and for their consolidated operation.


















