Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 21319-ME
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION NOTE
MEXICO
RURAL FINANCE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
AND PILOT PROJECT
(LOAN 4101-ME)
November 28, 2000
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Unit
Mexico, Colombia & Venezuela, Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
I This doument has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its
contents may not othcrwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Exchange rate as of October 5, 2000
Currency Unit = Mexican Peso (N$)
Mexican Pesos = US$0.105
US$1= Mexican Pesos 9.5
BORROWER FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DGDBD   -    General Directorate for Development Banks (Direcci6n
General de la Banca de Desarrollo)
FIMER    -    Rural Financial Markets Development Fund (Fideicomiso
para el Desarrollo de Mercados Financieros Rurales)
MOF       -    Ministry of Finance
NGO       -    Non-Governmental Organizations
RE        -    Rural Entrepreneur
RFM       -    Rural Financial Market
RFTAP    -    Rural Finance Technical Assistance and Pilot Project
SMU       -    Specialized Management Unit
TA        -    Technical Assistance
TFI       -    Technologies of Financial Intermediation
Vice President: David de Ferranti
County Director: Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Director: John Redwood
Sector Leader: Adolfo Brizzi
Team Leader:   Rodrigo Chaves



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION NOTE
MEXICO
RURAL FINANCE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
AND PILOT PROJECT
(LOAN 4101-ME)
TABLE OF CONTENTS:
Introduction ..........................................1
Project Objectives and Description ..........................................2
Initial Implementation Experience ..........................................4
Reasons for Cancellation .......6..................................6
Prospects for Future Operations in Rural Financial Markets ......................................7
Lessons Learned ..........................................8
Comments on behalf of the Government .........................................9
ANNEX I .........................................                                                    11
ANNEX2 .........................................                                                     12
ANNEX3 .........................................                                                     13
Planned .........................................                                                    13
Actual .........................................                                                     13
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION NOTE
MEXICO
RURAL FINANCE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND PILOT PROJECT
(Loan 4101-ME)
1.   This Project Completion Note (ICN) is for the Rural Finance Technical Assistance
and Pilot Project (RFTAP) in Mexico, for which a loan of US$30.0 million equivalent
was approved on October 10, 1996. The loan became effective on January 14, 1998 and
was cancelled on December 15, 1999. Out of a total of US$30 million, $1.3 million were
disbursed. This ICN was prepared by Manuel Lasaga (Consultant) and reviewed by
Rodrigo Chaves (Lead Financial Economist, ECSSD) and Adolfo Brizzi (ESSD Country
Sector Leader, LCC1C).
Introduction
2.  The government of Mexico has long recognized that the functioning of rural
financial markets greatly affects agricultural growth, income distribution, rural poverty,
and the management and conservation of natural resources. During the early 1990's, the
policy dialogue between the Bank and the government, concerning the rural financial
sector led to a joint effort to assess the financial services provided to rural entrepreneurs
(REs) in the formal and informal sectors in three regions of Mexico. A survey of REs, of
non-bank financial intermediaries, and a review of the legal framework for these
interrnediaries were conducted during 1994. This study became the framework for the
development of the Rural Finance Technical Assistance and Pilot Project (RFTAP).'
3.   The study provided a very accurate diagnosis of the problems facing the
development of financial services in rural markets. The principal conclusion of the study
was that Rural Financial Markets (RFMs) were poor in terms of aggregate efficiency and
fairness. Some of the key findings were: (i) RFMs were highlv segmented with very
limited flow of funds across regions or groups of individuals; (ii) there was minimal
participation by commercial banks in this sector - a condition aggravated by the
government's withdrawal from financial intermediation; (iii) lending was hampered by
inadequate legal mechanisms for dealing with collateral and loan guarantees; (iv)
operating costs for financial intermediation were very high, specially credit analysis and
supervision; (v) government participation in RFMs had engendered the use of sizeable
subsidies and encouraged defaults through periodic debt-forgiveness programs; (vi) REs
were willing to pay high rates of interest; and (vii) there was evidence of a significant
propensity to save - albeit in terms of non-monetary instruments. The Bank and the
Borrower felt that these problems could be overcome through the development of new
financial intermediation methodologies, to be applied by commercial banks, which
emphasized lower costs through the introduction of new technologies.
' Mexico: Rural Financial Markets, Report No. 14599-ME, August 25, 1995.



2
4.   Not long after the completion of the survey, the Mexican economy was rocked by a
major devaluation crisis in December 1994. At the time the final RFM report was issued
in August 1995, the financial sector was in the midst of a serious crisis, which
necessitated a maj or rescue operation by the government in order to prevent the collapse
of the financial markets. While the survey data pre-dated the financial crisis, the final
report did raise concerns that the crisis had aggravated the problems faced by RFMs
through negative income shocks and the exit of financial intermediaries from these
markets.
Project Objectives and Description
5.   Based on the President's Report and the Loan Agreement, the objectives of the
project were to: (i) augment the participation of REs, especially the poor, in rural
financial markets as depositors and borrowers; (ii) overcome segmentation of those
markets; and (iii) increase competition in the rural financial markets. These objectives
were consistent with the fundamental conclusions of the RFM study. Because it was a
pilot project, the loan was wisely limited to US$30 million, with the expectation that if it
was successful, it could then be followed up with a larger operation.
6.  In order to achieve its objectives, the project was designed with two components:
-  Part A: Technical Assistance (TA) and training in support of rural financial
market initiatives. The project was expected to assist the government in
undertaking the analytical work to develop policies towards RFMs, to test such
policies, and to underpin the sector's improvement. Specifically, the studies
would address a broad scope of sectoral issues, which included: (I) improving
the business environment for financial transactions in rural areas through
product innovations, enhanced efficiency, and greater market information; (2)
improving the government's performance in rural financial markets through its
two principal rural development banks, Banrural and FIRA; (3) improving
public policies regarding REMs; (4) improving government regulations and
supervisory framework in the rural sector; and (5) improving the availability of
financial services provided to the poor in rural areas by non-governmental
organizations (NGOs).
*  Part B: Pilot Projects in RFMs: Provide resources for the establishment of
private commercial banking branches in rural areas, which would benefit from
new financial technologies and sector policies developed in Part A. The project
would also extend to these newly established branches additional funding for
on-lending to REs to finance productive investments.
7.   The TA component was to provide the research and development work that would
support the development of rural banking branches. It was expected to act as an incubator
of new technologies that would reduce transactions costs associated with financial
intermediation in rural markets. Of the US$30 million from the World Bank's loan,



3
US$11 million was allocated to Part A, US$15 million to Part B, and the remainder was
unallocated.
8.   While the project was highly innovative, it was also a high-risk venture. The basic
premise was that the TA component would generate the required banking technologies
early on, and that their application would be almost immediate as banks established their
rural banking network. The pilot component called for the selection of four banks, based
on a competitive bidding process. One of the World Bank's concerns was the likelihood
that participating banks would experience financial distress due to the aftershocks of the
1995 crisis, and for that reason strict criteria were established for participation.
9.   The basic structure of the project was sound, it was consistent with the goals of
deepening financial intermediation in the rural markets through innovative technologies.
However, there were several design features that may have detracted from the project's
ultimate goals. Apparently there was some discussion during the early phase of project
design regarding the possibility of including non-bank financial intermediaries in the pilot
project. Non-banks such as Credit Unions and Savings and Loan Associations are active
in rural markets. However, their financial performance has been very disappointing. This
is due in large part to inappropriate operating procedures that have been allowed by an
inadequate regulatory framework. Despite these shortcomings, the non-bank
intermediaries have developed an extensive franchise throughout the rural areas of the
country. Perhaps a more aggressive component of TA for non-bank intermediaries, which
provided similar types of technologies as developed for the banks, could have been
considered. This component could have also incorporated basic training in banking
practices and risk management for those intermediaries that were yet unprepared for the
new technologies developed by this project.
10. Some of the criteria recommended by the Bank regarding commercial bank
participation, which were subsequently adopted by the Borrower in the Operational
Manual, might have been more flexible. For example, each of the selected participating
banks were expected to establish at least 30 branches. Each branch had to be located in a
community of not more than 20,000 residents. The location had to be at least 30
kilometers from the nearest banking center. There were also constraints on the type of
furniture used in the branches. While the feasibility studies justified these parameters, this
was an experimental project. Therefore, banks should have been given more flexibility in
determining the number of branches, location and their physical characteristics, since they
were the ones taking on the business risk. Studies and recommendations made under the
project did provide valuable market information, which the banks could then have
incorporated into their own branch selection process. In other words, the techniques
derived in Part A of the project would have been made available to the banks to support
their business development strategies, but the actual choice of techniques should have
been up to the banks.
11.  Government regulations represented another impediment to the success of the
project. Banks were required to submit to the Ministry of Finance (MOF) for approval an
annual plan for the local branches they were going to open. In some cases, banks showed



4
interest in this project thinking that their participation in RFMs might result in a more
favorable response by the MOF to their annual branch plan. On the other hand, since
MOF approval is also required to close down a branch, banks may have hesitated to
develop rural branches if the perception was that regulators may have not allowed them to
close down unprofitable branches. Perhaps FIMER could have negotiated more flexible
conditions regarding the opening of rural branches.
12. In the design of the TA component emphasis was placed on the development of
alternative Technologies of Financial Intermediation (TFI) with the goal of identifying
techniques that would help reduce operational costs for branches in rural areas. While this
type of research and development activity is valuable, it may have been more useful for
application in a subsequent project, or once the branching network had been established.
For example, it would be difficult to introduce "intelligent cards" in the rural sector due
to the lack of familiarity in rural communities with this type of technology. At the same
time, the application of these technologies would entail substantial additional investments
by the banks, which might not have been justified by market conditions.
Initial Implementation Experience
13. The implementation of the RFTAP was short-lived, it was made effective on
January 14, 1998 and canceled on December 15, 1999. Because of the pre-mature
cancellation, none of the objectives were achieved. Nevertheless, the initial
implementation experience provides useful insights into the reasons why the project
failed.
14. The time when the project was identified, particularly the diagnostic work based on
the 1994 RFM survey, and the time when it was approved and made effective were two
very different periods. The financial sector crisis that followed the maxi-devaluation of
the peso in December 1994 undermined the financial integrity of the banks. Some banks
became insolvent while others were merged with other banks. The seriousness of the
situation was already evident at the time of Board approval; however, the government
was apparently optimistic with respect to the ability of the banks to recover. Nevertheless,
the MOP addressed these risks, and concluded that supporting of banking operations in
the rural sector could facilitate the banks' recovery process.
15. The project was carried out under the overall responsibility of MOF in very close
collaboration with other government agencies and institutions. Responsibilities for the
management of the project were assigned to the General Directorate for Development
Banks (DGDBD). A Specialized Management Unit (SMU) was established to operate the
project within that division.
16. The SMU was established in December 1996 as the Fideicomiso Para el Desarrollo
de Mercados Financieros Rurales (FIMER). The "Fideicomiso", or Trust, provides a
legal framework to overcome the otherwise cumbersome and rigid budgeting procedures
applied under Mexican fiscal norms, whereby Bank projects cannot provide additional
resources to those already identified in the annual budget cycle. The Bank's funds form



5
part of the foreign currency pool applied to the financing of the overall budget deficit.
While not the ideal structure for development financing, the Trust operates from a capital
contribution made by the Federal Government. The Trust Agreement between MOF and
the Trustees specifies how the project is to be implemented. The Trust was governed by a
Technical Committee comprised of representatives from MOF, Banco de Mexico,
NAFIN, and FIMER.
PartA: TechnicalAssistance
17. The TA component dealt basically with a series of studies, some of which were
completed, while others were in the initial phase at the time the project was cancelled.
The topics were mostly in accordance with the project description contained in the Loan
Agreement. However, some members of the Technical Committee expressed concerns
about delays in implementation and relevance of some of the topics to the goals of the
project. A number of studies were proposed, some were initiated, but few were
completed. The following topics were considered:
*  Technologies for rural banking: 1) an economic model for rural branch selection
to be used by participating banks; 2) a model for customer selection based on
artificial intelligence; and 3) an analysis of "intelligent cards" for rural financial
market transactions.
*  Risk management studies: 1) agricultural insurance; 2) agricultural productivity,
3) analysis of bonded warehousing; 4) a model for credit administration; and 5) an
income - expenditure model for rural households.
* Miscellaneous studies: 1) an analysis of non-bank financial intermediaries; and 2)
an evaluation of Banrural based on an analysis of its loan portfolio.
18. A very useful outcome of the research work undertaken by FIMER was an
extensive socioeconomic database on rural areas of the country, which assisted banks in
identifying the locations for the rural branches. On the other hand, the rationale for the
BANRURAL study as mentioned in the above list, was not clear. The Bank had already
developed an extensive and critical analysis of that institution, which underscored
extensive problems with its loan portfolio. The conclusions of the FIMER study regarding
BANRURAL were in contradiction to the Bank's own analysis. FIMER's analysis of
BANRURAL's loan portfolio revealed that BANRURAL was highly efficient in
financing the rural sector. In view of the divergent conclusions from the earlier Bank
study, FIMER should have held discussions with the Bank regarding its conclusions prior
to making the results of its study public. For this reason, greater Bank monitoring of the
project's activities might have been advisable.
Part B: Pilot Experimentation with rural branches
19.  Even before Loan effectiveness, the pilot component was not getting a favorable
response. The first bidding round for participation by commercial banks was announced



6
in May 1997, but postponed due to lack of response. On the second attempt, only one
bank presented a bid, which was subsequently accepted and a participation agreement
was signed with Banca Serfin in November 1997. Some banks felt that the RFTAP could
have been "marketed" more broadly to the financial community.
20.  A second bidding round was eventually cancelled also due to insufficient response.
At that point, FIMER proposed opening the pilot project to non-bank financial
intermediaries. It was eventually agreed to initiate a working relationship with a Credit
Union (UCEPCO) and a Popular Savings Union (Caja Popular Mexicana), but only in
terms of TA.
21.  Banca Serfin eventually dropped out of the program. After signing the participation
agreement, the bank had put together a business plan to develop the rural branches
including the relevant site selections. However, senior management delayed its decision
for months before canceling the project. The negative outcome in this case was highly
influenced by the weak financial condition of the bank. Less than a year after the project
had been presented to senior management, the Superintendency of Banks had to intervene
to rescue Banca Serfin due to major problems with its loan portfolio. After separating the
bank's bad loans and other depreciated assets, the Superintendency sold the remaining
portion of the bank to a foreign financial institution. However, the clean up of the bank
resulted in a large financial loss for the government, which was only partially recovered
from the proceeds of the sale.
22.  Interestingly, the development of rural banking methodologies, which consisted of
an analytical model for rural branch selection, proved to be a very valuable tool for the
non-banks. While commercial banks typically have their own models for branch
selection, the non-bank intermediaries lack sophistication for this type of analysis, and in
this regard, FIMER could have been a very useful advisor. Greater focus of the TA in the
form of banking methodologies for the non-banks could have been very productive in
achieving the loan objectives. In this regard, FIMER might have adopted a more proactive
role in seeking Bank support to re-allocate project funds to this component.
Reasons for Cancellation
23.  Timing was a decisive factor in the cancellation of this project. In December 1994,
responding to sizeable outflows of capital, the government allowed the peso to float,
resulting in a maxi-devaluation of the currency. The combination of a major devaluation
and a sharp contraction of liquidity in the banking system severely compromised the
financial position of many intermediaries. The liquidity crisis was aggravated by a serious
deterioration in the banks' loan portfolios. As a result, the Government had to provide
substantial financial support to the banking system. In some cases the superintendency
was able to facilitate the sale of weak banks, while in others it was necessary to bail them
out, resulting in huge losses for the government. Eventually the government opened up
the market to foreign investors, thus providing fresh capital and a new start for the failed
banks. The aftershocks of this crisis are still being felt today, although the banking system
is in a much stronger position.



7
24.  The worst period for the banking system was 1996. In that year the banks posted a
net loss of NP$ 7.8 billion, or about 1 percent of assets. However, this does not reflect the
implicit losses through the government's swap of treasury notes for bad loans under the
trust fund FOBAPROA. As a result of the crisis banks began to downsize their
operations, including the closure of branches throughout the country. Banks tightened
considerably their credit policies, with very limited financing available only to their best
clients. The rural markets were thus left out of the financial system loop.
25.  With respect to the implementing agency, FIMER's Technical Committee, which
acted as the governing board, did not have a clear agenda regarding this project. This was
reflected in the long delays in making decisions - although the low frequency of the
Committee meetings may have also contributed to this problem, since the Committee met
only twice a year. There were extensive discussions on procedural matters and less on
strategies for rural financial markets. Thus the lack of consensus as to the implementation
of the project may have distracted attention from the operational challenges faced by the
project.
26. Cancellation was also influenced by an internal debate within the government and
the Technical Committee regarding the transfer of FIMER from DGDBD to another
agency. During the second half of 1998, one of the Technical Committee members
proposed transferring FIMER to FIRA, the government's general trust fund for financing
the rural sector. The reason was that FIRA was a large institution with the administrative
and operational capacity to manage FIMER. This would then free up FIMER's staff so as
to concentrate on the implementation of the TA. The Committee was particularly divided
on this issue. Other members proposed moving FIMER to another trust fund, FOCIR.
While the World Bank assured the Committee that it had no objection to any transfer as
long as it did not interfere with the implementation of the project objectives, the
discussion languished for several months, at which point both the TA and the pilot
components had fallen far behind schedule. Once the project had lost its initial
momentum, and in view of the continual divergence of views over the future course of
FIMER, cancellation became the only option.
Prospects for Future Operations in Rural Financial Markets
27.  One of the principal reasons for the failure of the RFTAP was the banking crisis of
1995. However, the diagnosis that was made of the problems in rural financial markets is
still as relevant today or even more so than when the Bank prepared the 1994 survey. It
would be very useful to update the 1994 survey, as this would help to understand the
impact of the 1995 crisis on the RFMs.
28. Participants in the RFTAP observed that the TA component should have continued
since a number of the studies that had been identified at the time of the project are still
highly relevant today. In this regard the Bank is preparing a follow-up operation in the
form of a Rural Microfinance Capacity Building TA. This project addresses the lack of
access by the poor in rural areas to financial services. It will focus on institution building
and the potential for savings mobilization and overall financial intermediation capacity in



8
the rural sector. The target participants for this project will be selected non-bank financial
institutions. While the project is small in terms of funding, it should provide very
valuable capacity building for non-banks.
29.  Commercial banks have also expressed an interest in a project similar in scope to
the RFTAP, but which offers much greater flexibility in the modus operandi of the branch
network. Some intermediaries are already operating in these markets but on a very limited
basis. At the same time, BANRURAL has adopted the branch selection model and is also
developing a risk management model along the lines developed by FIMER. Some interest
was also generated outside Mexico with respect to the results of this project. An NGO in
Chile with interest in rural markets contacted FIMER in order to develop a similar
program. Based on these considerations, it would appear that the project concept is still
relevant; but in the case of the RFTAP, its timing was unfortunate.
Lessons Learned
*  The success of a rural financial markets project that operates through the formal
banking sector requires a healthy financial and banking sector. One of the principal
reasons for the failure of the RFTAP was the banking crisis of 1995. Rural financial
markets are much more vulnerable to the effects of banking sector problems since
they are usually not a priority market for the banks.
*  Good diagnostic work can facilitate the policy dialogue as well as the preparation of
the project. Solid identification and quantification of the problem can generate much
value-added for the project. One of the outstanding features of project preparation was
the quality of the rural financial markets survey. Government officials interviewed for
this report commended the survey for its insights into RFMs.
*  In the case of experimental projects, design needs to emphasize flexibility. One way
to smother innovation is to impose rigid rules, especially if they are not well founded
on market practices. In the case of the RFTAPP, the Government adopted somewhat
inflexible policies regarding branch development that may have discouraged
participation.
* Analysis of external factors during loan preparation can prevent subsequent
disappointments during implementation. The financial crisis of 1995 was in full
swing at the time of project preparation. While World Bank staff raised this issue
early on, it may have considered postponement of the project, or phasing in the pilot
component at a later date.
*  Borrower ownership of a project is an important factor in determining its success.
There was close collaboration between the Bank and the government during the loan
preparation phase. However, the governing board of FIMER did not have a clear
agenda as to the implementation of the project. A change of senior MOF officials at
the time the project had been prepared also impacted negatively on the outcome.



9
*  While Borrower ownership is important, inclusion of other stakeholders is critical to a
project's success. Some banks felt that the government was not proactive in
marketing the project. Private sector participation in the Technical Board may have
been useful.
*  The implementing agency for this type of project should be staffed with individuals
who have operational experience. Some of the members of the Technical Committee
questioned the delays and higher than expected costs for studies carried out under the
TA component. In some cases, the relevance of the studies was challenged. In this
regard, the excellent technical quality of the staff at FIMER could have been
complemented with greater operational experience that would have given the project a
more dynamic focus.
Comments on behalf of the Government 2
30. In 1994, the Government of Mexico in collaboration with the World Bank
performed a study of financial services available to rural entrepreneurs. The principal
conclusions of this study were that rural entrepreneurs had very limited access to financial
services and that government activities in rural financing have resulted in economic
distortions.
31. The Government of Mexico and the World Bank defined the basis for the Technical
Assistance and Pilot Project in order to find solutions to the problems of financial
markets in rural areas. The principal innovation of this project was that it would perform
an empirical test of various experimental technologies for rural financial intermediation.
This was justified by the fact that commercial banks were reluctant to invest in these new
technologies, since they could not capture a good part of the social benefits from these
innovations.
32.  A trust fund was created under the name of Fideicomiso para el Desarrollo de los
Mercados Financieros en Regiones Rurales (FIMER) in December 1996. A first auction
for participating banks was held in May 1997, and was subsequently postponed after
banks had requested additional time to prepare their bids. The bid was reopened on
October 2, 1997, and Banca Serfin was qualified as a participant in the project.
33. One of the key issues identified by FIMER regarding the lack of financing in the
rural markets was the inability of commercial banks to perform an acceptable credit
analysis of prospective borrowers, because of limited information and high transaction
costs. For this reason, FIMER focused its research activities in the development of
intermediation technologies that would reduce transaction costs in the rural sector.
2 This section is based on an executive summary of the following report prepared by the FIMER: Nota de
Termino del Proyecto- Cumplimiento y Alcance de los Objetivos del Proyecto (March 2000). The full
document is available upon request.



10
34. FIMER identified numerous research projects dealing with the problems of
financing in the rural sector. The terms of reference were prepared for a number of these
studies, which included the following:
* A Financial Analysis of Banrural
* Development of a Model of Rural Bank Branching
* An Artificial Intelligence Model to Evaluate Credit Risk
* Insurance in the Rural Sector
35.  Under the technical assistance component FIMER proposed the participation of
non-bank financial intermediaries. An agreement was signed in October 1998 with a
savings and loan association (Caja Popular Mexicana), and in July 1999, with a credit
union ( Uni6n de Credito de Productores de Cafe del Estado de Oaxaca. The agreement
was to provide these organizations with the branch selection model developed by FIMER.
36. With respect to the Pilot Component, FIMER worked with Banca Serfin to develop
its rural branching network. A business plan was prepared including the location and
physical characteristics of each branch. FIMER was able to obtain World Bank agreement
that Banca Serfin could use existing branches as part of the network
37. FIMER announced the second auction in January 1998. However this time the
auction did not attract interest on the part of the banks, and was subsequently declared
vacant.
38. One of the principal causes for the delays and lack of interest in this project was the
problems encountered by the financial sector following the December 1994 devaluation
of the peso. As a result of this, FIMER proposed to focus more intensely on the technical
assistance component of the project. However, a number of administrative problems
caused undue delays in the implementation of this component. In June 1998, the Finance
Ministry proposed the transfer of FIMER to the government's rural sector financing
agency, FIRA. In May 1999, the government announced that the transfer was going to be
made to another agency, FOCIR. Long delays associated with these administrative
changes adversely impacted project implementation. Eventually the government opted for
the cancellation of the project in view of the very limited progress on implementation and
the disagreement regarding the project's activities. The project was thus cancelled in
December 1999.
39.  In view of the government's interest in finding a solution to the problems in the
rural financial markets, $30 million from the Federal budget were transferred to FOCIR in
December 1999 to finance studies on the development of financing strategies for the rural
sector. These activities will be managed by a special unit within FOCIR, Fondo para la
Realizaci6n de Estudios que Promuevan el Desarrollo del Sector Financiero Rural
(FOFIRE). In this regard, the project's technical assistance initiatives will continue but
under different modalities.



11
ANNEX 1
MEXICO
RURAL FINANCE. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
AND PILOT PROJECT
ESTIMATED COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
US$ million
Foreign  Component
Project Components              Foreign  Local   Total   as % of as % of Base
Total      Cost
Project Costs
A. Technical Assistance
1. Business environment for financial           1.4      1.1     2.5      56.0         2.4
transactions in the rural areas
2. Government direct participation in RFMs      0.4      0.9      1.3     31.0          1.3
3. Applied policy analysis                      0.4      0.9      1.3     31.0          1.3
4. Regulation of RFMs                            0.5     0.4      0.9     55.5          0.9
5. Studies of markets related to RFMs           0.4      1.2      1.6     25.0          1.5
6. Support to financial NGOs                    0.3      0.5      0.8     37.5          0.8
7. Policy dialogue and dissemination of research  0.2    1.4      1.6     12.5          1.5
results
Subtotal Direct Technical Assistance   3.6     6.4    10.0       36.0         9.7
B. Pilot Experimentation with Financial
Technologies
1. Development of financial technologies        0.4      0.1     0.5      80.0          0.5
2. Establishment of experimental bank rural      1.9     1.1      3.0     63.3          2.9
branches
3. Operation and supervision of rural branches          16.0    16.0         0         15.5
4. Establishment and operation of a Specialized  0.1     4.2      4.3      2.3          4.2
Management Unit
5. Initial working capital for experimental     6.3    56.7    63.0       10.0         61.2
branches
6. Dissemination of pilot results                0.2     0.4      0.6     33.3          0.6
Subtotal Pilot Experimentation    8.9    78.5    87.4       10.2        84.8
Contingencies                                 0.5     5.1      5.6       8.9         5.4
Total Project Costs    13.0    90.0   103.0      12.6       100.0
Proiect Financinz
Government                                       0.0     3.1      3.1       0.0         3.0
Participating private banks                      0.0    69.9    69.9        0.2        67.9
IBRD                                            13.0    17.0    30.0      43.3         29.1
Total                         13.0    90.0   103.0       12.8       100.0



12
ANNEX 2
MEXICO
RURAL FINANCE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
AND PILOT PROJECT
BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Planned              Actual
Stage of project cycle    Weeks    US$ ('OOOs) Weeks    US$
Preparation to Appraisal              35.20      56.00     25.20      56.40
Appraisal                             14.90      38.10     59.90      282.4
Negotiations through Board approval   10.00       18.90      3.10      8.00
Supervision                           67.161    194.90     49.76    155.68
Completion                             3.00       13.00      2.07     11.43
Total                                130.26     320.90    140.03    513.91



13
ANNEX 3
MEXICO
RURAL FINANCE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
AND PILOT PROJECT
PROJECT TIMETABLE
Planned                    Actual
Time taken to prepare                                 8 months
First Bank Mission         January, 1996              January, 1996
Appraisal                  April 8, 1996              April 8, 1996
Negotiations               August 5, 1996             August 5, 1996
Board Approval             October 10, 1996           October 10, 1996
Effectiveness              November, 1996             January 14, 1998
Cancellation                                          December 15, 1999
Closing                    June, 2000                 NA



