Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4101-ME
Guarantee Agreement
(Rural Finance Technical Assistance and Pilot Project)
between
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated May 2, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4101-ME
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 2, 1997,  between UNITED MEXICAN STATES  (the Guarantor) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Guarantor and Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. (the Borrower), having 
been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 
2 to the Loan Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the 
Project; and
(B)
by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the 
Borrower, the Bank has agreed to extend to the Borrower a loan in an amount equal to 
thirty million Dollars ($30,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the 
Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree to guarantee the 
obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's enter\1fing into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to guarantee such obligations of the 
Borrower and to undertake such other obligations as set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
Page  2
modifications set forth in the Loan Agreement (the General Conditions), constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to and Section 1.02 of the Loan 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor hereby unconditionally 
guarantees, as primary obligor and not as surety merely, the due and punctual payment 
of the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if 
any, on the prepayment of the Loan, and the punctual performance of all the other 
obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. The Guarantor shall provide, in a timely manner as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Guarantor declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall have 
SHCP cause the Project to be carried out, all with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate financial, technical and administrative standards and 
practices, as well as in accordance with the periodically adjustable implementation 
plan set forth in the Implementation Letter.
Section 3.02. The Guarantor shall enter into the contractual arrangements 
referred to in Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement.  Except as the Bank may otherwise 
agree, the Guarantor shall not amend or fail to enforce any provision of such 
contractual arrangements. The Guarantor shall exercise its rights under such 
contractual arrangements in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Guarantor 
and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Guarantor shall carry out, or cause to be carried out, the 
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General 
Conditions (relating respectively to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and 
schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition) with regard to the 
Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Guarantor shall, through SHCP, maintain or cause to be 
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, the operations, resources and expenditures in connection with 
the execution of the Project.
(b)
The Guarantor shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with generally 
accepted auditing 
standards and procedures consistently applied, 
by independent and qualified 
auditors;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
Page  3
and 
accounts as well as the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Guarantor shall:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account or 
payment out of the Special Account was made, 
all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
(d)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made from the 
Special Account, the Guarantor shall provide to the Borrower any information that may 
be required by the Borrower to comply with the Borrower's obligations under Section 
4.01 of the Loan Agreement.
Section 3.06. (a) The Guarantor shall establish, and throughout the course of 
Project implementation maintain, the SMU.
(b)
The SMU shall, under the direction of DGBD, coordinate implementation of 
the Project, monitor and evaluate performance of the Branches, promote exchange of 
lessons among the Branches, disseminate the results of the experiences of the Branches 
and evaluate the socio-economic profile of the customers served by the Branches.
(c)
The SMU shall at all times during Project implementation be staffed with 
personnel in sufficient numbers, with experience and qualifications satisfactory to 
the Bank, including a Project coordinator serving as such on a full-time basis and 
consultants with expertise in Project-related matters.
Section 3.07. With respect to Part B of the Project, the Guarantor, through 
SHCP:
(a)
shall prepare the Operational Manual;
(b)
shall, once the Operational Manual is prepared, invite privately owned 
and controlled commercial banks operating in Mexico to bid for the award of financial 
support to participate in Part B of the Project (to be invited, such banks must be in 
compliance with all banking laws, capitalization requirements and regulations and must 
not be intervened, or expected to be intervened, by the Guarantor's banking 
authorities);
(c)
shall select from among the bidders the four such commercial banks that 
have in their bids requested, for purposes of participating in Part B of the Project, 
the lowest amount of financial support per Branch (less than four commercial banks may 
be selected only if less than four of the invited commercial banks present bids);
(d)
shall enter into a separate Participation Agreement with each of the 
Commercial Banks, which Participation Agreements shall contain the terms and 
conditions referred to in Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(e)
shall give Grants and Intermediary Loans to the Commercial Banks pursuant 
to the terms of the Participation Agreements;
Page  4
(f)
may, upon the termination of a Commercial Bank's rights pursuant to the 
provisions set forth or referred to in paragraph 7 (d) through (f) of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement, substitute therefor another commercial bank, eligible pursuant to 
paragraph (b) of this Section, which substitute commercial bank shall participate in 
the Project on terms identical to those of the non-substituted Commercial Banks; and
(g)
may allow a Commercial Bank to establish and operate less than 30 
Branches pursuant to the Participation Agreement with that Commercial Bank, but only 
if the Bank so agrees in writing.
Section 3.08. The Guarantor shall comply with the terms of each Participation 
Agreement.  Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Guarantor shall not amend or 
fail to enforce any provision of a Participation Agreement.  The Guarantor shall 
exercise its rights under each Participation Agreement in such a manner as to protect 
the interests of the Guarantor and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the 
Loan.  Such exercise shall, inter alia, include prompt application of the remedies 
specified in paragraph 7 (d) through (g) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement upon 
occurrence of an event of suspension or termination referred to in said paragraph.
Section 3.09. (a) Throughout the course of Project implementation, and without 
limitation of the provisions of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, the Guarantor 
(through the SMU) shall furnish to the Bank, by no later than each July 31 and January 
31 (starting no later than July 31, 1997), a semestral progress report on 
implementation of the Project, in form satisfactory to the Bank and based on the 
implementation plan and indicators set forth in the Implementation Letter.  As part of 
each January semestral report, the Guarantor, through the SMU, shall present to the 
Bank a proposed annual action plan for Project implementation during the immediately 
subsequent twelve months.
(b)
The Guarantor, through SHCP, shall hold reviews of Project implementation 
with the Bank, the Commercial Banks and the Borrower within thirty days after the 
presentation to the Bank of each of the semestral reports referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section.  Each such review shall, based, inter alia, on said reports:
(i)
examine the status of Project implementation; and
(ii)
result, in the case of each review based on a January report, in 
the 
preparation by the Guarantor of an annual action plan for 
the Project, 
satisfactory to the Bank, to be carried out or caused 
to be carried out by the 
Guarantor through SHCP during the immediately 
subsequent twelve months, which 
plan may contain, inter alia, 
adjustments to the implementation plan referred 
to in Section 3.01 
of this Agreement and to the procurement plan referred to 
in Section I, 
Part D.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Representatives of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Director General de Crédito Público of the Guarantor is 
designated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público
Dirección General de Crédito Público
Insurgentes Sur 826, piso 9
Colonia del Valle
03100 México, D.F.
México
Telex:
Page  5
1777313-SHOCME
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
     INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI)
     Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
By /s/ Jesús Silva Herzog
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Non-consultant Services
Part A:  
General
Goods and non-consultant services shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January 1996 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and non-consultant 
services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and non-consultant services to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
this Part B:
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and non-consultant services shall 
Page  6
be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Goods and non-consultant services estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract or per bid package may be procured either:  (a) under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines, using standard bidding documents satisfactory to the Bank; or (b) under 
contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
2.
Goods and non-consultant services financed by Subloan proceeds may be procured 
by Subborrowers in accordance with their own procedures.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and non-consultant services shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply with respect to:  (a) each contract procured under Part B of this Section; 
and (b) the first two contracts or bid packages procured under Part C.1 (a) of this 
Section.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
1.
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 3 of this Section, consultants' 
services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World 
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant 
Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on 
the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such 
modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank.  Where no relevant 
standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard forms 
acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts, shall not apply to contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each and contracts for the employment 
of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each.  
However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to:  (a) the terms of 
reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments 
to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to 
$100,000 equivalent or above; (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above; and 
(f) assignments of lawyers or law firms.
Page  7
3.
Consultant services financed by Subloan proceeds may be procured by Subborrowers 
in accordance with their own procedures.
SCHEDULE 2
Terms and Conditions of Participation Agreements
Each Participation Agreement shall have a renewable four-year term and provide 
that:
1.
The Commercial Bank shall establish and operate at least 30 Branches with due 
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial, 
administrative and managerial standards, as well as in accordance with an 
implementation schedule attached to the Participation Agreement and with the terms of 
the Operational Manual.
2.
The Guarantor, through SHCP, shall:
(a)
provide to the Commercial Bank a Grant in an amount equal to the highest 
bid requested per Branch by all Commercial Banks pursuant to Section 3.07 (c) of this 
Agreement (but in no case may the Grant exceed $65,000 equivalent per Branch), such 
Grant to be disbursed by SHCP solely to reimburse the Commercial Bank for reasonable 
goods, services, operating and training costs incurred in establishing and operating 
the Branches, only if such costs incurred are sufficiently documented to permit 
reimbursement of such costs from the Loan Account or the Special Account and only if 
the goods and services are procured in accordance with the provisions set forth or 
referred to in Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(b)
provide to the Commercial Bank an Intermediary Loan in an amount equal to 
the amounts lent by the Commercial Bank as Subloans (but in no case may such 
Intermediary Loan exceed $75,000 equivalent per Branch), such Intermediary Loan to: 
(i) be disbursed by SHCP solely to reimburse the Commercial Bank for eligible Subloan 
amounts (see paragraph 4 of this Schedule) disbursed to Subborrowers and only if such 
Subloan amounts disbursed are sufficiently documented to permit reimbursement of such 
amounts from the Loan Account or the Special Account; (ii) be denominated and 
repayable in pesos; (iii) carry a variable interest rate equal to at least CETES; and 
(iv) have an amortization period not to exceed thirty months.
3.
The Commercial Bank shall from its own resources finance the cost of 
establishing and operating its Branches which is not covered by the Grant.
4.
For a Subloan to be eligible for reimbursement out of the Intermediary Loan, the 
Subloan must:
(a)
be made to an individual (persona física) Subborrower who:  (i) is a 
resident of the locality where the Branch making the Subloan is located; and (ii) is 
an entrepreneur with at least one year of experience in his or her business;
(b)
have an amortization period not to exceed thirty months;
(c)
in combination with all other Subloans made to the same Subborrower, not 
exceed $5,000 equivalent in amount;
(d)
be made solely to finance a legally permissible and productive purpose 
(i.e., the expansion of the Subborrower's business and incremental operating costs 
generated by such expansion) and not to finance mere consumption or transfers of 
ownership; consequently, the Subloan cannot be used to finance, for example, the 
purchase of land, food, securities, inventory for resale, or existing real estate, or 
the cost of operating expenses that would have been incurred even absent the 
expansion, but it can be used to finance, for example, construction of a workshop, 
purchase of store fixtures or purchase of machinery, tools and materials to be used by 
the Subborrower in a manufacturing process;
(e)
be documented by an agreement between the Commercial Bank and the 
Subborrower, which agreement shall:  (i) contain provisions setting forth the 
requirements detailed in subparagraphs (a) through (d) of this paragraph; and (ii) 
Page  8
allow the Commercial Bank to inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the 
Bank and the Guarantor, the goods, sites, works, plants and construction financed by 
the Subloan, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents pertaining 
to the Subloan-financed activities; and
(f)
not finance the payment of any taxes.
5.
The Commercial Bank shall enforce the agreements referred to in paragraph 4 (e) 
of this Schedule.
6.
The Commercial Bank shall be free to negotiate Subloan interest rates and 
security requirements with Subborrowers as allowed by Mexican laws and regulations and 
by market conditions.
7.
The Guarantor, through SHCP, shall have the right to:
(a)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank if the 
Bank shall so request, the Branches, the operation thereof and any relevant records 
and documents pertaining to the Branches;
(b)
require that:  (i) the Commercial Bank shall take out and maintain with 
responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall 
be consistent with sound business practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon the 
foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Grant to the 
place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a 
currency freely usable by the Commercial Bank to replace or repair such goods;
(c)
obtain all such information as the Bank or the Guarantor shall reasonably 
request relating to subjects covered by the Participation Agreement and to the 
administration, operations and financial condition of the Commercial Bank and its 
Branches and to the benefits to be derived from Part B of the Project (including 
information on the socio-economic profile of Branch customers to the extent allowed by 
privacy laws);
(d)
suspend or terminate the right of the Commercial Bank to the use of the 
proceeds of the Grant and of the Intermediary Loan upon failure by the Commercial Bank 
to perform any of its obligations under the Participation Agreement;
(e)
suspend or terminate the right of the Commercial Bank to the use of the 
proceeds of the Grant and of the Intermediary Loan upon failure by the Commercial Bank 
to maintain the eligibility criteria, set forth in Section 3.07 (b) of this Agreement, 
which allowed it to be invited to bid for financial support under Part B of the 
Project;
(f)
suspend or terminate the right of the Commercial Bank to the use of the 
proceeds of the Grant and of the Intermediary Loan upon the taking of any action by 
the Guarantor or any other authority having jurisdiction for the dissolution or 
disestablishment of the Commercial Bank or for the suspension of its operations; and
(g)
(i) require the Commercial Bank, if the Commercial Bank's rights have 
been terminated pursuant to the remedies referred to in paragraph 7 (d) through (f) of 
this Schedule, to repay immediately to the Guarantor an amount equivalent to all Grant 
proceeds previously disbursed to said Commercial Bank; and (ii) require said 
terminated Commercial Bank to pay immediately to the Guarantor the outstanding 
principal of said Commercial Bank's Intermediary Loan, together with the interest and 
all other charges thereon.
8.
(a)
The Commercial Bank shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, its operations and financial 
condition, including records and separate accounts adequate to reflect all resources 
and expenditures on a per Branch basis.
(b)
The Commercial Bank shall:  (i) have the records and accounts referred to 
in subparagraph (a) of this paragraph and its financial statements (balance sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited 
in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards and procedures, by 
Page  9
independent and qualified auditors acceptable to the Guarantor; (ii) furnish to the 
Guarantor as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after the 
end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such year 
as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors of such scope and in 
such detail as the Guarantor shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the 
Guarantor such other information concerning said records, accounts and financial 
statements as well as the audit thereof, as the Guarantor shall from time to time 
reasonably request (including quarterly unaudited reports, for Bank review, of Branch 
finances on a per Branc
h basis).
9.
The Commercial Bank shall participate in the reviews referred to in Section 3.09 
(b) of this Agreement.
