Document or
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15355
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISILA
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSThMENT LOAN II
(LOAN 3078-TUN)
FEBRUARY 16, 1996
Natural Resoureces and Environment Division
Maghreb and Iran Department
Kiddle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
(July 1995)
Currency Unit  =      Tunisian Dinar (DT)
US$1.00        =      DT 0.9
DT 1.00        =      US$1.11
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout this report
GOVERNMENT OF TUNISIA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ARAPPI           Agrarian Reforrn Agency for Public Irrigation Schemes
Agence de la rijorme agraire dans les perimetres publics irrigues
ASAL             Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan
Pret a I'ajustement du secteur agricole
ASIL             Agricultural Sector Investment Loan
Pret d'investissements au secteur agricole
BNA              National Agricultural Bank
Banque nationale agricole
CGC              General Compensation Fund
Caisse generale de compensation
CRDA             Regional Commissariat for Agricultural Development
Commissariat regional au developpement agricole
DGPDIA           Department of Development Planning and Agricultural Investments
Direction generale de la planification du developpement et des investissements
agricoles
FOSDA            Agricultural Development Funds
Fonds speciaux de developpement agricole
ICR              Implementation Completion Report
Rapport d'achevement du projet
IRESA            National Institute of Agricultural Research and Higher Education
L'Institut de la recherche et de 1'enseignement superieur agricoles
KfW              Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
MOA              Ministry of Agriculture
Ministere de I'agriculture
MTASAP           Medium-Term Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program
Programme d'ajustement du secteur agricole a moyen-terme
OC               Cereals Marketing Board
Office des cereales
ODESYPANO        Northwest Rural Development Authority
Office de Developpement Sylvo-pastoral du Nord-Ouest
OEP              Livestock and Pastures Board
Office de l'elevage et des paturages
ONH              National Edible Oil Board
Office national des huiles
SAL              Structural Adjustment Loan
Pret a l'ajustement structurel
USAID/APIP       United States Agency for International Development/Agricultural Policy Implementation
Project
Agence des Etats-Unis pour le developpement international/Projet de mise en oeuvre de la
politique agricole



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN II
[LOAN 3078-TUN]
Table of Contents
Page
Preface
Evaluation summary ............. i
Part 1:  Project Implementation Assessment
1. Introduction    ..
A. Medium Term Economic Adjustment Program.                                      I
B. Bank Support for the Adjustment Program .
C.  Progress under the First Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan .1
I1.  Project Objectives..                                                                 2
A. Original Objectives.                                                          2
B. Main Loan Covenants and Agreements.                                           3
C. Evaluation of Objectives.                                                     3
III.     Implementation Experience and Results.                  ..                      4
A.  Achievements in Reaching Objectives and Sustainability .      .             4
1. Price, Marketing and Parastatal Reform .4
2. Reorientation of Public Expenditure.                                    7
3. Strengthening Essential Government Support Services.                    9
4. Improvement in Natural Resource Management .10
5. Strengthened Capacity for Sector Performance Monitoring and
Impact  Analysis    .....................................    11
B.   Actual Costs, Financing Arrangements and Implementation Timetable ..       11
C. Key impacts on Reaching Objectives         ..12
D. Overall Impact    ..13
E.   Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance      ..15
F.   Overall Assessment of Project Outcome      ..16
IV.      Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned .    .16
A.  Key Findings from Implementation Experience .16
B.  Plans for Future Project Operations and Sustainability .17
C.   Lessons for Future Projects in the Sector .17
Part II:  Tables .....................................  18
Appendixes:   A. Mission's aide-memoire ................................. 34
B. Borrower contribution to the ICR .........      .................. 37
C. Matrix of Key Actions .................................. 44
This document has a restricted distibution and may be used by recipicnts on]y in the performance of their
I official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiihout World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN II
[LOAN 3078-TUN]
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Loan, for which loan 3078-TUN in the amount of US$84 million equivalent was
approved on June 1, 1989 and made effective on August 27, 1990.
The loan was closed on June 30, 1995, compared with the original closing date of December
31, 1994. The first tranche, released upon effectiveness, was fully disbursed by July 15, 1991; the
second tranche was released on January 26, 1993, and the loan was closed with cancellation of a
remaining balance of US$1.4 million.
The ICR was prepared by Stephen Mink, Natural Resources and Environment Division of the
Middle East and North Africa Region and reviewed by Mr. Mark D. Wilson, Division Chief,
MN1NE, and Mr. Rene Costa, Project Adviser, MN1.
Preparation of this ICR was conducted during the Bank's final supervision and completion
missions which took place November 3-10 1994 and March 28-30 1995, respectively. The ICR is
based on material in the project file. The borrower contributed to preparation of the ICR by
commenting on the draft ICR and preparing its own evaluation of the project (Appendix B).






REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN II
[LOAN 3078-TUN]
Evaluation Sulmmary
Introduction
i.    The Government's Medium-Term Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program (MTASAP) began
in 1986 to help adjust the national economy to macroeconomic constraints. Within the overall
macroeconomic objectives of sustained growth and internal and external balance, the main objective
of the MTASAP was to promote greater efficiency and economy in the increased production of
agricultural products and in the use of public resources in the sector, including enhancing the role of
the private sector in the provision of commercially-viable sector support services. The MTASAP
defined specific actions to address identified constraints over a seven-year period (1986-93).
ii.    The first phase of the MTASAP was supported by an Agricultural Sector Adjustmnent Loan
(ASAL I, Loan 2754-TUN) from the Bank, the first adjustment loan to Tunisia and approved in
September 1986. It preceded an industrial policy and trade adjustment loan (Loan 2781-TUN), a
structural adjustment loan (SAL, Loan 2962-TUN) and also Tunisia's use of IMF Special Drawing
Rights and Extended Funds Facility.
Project Objectives
iii.   The Second Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL II) was a hybrid operation that
supported implementation of the second phase of the MTASAP through both policy-based tranches
and investment disbursements. The President's Report (PR) states that the principal objective of the
sector adjustment program was to maintain the growth rate in agriculture in a time of reduced public
resources. Changes in the institutional, agricultural pricing and incentives framework and public
expenditure priorities were expected to make the sector a more efficient producer of import substitutes
and export products. The Government undertook to implement policy reforms in support of the
MTASAP in the following areas:
-     parastatal reforms: divestiture to the private sector of numerous activities of the
Cereals Marketing Board (OC), the National Edible Oil Board (ONH) and the Livestock and
Pastures Board (OEP), and enabling of greater competition by the private sector in the
remaining activities;
-     pricing and marketing: adjustment of prices for cereals and milk to keep them more
closely aligned with world prices, the introduction of more market driven prices for beef, the
reduction of input subsidies, and the liberalization of meat and milk imports;
-     agricultural support services: reduction in input distribution by government agencies,
withdrawal of government agencies from a number of activities which could be provided by
the private sector, improvements in research and extension programs, and reduction in the
amount of credit subsidized through government programs and in interest rate subsidies; and
-     land policv: a review of actions taken and future programs for the restructuring of
agricultural land holdings.



- ii -
iv.    Legal covenants consisted of five actions for effectiveness and five as conditions for second
tranche release (paras. 8-9). In addition, there were 29 key actions to be completed over the
implementation period as described in an annex to the Government's Letter of Sector Policy
(Appendix C). The five conditions for effectiveness covered opening domestic grain collection to
private and cooperative entities, licensing private exporters of olive oil, permitting private imports of
beef according to a specified pricing mechanism and adequate sanitary conditions, elimination of
quantitative restrictions on milk powder imports, linking of milk producer prices to a world reference
price mechanism, and authorizing tractor imports to increase competition with local manufacture.
The second tranche conditions required agreeing on a second phase of cereal marketing reform to
include regional transport pricing reform, further deregulating private traders and private access to
storage, reducing input subsidies, improving irrigation cost recovery, reducing the volume of budget
support for agricultural lending (FOSDA), and promulgating a law to regulate use of pesticides and
herbicides.
v.     The main objective stated in the ASAL II President's Report was not strictly the same as that
most vigorously pursued by the Bank during supervision, and this divergence explains much of the
implementation shortcomings experienced. While the President's Report stated that the main objective
was growth and efficient use of public resources, the outcome most strongly sought by the Bank was
reducing the fiscal imbalance and increasing sector efficiency through pricing reform. The origin of
this divergence between stated objective and implementation focus was an analysis prepared by the
Bank before appraisal that made it clear that the fiscal balance and sector efficiency measures sought
under the ASAL II would result in marginally negative sector growth and incomes for farmers. The
President's Report did not present these results because of concern that doing so would weaken the
support of the key constituency for the Loan, the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), which was more
concerned about growth than fiscal constraints. Rather, the Bank presented the more optimistic
averaged results over the entire MTASAP period (ASALs I and II), and counted instead on support
from the Ministry of National Economy for pushing through the policy reforms agenda. In hindsight,
a more frank discussion of the model result implications, even at the risk of more difficult appraisal
discussions with Government, would have established a sounder foundation for implementation.
Implementation Experience and Results
vi.    The Loan achieved its fiscal objectives since budget costs of subsidies for inputs and credit
were substantially reduced -- from 73 to 15 million DT for inputs financed through the General
Compensation Fund, through a 40 percent real increase in irrigation tariffs, and a reduction by two-
thirds of budget allocations to finance rural credit subsidies (paras. 26, 31 and 44). Parastatal reform
was generally successful in disengaging the organizations from non-core activities, but much less so in
achieving greater efficiency through increasing competition from the private sector on a more level
playing field, particularly for domestic cereals collection and beef imports (paras. 13, 24). Even with
olive oil marketing, where substantial liberalization has taken place, private participants are still
unclear on whether the parastatal is a partner or competitor in market development (para. 18). It is
hard to know whether Tunisia is in a transitional stage to further liberalization, or stuck in the
ambiguity and market risk of parastatal-private competition. Meanwhile, although trade liberalization
improved for animal feed and milk products, wheats continue to be overprotected by restrictive
import policy.
vii.   The investment component was not defined in specifics until nearly a year after loan
effectiveness. The investment sub-projects were completed at costs marginally below estimates



- iii -
approved by supervision missions and included in Government budgets with the exception of one of
the nine sub-projects which had a small cost overrun. There was no formal co-financing of the ASAL
II, however, the KfW participated in the loan appraisal mission and made a loan for the equivalent of
US$16 million to support import financing linked to the conditions of the ASAL II. Implementation
experienced substantial delays, of nine months beyond planned effectiveness/first tranche release
(para. 54), and twenty-five months beyond planned second tranche release (para. 56). The investment
component also experienced delays in carrying out some of the contractual works, and despite the
Loan closing being extended by six months to permit final payments on contracts approved and signed
in 1992, several contracts that were part of original sub-project designs ultimately had to be financed
from other sources.
viii.  Three factors that affected achievement of major objectives were the high level of
Government ownership to the overall MTASAP, unanticipated decentralization of the MOA and
highly variable weather (paras. 57-59). There was wide and full engagement by the Borrower in a
policy dialogue with the Bank, which was characterized by openness and a willingness to devote
considerable time to policy discussions during the supervision missions. Decentralization of the MOA
included implementation of investment projects, which made centralized management of the ASAL II
investment component more difficult. Finally, favorable weather facilitated carrying out policies of
reducing input subsidies since good rains and harvests benefited farm incomes and reduced foreign
exchange requirements for agricultural product imports.
ix.    Bank and Borrower performance is judged to be satisfactory (paras. 70-71). For the Bank,
solid analytical work went into preparing the policy component, rigorous supervision kept the
spotlight on making progress in the policy arena, and attention and flexibility permitted overcoming
obstacles as they arose, albeit with delays. Notwithstanding this general assessment, several
reservations remain. First, the impetus for choosing a hybrid loan for the Bank intervention was not
clearly articulated at the outset, and implementation of the investment component was given short
shrift throughout in most aspects. Second, staff input to preparation and supervision were very high
(para. 70). Borrower implementation was successful. Several policies required coordinated action
across several ministries, and this was effectively carried out by the planning unit within the MOA.
On the investment side, the investment sub-projects selected for Loan support were generally carried
out satisfactorily by decentralized units within the MOA. Overall monitoring of the investment
component was somewhat deficient, as an effective oversight of procurement, disbursement,
timetables and monitoring of investment impact was not established at the beginning, and was difficult
to establish subsequently.
x.    The Loan outcome is satisfactory. It achieved most of its major policy objectives and has
achieved satisfactory development results. The exceptions to this outcome are remaining
overprotection of wheat production, insufficient disengagement of the Cereals Marketing Board from
domestic grain marketing, and inadequate implementation of policies to encourage private
participation in meat imports.
Summary of Findinigs, Future Operations, and Keys Lessons Learned
xi.    Overall, the policy reform agenda supported by the Loan was effectively pursued. The policy
dialogue was generally effective and advanced through focused supervisions. But the hybrid structure
of the Loan -- with a quick disbursing policy component and an investment component that supported
sub-projects in the MOA budget -- was not an effective instrument design (para. 80). The investment



- iv -
component was weakly conceived from the beginning, was never adequately integrated into
supervision mission objectives, did not rigorously apply economic analysis to the sub-projects
financed, and at one point was substantially disrupted by a halt in disbursements due to delays in
fulfilling linked but unrelated policy covenants for the second tranche release. The experience
showed this to be an inappropriate design, as recognized in eventually when the two components
were de-linked.
xii.   For the investment component of the Loan, future project operations raise several issues, none
of them major concerns. Three-fourths of the investment portion was devoted to three of the nine
components -- rural potable water, integrated rural development of North-West Region and
groundwater studies and monitoring. The integrated rural development of North-West Region sub-
project comprised bridge financing of core investment activities of a regional development agency
(ODESYPANO) between the closing of an earlier Bank project and effectiveness in 1994 of a follow-
on project. Management of the completed investments has either been devolved to user groups or
remains under public operation under the continuing coordination of ODYSEPANO. The rural
potable water program under the Loan created 86 small-scale and autonomous systems, each with a
user group responsible for management and operational cost recovery. Most user groups are still in
their infancy and not yet autonomous financially. But steady progress is being made in implementing
the national strategy to promote such groups.  The groundwater monitoring investments were part of
an ongoing program to provide the MOA with adequate information to permit rational development
and regulation of this resource. The latter two are soundly managed by Departments within the
MOA. In addition, three small-scale irrigation perimeters were created and although the physical
infrastructure is completed, monitoring of the start-up of operational phase, which is the
responsibility of Regional Commissariats for Agricultural Development (CRDAs), has been weak.
Two other sub-projects had uncompleted contracts at Loan closing. Alternative financing for both
these contracts exists, and the integrity of the projects is not considered at risk, despite the delays; the
regional CRDAs will be responsible for assisting the private farmer beneficiaries to use the
infrastructure efficiently once the systems are put into operation. Sustainability of the investment
component is expected to be enhanced by the subsequent Agricultural Sector Investment Loan (ASIL),
which is continuing investment support for four annual tranches of projects and programs in many of
the same areas. In addition, the ASIL is addressing sub-sector policy issues relevant to investment
effectiveness and also institutional strengthening to improve implementation and monitoring of
investment budget implementation at both central and CRDA levels.
xiii.   Regarding future operations in the sector, the ASAL II agenda is unfinished in two policy
areas, reduction of protection of the wheat sub-sector, and clarification of the roles of a number of
remaining parastatals involved in marketing of agricultural products. In terms of instrument design,
release of the second tranche was substantially delayed because of a condition requiring passage of a
law on pesticide transport and handling, as well as of its application decrees. Ironically, the Project
Completion Report of the ASAL I, written before this ASAL II second tranche release, specifically
recommended avoiding conditionality that requires passage of a law because it required an action over
which the Administration had not control. The recommendation bears repeating.



REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN II
[LOAN 3078-TUN]
PART I: Project Implementation Assessment
I.    Introduction
A.    Medium Term Economic Adjustment Program
1.    The Government's Medium-Term Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program (MTASAP) was
developed to begin in 1986 as part of the effort to adjust the national economy to a more constrained
macroeconomic situation. Consistent with the macroeconomic objective of achieving sustained growth
in the framework of an internally and externally balanced economy, the main objective of the
MTASAP was to promote greater efficiency and economy in the increased production of agricultural
products and in the use of public resources in the sector, including enhancing the role of the private
sector in the provision of commercially-viable sector support services. The MTASAP included
specific actions to address identified constraints over a seven-year period (1986-93) and aimed to
achieve its objectives through actions in the following areas:
(i)  reform the price, marketing and institutional framework;
(ii) reorient the public investment program in the sector;
(iii) strengthen agricultural support services and privatize economically viable ones;
(iv) improve the management of natural resources; and
(v) build up the institutional capacity for sector performance monitoring and impact analysis.
B. Bank Support for the Adjustment Program
2.     The first phase of the MTASAP was supported by an Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
from the Bank, the first adjustment loan to Tunisia (ASAL I, Loan 2754-TUN) approved in
September 1986. It preceded an industrial policy and trade adjustment loan (Loan 2781-TUN), a
structural adjustment loan (SAL Loan 2962-TUN)), and also Tunisia's use of IMF Special Drawing
Rights and Extended Fund Facility. As a result, ASAL I had some of the characteristics of a SAL.
The second phase of the MTASAP, as described in the Government's Letter of Sector Policy, was
continued with the support of the ASAL II. The MTASAP was also supported at the macroeconomic
level during this second phase by the Economic and Financial Reforms Support Loan (Loan 3424-
TUN) which included liberalization of external trade and prices and promulgation of an investment
code across sectors. In addition, the Government successfully concluded an extended arrangement
with the IMF in July 1992.
C. Progress under the First ASAL
3.    Implementation of policy reforms during the ASAL I was considered fully satisfactory.''
Most specified targets, both macro-economic and in the agricultural sector, were met or surpassed,
despite two years of drought. There was some concern that by introducing a modest degree of
protection for domestic cereals' production, the project may have decelerated a desirable shift within
1' See Performance Audit Report, Tunisia: Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan. Report SecM93-
231, March 3, 1993



- 2 -
agriculture to more labor-intensive and export-oriented crops where comparative advantage exists, and
that difficult questions of reform to reduce the role of State monopolies in the agricultural sector were
left to be addressed in the subsequent ASAL II. Regarding the loan itself, legal conditions and
covenants were completely met with very minpr exceptions, and the disbursement period was only
marginally longer than originally planned.
II.    Project Objectives
A. Original Objectives and any modifications
4.    The ASAL II supported implementation of the second phase of the MTASAP, but as a hybrid
loan that included investment support, was not a straight-forward continuation of ASAL I. The
President's Report states that the principal objective of the sector adjustment program was to maintain
the growth rate in agriculture in a time of reduced public resources. Changes in the institutional,
agricultural pricing and incentives framework and public expenditures priorities were expected to
make the sector a more efficient producer of import substitutes and export products. At a stage of
advanced preparation of the Loan, the Operations Committee expressed its conviction that structural
adjustment alone in Tunisia would make inadequate progress on growth and equity in the sector, and
that investment support should be incorporated into the Loan concept. Working with very tight time
and resource constraints, this was hastily done by the Region during appraisal.
5.    The foreign exchange provided by the loan was intended to finance: (a) a positive list of
agricultural inputs needed to stimulate agricultural production, including animal feed, petroleum
products, agricultural machinery and spare parts (US$50 million); and (b) part of the foreign
exchange cost of agricultural projects and programs (US$34 million).
6.    The Government undertook to implement a number of policy reforms in support of the
MTASAP, most notably:
-   parastatal reforms: divestiture to the private sector of non-core activities of the Cereals
Marketing Board (OC), the National Edible Oil Board (ONH) and the Livestock and
Pastures Board (OEP), and enabling of greater competition by the private sector in the
remaining activities;
-   pricing and marketing: adjustment of prices for cereals and milk to keep them more
closely aligned with world prices, the introduction of more market driven prices for beef,
the reduction of input subsidies, and the liberalization of meat and milk imports;
-   agricultural support services: reduction in input distribution by government agencies,
withdrawal of government agencies from a number of activities which could be provided
by the private sector, improvements in research and extension programs, and reductions
in the arnount of credit subsidized through government programs and in interest rate
subsidies; and
-   land policy: a review of actions taken and future programs for the restructuring of
agricultural land holdings.



- 3 -
B. Main Loan Covenants and Agreements
7.    Legal covenants consisted of five actions for effectiveness and five as conditions for second
tranche release. In addition, there were 29 key actions to be completed over the implementation
period as described in an annex to the Government's Letter of Sector Policy (Staff Appraisal Report,
Annex IV), consisting of specific steps for the Government to achieve the policy reforms described
above.
8.    The five conditions for effectiveness covered opening domestic grain collection to private and
cooperative entities, licensing private exporters of olive oil, permitting private imports of beef
according to a specified pricing mechanism and adequate sanitary conditions, elimination of
quantitative restrictions on milk powder imports and linking to a world reference price mechanism,
and authorization of tractor imports to increase competition with local manufacture.
9.    The five conditions for second tranche release consisted of preparation, for Bank review, of
recommendations on cereals marketing including transport subsidies and further deregulation of
domestic grain transport pricing and storage, unit input subsidy reduction of 30 percent (fertilizers,
animal feeds, improved cereals seeds, seed potatoes and herbicide 24-D), and for irrigation water at
a rate to be agreed upon the analysis of a study to be completed, reduction of budget subsidization of
the FOSDA agricultural credit program by 15 percent in volume, and promulgation of new legislation
regulating use of pesticides and herbicides.
C. Evaluation of objectives
10.   The main objective of the ASAL II stated in the President's Report was to support sector
growth and more efficient use of public resources. While this stated objective was shared by
Government stakeholders and the Bank, the outcome most strongly sought by the Bank was reducing
the fiscal imbalance and increasing sector efficiency through pricing reform. This divergence in
stated and unstated objectives originated in results of a multi-market model (see para. 62) prepared by
the Bank immnediately before appraisal that made it clear that the fiscal balance and sector efficiency
measures sought by the Bank during the ASAL II could result in the short-run in marginally negative
sector growth and incomes for farmers. Out of concern for weakening support for the Loan at this
late stage of preparation from key stakeholders within the Government, particularly from the MOA
which was more concerned with adequate rural growth than redressing fiscal imbalances, Bank staff
did not discuss these model results that were specific to the ASAL II period, but rather combined
them in the President's Report presentation with the more favorable ASAL I period results already
achieved, which thereby allowed presenting a more optimistic outcome for the MTASAP period
(ASALs I and II) as a whole with regards to sector growth. Beginning implementation of the ASAL I
with this divergence in perception of objectives between the Bank and the MOA subsequently
contributed to implementation difficulties. The MOA became reluctant to carry out specific measures
which the Bank viewed as necessary to achieve the fiscal objective but which potentially had an
immediate, and politically sensitive, negative impact on rural incomes. In hindsight, a more frank
discussion of the model result implications, even at the risk of more difficult appraisal discussions
with Government, would have established a sounder foundation for implementation.
11.   In addition, the objectives of the investment component of the hybrid Loan were not
adequately developed. The component was added late at the request of the Operations Committee and
the Region's response, within the very tight time and resources constraints available, was insufficient



to properly integrate the component into the Loan concept and Bank dialogue with the MOA, and its
objectives remained unclear.
III.   Implementation Experience and Results
A. Achievements in Reaching Objectives and Sustainability
1. Price, Marketing and Parastatal Reform
12.   Cereals. The principal objective in this sub-sector was to stimulate the private and
cooperative sectors to play a larger role in domestic cereal collection and feedgrain imports. Three
main actions were foreseen by the President's Report towards this end. First, domestic grain
collection was to be opened to non parastatal market participants, the parastatal (OC) was to withdraw
collection activities in selected zones, and move to full cost recovery where its collection operations
were to continue. Second, the parastatal was to disengage from extension activities, and investment
in other sub-sectors. Third, OC was to address price issues by revisiting transport margin controls,
adjusting cereals support prices to track world price trends, and exploring the promotion of private
storage through the simulation of seasonal price movements.
13.   In formal steps, the Government has opened domestic cereals collection to greater
competition. A decree was issued permitting the private and cooperative sectors to collect and store
cereals. Twenty of 157 OC collection centers were closed in zones with sufficient private activity of
because the OC facilities were sub-standard. In addition, the OC was instructed to submit dossiers to
the Commission for the Rehabilitation and Restructuring of Public Enterprises (CAREPP) for the
transfer of a portion of its collection centers to the private sector. But in practice very little progress
is evident in transferring cereals collection to the private sector. Only three new private participants
in cereals collection have emerged, and their activities have remained limited. Risks remain large as
long as the OC retains both its role a direct competitor in grain collection and also regulator of the
effort to promote private collection. Transfer of OC facilities to the private sector has proved to be
unsuccessful because of the lack of interest linked to a condition in the cahier de charges requiring
that all existing personnel be maintained by new management. The OC subsequently discussed with
the Bank an alternative approach to privatization through CAREPP but no progress has been made in
transferring collection centers.
14.    OC extension activities were transferred to an extension agency that was created as part of a
separate reform effort, but disengagement from investments advanced slowly. Preparations were
made to present identified subsidiaries for privatization, and though consistently behind schedule, the
OC eventually divested its animal feed, bakery and infant cereals preparations units.
15.    Administered producer prices for soft and hard wheat remained high compared with the
agreed formula, while barley producer prices have tracked the formula more closely. While the
administered prices for wheat conformed in strict terms with the agreement with the Bank, which had
a safeguard clause that permitted maintenance of prices in real terms, supervision missions considered
this to be a violation of the spirit of the agreements.
16.   On other price issues, the Government carried out the actions foreseen. It eliminated the
subsidy for transport cost equalization for cereals, and regarding storage, the Government tested, then
implemnented an approach for private storage, with the introduction of monthly payments for private



storage intended-to simulate average seasonal price movements. In conjunction with investment
incentives, the promotion of private storage of cereals has proven successful, with new projects
realized or underway surpassing the initial objectives.
17.   Edible Oils. Actions foreseen in this sub-sector were improvements in the efficiency of
importing and processing of cooking oils (vegetable oil imports and olive oil exports) in order to
reduce the domestic consumption subsidy costs through the Caisse General de Compensation (CGC),
publication of acceptable conditions under which exports of olive oil could take place, and
authorization of such export activities, and disengagement of the ONH from investments outside the
edible oil sub-sector.
18.   These reforms in the sub-sector have been carried out satisfactorily. The conditions under
which private olive oil exports began to be authorized in 1990 were, even after revisions to make
them less constraining, reluctantly approved by Bank staff, although initially there was little private
sector response. However, spurred by the financial burden of the ONH's large stock overhangs, new
legislation was passed in 1994 that brought much more extensive liberalization to olive oil exports.
The private sector's olive oil exports jumped in the first year of operation under the new legislation,
and although still a very modest share of total exports, the evident interest of the 13 exporters
approved in 1994 suggests that their role will continue to grow in importance. Nevertheless, the
exporters remain concerned about the ambiguous position of the ONH's which mixes elements of
partnership, through provision of services and private sector support, and competition, largely
through the ONH's own exports to the European market, in this transitional phase of market
development.
19.   Milk. In the milk sub-sector, the objective was to improve the efficiency of production and
iarketing by liberalizing the domestic milk and milk products market and linking prices to world
market prices. This was to be achieved by shifting producer support prices from a costs of
production to a world-price linked basis, and by allowing private processors of milk and milk
products the same access to powdered milk as the parastatal sector. Specifically, a condition of
effectiveness was elimination of quantitative restrictions on imports of powdered milk and imposition
of a variable levy necessary to provide 15% nominal protection according to an agreed moving
average formula. As key actions, producer support prices would be adjusted according to the same
formula, once before effectiveness and again for second tranche release.
20.   Quantitative restrictions on milk powder imports were eliminated as required. The variable
levy was implemented in 1990, and subsequently revised in 1991 and 1993. No adjustments have
occurred in the variable levy, or in producer support prices, since 1993. But the protection provided
by the variable levy, based on 1994 world prices and domestic producer prices was roughly 14% for
skim milk powder, which is the principal import, and hence in line with the intended policy. As
intended by the policy reforms, imports of milk powder have declined, with growth in supply and
processing of locally-produced liquid milk more than making up the gap.
21.   Beef. Beef production was targeted by the loan because it remained hampered by restrictions
on consumer prices and imports. All other meat production sub-sectors were already completely
liberalized. The objectives were to eliminate the price controls and fixed retail margins for beef, as
well as the rudimentary grading classification then in use, and, as a condition for effectiveness, to
replace quantitative import restrictions with freely importable beef to which a variable levy would be
applied with reference to a moving average of world prices. As a key action, the Government was



- 6 -
also to ensure that the parastatal slaughterhouse and meat import company (El Louhoum), sold beef at
its breakeven price.
22.   Although the condition of effectiveness was fulfilled in 1990, although restricted to
chilled/frozen beef carcass imports, the reform effort in this sub-sector has been mixed and results
limited. The number of private importers active under the guidelines and their share of total beef
imports had grown steadily to thirteen and 36% respectively by 1994.
23.   This growth is despite El Louhoum's continuing to be active in the sector with the benefit of
special privileges that remain to be addressed. El Louhoum still accounts for about half of beef
imports. It has also remained very active in slaughtering of local livestock, particularly during the
1993-94 drought when herds were being reduced. In 1994 it was obliged to purchase all live cattle
presented to it at a fixed price. El Louhoum continues to benefit from subsidies, does not pay the
variable levy on meat imports that the private sector is obliged to pay, and sells its products into its
own retail structure with prices that are administratively fixed.
24.   The guidelines under which the private sector was permitted to import beef carcass freely
were withdrawn in August 1994 due to administrative concern over growing market and public health
impacts of imports of other beef products under inadequate regulatory oversight. The intention is to
reissue the guidelines to include all beef product imports, but as of April 1995, the Ministry of
Commerce had yet to approve the new draft guidelines. While awaiting the issuance of the revised
guidelines, all private imports have retumed to a regime requiring authorization and licensing of each
shipment. There is a perception among private market participants that the delay in issuing the new
guidelines, and the protracted procedure of licensing in the interim, was motivated by pressure to
reduce imports. Lower imports would make it easier for El Louhoum to market the increased local
production resulting from the drought reduction of domestic herds.
25.   Thus despite the initial pursuit of the polices as defined by the ASAL II, the sub-sector is
currently in a state of disorder, with El Louhoum still playing a substantial competitor under unequal
rules, private importers subjected to licensing of shipments, and the Administration intervening in
price setting with respect to the El Louhoum marketing network.
26.   Input Subsidies. The main objective was to decrease input subsidy costs with a target of 30%
reduction in unit subsidy costs, half as a key action by end-1989 (planned effectiveness) and
achievement of the full 30% as a condition for second tranche release. The inputs involved were
fertilizers, animal feeds, improved cereals seeds, seed potatoes and the herbicide 2-4-D. This
objective was fully met, with subsidies either substantially reduced or eliminated. The CGC is the
financing mechanism for these subsidies, which peaked at DT 73 million in the drought of 1989 but
fell below DT 15 million by 1993.
27.    Subsidies for three of the four principal types of fertilizer used in Tunisia have been
eliminated. Subsidy reduction began with freeing distribution margins with the 1987/88 campaign,
and since 1991 by removal of remaining product subsidies (1991 for Super 16, 1992 for Ammonitre
33, and 1993 for DAP). Only Super 45, which accounts for roughly one-quarter of the total
quantities of fertilizer applied, still benefits from a (declining) subsidy. The gross amount of the
subsidy for fertilizers peaked in 1989 at 20 million dinars (current prices), but had reduced to only 3
million dinars by 1993. For the 1986-92 period, the increase in real prices of fertilizers averaged 6%
annually.



28.   Animal feed subsidies involved barley, corn and soybean meal. Animal feed subsidies
provided by the state have, similar to fertilizers, been financed through the CGC. Barley is used to
compensate pastoralists for grazing land that is taken out of use during rehabilitation programs, and
also small livestock farmers during drought years with the intention of maintaining herd sizes and
stabilizing incomes. Corn and soybean meal benefit poultry raisers and also dairy operations, mostly
on larger scale farms. Overall subsidies for animal feed peaked in the drought of 1989 at 49 million
dinar (current prices) before falling to 4 million dinars in 1992-93. This consisted almost entirely of
subsidies on barley, as subsidies on corn were eliminated in 1992 and those on soybean meal in 1993.
29.   Regarding cereals seed and 2-4-D herbicide, subsidies have been eliminated.
30.   Reduction of subsidies to irrigation water charges was treated differently under the Loan.
Under an earlier Bank irrigation loan that remained under implementation, the Government had
agreed to irrigation charge increases of 9 percent in real terms annually. Continuation or
modification of this policy under the ASAL II was to be decided on the basis of an analysis whose
recommendations were discussed in June 1991. The study resulted in agreement that (i) each
Regional Commissariat for Agricultural Development (CRDA) would increase irrigation charges by
9% annually in real terms, except in extenuating circumstances, in which case it would average 9%
over the period 1991-1995; (ii) the study would be updated in 1992; (iii) a decree would be published
by mid-1992 stating conditions under which irrigation water was to be sold, including the option for
introducing a binomial tariff; and (iv) CRDAs would put in place a parallel commercial cost
accounting system.
31.   These agreements were in large measure carried out. Regarding CRDA irrigation tariffs,
increases fell short of the target through 1990, but have recovered to exceed the target since 1991 and
did not violate the condition. The average annual increase during 1991-93 was 12 percent in real
terms, but increases in 1994, a drought year, only reached about 7 percent in real terms, the same as
the average for the period 1988-93 as a whole. On the basis of the updating of the study on tariffs,
it became clear that some CRDAs were much closer to others in reaching the tariff target of covering
100% of operations and maintenance costs. The tariffs vary by Region, but averaged 41 millimes /m3
in 1993. This is about 75 percent of the costs of operations and maintenance in the old MOA
definition, which does not yet include amortisation and provisioning for repair of civil works and
equipment within the perimeter, and about 63 percent of operations and maintenance costs which
include these latter components. The decree was passed and a binomial tariff allowed for, but actual
implementation of this has yet to occur. Implementation by CRDAs of a commercial accounting
system for irrigation activities in parallel to the administrative accounting system which they are
required to apply was reconsidered by the Bank and Government during appraisal of a subsequent
loan, the ASIL, and is not being required at this time. The Government is solidly committed to
annual real increases in irrigation tariffs until such point as full recovery of operations and
maintenance costs is achieved. Future policy regarding recovery of some portion of investment costs
is being analyzed but no policy orientation has yet been defined.
2. Reorientation of Public Expenditure
32.   The objective of this component was to monitor public expenditure to ensure the best possible
economic and social return on the public investment resources devoted to agriculture. Agricultural
projects and programs spanning the last two years of the 7th Plan (1990-91) and the first two years of
the 8th Plan (1992-93) were also to be financed, thus making the ASAL II a hybrid operation.



33.   In fact, there was no focus or concern stated in the President's Report on either the level or
composition of public investment in agriculture, and recurrent expenditure received no attention at all.
In essence, based on an earlier public expenditure review of sectoral strategy and investment projects
in the 7th Plan (1986-91), there was broad agreement on public investment plans and sub-sectoral
strategies. The main focus for the ASAL II was thus on reinforcing established criteria for inclusion
of investment projects, which went beyond specification of a rate of return threshold (10%) to include
consideration of favorable impact on the agricultural trade balance, cost effective employment creation
and low Government contribution to investment and operation costs.
34.   The investment component consisted of annual agreements on projects to receive Loan
financing over the 1990-93 period. A preliminary screening was initially done only during appraisal,
resulting in an initial list of potential projects and programs, but this was substantially modified in
actual implementation of the annual agreements. Of the President's Report fifteen original projects
and programs, only four were ultimately financed by the ASAL 11, with six additional projects
reviewed and accepted subsequent to Board Presentation (Annex Table 8). The list which fully
committed the Loan funds for the investment component was finally established during the June, 1991
supervision mission.
35.   The investment financing provided by the Loan was more important for providing the MOA
with flexible project financing than for its impact on the level or composition of public investment in
agriculture. Loan commitments were under five percent of the public investment budget over 1990-
93. But by being responsive to Borrower proposals for financing sub-projects that had not been
foreseen at the time of appraisal, the Loan assisted the Borrower to undertake investments that
satisfied agreed selection criteria, but which faced financing constraints. For instance, financing of
the high priority rural potable water program ultimately accounted for one-third of the Loan's
commitments, much higher than originally envisioned, because financing from another donor failed to
emerge.
36.   A problem arose in disbursing the Loan resources reserved for the investment component that
had its origin in the Loan design that included the investment component resources in the tranches.
Discussion with Bank staff involved in appraisal indicates that this was a design oversight rather than
express intention. As a result, the investment component confronted a serious constraint by early
1992 as a consequence of delays in releasing the second tranche of the Loan. Policy implementation
delays having little relation to the investment programs blocked second tranche replenishment of the
Special Account, and as a result, a number of small contractors faced delays in payments on
contracts. To solve this problem, the Board agreed in April 1992 to an amendment to the Legal
Agreement delinking the investment component from tranche conditionality. This delinked the
investment component (approximately US$29.5 million) from the quick disbursing component, leaving
approximately US$12.5 million of quick disbursing funds subject to the second tranche conditionality.
Regarding disbursements, it should also be noted that at the time of issuance of this report, there is
still an unrecovered balance of US$88,893 from the Special Account, such that the Loan is not
technically closed.
37.   Public investment, consisting of investment by both the administration and public enterprises
in the sector, has undergone a significant compositional adjustment since 1990. The share of total
public investment accounted for by public enterprises, maintained at about 35 percent in the middle
1980s, has fallen to under 15 percent, a decline of almost two-thirds in real terms. A strategic shift
in public strategy in the sector accounts for a much of this decline, as fewer budgetary resources are



- 9 -
being made available to a range of public enterprise investments in water, fisheries, livestock and
cereals storage, in order to promote private investment.
38.    Total public administration investment in the agricultural sector during the first two years of
the 8th Plan (1992-93) involved a substantial real increase over levels achieved during the preceding
Plan, with several important shifts in emphasis. Water sub-sector investments, which accounted for
two-thirds of 7th Plan public investment, have declined. While public investment in natural resource
management is undergoing a large increase in budgetary outlays, primarily in forestry and soil and
water conservation. Fisheries investments are also declined following completion of construction of
a chain of commercial fish ports in the late 1980s.
39.    The Tunisian authorities consider the current level of total public investment in the
agricultural sector to be roughly appropriate. A greater concern in recent years has been how to
more effectively leverage this investment and other sector policies to achieve higher levels of private
investment as the main vehicle for future growth. Results over the past decade have fallen short of
targets, with real growth of private investment averaging 1.5 percent annually, but remaining at less
than 45 percent of total sectoral investment during the last Plan. With completion of the Unified
Investment Code, which accords significant private investment incentives to the agricultural sector as
did previous Investment Codes, the key measures to improve on past performance will be to: (i)
strengthen rural credit; (ii) further liberalize markets; and (iii) improve technology transfer through
promotion of foreign investment, partnerships and strengthened adaptive research and extension.
40.    The MOA clearly perceives the role of public investment as facilitating private investment and
providing public goods, a substantial shift from earlier decades when it was actively involved in direct
production activities.
3. Strengthening Essential Government Support Services
41.    The objective of the Loan in this component was to improve input and service delivery by
strengthening those that were to remain in a public sector responsibility, and to make markets more
competitive for the others, in part by reducing the predominance of parastatals. Conditions and key
actions encompassed withdrawal of public agencies from input marketing, withdrawal of the OEP
from most of its directly productive livestock units, promulgation of legislation on pesticide and
herbicide use and handling, authorization of tractor imports of models competitive with local
manufacture, and reduction of budget subsidization of the FOSDA credit.
42.    These actions were carried out. With the reorganization of the MOA in 1990 and creation of
decentralized, regional administrative units, the CRDA's marketing for many of the inputs that had
previously been the responsibility of the CRDAs' antecedent institutions was eliminated from their
functions. OEP successfully withdrew from the agreed proportion of its production units, and tractor
imports were completely liberalized, with the Government going further than the ASAL II expectation
by closing the local, high-cost tractor manufacturing plant.
43.    Regarding agricultural credit, the ASAL II objective was promotion of private as opposed to
public investment in the sector growth strategy, through greater commercial bank participation in
investment financing, reduced direct budgetary cost of cheap credit provision, and less undercutting
from special funds in the form of low interest loans with low repayment performance, managed by
the agricultural development bank, BNA.



- 10-
44.   Two specific measures were foreseen. First, reduction of the budget allocations for the
FOSDA credit programs by 30% was to be achieved in two steps, with a 15% cut by end-1989
specified as a key action, and a further 15% by end- 1990 as a condition of second tranche release.
Second, a reduction in the differential between market rates and (lower) preferential agricultural rates
by 1-2 percentage points. The first reduction in the FOSDA budget allocation was more than
required, but only 4% for the second reduction. This entailed a non-compliance with second tranche
release conditions that was inaccurately reported to the Board at the time that the investment
component was de-linked from the second tranche due to a mis-communication among Bank staff. In
any event, while there was no possible way to meet this dated condition strictly once 1990 had
passed, the spirit of the condition was fulfilled through subsequent FOSDA reductions, which
averaged 22% annually over 1989-1992. The second measure of reducing interest rate differentials
was carried out as specified; increases to 10% were made in the main regulated interest rate in the
agricultural sector, while the money market rate has fallen and remained below this level since late-
1993.
45.    The pesticide legislation was eventually promulgated, but only after a prolonged delay that
forced postponement of the second tranche release. There were no substantive disagreements between
the Bank and Borrower over the legislative text. The delay was due in part to the time needed to get
the submitted draft law considered by the Chamber of Deputies. But the Bank also insisted on an
interpretation that the Loan Agreement required both the law and its implementation decrees to be
published in the Government's official journal before the Loan condition, that the Borrower take all
necessary measures satisfactory to the Bank to regulate the use of pesticides, was considered fulfilled.
Inter-ministerial debate on the content of the application decrees took considerably longer than
expected and involved an additional two months.
46.    Actual strengthening of services which were identified as legitimately remaining a public
sector role involved research and extension. In these two areas, a Bank project had been appraised
prior to negotiation of the ASAL II, but key actions relating to the institutional framework were
reinforced by building them into the ASAL II. For research, the objectives were to establish an
umbrella agency (IRESA) to coordinate overall agricultural research strategy, and application of a
methodology for programming and budgeting by objectives. For extension, the objective was to
combine the plethora of agencies' extension activities under a coordinated program at the local and
regional levels, with consideration to be given to the organization need for coordination at the central
level.
47.    The primary vehicle for implementation of these institutional arrangements has been the
Research and Extension Project which became effective in May 1991. This project has made
satisfactory progress overall in its objectives, although institutional strengthening has persisted as the
most problematic component. The umbrella agency, IRESA, was created but was slow to hire
researchers to strengthen key programs and has not adequately strengthened high level staff at the
center. The MOA has yet to designate heads of extension at the CRDA level and to adopt a statute
for extension personnel.
4. Improvement in Natural Resource Management
48.   This was an inadequately developed component of the loan in the President's Report that
accomplished little in reorienting or advancing Government strategy. The two resources focused upon
were land and fisheries. For land, the Government identified several actions as under consideration



- 11 -
in its Letter of Sectoral Adjustment Policy: (i) extension of the Agrarian Reform Agency for Public
Irrigation Schemes' (ARAPPI) land consolidation activities to rainfed areas; (ii) establishment of a
land bank to facilitate parcel consolidation; (iii) reforms in the legal framework to address traditional
inheritance practices that lead to farm fragmentation. Formally, a key action obliged the
Government to carry out a joint review with the Bank of actions taken on land issues and future
programs for the restructuring of agricultural holdings, and this did occur during the February 1992
supervision mission, but none of the actions has since been realized. The only area in which good
progress continues to be made is on the transfer of state-owned land to private entities through long-
term leases. Regarding fisheries, the SAR foresaw general support for two domestic fish marketing
pilot projects targeting interior markets, and the establishment of incentives to encourage a shift in
fishing effort from the Central to the North coast. There is no further mention of the pilot projects in
Loan documentation. The incentives have been put in place, but have not achieved the desired
results. Separately, the Government has restructured its involvement in fisheries, pulling out of direct
activities in fishing, processing and marketing, and focussing on monitoring, strategy, policy issues,
and investment in port facilities. But the Government continues to struggle with problems of
overfishing, particularly along the Central coast.
49.   Investments foreseen in the SAR to support improved natural resource management were only
partially carried out. Investment in groundwater prospecting and performance have resulted in a
better understanding of the comportment of aquifers, but other identified investments in soil studies,
low cost erosion control, land ownership studies, land consolidation, and fisheries patrol boats and
port maintenance did not receive support from the ASAL II.
5. Strengthened Capacity for Sector Performance Monitoring and Impact Analysis
50.   This component targeted the Planning Unit (DGPDIA) of the Ministry of Agriculture, which
had played a key role in policy definition and analysis since the beginning of the first ASAL, and was
soon to begin coordination of the Ministry's preparation of the sector strategy for the 8th Plan. No
specific actions were foreseen as part of the ASAL II, but it was anticipated that the DGPDIA would
continue to make use of the analytical tools employed during appraisal for policy planning and impact
assessment. Three such tools had been used: a multi-market model, representative farm budgeting,
and comparative advantage analysis of different production systems.
51.   Although a considerable amount of time was spent with personnel of the DGPDIA during
preparation of the ASAL II in developing and using these analytical tools, there has not been much
subsequent use of them for impact monitoring or further analytical use. Some monitoring of trends
in farm income for several typical farm types has been carried out using farm budgets, but no use is
being made of the multi-market model or comparative advantage analysis, and none is anticipated in
preparing the 9th Plan.
B. Actual costs, financing arrangements, implementation timetable, compared with
estimates
52.   Actual costs. Comparison of actual costs of the investment component with cost estimates at
appraisal is not relevant since the component was not concretely defined until nearly a year after loan
effectiveness. It is possible to compare actual payments on contracts with the project cost estimates
which were entered into the annual Tunisian budgets. On this basis, all the investment components
were carried out at marginally below budget estimates with the exception of the Degache-El Hamma
project, which experienced a cost overrun of about nine percent.



- 12 -
53.   Financing arrangements. There was paralled co-financing of the ASAL 11 by the KfW, which
participated in the loan appraisal mission. Based on indications that it would make a loan for the
equivalent if US$16 million to support import financing linked to the conditions and action plan of the
Bank loan, the ASAL 11 amount was reduced by the equivalent amount to US$84 million. The KfW
approved its loan in May, 1990.
54.   Implementation timetable.  Loan implementation experienced a nine month delay beyond
planned effectiveness/first tranche release, which contributed to the twenty-five month delay beyond
planned second tranche release. The investment component also experienced delays in carrying out
contractual works, and the Loan closing was extended by six months to permit final payments on
contracts approved and signed in 1992.
55.   A supervision mission scheduled prior to the originally planned effectiveness date concluded
that because several key questions still awaited Ministerial approval and a substantial amount of
official documentation was still required, the scheduled effectiveness would likely need postponement
by four-to-six weeks. Five extensions of the effectiveness date were eventually required, principally
to permit the issuance of texts and publication in the official journal of legislation as required by the
effectiveness conditions.
56.   The second tranche release was delayed eight months beyond satisfaction of all other special
conditions because of difficulties in passing of legislation and application decrees relating to the
handling, storage, application, labelling and disposal of agricultural chemicals (see para. 45).
C. Key Impacts on Reaching Loan Objectives
57.   Ministry of Agriculture Decentralization. The MOA carried out a reorganization and
decentralization as the ASAL II was getting underway. The reorganization substituted 23 regional
administrative offices (CRDAs) for a less comprehensive, but more autonomous set of regional
agricultural development agencies. The CRDAs were to gain greater responsibility for developing
and implementing investment projects, but had a much reduced role in input supply, direct production
activities and marketing. The most immediate impact was on the investment component of the ASAL
II, since the CRDAs, whose involvement had not been foreseen at appraisal, came subsequently to be
responsible for 60 percent of the investment program under the Loan. Transferring responsibilities to
these new administrative units, and making them operational, took some time that contributed to
procurement delays that slowed disbursements and later resulted in postponement of the closing date
for the loan. The reorganization also affected the DGPDIA, which, while maintaining a strong
planning function at the central level, was also absorbed with carrying out a decentralization to the
CRDA level of sector monitoring activities and maintenance of agricultural survey information.
58.   High level of ownership. As already evident during ASAL I implementation, progress on
policy reforms benefited from the Borrower's good commitment to significant reforms along the lines
defined for loan support. There was wide and full engagement by the Borrower in a policy dialogue
with the Bank, which was characterized by openness and a willingness to devote considerable time to
policy discussions during the supervision missions.
59.   Drought.  Two consecutive years of severe drought just prior to the ASAL II becoming
effective, subsequently followed by two excellent harvests in 1991-92 had opposite effects on policy
reform implementation. The drought led the Government to delay implementing several of the price



- 13 -
reforms, particularly irrigation tariff increases, due to concerns about the impact on already
depressed farm incomes and a desire not to discourage irrigated crop production. The subsequent
good weather and harvests gave the Government manoeuvering room, and eased the potential political
costs of input subsidy reductions that otherwise might have proven difficult to implement (see
following Part D). The sustainability of these subsidy reductions does not seem in doubt: there was
no backtracking on the reductions during the subsequent droughts in 1994 and 1995.
D. Overall Impact of the Loan
60.   Monitoring requirements were inconsistently specified in the President's Report and Loan
Agreement, and not in any case fulfilled. According to the President's Report, monitoring of sector
performiance and the implementation of the MTASAP was supposed to have taken place through
annual reports provided to the Bank. Supplemental Letter No. 7 of the Loan Agreement states that
semestrial reports were to be provided by the Borrower, to include monitoring data based on a very
lengthy appendix to the Letter. Although all Borrower monitoring reports were received according
to Bank staff, only one is available in project files, and it includes only about a third of the requested
monitoring data. It is evident that such monitoring was of low priority to both supervision missions
and the Borrower.
61.   It is difficult analytically to identify what portion of the good performance of the agricultural
sector during 1989-93 can be attributed to the ASAL II implementation. First, the policy measures
carried out might well have been implemented without the Bank loan, since they were consistent with
policy directions that were clearly articulated and ascribed to by Government. Second, the economic
response to the policy changes in terms of the variables of key interest -- sector growth, income
impact, budget and trade response, private sector investment -- is difficult to isolate, particularly in
the context of the major impact of weather on the sector. However, some evidence can be brought to
bear on the issue that suggests that the policies carried out with loan support had a positive impact,
and can be judged satisfactory.
62.   For this report, the multi-market prediction model that was used during appraisal was updated
on the basis of price policies actually carried out.Z' This permits comparing the updated model results
with the appraisal results, and also with the actual economic outcome:
-   Value added: aggregate growth in the commodities analyzed (roughly half of the
agriculture sector output) increased by 24 percent, or 5.5 percent per annum over the four
year period of policy implementation. The increase was primarily due to factors other than
price changes, specifically changes in weather conditions (the realized price policy changes
alone would have decreased value added by 1.3 percent) and was driven by large production
increases in durum wheat, milk and beef;
2/ The original multi-market simulation model contained supply/demand and elasticity relationships
for the major crops and livestock outputs, and permitted studying substitutions and responses to price
changes. The updating of the model is reported in Tan, Alexandra (1995), "Updated Multimarket
Model Analysis on the Impact of the Medium Term Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program on
Tunisian Agriculture," March.



- 14 -
-   Government revenues: the actual change in government net revenues associated with the
crops covered by the model was a decline of about DT 13.4 million per annum, largely due to
increased durum production associated with good weather, and the consumer subsidies and
continued producer price protection of durum wheat farmers related to these elevated
volumes. The original projection was closer to this result than the updated model estimate.
-   Foreign exchange: the policies implemented had a relatively small impact on foreign
exchange earnings in both the original and updated model estimates but actual period results
were a large increase in net earnings due to good weather;
-   Incomes: the updated income impact as estimated by the model -- by region and for
three income groupings -- gives mixed and modest results: there was a small decline, under
1 percent per annum, in real incomes, with the exception of the low income group in the
north and center of the country, for whom incomes increased. In general, the poor income
group did better in the updated model results than predicted in analytical work done for Loan
appraisal. Unfortunately, lack of data on actual incomes prevents contrasting these with
model predictions. Some evidence on farm income trends, based on typical farm budgets, is
presented below.
63.   Additional evidence on price policy impacts on farm incomes can be gleaned from analysis of
representative farm budgets. The DGPDIA has analyzed income trends for four typical farm types
ranging from 5 to 80 hectares during the adjustment period. The farm types are all rainfed and
involve both crops and livestock activities. Net incomes derived from the models are stagnant at best
for the smaller farm types, and decline for the largest representative farm from 1989 levels.
64.   In order to focus on the impact of price policies on poor farmers, two cropping patterns were
analyzed, one representing the higher rainfall northwest, and the other the lower rainfall center-west
regions of Tunisia. The center-west model consists of a two hectare farm on which barley and a
forage crop occupy a fifth of the land, with the rest of the land devoted to olive and almond trees,
and livestock consisting of five head of sheep. Chemical fertilizer use is limited, and restricted to the
annual crops, with the main other purchased input being mechanized land preparation services. The
north-west model is also for a two-hectare farm, with a crop mix that gives greater emphasis to
annual crops, including wheat and legumes, and has marginally higher yields because of better
rainfall.
65.   The analysis of farm budgets indicates that the direct impact of price policies on incomes of
poor rural farmers was positive over the period of the ASAL II's main policy reforms (1989 - 1993)
averaging the equivalent of 3 percent real growth annually. However, this improvement only barely
overcame the sharp drop in farm incomes in 1987 and barely enabled a return to income levels that
prevailed at the start of the MTASAP in 1986. Moreover, the severe cut in olive oil producer prices
in late 1993, although not directly related to policy reforms specified in the ASAL II, had a
significant negative impact on farm incomes.
66.   These farm budget analyses are partial, taking into account the direct impacts of price trends
on revenues, but neither the subsequent behavioral adjustments in input use and activity focus, nor the
weather impact on yields. Unfortunately, there is little available information on shifts in the structure



- 15 -
of farm activities by households.3' Anecdotal evidence is that poor farm households in some areas are
improving their agricultural incomes through intensification of livestock activities and better
management of tree crops.
67.    No monitoring of price policy impacts on irrigated farming has taken place. Evidence is
scarce regarding the impacts on water use of the substantial changes in the real cost of irrigation
water described in para. 31. There is some evidence that the irrigation intensification, measured by
the ratio of irrigated crop to irrigable area, stagnated over the Loan period, indicating a greater
reluctance by farmers to irrigate during the rainy season. The MOA has also expressed concern that
irrigated farm incomes are suffering, and are undertaking a tariff study under the ASIL that explores
this issue. There is little evidence available to evaluate the extent to which on-farm water use
efficiency is improving in response to increasing real costs.
68.    Private investment was expected to respond to both price and non-price actions undertaken as
part of the loan program. Annual investment in agriculture increased by nearly six percent annually
in real terms between 1989 and 1993. Growth occurred in both public and private investment, with
the latter growing faster so as to account for 52 percent of the total in 1993 compared with 44 percent
in 1989. The areas of most rapid growth of private investment are livestock, tree crops and farm
equipment. The Governrment's efforts to promote private investment in agriculture are expected to be
advanced further through implementation of the unified investment code that was enacted in late-1993.
69.    The impact of the investment financing component is thought to be considerable, although
weak impact monitoring makes it difficult to quantify the impact on beneficiaries beyond installation
of physical infrastructure. Clearly documented is the improved access by the rural population to
potable water, with the loan contributing to the overall increase from 59 to 71 percent of the rural
population having access over the 1989-94 period. In addition, a total of 244 hectares of irrigation
was created in three small perimeters, 224 test boreholes were drilled nationwide permitting
identification of 3,818 liter/second groundwater resources for irrigation and rural potable water, the
ODESYPANO program carried out rural road maintenance on, soil conservation measures, pasture
improvement and dairy cattle improvement in Northwest Tunisia, intensification of irrigation in two
perimeters in the Tozeur region, and installation of irrigation permitting plantation of about 4,500
hectares of private orchards in Gafsa region.
E. Assessment of Bank and Borrower performance
70.    Bank performance is judged to be satisfactory. Solid analytical work went into preparing the
policy component, rigorous supervision kept the spotlight on making progress in the policy arena,
and attention and flexibility permitted overcoming obstacles as they arose. Notwithstanding this
general assessment, several reservations remain. First, the impetus for choosing a hybrid loan for
the Bank intervention was not clearly articulated at the outset, and implementation of the investment
component was given short shrift throughout in most aspects. Second, staff input were very high (see
Table 10). Two hundred staffweeks were used through appraisal, despite the operation being the
second phase of an adjustment program. Supervision costs were high due to two factors. Intensive
3' Data to address this issue are collected by the MOA annually through the Enqu&e Agricole de
Base. Unfortunately, the computerized data are only maintained by the 23 CRDAs for their own
regions, thus would need to be centralized to enable analysis of such issues.



- 16 -
dialogue continued to be necessary during implementation to keep policy reforms on track as the
MOA was reluctant to carry out measures that met the efficiency and fiscal objectives of the Loan,
but at the cost of farmer incomes in the short run (see para. 10). The complexity of monitoring 29
key actions (see para. 7) may have proven unworkable under other circumstances, but in this instance,
with flexible and consistent supervision, it enriched the substance of and provided concrete focus to
the policy dialogue carried out during supervision missions. Procurement processing for the
investment component required a lot of attention, in part because more efficient procedures that might
have been defined in advance had received inadequate attention during appraisal.
71.   Borrower implementation was mostly successful and indicative of the high level of
commitment to the policy reform agenda. Several policies required coordinated action across several
ministries, and this was effectively carried out by the planning unit within the MOA. On the
investment side, the investment sub-projects selected for Loan support were generally carried out
satisfactorily by decentralized units within the Ministry. Overall monitoring of the investment
component was somewhat deficient, as an effective oversight of procurement, disbursement,
timetables and monitoring of investment impact was not established at the beginning, and difficult to
establish subsequently.
F. Overall assessment of project outcome
72.   The Loan outcome is satisfactory. It achieved most of its major policy objectives and has
achieved satisfactory development results. The exceptions to this outcome are remaining
overprotection of wheat production, insufficient disengagement of the National Cereals Authority
from domestic grain marketing, and inadequate implementation of policies to allow for private
participation in meat imports.
IV.   Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
A. Key findings from implementation experience
73.   Overall, the policy reform agenda supported by the Loan was adequately pursued. The policy
dialogue was generally effective and advanced through focused supervisions.
74.   Good weather was important in buffering the negative impacts of the policy agenda.
Favorable rainfall resulted in exceptional production, increased farm incomes, and reduced foreign
exchange needs for food imports, which made it politically easier to pursue input subsidy reductions.
75.   The hybrid structure of the Loan -- with a quick disbursing policy component and an
investment component that supported sub-projects in the MOA budget -- was not an effective
instrument design. The investment component was weakly conceived from the beginning and was
never adequately integrated into supervision mission objectives. Further, the coupling of
disbursement on investment components with policy requirements for the second tranche release
proved to be an inappropriate design, as recognized in eventually de-linking the two components. In
fact, the problem arose due to delay in passage of a draft law through the National Assembly, as
required for second tranche release. Finally, there were no monitoring indicators established for the
investment component, which resulted in some slippage in execution of works, and weak capacity to
evaluate the early phase operations of sub-project components.



- 17 -
B. Plans for future project operations and sustainability
76.   For the investment component of the Loan, future project operations raise several issues, none
of them major concerns. The three largest sub-projects in monetary tenrs were the rural potable
water, integrated rural development of North-West Region and groundwater studies and monitoring,
each of which has different operational and sustainability characteristics. The rural potable water
program under the Loan created 86 small-scale and autonomous systems, each with its own user
group which is responsible for management and operational cost recovery. The national strategy of
promoting user groups was detailed and put in place only in 1992, and in practice, most user groups
are still in their infancy and not yet autonomous financially. Nevertheless, steady progress is being
made in implementing the national strategy and strengthening individual user groups through a
bilateral assistance program and the Bank's ongoing ASIL. The integrated rural development of
North-West Region sub-project comprised bridge financing of core investment activities of a regional
development agency (ODESYPANO) between the closing of an earlier Bank project and effectiveness
in 1994 of a follow-on project. Management of the completed investments has either been devolved
to user groups (e.g. potable water supply and improved pastures) or remains under public operation
under the continuing coordination of ODESYPANO (e.g. rural roads, classrooms). The groundwater
monitoring investments were part of an ongoing program to provide the MOA with adequate
information to permit rational development and regulation of this resource. The program continues
with support from the ASIL, and is soundly managed by a Department within the MOA.
77.   Three small-scale irrigation perimeters were created through the Kef hill dam (30 ha),
Chograne (64 ha) and Sidi M'haddeb (150 ha) projects. The physical infrastructure is completed, but
monitoring of the operational phase, which is the responsibility of regional CRDAs, has been weak.
78.    Two sub-projects had uncompleted contracts at Loan closing. The Degache El Hamma
irrigation intensification had completed work on tubewells but only proceeded to procurement
preparation for establishment of the irrigation distribution infrastructure in 1995. The Tozeur oasis
renovation has one component still underway, treatment of waterways to reduce losses. Alternative
financing of both these contracts exists, and the integrity of the projects is not considered at risk,
despite the delays; the regional CRDAs will be responsible for assisting the private farmer
beneficiaries to use the infrastructure efficiently once the systems are put into operation.
79.    Sustainability of the investment component is expected to be enhanced by the subsequent
ASIL, which is continuing investment support for four annual tranches of projects and programs in
many of the same areas. In addition, the ASIL is addressing sub-sector policy issues relevant to
investment effectiveness and also institutional strengthening to improve implementation and
monitoring of investment budget implementation at both central and CRDA levels.
C. Lessons for future projects in the sector
80.   There is an unfinished agenda in two policy areas as discussed in Section III A, reduction of
protection of the wheat sub-sector, and disengagement of a number of remaining parastatals involved
in marketing of agricultural products.
81.   Release of the second tranche was substantially delayed because of a condition requiring
passage of a law on pesticide transport and handling, as well as of its application decrees. Ironically,
the Project Completion Report of the ASAL I, written before this episode, specifically recommended
avoiding conditionality that requires passage of a law because it required an action over which the
Administration had not control. The recommendation bears repeating.



- 18 -
PART II: Tables
Table 1:   Summary of Assessments
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:   Project Timetable
Table 4:   Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operations
Table 6:   Studies Included in Project
Table 7:   Project Costs and Financing
Table 8:   Economic Costs and benefits
Table 9:   Status of Legal Covenants
Table 10:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 11:  Bank Resources: Missions



- 19 -
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of obiectives       Substantial    Partial    Negligible    Not apvlicable
Macro policies                                                                   X
Sector policies                        X
Financial objectives                                                             X
Institutional Development                          X
Physical objectives                                                              X
Poverty reduction                                                                X
Gender issues                                                                    X
Other social objectives                                                          X
Environmental objectives                           X
Public Sector management               X
Private sector development             X
other (specify)
B. Proiect sustainabilitv       |        _Li_              Unlikely          Uncertain
C. Bank merformance                     Highly           Satisfactory        Deficient
satisfactorv
Identification                                               X
Preparation assistance                                       X
Appraisal                                 X
Supervision                                                  X
D. Borrower performance                 Highlv        Satisfactory      Deficient
satisfactorv
Preparation                               x
Implementation                                               x
Covenant compliance                                          x
Operation (if applicable)       I                   1                  T      _      _
E. Assessment of outcome            Highly      Satisfactorv    Unsatis-      Hi2hlv
l ____________________________________I  satisfactory           factorv      unsatisfactory
11                               1.             1            I           T                  1x



- 20 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits1'
Loan/credit title     Purpose                        Year of        Status
approval                     l
Preceding operations                                                                     l
1.   ASAL I                The first adjustment loan in        1986      Completed
Tunisia and consisting of macro
and sectoral components. The
sectoral component promoted
greater efficiency and economy
in the production of agricultural
commodities and in the use of
public resources allocated to the
sector.
2.   Economic and          Support continued                   1991      Completed
Financial Sector      implementation of economic
Reforms Support       reforms to improve
Loan                  macroeconomic stability and the
balance of payments through
liberalization of external trade
and prices, promulgation of an
investment code across sectors
that embodies coherent
incentives, and other measures
not directly relevant to the
ASAL II.
Following operations
1.   Research and          Reorganization and                  1990      Supervision
Extension Project     strengthening of the national
research and extension systems.
2.   Agricultural Sector    Promotion of sectoral growth       1993      Supervision
Investment Loan       through improved management
of public resources, sub-sector
policy reforms and support of
the public investment budget.
3    Northwest             Reduce poverty, diminish            1993      Supervision
Mountainous Areas    natural resources degradation
Development Project   and improve the population's
well-being by providing for
some basic needs in NW
Tunisia
1'    Includes projects in the same sector/subsector as this project and adjustment operations with related
objectives. A limit of 10 years is observed when listing preceding operations.



- 21 -
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle                 Date planned'             Date actual/
latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                                                    l
First Preparation Mission                                              28 September, 1987
Second Preparation Mission                                             2 December, 1987
Appraisal v'                                  17 October, 1988          17 October, 1988
Negotiations 2t                              6 February, 1989          27 March, 1989
Letter of development policy (if applicable)                           28 April, 1989
Board presentation 2t                         28 March, 1989            1 June, 1989
Signing                                                                30 June, 1989
Effectiveness/First tranche release           31 December, 1989        27 August, 1990
Second tranche release                        31 December, 1990        26 January, 1993
Project completion
Loan closing                                  31 December, 1994        30 June, 1995
As provided, for example, in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR).
2'     As given in the Initiating Memorandum circulated to the Operations Committee 20 September, 1988.



- 22 -
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95  FY961'
Appraisal estimate         18.6   60.2   67.4   77.4   84.0   84.0   84.0
Actual                      0      40.0   51.7   74.0   79.4   81.5   82.5
Actual as % of estimate     0      66.5   76.7   95.6   94.5   97.0   98.3
Date of final disbursement                                                10/95
The Project officially closed 6/30/95, but the account left open to enable final payments until
10/31/95, at which time US$1.4 million of undisbursed balance was cancelled.



- 23 -
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation
I.    Key implementation indicators                Estimated                Actual
A   In SAR/ President's Report
No indicators identified                        n.a.                  n.a.
B. Other indicators1'
1.    Sector value added, annual trends
2.    Production prices, annual trends
3.    Sector investment, by agent and year
4.    Agricultural trade balance, annual
5.   Investment components, physical and
financial progress
IL Key Operation Indicators
A.  In SAR/President's Reportt
No indicators identified                        n.a.                  n.a.
B.  Other indicators (investment component)
1.   Irrigation projects
- production
- farm budgets
- water use
- user group administration
2.    Rural potable water
- user group administration
3.    Groundwater monitoring - physical and
Il--if bio-chemical
It    Indicators presented in the Borrower's semestrial progress reports.



- 24 -
Table 6: Studies Included in Project
Study          Purpose as defined       Status        Impact of study
at
appraisal/redefined
Transport Cost       Analyze the pros     Completed 9/90   Subsidy was
Equalization Scheme   and cons to                           eliminated in
for Cereals          eliminating the                        1992.
subsidization of
domestic cereals
transport.
2.    Impact of Removal    Define a pilot        Completed        Liberalization of
of Feed Grain        programme for        11/90             maize (1992) and
Subsidies and Import  private imports of                    soybean meal
Liberalization       feed products.                         (1993) imports.
3.    Study of Irrigation   Define steps in      Completed 2/91   Agreement to
Tariff Structure and    addition to the pre-                continue the same
Levels               effectiveness 9%                       level of real
real tariff increase                 increases in tariffs,
to further improve                    inclusion of
cost recovery.                        binomial
tarification among
payment options in
contracts with
irrigants, and
future
implementation by
CRDAs of
commercial
accounting for
irrigation
activities.
4.    Seasonal Pricing and   Analysis of policy  Completed 5/91   Government
Institutional Reform    issues affecting                    adoption in 1993
Options for Tunisia's  cereals and proposal                 of a monthly
Grain Marketing      of recommendations                     payment scheme
System               for future reform.                     that has helped
promote private
storage.



- 25 -
Study          Purpose as defined       Status        Impact of study
at
appraisal/redefined
5.    Master Plan for       Design reforms       Completed 3/92   Directly supported
Edible Oil Marketing   covering the role of                 Government's
in Tunisia, Second   processors and                         substantive
Phase                middlemen,                             reforms in
alleviation of                        marketing of
regulatory                            edible oils.
constraints, and                      Prepared ground
further privatization                 for later overhaul
of domestic                           and liberalization
marketing.                            of olive oil
collection and
marketing.
6.    Irrigation Tariffs for   Update of a similar   Completed 7/92   Reinforcement of
Complete Recovery    study conducted the                    the previously
of O&M costs         year previously.                       agreed strategy.
7.    The Red Meat Sector  Define a strategy for  Draft completed   Document's
in Tunisia and the   El Louhoum           8/92              recommendations
Restructuring of El    restructuring.                       were discussed
Louhoum                                                     with Government;
little restructuring
apart from staff
reductions.



- 26 -
Table 7: Project Costs and Financing'
Appraisal estimate (US$M)      Actual/latest estimate
(US$M)           l
Item               Local   Foreign              Local   Foreign
costs    costs     Total    costse    costs,    Total
1. Groundwater studies and                         15.5       5.8       5.8     11.6
monitoringi
2. Integrated agricultural                                    0.5       1.1      1.6
development of Sidi M'haddeb
3. Agricultural development of                      10.0      1.4       1.9      3.3
Gafsa (27 wells)                                                                       l
4. Hlill dam-n                                                0.3       0.5      0.8
5. Integrated rural                                 9.8       5.4       7.3     12.7
development of North-West
Region                                                    .
6. Rural potable water                                        8.2      10.8     19.0
7. Irrigation intensification of                              1.2       1.4      2.6
Degache-El Hamma b
8. Development ot Tozeur                                      2.6       2.8      5.4
Oasis C
9. Chograne irrigation                                        0.1       0.3      0.4
perimetelr
10. Others d                                       49.7       0.0       0.0      0.0
TOTAL                 51.0     34.0      85.0     25.6      31.9     57.5
Costs shown are of the investment component of the loan.
b Contacts for water distribution and greenhouse components included in the original project
concept, estimated at $1.3 million, were delayed beyond project closing.
' Contracts for waterway lining investment included in the original project concept, estimated at $0.7
million, were delayed beyond project closing.
d The appraisal report indicated 11 other investment projects that were never financed by the Loan.
"Local costs" are payments from the Government budget and "foreign costs" are Loan
disbursements.



- 27 -
Table 8: Economic Costs and Benefits
No ex post estimation of economic costs and benefits was undertaken on the nine investment sub-
projects for the following reasons:
a)  two sub-projects, Sidi M'hadded integrated development and NW Region integrated
development, consisted of partial support (temporally and financially) of larger programs.
It is not possible to allocate benefits specifically to the ASAL II financing;
b)  five irrigation sub-projects, Chograne, Degache - El Hamma, Tozeur, Gafsa and the hill
dam, have just entered or have yet to enter into production, so benefits remain
hypothetical;
c)  one sub-project, groundwater monitoring, provides critical information on the resource,
but no measurable benefits; and
d)  one sub-project, rural potable water, provides benefits such as improved health and
reduced collection time, but baseline and impact data needed to evaluate these are absent.



- 28 -
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants
Overall Project Status: S
Agreement             Cov.            Original   Revised
Section   Type   Status    Date      Date           Description of Covenants
Loan         5.01(a)    12      C      12/31/89  08/31/90  The Government shall open grain
collection to the private sector.
5.01(b)    12      C     12/31/89  08/31/90  The Government shall establish criteria
for licensing private exporters of olive oil
and authorize those meeting such criteria
to export.
5.01(c)    12      C     12/31/89  08/31/90  The Government shall transfer beef to the
list of freely importable products, impose
a variable tariff to provide for 15%
nominal protection and ensure appropriate
sanitary norms.
5.01(d)    12      C     12/31/89  08/31/90  The Government shall eliminate all
quantitative restrictions on imports of
powdered milk and impose a variable
levy to provide 15% nominal protection.
5.01(e)    12      C     12/31/89  08/31/90  The Government shall authorize imports
of tractors of the same horsepower
manufactured in Tunisia, subject to a
maximum tariff of 35% and a temporary
surcharge of up to 30%.
Sched. 1    5      C      12/31/89            The Government shall make satisfactory
Para.             C     12/31/90  10/31/91  progress in carrying out the overall
5(a)                                          program.
Sched.     5      C      12/31/90            The Government shall prepare and
4(1)                                          furnish to the Bank the recommendations
of the Second Phase of the Cereal
Marketing Master Plan.



- 29 -
Agreement           1 Cov.            Original   Revised
Section   Type   Status    Date      Date           Description of Covenants
Sched.    12      C      12/31/90  06/30/91  The Government shall adjust the prices of
4(2'                                          subsidized fertilizers, animal feed,
improved cereal seeds, seed potatoes and
herbicide 2-4-D to eliminate 30% of unit
subsidies.
Sched.    12       C     12/31/90  06/30/91  The Government shall reduce FOSDA's
4(3)                                          agricultural credit lending volume by
1 ____    _____15% in 1990 compared to 1989.
Sched.    12      C      12/31/90  06/30/91  The Government shall improve cost
4(4)                                          recovery for irrigation water based on
review in Section 3.05.
Sched.     5      C      12/31/90  10/31/91  The Government shall take necessary
4(5)                                          measures to satisfactorily regulate the use
of pesticides and herbicides.
3.03(a)    5       C                         The Coordinating Committee shall be
maintained.
3.03(b)    9       C                         The DGPIA and the Coordinating
Committee will monitor implementation
of loan.
3.01      9       C      12/90    06/30/91  The DGPIA and the Coordinating
Committee will furnish a report on the
progress of program implementation.
3.04(a)    5       C       10/31             The DGPIA will select Agricultural
every             Programs and Projects for appraisal based
year              on specified criteria.
3.04(b)    5       C     10/31/89            The DGPIA will submit a list of proposed
Agricultural Programs and Projects to the
Bank by October 31 each year for
execution the following year.



- 30 -
Agreement            1 Cov. 1           Original 1 Revised
Section   Type    Status    Date      Date            Description of Covenants
3.05      5       C        By      01/31/91  The Governnent will carry out a review
10/31/90            by October 31, 1990 of the level and
structure of irrigation water charges.
3.06      5       C        By      10/31/91  The Government will carry out a study to
03/31/90            design a pilot program permitting the
private sector to import animal feed,
furnish this report to the Bank for review,
and take satisfactory measures to
implement recommendations.
3.07(a)    1       C      Ongoing             The Government shall maintain adequate
records and accounts for the operations
and expenditures of the loan.



- 31 -
Agreement           1 Cov. 1          Original | Revised
Section   Type   Status    Date     Date            Description of Covenants
3.07(b)    I       C       9/30             The Government shall have accounts
every             described in 3.07(a) for each fiscal year
year             audited, provide copy to the Bank within
nine months of fiscal year, and provide
any other information requested by the
Bank about these accounts.
3.07(c)    1      C      Ongoing            The Government shall maintain adequate
records and accounts for withdrawals
from the loan account, ensure that such
accounts are included in the audit report
and permit Bank examination of accounts.
C  = covenant complied with
CD = complied with after delay
CP = complied with partially
NC = not complied with



- 32 -
Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs"
Stage of             Planned2'             Revisedv               Actual
project cycle     Weeks       US$       Weeks       US$       Weeks       US$
('000)
Preparation to                                                     163.8      598.5
appraisal                                                                            l
Appraisal                                                           35.9      131.2
Negotiations through
Board Approval                                                       4.7       17.2
Supervision                                                         79.1      289.0
Completion                                                            1.1       4.0
| TOTAL                                                              284.6   1,039.9
" Also includes Bank-financed and trust fund consultants.
21 Planned and revised figures on staff inputs are not available in the Project files.



- 33 -
Table 11: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of             Month/  Number  Days  Specialized staff skills      Performance ratingY        Types of
project cycle           year       of      in        represented!'     Implementation  Development  problems-
persons  field                            status       objectives
Through appraisal
1st preparation  9-10/87    8      12
2nd preparation   12/87     10      15
Appraisal through Board approval
Appraisal 10-11/88     8       18
Supervision
Pre-effectiveness  9-10/89    3      21       eco/irrig/chief
Effectiveness   12/89     7       8        eco/irrig/disb/
1st  12/89       7       9   Econ/Irrig/trade&tariff       1              1
/credit/disburs./livest.
2nd  10-11/90     1      22          agr. eco               2              1
3rd  5-6/91       1      11          agr. eco               1             1
-    11/91       1       1         Irrig. Eng
4th   2/92       2       8         eco/agr.eco             1              1
5th   3/93       1       9             eco                 1              1
6th   11/94      1       6             eco                 S              S
Completion                        3/95       1       3             eco
Key to specialized staff skills.
Key to status as shown in Supervision Form 590 (in revision).
Key to problems as shown in Supervision Form 590 (in revision).



- 34 -                            APPENDIX A
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIQUE TUNISIENNE
DEUXIEME PRET A L'AJUSTEMENT DANS LE SECTEUR AGRICOLE
(PRET 3078-TUN)
Aide-memoire de la mission de concertation de la Banque mondiale
(3-10 novembre 1994)
INTRODUCTION
1.    Une mission repr6sent6e par M. Mink de la Banque mondiale s'est occupee du suivi du PASA
II, du 3 au 10 novembre dernier. Cette mission a tenu des reunions avec les responsables de la
DG/FE et de la DG/PDIA, au Ministere de l'agriculture, et, A la fin, avec le Ministere de la
cooperation internationale et de l'investissement exterieur. Les conclusions et recomnimandations de la
mission sont les suivantes:
2.    Audit de l'exercice 1993. La date limite de 1'envoi dudit audit - fin-septembre 1994 - etant
d6passee sans que la Banque n'en ait eu reception, la mission a discute avec les responsables du
MOIC l'etat de preparation du rapport et a et informee que l'equipe avait demarr6 son travail debut
novembre. La Banque vient d'&re informee que le rapport serait disponible fin-janvier 1995 au plus
tard.
3.    Prorogation de la date de cl6ture. Sur la base des informations fournies par la DG/FE, la
mission a conununique son avis qu'une prorogation de la date de cl6ture - 31 decembre 1994 - de six
mois etait souhaitable. Ceci permettrait les dernieres imputations de deux composantes:
Developpement des oasis de Tozeur et Intensification de l'irrigation a Degache-EI Hamma, qui sont
inscrites pour financement depuis le programme de 1992. La Banque vient de recevoir la requete
officielle de prorogation de la part du MOIC.
4.    La mission a demande A la DG/FE de mettre A jour le tableau "Situation des Depenses sur
PASA II", modifie pour refleter les montants des paiements r6alises et ceux encore a effectuer, par
composante, ainsi que l'implication sur le solde du pret (en dinars et en dollars). Ce tableau serait
envoye a la Banque dans les meilleurs delais.
5.    Rapport d'achevement du proiet. La mission a collabore avec la DG/PDIA A la mise en place
des arrangements necessaires au rapport d'ach6vement du Pret. Les directives de la Banque, qui
decrivent les responsabilit6s de la Banque et du Ministere ont et revisees. Le calendrier prevoit que
la Banque envoie a la DG/PDIA, pour fin-mars 1995, une version preliminaire du document, ce qui
lui permettrait de reporter sa propre evaluation et la remise de ses commentaires A fin-avril 1995.
6.    La mission a discute deux etudes preparatoires pour le rapport d'achevement, qui ont
demarre. La premiere est une analyse de la realisation et de l'impact des reformes reglementaires
visant la liberalisation des marches. La mission a sollicite l'assistance du MOIC pour faciliter le
travail du bureau d'etude engage, en lui demandant de faire circuler aupres des personnes - privees
comme publiques - interessees par ces reformes, une lettre ou circulaire d'introduction officielle pour
cette tiche. Pour I'autre etude, une analyse ex posteriori des politiques de prix sur la base d'une
actualisation du modele multi-sectoriel, la DG/PDIA a collabore en fournissant des donnees de base.
La realisation des deux etudes est programmee pour fin-fevrier 1995.



-35 -                              APPENDIX A
Page 2 of 3
7.     Un dernier 6l6ment de la preparation du rapport d'achevement serait des fiches d'evaluation
des neufs projets/programmes d'investissement finances par le pr6t. Un modele de ces fiches serait
envoy6 par la Banque a la DG/FE, pour fin 1994, et celle-ci coordonnerait la preparation de ces
fiches par les agences d'exkcutionF'.
Fait a Washington
le 6 decembre
Stephen Mink
Charge de projets
Banque mondiale
5 These evaluation forms were completed by the DG/FE. The information available, and provided on these
forms, was not adequate to permit estimating actual economic rates of return.



-36 -                                 APPENDIX A
Page 3 of 3
Deuxieme Pret d'Ajustement du Secteur Agricole - PASA II (TUN-3078)
Mission de Concertation, 28 Mars - 14 Avril
Plan d'Actions
..   .   ....   .   ..   ..   .. ..   .. .  . . . .  .   ...   ..   ..   ...
?,,;  -   ftXt} ..     .XWtWtf   --;-   A..0.j  T} f...... ..f .....  ..i;   ...:.;.  . ;. : .... . .    ...tX;'i:   ;DTEf   T:t;0} ?0f:-?ffffX}.
Addiit                   RpMblt                   PawuConenar
Remboursement du         DG/FE, BCT               fin-mai, 1995
Compte Speciale de
I'avance, marche
resile
Calcule de sur-          DG/FE, BCT               fin-mai, 1995
decaissement du
Compte Spciale, et
remboursement
Envoi A BIRD des         DG/FE                    fin-juin, 1995           Fiches seront fait par
fiches d'evaluation des                                                    agence d'execution
sub-projets
d'6valuation
ClOture de pret          DG/FE, BIRD              30 juin, 1995
Envoi de Partie 1,      BIRD                     fin-juillet, 1995
Rapport
d'Achevement du Pret
Envoi de Partie II,      DG/PDIA, DG/FE           fin-septembre, 1995
Rapport
d'Achevement du Pret
Envoi a BIRD de          Min. Coop. Intern.       fin-septembre, 1995      DG/FE a contacter le
I'audit, exercice 1994                                                     Min. Fin. pour
programmer l'audit
Fait A Tunis
Stephen Mink
le 14 avril 1995



- 37 -
APPENDIX B
Borrower contribution to the ICR
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
IMPLEMENTATION OF THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
1. PRESENTATION:
In 1987, Tunisia embarked on an economic reform program which aims at laying the groundwork
for higher medium- and long-term growth.
This program is based on a reduction of the budget deficit, a consistent price policy and a real
exchange rate.
In addition, one important component of this structural adjustment effort is the Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Program, which has been undertaken in view of the importance of this sector to the economy
of the country.
II. GOALS OF THE MEDIUM TERM AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
(MT ASAP):
The objective of the Medium Term ASAP program is the strengthening of the contribution of
agriculture to overall economic growth, the balancing of the budget and of the balance of payments and
the creation of jobs.
To obtain these goals, the government initiated a policy mainly based on:
a.    A consistent price and subsidy policy. This policy consists in liberalizing and adjusting
production prices and gradually eliminating subsidies in order to create an environment
which is conducive to private sector participation and the liberalization of activities.
b.    Streamlining of government intervention, including a gradual withdrawal from business
activities which can be adequately discharged by the private sector and the strengthening
of its regulatory function.
c.    Higher efficiency in expenditure and public investment policies, in accordance with the
objectives of development and the priorities of agricultural policy.
d.    Streamlining of the use of natural resources, land, water, forests and fishing resources.
e.    Strengthening of the Ministry's capacity for analyzing and monitoring the sector's
performance.



- 38 -
III. IMPLEMENTATION OF THE ASAP:
In implementing this program, the govermment attaches paramount importance to the optimum
use of resources.  It therefore puts a priority on measures aimed at improving productivity, at
strengthening the effectiveness of the production incentives and at optimizing government intervention.
3.1   In the area of prices and subsidies:
Producer prices of cereals for the 1989-1990 crop year rose to 24.5 D/Q for durum wheat, 20.9
D/Q for soft wheat and 15 D/Q for barley, compared with, respectively, 22.5, 19.9 and 14.5 D/Q for
the crop year 1988-1989.
These prices were set for the crop year 1991-1992 at 26 D/Q for durum wheat, 22.5 D/Q for soft
wheat and 15 D/Q for barley. Since that year, these prices have remained unchanged until 1994-1995,
when they reached, respectively, 27.5, 24 and 15 D/Q. It should be noted that, as far as barley is
concemed, this posted price is only an intervention price, the marketing of this product being free.
These prices were established using a computing methodology which aims at bringing them nearer
to the unsubsidized world prices and takes into account the changes in production costs.
It is also noteworthy that the price rises during the last few years have been consistent with the
general trend in world prices and with the objectives of domestic price policy.
- The increase in producer prices was extended to milk, whose price rose from 290 mil/It in
1989-1990 to 330 mil/It in 1994-1995.
- At the input level, the price increases which accompanied the reduction in subsidies concerned
ammonitrate, single super phosphate and triple super phosphate.  Fertilizers are thus no longer
compensated and are no longer financed by the General Compensation Fund, as of 1992 for Super 16 and
ammonitrate, 1993 for DAP and 1994 for triple super phosphate.
Price reform has been extended to cattle feed, seeds and 2.4-D. These items are no longer
subsidized by the General Compensation Fund.
Importation of beef has been liberalized since 1990, contingent, however, on a 15% levy aimed
at ensuring a reasonable protection for domestic production. Technical specifications consistent with
intemational health standards have been drafted in order to assure the sanitary protection of the country.
This liberalization has allowed the private sector to play a larger role in importation activities
these last few years, its share reaching up to 40% of imported tonnage.
It should also be noted that the decrease in total imports over the last few years did not result
from specific policies to this effect, but is largely due to the drought that plagued the country the last two
years and which prompted the cattle raisers to slaughter an important portion of their herds.
3.2   In the area of public expenditures and agricultural investments:



- 39 -
During the VIIth Plan (1987-1991), the legal and institutional framework was considerably
enlarged thanks to the revision of the Code on Agricultural and Fishing Investment.
This enhancement results from the introduction of a greater flexibility in the management of the
Societies for Agricultural Improvement and Development (SMVDA), the extension of Code benefits to
service activities and the incentives for technicians and young farmers to join the agriculture and fishing
sectors.
These measures have been strengthened, during the VIIth Plan (1992-1997), by the enactment and
implementation of a new Code of Investment Incentives (Single Code), which not only confirmed the
benefits already granted to the agricultural sector, but extended them to the activities of primary
processing of agricultural and fishing products.
These encouragements and incentives triggered the increased willingness of the private sector to
invest in agriculture and fishing. As a result, the share of private investments in this sector during 1992-
95 topped 47%, compared to only 40% during the VIIth Plan.
This tendency could have been more in evidence without the delays in implementation of the new
Code and the slowing down of investment in the crop years 1993-1994 and 1994-1995, which were
plagued by a drought.
Along with this effort, a certain substitution has been noticed in the assumption by the private
sector of some activities which used to be performed by public agencies. This concerned particularly
cereals, milk and oils, in addition to development of state-owned lands.
3.3   Improvement in the institutional framework of agriculture:
The Government is fostering the divestiture by public enterprises of some competitive business
activities and strengthening its regulatory function.
The Government intends to make sure that human and financial resources will be used at optimal
efficiency by delineating more clearly the respective roles of Government and economic units.
i.    In the cereal sector, the following actions have been taken:
- Enabling private operators to collect cereals under the same conditions as the central
cooperatives and the Cereal Board. Under this provision, three new collectors have been approved and
their capacity exceeds 100,000 quintals. Their activities, however, have been limited due to the modicity
of the harvest in 1994 and 1995.
- Offering incentives to private agents for building up cereal storage facilities. To this effect, a
national program of storage capacity extension, up to a level of 1.2 million tons by 1996, instead of the
current 0.63 million tons, has been devised. It includes three main components: silos in the production
areas, silos in the consumption areas and silos in the harbors. This program should be entirely
implemented by the private sector. To date, a new capacity of 250,000 tons has been established, the
total program foreseeing 570,000 tons.
- The withdrawal of the Cereal Board (CB) from activities not directly linked to the sector. In
this regard, the CB has launched a program for terminating its involvement in the relevant enterprises
by means of a Commission for Rehabilitation and Restructuring of the enterprises in which the public



- 40 -
sector owns equity (CAREPP). As a result, the CB has already transferred to the private sector activities
such as bread baking (SOTEBI), children's foods (SAHA), milling (STIM) and livestock feed production.
ii.    In the oil sector: the Governnent already took action for streamlining this sector by
phasing out subsidies to vegetable oil.
In addition, a press release of May 1990 authorized the traders to export olive oil to foreign
markets. So, until 1994, 27 traders have been licensed by the National Commission for Licensing Olive
Oil Exporters.
As of May 1994, under a new regulation establishing conditions for the marketing of cooking oil,
including the abolition of the National Oil Board's monopoly and the formulation of licensing
requirements for olive oil exporters, 18 additional traders have been cleared for export.
During the crop year 1994-95, the level of olive oil collection by private traders exceeded 6,000
tons (mainly for export), which represents over 60% of total collection, during a period of low
production. In addition, some 50,000 tons of olive oil have been marketed domestically, exclusively by
private traders.
3.4   Improvement of supporting services:
3.4.1- Research: In order to endow agriculture with a research system which would be better
suited to the demands of development as well as the real needs of the farmners, the Ministry of Agriculture
has drafted a Master Plan of Agricultural Research and, in 1990, created an institution for Agricultural
Research and Higher Education. This agency has been entrusted with the planning and coordination of
agricultural research activities.
Regarding these programs, there has been a listing of priorities by decreasing urgency and 11
priority programs have already been decided and are under steam. Likewise and in view of a better
streamlining of the work, seven regional poles will be created, having as their main tasks coordinating
research activities in their regions and facilitating the spread of acquired knowledge to the farmers, in
close cooperation with the extension services and the professionals. There are currently four poles in
action; they operate in the Northeast, the Northwest, the semi-arid Northeast and the East Central.
3.4.2. Extension services: As in the case of research, the Ministry of Agriculture has thought
deeply about the extension services over the next ten years, reserving an important place for the
profession, especially through the chambers of agriculture.
In order to avoid duplications and an overcrowding of the field, in 1990 the Ministry created an
Agricultural Extension and Training Agency for coordinating all extension activities.
For supporting these two programs, research and extension, a project for developing research and
extension is being implemented, with co-financing by the World Bank.
Moreover, with the reorganization of the regional services of the Ministry, in particular the
abolition of the Boards for improvement of irrigated tracts, and the creation of IRESA and AVFA, it has
been understood that there should be some bridge structure, capable of establishing functional links
between those institutions themselves and between them and the farmers. It was therefore decided to set
up specialized technical centers for the main agricultural branches. They will be mainly entrusted with
projects of applied research, with making their results known to the farmers and to guide the latter in



- 41 -
technical and economic matters. It should be noted that such centers will engage exclusively in technical
activities. A Technical Center for Potato Cultivation is currently being established.
3.4.3 Marketing of inputs: Since the regional services of the Ministry of Agriculture were
reorganized, by merging the Development Offices with the CRDA, the marketing of inputs, which used
to be an activity essentially conducted by the regional OMVs, is now entirely entrusted to the private
sector. Many individuals and agricultural technicians have already settled in the production areas and
have created agricultural services enterprises, taking advantage of the encouragement and incentives which
the various investment Codes provide.
3.4.4 Management of water-related infrastructures: In the framework of the withdrawal of
the Government from services and activities which can be provided by the private sector, efforts have
been made for revising the regulations regarding the AICs in order to allow them more flexibility for
taking over the management of the water-related infrastructure, as well as for strengthening their
extension efforts and their training. As a result, the incentives and encouragements provided by the
Ministry's new Investment Code and the extension efforts of its technical units have resulted in a steady
increase in the number of Abcs over the years. There are currently over 1,400 Abcs for safe water and
over 450 for the management of the irrigated tracts.
3.4.5 Reorganization of the profession: The VIlIth Plan has been particularly concerned with
the reorganization of the profession in view of the improvement and strengthening of its intervention
capacity in the farming community. An assessment has also been undertaken of the activities of the three
Chambers of Agriculture set up since 1988 and a package of measures is being implemented to improve
their level of performance.
In addition, during the period 1993-1994, the regulations concerning the interprofessional groups
has been revised, in order to provide them with a larger autonomy in their decision taking, in the
management of the resources available to them as in the discharge of the missions entrusted to them.
As to the agricultural services cooperatives, efforts undertaken in matters of assistance, extension
and mobilization, combined with the incentives from which they benefit, have revitalized them and gained
them the trust of the producers. As a result, the 166 CSAs have a combined membership of 35,000.
3.4.6 Agricultural Credit:
In order to achieve a real cost of agricultural credit and a streamlining of its use, interest rates
have been raised to 10% as of July 1992 compared with 9% in January 1991 for the season credits.
Moreover, in the framework of the new Code for Incentives to Investment, deepgoing reforms
have affected agricultural credit, in particular, the raising of the interest rate to the level of the market
rate and the elimination of the discounts formerly granted to the agricultural sector.
In addition, in the framework of the reform of the agricultural credit system, the Government
withdrew from granting loans to farmers save in exceptional circumstances in which farmers of highly
disadvantaged areas, such as the areas of Integrated Rural Development Programs (PDRI), may find
themselves.  As a result, the resources of the Special Agricultural Development Fund (FOSDA) are
almost exclusively used for covering the incentives granted by the Government in the form of capital
grants.
3.5    Streamlining of the Use of Natural Resources:



- 42 -
In the field of land ownership and use structures, reforms have been introduced since 1987,
especially the acceleration of the settlement of collective land claims and the organization of land lease
for increased tenure security of the farmers. During the VIlIth Plan (1992-1996), a new program of
structural land reforms has been implemented with the following objectives:
- accelerating the updating of frozen ownership titles and eliminating the causes of the current
situation of many non-current titles;
- limiting farm fragmentation below minimum size levels in order to ensure the economic
conditions of production and viability of the individual farms;
- fostering the economic use of the land and fighting absenteeism and low-productivity use;
For this purpose, a comprehensive legal package, which will remove the current land ownership
and use constraints, is being prepared and is nearing completion.
For Government-owned land, a comprehensive strategy has been devised with an eye to
improving the level of effective use of the existing potential and ensuring the required efficiency of this
management. An ambitious program was launched during the 1980s and revised in the early 1990s.
This program is centered on the consolidation and strengthening of the production units which
yield satisfactory results and the creation of agricultural improvement and development societies
(SMVDA), as well as the settling of technicians and young developers within the units which experience
management problems and which require an additional effort in matters of financing and leadership. The
said program calls for the creation of SMVDAs and the settlement of technicians and young developers
on about 220,000 hectares. By 1995, about 100 SMVDAs had been constituted.
Regarding water and soil conservation, the Agriculture Ministry has implemented a strategy for
accelerating the protection of the soil and improving the rate of water use. To this end, a protection
program has been adopted, covering one million hectares through the year 2000, requiring the
mobilization of 200 million dinars.
Achievements up to 1994 include development of some 300,000 hectares of watersheds,
maintenance of earlier works on more than 110,000 hectares, development of 35,000 hectares of sloping
land for cereal crops and construction of 307 farm ponds.
With regard to forests, the objective is a rational management of this natural resource, which
includes an improved logging system, protection of the forests and a forestry system based on
development and reforestation.
A strategy has been devised to this effect. It entails mainly the reforestation of 220,000 hectares
and rangeland development on 2.2 million hectares.
The two forestry projects cofinanced by the World Bank illustrate this new approach.
It should also be noted that new forestry and water and soil conservation codes have been enacted
the last few years. They aim at better management and rational use of these resources and imply a
greater responsibility for the beneficiaries. These codes provide various incentives and encouragements
to organization of the beneficiaries and their participation in the management and exploitation of the
resources.



- 43 -
Concurrently, a comprehensive and integrated study is being undertaken in view of the
formulation of long-tern development strategy for natural resources.
The fishing sector has shown some weakening in the early 1990s. In order to strengthen its
position, an incentive system has been set up in order to encourage fishing in the North instead of in the
overfished South. The new code of investment incentives includes also a set of incentives for fostering
fishing in the northern regions.
In addition, new legislation enacted in 1995 regulates fishing operations. It aims in particular at
streamlining the use of the country's maritime resources. It introduces specific authorization for the
various fishing areas, determination of minimum sizes for the various species of fishes, prohibition of
fishing in certain areas and fixation of a time frame for authorized fishing of some endangered species.
CONCLUSION:
The political and institutional reforms, some of which are fundamnental, applied in the framework
of the agricultural sector adjustment program, have in the aggregate reached their stated goals. The many
single actions taken dealt with several aspects of agricultural development:
- elimination of all forms of subsidization at production level;
- liberalization of prices and both domestic and foreign trade for the bulk of agricultural
products;
- reorganization of administrative services and parastatal agricultural support units;
- reform of the agriculture sector financing policy; and
- reform of the land tenure system and improvement of natural resources management.
All these measures, even though they contributed to improving the general environment
of the sector, can, however, not fully explain the results that were achieved since the inception of the
ASAP, in either production or in investment and the agricultural and foodstuffs trade balance. These
three aspects have, indeed, performed quite unevenly over the last three years due, in particular, to
weather conditions which fluctuated between very favorable and extremely adverse. It would therefore
be difficult to assess the real medium term impact of the implementation of the ASAP. An assessment
could be made over a longer period, the more so since the agricultural sector is concurrently going
through profound changes as a result of the implementation of the OMC agreements on agriculture and
the partnership agreement with the European Union.



-44 -
TUNISIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Timetable of Key Actions
Actions to be taken by           Actions to be taken by           Actions to be taken by
June 30, 1989                  December 31, 1989                December 31, 1990
PARASTATAL REFORM                                                                                                                  l
Office des Cereales (OC)         1. Submission to Bank of an action  1. Initial actions acceptable to the   1. Follow-up actions acceptable to
plan to disengage OC from        Bank to implement action plan (e.g. the Bank to implement action plan
investments and activities not   withdrawal from extension and
directly related to the cereals  from investments outside the
subsector and to strengthen its  subsector)
regulatory role
Office National des Huiles (ONH)   2. Submission to the Bank of the    2. Submission to the Bank of an    2. Initial implementation of action
first phase of the Edible Oil    action plan based on the first phase  plan based on the first phase of the
Marketing Master Plan, including    of the Edible Oil Marketing Master  Edible Oil Marketing Master Plan,
specific measures to improve the  Plan                            and submnission to the Bank of an
efficiency of importing and local                                 action plan based on the second
processing of edible oils in order to                             phase of the Master Plan
reduce subsidies form the Caisse
Generale de Compensation (CGC)                                                                    l
3. Submission to the Bank of an
action plan to disengage the ONH
in a manner consistent with the
national policy of disengagement
l___________________  of parastatal enterprises
PRICING AND MARKETING                                                                                                              l
Cereals                         4. Presentation to the Bank of a  4. Adjustment of support prices  4. Second adjustment of support
detailed methodology to be used  according to new formula         prices according to new formula
annually to determine the support
prices of durum wheat, bread
wheat and barley (4-year moving
average of international reference
prices plus transport and handling                                                                      m m
costs and the 15% minimum tariff)                                                                       o x
ox>



- 45 -
TUNISIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Timetable of Key Actions
Actions to be taken by            Actions to be taken by            Actions to be taken by
June 30, 1989                   December 31, 1989                 December 31, 1990
5. Preparation of a study to      5. Joint evaluation with the Bank
introduce a seasonal price system  of the study and eventual adoption
of the recommendations
Beef                                                                 6. El Louhoum to sell at its
breakeven price
Milk                              7. Presentation to the Bank of a   7. Adjustment of support prices   7. Second adjustment of support
detailed methodology to be used   according to formula               prices according to formula
annually to determine the support
price of milk (4-year moving
average of GATT International
Milk Council prices plus transport
and handling costa and the 15%
minimum tariff)                                    _
PRICING AND MARKETING
Input Subsidies                                                      8. Increase in prices of subsidized
inputs (i.e. fertilizers, animal feed,
improved cereal seed, seed potatoes
and 2-4-D herbicide) so as to
eliminate 15% of unit subsidies and
increase of irrigation water charges
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   by    9%   in    real  terms
SUPPORT SERVICES                                                                     _
Input marketing                   9. Presentation to the Bank of     9. Selection of "d6l6gations' from   9. Effective withdrawal of public
criteria for withdrawal of public  which public sector agencies could   sector agencies from 80% of
sector agencies from 'd6l6gations    withdraw consistent with criteria    selected Wddlfgations*
where the private and/or          and effective withdrawal from 20%
cooperative sector is providing   of those "d6l6gations'                                                       I'd
._______________________________  adequate   service           .                                                                     |
o >x



- 46 -
TUNISIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Timetable of Key Actions
Actions to be taken by           Actions to be taken by            Actions to be taken by
June 30, 1989                  December 31, 1989                December 31, 1990
Livestock Services                                                 10. Withdrawal of the Livestock    10. Withdrawal of OEP from
and Pasture Office (OEP) from    70% of its remaining directly
20% of its remaining directly    productive units
l _________________________________                                productive   units
Research and Extension           11. Issuance of necessary         11. Adoption of the methodology
directives acceptable to the Bank    for programming and budgeting of
defining the role and operating  research programs by the single
procedures for programming and   agricultural research institute being
budgeting of I to 3 priority     created by combining INRAT, the
programs of agricultural research    Institut de l'Olivier, the Institut des
regions Arides CRGR and INRF
12. Submission to the Bank of an
organizational chart for extension
of the regional and local levels with
descriptions of the responsibilities
at each level and proposals for their
coordination at the central level
Credit                                                             13. In 1989, reduction of the
credit part of FOSDA by 15%
compared to 1988
14. Increase interest rates so as to   14. Increase interest rates so as to
reduce the differential between  reduce the differential between
market rates and preferential    market rates and preferential
agricultural rates by 0.5 to 1.0  agricultural rates by a further to
point                            0.5 to 1.0 point
NATURAL RESOURCES
Land Policy                                                                                          15.Joint review of actions taken
and future programs for the            3
restructuring of agricultural land   o x
holdings                            F-h












i 1MAt   NC 4 N;
i eport No:          15355
Type: ICE



