Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFIIAAL USE ONLY
30'-7 X- tv)AJ
Report No. P-5001-lTUN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$84.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
MAY 1, 1989
This document has a resticted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the pform:nce of
their offlial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALE4TS
SDR 1.00 = dinars (TD) 1.2287 (February 1989)
Official exchange Rate: Dinar (TD) Per US Dollar
Period                 End of Period           Period Average
1980                      0.4187                   0.4050
1981                      0.5157                   0.4938
1982                      0.6158                   0.5907
1983                      0.7271                   0.6788
1984                      0.8666                   0.7788
1985                      0.7570                   0.8345
1986                      0.8402                   0.7940
1987                      0.7770                   0.8287
1988                      0.8985                   0.8578
1989 (February)           0.9298                   0.9371
Source: INF, International Financial Statistics, February 1989
WEIGHTS ANID MEASURES
1 kilometer (km) a 0.6214 mile (mi)
I hectare (ha) = 2.4711 acres (ac)
1 liter (1) = 1.0567 quarts (qt)
1 metric ton (ton) = 2,204.6226 pounds (lb)
1 quintal (qt) = 220.46226 pounds (lb)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to Deeember 31



FOR OMCIL US ONLY
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ARAPPI       :Irrigated Land Reform Agency
(Agence pour la Reforme Agraire dans
les perimitres publics irriguds)
BUT          :National Bank of Tunisia
(Banque nationale de Tunisie)
BNDA         :National Rank for Agricultural Development
(Banque nationale pour le developpement agricole)
CCGC         :Central Cooperative for Field Crops
(Cooperative centrale des grandes cultures)
CCPS         :Central Cooperative for Seeds and Seedlings
(Cooperative centrale des plants et semences)
CES          :Soil and Water Conservation Department
(Conservation des Eaux et des Sols)
CGC          :General Compensation Fund
(Caisse Gendrale de Compensation)
CGP          :Fishery Authority
(Conuiissariat Gdndral de la Peche)
COCE8LE      :Central Cooperative for Wheat
(Coopirative centrale du bld)
COSEN        :Seed Cooperative
(Coopdrative des semences)
CRGR         :Research Center for Rural Engineering
(Centre de Recherche du Genie Rural)
OWAFL        :Department of Legislation and Land Ownership
(Direction Generale des Affaires Foncteres et de la Legislation)
DGE6TH       :Department of Studies and Large Hydraulic Works
(Direction Gendrale des Etudes et des Granca
Travaux Hydrauliques)
OG6R           Cepartment of Rural Engineering
(Direction Gdnerale du Gdnie Rural)
DGPOIA       :Department of Development Planning and Agricultural Investments
(Direction Gendrale de la planification du developpemnt et des
investissements agricoles)
06PA         :Department of Animal Production
(Direction Gendrale de la production animale)
OGPV           Department of Crop Production
(Direction Generale de ta production vigitale)
oRE          :Department of Water Resources
(Direction Gdndrale des Ressources en Eau)
OPCE         :Department of Prices and Economic Control
(Direction des Prix et du Contr6le Economique)
ORS          :Soils Division
(Direction des Ressources en Sols)
FOSOA        :Agricultural Development Funds
(Fonds spectaux de developpament agricole)
INRAT        :Tunisian National Institute for Agricultural Research
(Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique de Tunisie
INRF         :Tunisian National Institute of Forestry Research
(Institut National de la Recherche Forestire
WTASAP       :ldiue -Term Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program
aC           :National Cereal Authority
(Office des cdrdales)
ODESYPANO    :Northwest Rural Development Authority
(Office de ODveloppement Sylvo-pastoral du Nord-Ouest)
OEP          :National Livestock and Range Agency
(Office de l dlevage et du paturage)
OmV          :Irrigation Development Office
(Office de mise en valeur)
OII          :lattonal oil Board
(Office national des huiles)
PPI          :Public Irrigation Perimeters
(Pdrimltres publics irriguds)
SOR A          National Farm Mechanization Company
(Socidtd nationale de motoculture)
STEC         :National Fertilizer Company
(Socidtd tunisienne des engrais chimiques)
UCP          :Production Cooperative
(Unitd coopdrative de production)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR AOJUSTMENT LOAN
Loan and Program Summarv
Borrw4gr:                    Republic of Tunisia
ount:                        US$84.0 million equivalent
Terms:                       17 years. including S years of grace, at the standard variable
interest rate
sgfriljtion:                 The proposed loan would support the implementation of the second phase
of the Government's medium-term agricultural sector adjustment program
(MTASAP). within the framework of the overall adjustment program
presented in the VIIth Plan (1987-91). The foreign exchange provided
by the loan would be used to finance: (a) a positive list of
agricultural inputs needed to stimulate agricultural production.
incluJing animal feed, petroleum products, agricultural machinery and
spare parts (US$SO.O million); and (b) part of the foreign exchange
cost of agricultural projects and programs (US$34.0 million). The
principal objective of the sector adjustment program is to maintain
the growth rate in agriculture in a time of reduced public resources.
To achieve this objective. actions would be taken in both the short
and medium term to: (i) reform the price, marketing and institutional
framework; (ii) reorient the public investment program in agriculture;
(i) strengthen agricultural support services including rationalizing
the role of the public sector; (iv) improve management of natural
resources of land, forests and fisheries; and (v) build up
institutional capacity for sector performance monitoring and impact
analysis. The Government's macroeconomic adjustment program is
designed to implement policy changes that would allow Tunisia to
achieve sustained growth in the framework of an internally and
externally balanced economy.
Benefits and Risks:          The reforms agreed under the loan are expected to lead to more
efficient use of resources in a time of resource constraints. In
particular, changes in the institutional and agricultural pricing and
incentives framework and public expenditure priorities are expected to
make the sector a more efficient producer of import substitutes and
export products. Risks relate to the length and difficulty of the
process, possible social and political pressures. unoredictable
developments in the external environment and uncertainties in the
response of the private sector. These risks are limited by the
Government's strong commitment to objectives of both the macroeconomic
and sectoral adjustment programs, and by the inherent flexibility of
the phased medium-term approach.
Estia& ted Disbursements:    The proceeds of the loan, including for the investment component,
would be disbursed in two tranches: US$42 million equivalent soon
after effectiveness; US$42 million equivalent after implementation of
specific actions, including an overall review of the implementation of
the sectoral adjustment program.
Aporaisal Renort:            None.
F40s                         No. tBRO 21344
No. IBRO 21345
No. IBRO 21346
39061/pS



REPUBLIC OF TUNISAA
SECOXND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT WAN
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
PART I    - THE ECONOMY. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
PART II   - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS AND ASSISTANCE STRATEGY . . . . . . . . . 7
PART III  - THE EVOLUTION OF THE MEDIUM-TERM AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
A. Background . . . . . . . . . . . . . .*. . . * . . * * * .*  10
B. The Ongoing Sector Adjustment Program . . . . . . . . . . . 13
- Origin and Objectives .n....  .  .ecti ..................  13
- Progress to Date (ASAL-I) . . . . . .   . . . . .   . .   . . . 14
- Justification for Continued Bank Involvement . . . . . . . 14
- Price, Marketing and Parastatal Reform . . . . . . . . . . 15
- Reorienting the Public Investment
and Expenditure Program . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .  23
- Strengthening Essential Government Support Services . . . 23
- Improving Management of Natural Resources . . . . . . . . 29
- Building Up Sector Performance Monitoring
and Impact Analysis Capabilities . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
PART IV   -LOAN ADMINISTRATIAN .      ....................31
- Eligible Expenditures. ...........   ......   31
- Investment Component  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
- Procurement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
- Disbursement . . . . . . . . .  .           .            34
- Accounts and Audits ........                      .34
- Release of Funds and Tranching. ... .                    34
- Management, Coordination and Monitoring . . . . . . . . . 36
- Cooperation with Other Agencies. . . . . . . . . .  . . 36
- Economic, Financial, and Social Impact . . . . o .       36
- Environmental Impact . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  40
- Risks            . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             40
PART V    - RECOMMENDATION              . . . . . . . . . . .             41
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission consisting
of D. Lister (Mission Leader) and C. Chung (EK2AG), C. Vuylsteke (VPLKG),
R. Meddeb, A. Moens and J. Gastaldi (Consultants) who visited Tunisia in
October/November 1988.
(29063)



REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Table of Contents
(continued)
ANNS
I.       Key Economic IndicaLors
II.       Status of Bank and IFC Operations in Tunisia
III.       Progress under Existing Adjustment Operations
(ASAL-I, ITPAL and SAL)
IV.       Letter of Sectoral Adjustment Policy
V.       Supplementary Project Data Sheet
VI.       Value of Agricultural Production
VII.       Disbursement Schedule
MAPS
IBRD 21344 - Location of Main Crops
IBRD 21345 - Soil Suitability for Crops
IBRD 21346 - Rainfall and Irrigated Areas
SUPPORTING VOLUME:
Comprehensive Matrix of the Medium-Term
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program
(MTASAP)
< as



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OP THE NERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN AN AMOUN  EQURALENT TOUS$84.0 MELLIO
TO THE REPUBUC OF TUNISIA
INTRODUCTION
1.         submit the following zeport and recommendation on a proposed loan
for the equivalent of US$84.0 million to the Republic of Tunisia. It would
support the second phase (1989/90-1990/91) of the country's medium-term
agricultural sector adjustment program (MTASAP) begun in 1986/87 under the
first Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL-!)."  Under the proposed
operation, Tunisia would further liberalize the agricultural economy,
strengthen essential Government support services and improve management of
natural resources as described below. The US$84.0 million loan would be a
hybrid operation financing a positive list of agricultural imports and part of
the foreign exchange cost of high priority agricultural projects and
programs. The adjustments underway in agriculture are part of the overall
adjustment process aimed at promoting sustainable growth with'n a framework of
internal and external balance. ASAL-II would be the fourth quick disbursing
operation for Tunisia. The first was ASAL-I, for which a US$150 million loan
was approved in FY87. The second was the Industrial and Trade Policy
Adjustment Loan (ITPAL), for which another US$150 million loan was approved in
FY87. The third was the Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL), for which a US$150
million loan was approved in FY88. Performance under these operations has so
far been fully satisfactory (Annex III). Tunisia also successfully completed
the program agreed with the IMF under its first stand-by arrangement covering
the period November 1986 to May 1988, and an extended financing facility,
signed in July 1988, has been proceeding satisfactorily.
PART I - TME ECONOMfY
Background
2.       Tunisia is a medium-sized, middle-income country, with a population
of 7.5 million and a per capita income of US$1,210. Much of the country is
arid or semi-arid. Only 3 percent of arable land is irrigated and rainfed
agriculture is subject to severe year-to-year fluctuations in rainfall.
Nevertheless, nearly one-third of the labor force is occupied in agriculture.
Tunisia's most important raw materials are petroleum, natural gas, and
phosphates. Output of known exploitable reserves of oil and gas is
diminishing because of depletion, and the limited new reserves require costly
off-shore drilling. With the rise in domestic energy demand, Tunisia is
expected to become a net oil importer In the early 1990s. There is a
substantial phosphate processing industry, but it is constrained by the low
1/ Report No. P-4368 of September 3, 1986 (in 2 volumes).
3907E



quality of the phosphate deposits. Tourism, however, has been developing
rapidly and has much further potential.
3.       Tunisia has undertaken a massive effort to develop its human
resources, paying special attention to family welfare and education. As a
result, between the early 1960s and 1985, infant mortality declined from
almost 160 to 60 per thousand, life expectancy at birth rose from 48 to
62 years, adult literacy increased from 15 percent to 62 percent, and calorie
intake per capita increased from 95 percent to 121 percent of minimum standard
requirements.  An active family planning policy led to a decrease in birth
rates of 27 percent between 1965 and 1985. Nevertheless, as mortality
declined by 45 percent over the same period, population growth has continued
at 2.5 percent p.a.. The population has a young age structure, which,
together with the increasing entry of women into the labor force, has caused
the labor force to grow faster than population. The effect on unemployment,
which according to official estimates, reached 15 percent in 1988 and
particularly affects young entrants into the labor force, is a major concern
of the Government.
4.       During the 1970s the Tunisian economy performed strongly, aided by
oil exports. GDP growth averaged 7.4 percent per year over the decade and
non-oil exports grew at over 10 percent p.a. on the average. All sectors did
well, especially manufacturing, whose share in GDP and exports increased
substantially. To a great extent the rapid growth of GDP was due to high
levels of investment, about 30 percent of GDP, which was compatible with a
respectable growth of per capita consumption and a modest level of external
financing, thanks to earnings from oil. The current account deficit averaged
5-6 percent of GDP, though there was a brief increase in 1976-78 to a peak of
11 percent of GDP, which the resurgence of oil prices reduced again without
necessitating cutting back investment or consumption. Since Tunisia attracted
considerable foreign investment, it had no difficulty in completing the
financing of the current account from external sources. The country emerged
from the decade with a modest increase in external indebtedness to 42 percent
of GDP in 1979, as compared to 38 percent in 1970, and a debt service ratio of
only 10 percent. Domestic inflation remained moderate, averaging 6.1 percent
a year.
1980-84: Deteriorating economic performance
5.       Difficulties began in the 1980s:  although oil extraction declined as
expected and, in addition, world oil prices fell, the necessary economic
adjustments were slow in coming. The VIth Plan (1982-86) did, in fact,
propose maintaining internal and external balance by reducing the investment
rate, increasing emphasis on exports, and slowing the growth of recurrent
budget expenditures. To promote job creation it envisaged a shift to more
Wahor-intensive investment. But, in fact, these objectives were not pur.,Jed.
Instead, from 1980 to 1984, investment remained high, around 31 percent of GDP
with agricultural investment at about 4% of GDP. The greater part of
investment was in the public sector and included a number of large capital
intensive projects yielding few jobs and low economic returns. The five year
non-oil ICOR for this period was 6.0. Wages increased substantially faster
than productivity, further reducing the demand for labor. Inflation rose to
an average of 10.0 percent p.a., and exports slowed. The current account
deficit grew to 10.9 percent of GDP in 1984 with the agricultural merchandise
3907R



- 3 -
trade deficit representing 3.2% of GDP. These expansionary policies kept
growth high; it averaged 4.5 percent for the period, despite a drought in
1982 that slightly reduced GDP. But they depended on continued external
borrowing which raised Tunisia's external debt (public and publicly
guaranteed) to 46 percent of GDP and the debt service ratio to 21 percent by
1984, reflecting a shortening of average maturities. The Government attempted
to restrain its expenditures; nonetheless, the overall budget deficit stayed
close to 6.7 percent of GDP.
1985-87: Stabilization and the start of adiustment
6.       By 1985 Tunisia had begun to experience problems in obtaining
external financing for its high current account deficit and it became clear
that a balance of payments crisis was threatening. Accordingly, after
responding with some initial restrictive measures, the Government began a
process of policy revision that has broadened into a wide-ranging process of
structural adjustment. Its first step was to restrict imports. This
succeeded in bringing the current account deficit down to 7.1 percent of GDP
of which agriculture accounted for 2.0X, but, as usual with such controls,
shortages of raw materials and spare parts developed, as well as biases
against exports. The Government also reduced its investment, which had
accounted for most of total investment. By these measures, and by mobilizing
donor support, it avoided a full crisis. But it recognized that it had a
large external debt burden and, as Tunisia's oil reserves ran out, the
resources available to the public sector would diminish. Hence, the role of
the public sector would need to contract in favor of the private sector. The
Government also recognized that economic incentives were distorted and that
the incentives structure would need to change for an efficient and active
private sector to develop. In particular, the Government would need to make
the economy more outward oriented, reduce administrative controls, reform the
tax system, and improve the efficiency of financial intermediation. In August
1986 it announced a program prepared along these lines in dialogue with the
Bank and DMF to stabilize the economy and lay the basis for sustained growth.
A full description of Tunisia's adjustment objectives is presented in the
document of the VIIth Plan (1987-91) and in the President's Report for the
SAL.
7.       The commitment of the Government to economic adjustment, despite
difficult political transition problems, has led to substantial support by the
Bank and other donors. The Bank's support has included the first Agricultural
Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL, approved by the Board in September 1986) and an
Industry and Trade Policy Adjustment Loan (ITPAL, approved by the Board in
February 1987). The Board approved a Structural Adjustment Loan of $150
million on June 16, 1988. The DMF supported Tunisia with a Stand-by
arrangement from November 1986 to May 1988 for the equivalent of SDR
104 million (75 percent of quota) and for purchases of the equivalent of SDR
115 million under the compensatory financing facility. This Stand-by program
was successfully completed and, on July 25, 1988, the IMF approved an Extended
Arrangement for SDR 207 million. A first review of the EFF was undertaken at
the end of February 1989. The staff found that progress has so far been
satisfactory and agreed on a program for 1989. The IMF Board will discuss the
staff recommendation in May 1989.
3907E



- 4 -
8.       The Government's stabilization measures have reduced the imbalances
in the budget and the external current account and have established the
conditions for carrying on the liberalization program begun ia 1986. The
Dinar was devalued 23 percent In nominal terms in 1986, yielding a 17 percent
depreciation in real terms over the year. Wage increases have been tightly
restrained. Total investment fell sharply in 1985 and 1986 to about
23.5 pc.cent of GDP and has remained at 21-22 percent since then. The
devaluation and demand restraint caused the volume of imports to fall sharply,
and by 1987 they were 18.4 percent below their 1984 level. Non-oil exports
responded strongly to the devaluation; their 1987 volume exceeded that in 1984
by 33 percent. Remittances from Tunisians abroad also picked up: in 1987 they
were 53 percent above their 1984 level in real terms. As a consequence, the
current account deficit declined to 1.0 percent of GDP in 1987 and the
Government deficit, net of amortization, to 2.8 percent. Inflation over
1985-87 was held to about 7 percent p.a.
9.       Exogenous factors considerably affected the economy's performance and
were, on the whole, unfavorable. In 1985 difficulties with Libya led to the
repatriation of 30-35,000 Tunisian workers, thus ending their remittances and
most exports to that country. The dispute has since been amicably settled.
Regional security problems also reduced the number of tourists substantially,
until the dissipa:.ion of the apprehensions of potential tourists, aided by the
cheaper Dinar, caused visits from abroad to increase sharply in 1987. The
drop in oil prices caused a big loss of income for Tunisia and accounted for
nearly all of a 14 percent deterioration in the country's terms of trade.
Agriculture rar¢ed between extremes on account of fluctuations in rainfall.
1985 was a record year, with a cereal harvest 58 percent above the average of
the previous five years, and 1987 was almost as good. But 1986 was an
exceptionally poor year and 1988 was even worse. The outcome of these
conflicting factors has been that GDP grew by 5.7 percent in 1985 and
5.8 percent in 1987, but declined by 1.6 percent in 1986. The average annual
growth for the three years was 3.2 percent.
The Economy in 1988
10.      During 1988, the economy was affected by a severe drought and a
locust invasion that together induced a 242 decline in agricultural production
bringing down GDP growth to 1.52 from 5.8X in 1987. The poor performance of
agriculture, and the surge in the international prices of cereals increased
the budget deficit to 4.42 of GDP. Nevertheless, Tunisia's exports performed
strongly, partly because competitiveness was maintained by keeping the real
effective exchange rate constant and partly because neighboring countries
relaxed travel restrictions, which led to unexpectedly large number of
visitors to Tunisia. Imports grew more modestly because of restraint on wages
and because investment has been slow in picking up. As a consequence, the
current account was slightly in surplus while inflation remained at around
72. The additional resources from the current account surplus were used to
establish a more comfortable reserve position rather than reduce debt. The
ratio of debt to GDP was maintained at around 67% while the debt service ratio
came to 262. Growth induced by a mediocre agricultural year and a resurgence
of inveabsent should be around 5.5% in 1989.
3907E



Stabilization and Adijustment: 1989-91
11.      Despite those favorable developments, the challenge for the
macroeconomic program remains considerable and obliges the Government to tread
a narrow path between growth and austerity. Population is increasing at
2.5 percent p.a., food demand at 4.41 and the labor force is growing slightly
faster than population because of the age structure and because more women
seek employment. Economic growth must be adequate to allow income per capita
to grow and prevent unemployment from increasing. The external constraint
will be tight in the coming years since the debt service ratio will remain
around 26 percent, while oil extraction is expected to decline 5 percent
annually, making Tunisia a net oil importer in the early 1990s. The budgetary
constraint is tight as well; servicing of debt on government account is
projected to reach 9 percent of GDP by 1991, when budgetary revenues from oil
will have declined to 3 percent of GDP, from a peak of 8 percent in 1982. On
the other hand, overall balance of payments trends and Tunisia's reserve
position is such that prudent macroeconomic policy can maintain external
equilibrium and there are good prospects for obtaining substantial private
foreign financing and investment in the 1990s. Tunisia's policies can be
viewed as a systematic preparation for attracting such capital.
12.      Economic growth.  Bank staff analysis indicates that Tunisia's growth
targets can be met. GDP growth in 1989-91 is projected to average 4.2 percent
annually. In agriculture, recovery from the 1988 drought will result in a
high rate of growth, 9.7 percent p.a. in 1989-91, but output will not reach
the level of the trend set by the years 1980-87. Exports are expected to grow
at 3.4 percent p.a., implying a growth rate of non-oil exports of 7.5 percent
a year, a reasonable rate in view of recent performance. Import growth would
be limited to 3.3 percent a year. The non-interest current account deficit is
expected to stabilize close to zero and the current account deficit below 3X
of GDP. Investment, as a share of GDP, is projected to stay in the
22-23 percent range. Consumption would grow at 4.1 percent p.a.
13.      Government expenditures.  The lower oil earnings and higher debt
servicing also affect the Government budget. It is the objective of
Government to adjust to them, not by increasing tax revenues, but by re2ucing
Government expenditures. The increase in the overall deficit has been
acceptable to the Government because of its strong external position and the
moderate rates of inflation. But Tunisia, supported by the Bank and IMF, has
the objective of reducing the overall deficit to about 21 of GDP by 1992.
Revenues are expected to decline from 29.7 percent of GDP in 1988 to
26.4 percent in 1991, including a drop in budgetary revenues from oil
equivalent to 1.9 percentage points of GDP. Amortization of external debt
will increase from 3.9 percent of GDP in 1987 to 4.1 percent in 1991, though
amort:sation of internal debt will remain constant at 2.0 percent. Since the
objective is to reduce the overall deficit, net of amortization, to about
2.3 percent of GDP in 1991, as compared to 4.4 percent in 1988, total
government expenditures, net of amortization, must decline from 34.1 percent
to 28.7 percent of GDP. Virtually all of the fall will result from
restraining: a) the operating budget, b) consumer subsidies, and c) transfers
to cover the operating losses of public enterprises. Transfers to cover
operating losses of public enterprises will be limited annually as part of a
specific program of public enterprise reform.
3vo79



- 6 -
14.      Adiustment measures.  The program of policy adjustment launched with
the macroeconomic and sectoral measures under ASAL-1 aims at creating
conditions for the rapid growth of au efficient private sector and a
continuing increase in the outward orientation of the economy. The program
has been designed to establish a suitable structure of incentives across the
economy, for which the Government has defined both specific objectives and the
phasing to attain them in the medium-term. The ongcing process of
agricultural sector reform described below is an integral part of this
program. Decontrol of producer prices is expected to be largely completed by
1991, with the exception of a handful of socially sensitive items that are
subsidized. At preaent, 55 percent of producer prices are free, as compared
to 6 percent in 1986. Decontrol of distribution margins has been slower,
though some important ones, such as for tertilizers, have been freed. The
Government's objective is to free at least 50 percent of distribution margins
by 1991. Import tariffs have been reduced to a maximum of 41 percent, and the
objective is to bring the maximum to 35 percent by 1991. The weighted average
of tariffs was reduced from 271 in 1986 to 232 in 1988 and is expected to
decline further to 212 by 1991. The Government is also committed to
eliminating import restrictions, except for a few cases where an item is
subsidized or an infant industry benefits from the policy of three years of
supplementary protection.
15.      The restraint on expenditures is accompanied by changes in the tax
system, and by measures to diversify the financial sector and increase
competition within it. A value added tax was introduced on July 1, 1988, to
replace a complicated and distortionary system of indirect taxes, and will be
extended to wholesale trade during 1989. Even though some excise taxes will
remain for a transition period to avoid loss of revenues, the efficiency and
transparency of indirect taxation will have been greatly improved. The
multitude of direct taxes are being consolidated into two simple taxes, one on
personal incomes, with a lower maximum marginal rate, and the other a flat
rate on corporate incomes. The recent establishment of a money market, on
which certificates of deposit and commercial paper can be traded, has begun to
diversify the financial market. A program is also being prepared to develop
the capital market over the medium-term. Further diversification will occur
as the segmentation of banking is reduced and competition is encouraged,
backed by continued action to limit concessional credits and special tax
exemptions.
16.      Apart from these measures directly affecting incentives, the
Government is reducing the role of the public sector, attempting to
restructure or privatize public enterprises, and taking a broad array of
actions to address sectoral problems. Public sector investment is expected to
drop below private investment in the coming years, and politically motivated
projects of doubtful justification are being dropped or cut back. In several
activities, such as the distribution of agricultural inputs, the public sector
is withdrawing or allowing private competition. Several public enterprises
incur big losses for a variety of reasons. Major restructuring *8s being
undertaken in some cases, such as the phosphate industry and railways, and
some operations are being closed, such as motor vehicle assembly. A Public
Enterprise Restructuring Loan (PERL), currently being prepared, would support
these efforts.
39073



- 7 -
17.       Other major reforms include better adapting education and training
to economic needs, and improving labor market legislation; further reforming
agricultural support services; and preparing a cadastre and a program for
limiting fragmentation to improve land management.
18.       Social costs of adjustment.  Despite the expected overall gains, the
poor will be affected by the reduction in consumption subsidies and
unemployment persists as a problem. Equity and protection of the poorest are
major concerns of the Tunisian authorities, especially in view of the severe
drought in 1988. A number of steps are being taken to mitigate hardship. The
reduction in subsidies will be greatest on items with the least redistributive
effect so as to minimize the cost to the poor. There are also targeted
programs for helping the poor, such as the Familles N6cessiteuses and
subsidized loans for low income housing. The social security and health care
systems are well developed, though both need strengthening. The Bank is
supporting a study of the social security system to determine how to ensure
long term financial soundness while keeping down contributions by workers,
employers, and the State. Medical care is widely available at nominal
charges, but the health system's further development requires that a
substantial share of costs be recovered through service charges, with
exemptions for the poor. The Bank will support the Government's efforts to
develop and implement a suitable policy through sector work and a Health and
Population Project is under preparation.
19.       Unemployment is a long term problem: because the labor force is
growing faster than population, it is not expected that the unemployment rate
will diminish significantly during the Plan period and, according to
longer-term projections, it will remain high in the following five years. The
problem would be much worse in the absence of the adjustment program which
reduces the cost of labor relative to investment. The Plan attempts to
reinforce the effects of these relative prices through a number of schemes to
promote labor intensive investment and self-employment. The Government is
also experimenting with schemes to encourage firms to prrvide apprenticeships
and to attract private investment in training. The underlying problem,
though, is population growth and the Government is continuing to address it
directly through an active family planning program, and indirectly by changing
incentives. The President has endorsed the concept of the family with three
children, and the social security fund (CNSS), since January 1, 1989, limits
family allowances to three children, and not four as in the past.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS AND ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
Background
20.       Lending.  Since 1962, IDA has committed 10 credits to Tunisia
amounting to USP75.2 million, and the Bank has committed 80 loans amounting to
US$1,963 million, both net of cancellations. The Bank's figure includes a
US$5.5 million loan for an Oil Exploration Promotion Project approved in
February 1989 and to be signed shortly. Project implementation is generally
satisfactory, and important policy changes and institutional improvements have
been achieved. Disbursement delays have particularly affected education,
39075



technical assistance, health, and urban projects due to project-specific
problems. These are being addressed through supervision missions and sector
discussions.
21.      Past Bank lending emphasized support for long-term investments in
infrastructure, social development and, more recently, agriculture and
industry. As of March 31, 1989 the sector share of the Bank Group commitments
was as follows: agriculture, 27 percent; industry, 26 percent; transport, and
urban infrastructure, 16 percent each; energy, 8 percent; education,
4 percent; health, non-sector and technical assistance, 1 percent each.
22.      Bank Experience with Adjustment Lending. Adjustment lending to
Tunisia started in FY87. A first Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL,
Loan 2754-TUN), approved by the Board in September 1986, supported the
Government's sector reform program and focused on prices, public investmen 9
and support services. An Industrial and Trade Policy Adjustment Loan (ITPAL,
Loan 2781-TUN), approved by the Board in January 1987, focused mainly on
import tariffs and price decontrol. Approval of a Structural Adjustment Loan
(SAL, Loan 2962-TUN) followed in June 1988.
23.      Performance under the ASAL-I has been highly satisfactory in the key
sectoral policy areas covered and all conditions have been met (Annex III).
Of the nine original conditions of effectiveness which included first round
increases in agricultural producer prices and reductions in input subsidies,
seven were fulfilled by Board presentation and the remaining two were met on
time. A second round of price adjustments, subsidy reductions and interest
rate increases, as well as other important measures, were taken as conditions
of second tranche release. The status of the key actions attached to the
sector policy letter was also found to be satisfactory at the time of second
tranche release except for the implementation of an agricultural export
promotion strategy which took longer than expected to complete, but which is
now finished. Of the broader program of 70 recommendations presented in the
matrix attached to the President's Re:port covering the earlier part of the
adjustment program in agriculture, 45 or 63% have already been carried out
indicating an excellent start to the medium-term program. To date, the loan
is fully committed and some US$107.6 million or 72S of the US$150 million loan
have been disbursed, as well as US$22.0 million or 902 of German (KfW) and
Dutch cofinancers' funds totalling US$24.5 million. Following a satisfactory
review of the overall implementation of ASAL-I, including both its
macroeconomic and sectoral components, the second tranche of US$50 million was
declared open for disbursement in October 1987 and the Board was so informed.
The closing date of the loan was extended by six months from the original
closing date of June 30, 1988. The account is currently being held open until
June 30, 1989 to allow disbursements related to commitments made prior to
December 31, 1988 to be processed.
24.      Implementation of the ITPAL has also been satisfactory (Annex III).
The price and trade liberalization measures have been implemented on schedule,
and a new investment code satisfactory to the Bank was promulgated mid-1987.
After some delays in the design of fiscal reform and of an improved system for
foreign exchange risk coverage, agreement was reached on the design of these
measures, the nature of which has been discussed in detail with the Bank, in
the context of the preparation of the SAL. Since then, a VAT system
satisfactory to the Bank was introduced in July 1988, and a new system for
covering foreign exchange risk was introduced in August 1988. The second
3907e



- 9 -
tranche of the loan was released in January 1989. Disbursements under ITPAL
experienced some delays associated with the political uncertainties prevailing
in Tunisia in 1987. The sluggishness of private investment, due to weak
domestic demand, also caused disbursements to lag. These difficulties are now
solved and disbursements have accelerated in recent months. To date, about
US$103 million out of the US$150 million loan have been disbursed. The
closing date was recently extended to December 31, 1989.
25.      As a result of the actions taken by the Government, the process of
removing the macroeconomic and intersectoral obstacles to improved
agricultural performance has started. The devaluation of 17% in real terms by
the end of 1986, maintained since then, has helped reduce the bias against
agricultural exports and raise the price of imported relative to domestic
food. Though favorably influenced by weather, initial results in 1987 were
encouraging. The lowering of tariff barriers for domestic industry under
ITPAL coupled with first and second round increases in Government support
prices for cereals under ASAL-I has begun to reduce the difference in
protection between industry and agriculture. The reduction in agricultural
input and credit subsidies under ASAL-I have also opened the door to a
liberalization of the domestic market for agricultural inputs, finance and
services.
26.      The SAL approved by the Board in June 1988 supports the Government's
medium-term macroeconomic program and its measures to liberalize trade,
decontrol prices, increase the efficiency of financial intermediation, and
reform taxation (Annex III). The loan became effective in March 1989 after
important steps were taken by the government in the implementation of the
macroeconomic reform program supported by the loan. Fiscal measures
undertaken include the introduction of the VAT mentioned above, and
improvements in the system of taxation of direct consumption. On the
financial sector side, the cost of preferential credit was increased as of
January 1, 1989 to a minimum fl, as agreed under the loan. Also, several
studies have been started as a preamble to further action on fiscal, financial
and trade policy reforms.
27.      Although policy loans account for about 40 percent of Bank lending in
the 1987-89 transition period, the strategy for the 1990s is to shift towards
investment lending and to help the Government improve efficiency in the
provision of urban and social services. A Public Enterprise Restructuring
Loan (PERL) under preparation would support efforts to privatize enterprises,
to institute reforms in public enterprise management, and to restructure some
major loss-making enterprises. This loan is the only other adjustment
operation currently envisaged. An Education and Training Sector Loan would
support the better adaptation of training and education to economic needs, and
efforts to enlist the private sector in training. Other operations planned in
the human resources sector include a loan to assist in the implementation of
improved labor policies and a health and population project. Projects planned
in agriculture include financing of research and extension activities, credit,
and part of the public investment needs of the VIIIth Plan. Lending for
industry and finance is envisaged to improve the competetiveness of Tunisian
industry and support export development. Operations are also planned to
finance water supply, housing finance, municipal development, rural roads and
transport maintenance. An energy project will assist energy conservation
efforts and the efficient choice of energy sources in the medium-term.
28.      Bank Loans Outstanding.  The share of the Bank and IDA in Tunisia's
external medium- and long-term (MLT) public and publicly guaranteed debt
outstanding and disbursed was about 17 percent at the end of 1987, while
3907K



- 10 -
the share of preferred creditors was 282. That year, debt service payments on
Bank debt amounted to 19 percent of the country's public and publicly
guaranteed debt service, and the ratio of debt service on Bank debt to exports
was 4.6 percent. Because of the emphasis on adjustment lending in the period
of transition, the share of the Bank in Tunisia's PPG MLT debt is expected to
peak at about 22 percent and its share in debt service at about 24 percent in
the mid-1990s. The shift towards more traditional investment financing by the
Bank that will start in 1990 and the expected increase in the country's
borrowings from commercial sources will result in a gradual decline of these
indicators.
IFC
29.       As of March 31, 1989, the IFC's net commitments in Tunisia totalled
US$24.8 million. This financing has benefited the tourism sector, both
through direct intervention in projects and through assistance to development
banks, and the manufacturing sector, particularly in the chemical,
pharmaceutical, construction materials and textiles subsectors. In textiles,
the IFC is helping to modernize and privatize some state-owned mills. The
Corporation has also invested in the first leasing company in the country, and
in the establishment of a Belgian-Tunisian venture in the field of engineering
services. The IFC is contributing to the development of Tunisia's capital
market by financing, with the UNDP, a study on the potential for its
improvement.
PART III - THE EVOLUTION OF THE MEDIUM-TERM AGRICULTURAL
SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
A. Backsround
Introduction
30.           Like many other middle-income countries, Tunisia has experienced
a decline in the relative importance of agriculture in its economy over the
past 25 years. Today, agriculture in Tunisia accounts for about 132 of GDP,
351 of employment and 8% of export earnings (16% of non-oil export earnings),
which represent sharp drops from 1960 levels of 242 of GDP, 562 of employment,
and 601 of export earnings, due mair-y to the more rapid growth of other
sectors, principally petroleum, man _'acturing and tourism.  After a period of
rapid expansion in the late 1960s and the 1970s, when agricultural GDP grew at
about 8.0% p.a. (1967-76), growth in the late 1970s and 1980s (1977-87) slowed
down in constant price terms to 2.81 p.a. (Annex VI).
31.           The reduced growth of the past decade !iae meant that Tunisia has
experienced a widening "food gap" which has placed an increasing strain on the
balance of payments. Domestic food production, which has been growing at 3.21
p.a. (1977-87), has failed to keep pace with increased demand generated by a
combination of healthy GDP growth (4.71), rapid population growth (2.51), a
high rate of urbanization (4.4%) and domestic consumer price subsidies
(US$250.0 million per year in recent years). Expanding oil revenues in the
late 1970s and early 1980s combined with the ready availability of cheap food
imports, subsidized by the exporting countries, and before 1986, through the
overvalued exchange rate, diverted attention from the underlying problems.
Agricultural imports (in real price terms) increased by about 6.11 per annum
(1977-86) while agricultural exports declined by 10% p.a. The rate of
self-sufficiency for food (food exports as a percentage of food imports)
declined from about 75% in 1975-76 to 42% in 1980-81. If present trends
J3907



- 11 -
continue unchecked, projections done by the International Food Policy Research
Institute (IFPRI) indicate that by the year 2000 Tunisia would have a cereal
deficit of almost 1.3 million tons per year (compared to the current 0.9
million tons), a milk product deficit of about 800,000 tons per year (compared
to the present 330,000 tons) and a meat deficit of about 200,000 tons per year
(compared to the existing 21,000 tons). This would place an unmanageable
burden on the balance of payments.
32.           After a period of stagnation in the early 1980's, agricultural
exports, consisting principally of olive oil (321), marine products (281),
dates (151), citrus (71) and wine (31), have picked up recently. The star
performer has been marine products which have been growing at over 251 p.a. in
recent years.
Past Sources of Growth
33.           Growth in the sector has been concentrated in the predominantly
modern irrigated sector, which covers less than 51 of the cultivated land, but
which accounts for 38% of agricultural GDP. Not only has the Government
concentrated its investment resources in the irrigated areas, but
approximately one third of the input subsidies on fertilizer, seed and
herbicides has also been consumed in irrigated areas. Moreover, the-crops
produced in these areas, consisting largely of fruits and vegetables, have not
been subject to any Government output price intervention. This combination of
subsidized, capital-intensive development and free market pricing has been
very successful, and irrigated output has expanded by 4-61 per year.
Sustaining such growth under a more demanding regime concerning fiscal
resources is the major challenge facing the Government.
34.           Production growth in the past decade had a number of contrasting
sub-periods: from 1977-81 (the Vth Plan Period), agricultural value-added
growth dipped to only 1.41 p.a. (compared to 6.01 p.a. in 1972-76) and then
improved to 4.32 p.a. in 1982-86. The dip in the period of the late 1970s to
early 1980s can be attributed to slower growth in production (production
values at constant prices) of fruits and tree crops and the non-poultry
livestock sector (particularly cattle and goats). These developments took
place amidst an improvement in the growth of the cereals subsector, due in
particular to rising wheat yields and an expansion of area under barley (a
large portion of which comprised a switch from wheat in the Central and
Southern Regions). Average wheat yields rose because of: (a) the introduction
of improved varieties and; (b) the switch to barley in the marginal wheat
areas leaving higher average yields for the country as a whole. Barley yields
rose for the same reasons except that the area into which it expanded (the
marginal wheat areas) was, on average, better quality than that of existing
barley areas.
35.           The improvement of agricultural GDP growth from 1982-87 is
primarily attributable to the recovery of the livestock sector after price and
domestic market liberalization of the sheep subsector (started in 1979) and
partial liberalization of the beef subsector (1985) began to have an impact.
Another reason was the pay-off from investments (more than TD 70 million/year
from both Government and private sector) made on irrigation infrastructure
towards the latter part of the Vth Development Plan (1977-1981). These
investments were more than eight times the average annual level of the Fourth
Development Plan (1972-76) and continued to expand to about TD 110 million
p.a. during the Sixth Plan (1982486). The growth in the production of
vegetables at 5.0 1 p.a. (primarily tomatoes and peppers) and fruits
(especially table grapes) were the direct consequences of these investments.



- 12 -
However, effective liberalization of exports (especially for dates) was another
important factor explaining both increased production and exports. The VIth Plan
Period also saw a continuation of the production expansion in the cereal subsector
primarily through: (a) more intensive input use in expanding soft wheat
areas-sustaining respectable average yields of about 13 quintals/ha; and (b)
continued area expansion in barley.
Potential for Increased Production in the Future
36.           Tunisia's agricultural potential is still far from being fully
realized. Yields could be increased substantially in rainfed as well as irrigated
areas. In rainfed areas, especially where rainfall exceeds 350 mm, major
productivity improvements could be obtained from widespread introduction of
improved farming techniques such as shallower land preparation using tined
implements and more intensive cropping patterns including pulses and, in some areas
and for certain farm sizes, integration of crop and livestock production. The
scope for increasing yields in rainfed areas is evident from the following
estimates of present and potential yields for rainfed crops in the high and low
rainfall zones of northern Tunisia made by the FAO/CP during preparation of the
Northwest Agricultural Production Project (higher yields on larger farms being
mainly due to better resource endowment):
High Rainfall Zone       Low Rainfall Zone
Present   Potential     Present   Potential
(tons/ha)
10-50 ha Farms
Barley                            1.2        2.0          0.8         1.5
Wheat                             1.1        1.8           0.8        1.5
Feed Pulses                       0.5        1.3          0.3         0.6
Forage (hay equivalent)           2.8        3.8           2.0        2.5
Over 50 ha Farms
Barley                            1.5        2.5           1.2        2.0
Wheat                             1.3        2.1           1.0        1.7
Feed Pulses                       0.9        1.7          0.7         1.6
Forage, (hay equivalent)          3.5        5.0           2.j        3.0
In the irrigated areas, there is also considerable scope for yield increases as
indicated by the following comparison of average yields with those obtained in
the best areas:
Irrigation
Dev. Offices           Results
Crop            (OMVs) Average        in Better OMVs
(tons/ha)
Cucurbits                     8                   20
Potatoes                     12                  18-20
Field Tomatoes              25-30                40-45
Greenhouse Tomatoes          60                   80
Apricots                     12                   20
Forage (green matter)        30                   50



- 13 -
Cropping intensity in the areas already equipped for irrigation through public
finacing averages only 701 while it could be in excess of 100X. Over the
next decade, increasing crop intensity could represent the equivalent of a
doubling of the currently irrigated areas. Considerable room for improvement
remains to be achieved for the citrus growing areas of the northeast
(Cap Bon), where more effective use of additional water from the rivers
further west could enable citrus production to double.
Future Growth Strategy
37.      The pace of achievement of this potential depends basically on the
speed at which adjustments are made in sector policies to create room for more
private sector participation. The agricultural sector has done well in the
past and has followed its comparative advantages. Growth through heavy
investment, subsidies and state enterprises have worked up to a point, but the
budget can no longer afford them and there are now too many activities still
in state hands that the private sector could do better. The Government's
medium-term agricultural sector adjustment program (MTASAP), discussed below,
is aimed at stimulating the private sector to play a larger role in the
sector's future growth. This is particularly important as the European
Economic Community (EEC) enters the final stages of its integration program.
Removing internal trade barriers by 1992 is expected to result in mergers and
acquisitions in the agro-business sector. Demand for Mediterranean products
is expected to become more concentrated and structured than before. The
progressive integration of Spain, Portugal, and Greece will also mean
increased self-sufficiency and more competition for Mediterranean products
inside the EEC. Fortunately, Tunisia has well established market niches in
the EEC for some products which are not widely produced elsewhere at present
(e.g., "deglet nour" dates, maltaise oranges), but even for these products
Tunisian exporters will face greater bargaining power on the part of importers
and a more competitive environment in the new integrated EEC.
B. The Ongoing Sector Adiustment Program
Origin and Obiectives
38.      The main objectives of the Government's MTASAP were developed in late
1985 and early 1986 as part of Tunisia's efforts to adjust its economy to a
more constrained macroeconomic situation. For this, Bank assistance was made
available to the Government in the form of macroeconomic strategy discussions
and assessments of sector potential and policy and institutional constraiRts.
Consistent with the macroeconomic objective of achieving sustained growth in
the framework of an internally and externally balanced economy, the main
objective of the MTASAP is to promote greater efficiency and economy in the
increased production of agricultural products and in the use of public
resources in the sector, including enhancing the role of the private sector in
the provision of commercially-viable sector support services. The MTASAP
includes specific actions to address identified constraints over a seven-year
period (1986-93) and aims to achieve its objectives by:



- 14 -
o    improving the pricing and marketing framework;
o    parastatal reform and divestiture;
o    reorienting the public investment and expenditure program in
agriculture;
o    strengthening essential Government support services, while
privatizing those which are commercially viable;
o    improving management of natural resources; and
o    building up the performance monitoring and imPact analysis
capabilities of the Ministry of Agriculture.
Progress to Date (ASAL-I)
39.      As discussed in detail below for each of the above areas, ASAL-I
helped launch the reform process. Major achievements included: (a) the
alignment of support prices for cereals with world market prices which has
greatly increased incentives for the production of these important import
substitutes; (b) reductions in agricultural input subsidies which have reduced
waste and promoted efficiency; and (c) the establishment of incentives for the
private sector to play a larger role in the provision of commercially viable
support services such as distribution of agricultural inputs, thereby freeing
public resources for the strengthening of essential Government support
services such as research and extension.
Justification for Continued Bank Involvement
40.      Building on the achievements of ASAL-I, ASAL-II would support the
next phase of the Government's MTASAP over the next two crop seasons (1989/90
and 1990/91), notably by further liberalizing agricultural pricing and
marketing and reforming parastatal enterprises in the sector. It would also
continue the work of ASAL-I in strengthening essential Government support
services while privatizing others and improving the management of land and
fisheries resources. The role of the Bank in helping to design, monitor and
ensure the continued appropriateness of the program in light of experience and
changing economic circumstances extends beyond the limited two year
disbursement period of ASAL-I. Major studies in the areas of prices and
incentives and agro-industrial efficiency have been completed recently with
assistance from USAID as part of the ASAL-I action program. Based on these
studies and the work of four joint Government-Bank working groups set up to
prepare ASAL-II in the areas of prices and incentives, support services,
natural resources management and impact analysis, constraints were identified
in these areas and the MTASAP was broadened and/or deepened to address them.
Short-term actions suitable for early implementation under ASAL-II and for
follow-up during the later stages of the MTASAP were also prepared which merit
Bank support so that the momentum of gradual but steady reforms in



- 15 -
agricultural policies built up in the context of ASAL-1 is sustained over the
medium-term. Conditions of first and second tranche release are set out in
paras. 116-117. Other important measures are recorded in the "Timetable of
Key Actions" attached to the Government's Letter of Sectoral Adjiustment Policy
(Annex IV).
Price, Marketing and Parastatal Reform
41.      Prior to the start of the NTASAP in 1984, the prices of commodities
covering some 70% of sector GDP were free. The Government's regulation and
control over the remaining 301, covering mainly cereals, edible oils, beef and
milk, were determined to be important constraints on sector growth and one of
the objectives of the MTASAP is to reform price policy and reduce Government
intervention for these commodities. Under ASAL-I, official producer support
prices for cereals were raised to world market levels and the price formation
process for cereals was improved. This was combined with revenue savings
measures such as the phased elimination of input subsidies on the operation
and maintenance (O&M) cost of irrigation water, fertilizers, animal feed,
herbicides, improved cereal seeds and credit in an effort to improve the
allocation of productive resources.
42.      While this has been an excellent start, it is still insufficient to
bring about the full efficiency gains sought in the medium-term. The growth
target for the sector in the ongoing VIIth Plan is 5.1%, compared to an actual
growth rate of 4.32 under the ambitious VIth Plan (1982-86) and 1.4% under the
Vth Plan (1977-81). Achieving this target, while reducing trade and fiscal
deficits, will require an expansion of the adjustment program into the other
subsectors with major distortions, namely edible oils and livestock products
and making further progress on deregulation of the cereal sector. The task of
sectoral adjustment has been rendered even more pressing by last year's severe
drought and locust attack, and expected below-normal production in 1989,
though it is more difficult for the Government to take actions which adversely
affect farm income in the wake of these events. Studies and action programs
prepared during the course of ASAL-I have laid out the next stage of the
MTASAP to be carried out under ASAL-II covering the remaining key commodities,
i.e. cereals (112 of sector GDP), edible oils (101), beef (52) and milk (51).
43.      Cereals.  Cereal marketing has been characterized by a highly
controlled and subsidized official market covering some 471 of marketed grain
production with fixed prices and margins operating alongside a dynamic
parallel market covering 531 of marketed grain with free prices and margins.
In the official market, the consumer prices of cereal products (bread,
semolina, pasta) have also been fixed at low levels and subsidized through the
Caisse Generale de Compensation (CGC). Through a transport cost equalization
charge designed to make cereal products available throughout the country at
the same price, transport costs are reimbursed for the distance actually
traversed without regard to the most efficient routes. Before ASAL-I,
official producer prices were fixed on the basis of the costs of production
and imports were exempt from customs duties. Ncwi official producer prices are
linked to world market prices and the minimum 15% duty is applied to imports.
The private sector, through the parallel market, remains highly active even
though domestic buying of cereals is in principle the legal monopoly of the
Office des C6reales (OC). Parallel market prices do not diverge greatly from
the official producer prices.
39073



- 16 -
44.      The o0  currently intervenes throughout the cereals subsector.  In
addition to its monopoly on commercial domestic buying it has a legal and de
facto monopoly of imports.  It has historically furnished the bulk of farm
inputs for the cereals subsector, including improved seeds, fertilizers and
herbicides at subsidized prices and this has discouraged the private sector
from entering input distribution. It has furthermore engaged in cereal
e. ension activities and distributed credit. With reserves built up through
its trading activities, the OC acquired shares worth TD 5.0 million in other
enterprises including minority holdings in banks and hotels. and majority
positions in an industrial bakery, an animal feed plant, a flour mill and a
yeast factory. In the absence of any mandate for the OC to accumulate funds
for investment outside the cereal subsector, these reserves should have gone
to the Government or have been distributed to farmers.
45.      The goverament's medium-term objective for the cereals subsector
under the MTASAP is to create a more liberalized system with the free market
legally permitted to play the predominant role and the Government confined to
sector monitoring, regulating the market through tariffs on imports and
maintaining a small security stock to guard against shortages in time of
drought or other emergencies. The transport cost equalization charge would be
reformed s8  as to confine payments to grain destined for tie immediate
marketing region and private traders and cooperatives would be free to collect
grain from farmers and deliver it to the mills. The OC would completely
withdraw from zones where the cooperatives already provide adequate services.
Private sector imports of feed grains would be allowed on a pilot basis. The
OC would be withdrawn from input distribution and commercial ventures and
would concentrate on its regulatory function.
46.      Under ASAL-I, changes were made in the producer price policy for
cereals linking Government-fixed support prices to a moving average of world
market prices plus the minimum tariff thus moving away from the existing cost
plus approach. However, the institutional framework and particularly the OC's
monopoly of domestic buying and importing remained unchanged. These remain
causes of inefficiency in the subsector which would be addressed under
ASAL-II.
47.      ASAL-I1 aims to focus the o0  on its primary role of regulator of the
cereals subsector, and allow the private and cooperative sectors to handle
commercial activities on a competitive basis. The first phase of the
Government's Cereal Marketing Master Plan, which was completed in March 1989,
recommended that:
o    the Goverament should eliminate legal barriers to entry and
deregulate the price formation process in collection activities,
allowing farmers to benefit from competition and limiting the
point of consumer subsidy injection to the mills. The OC should
only remain present as a buyer of last resort in the zones where
the cooperatives do not provide adequate services. In the
process of phasing out OC's involvement, to avoid undercutting
the private or cooperative sector, the OC should practice full
cost recovery; and
o    a pilot program to allow the private sector to import animal
feed (maixe and soybean meal) should be undertaken.
3907E



- 17 -
48.      Consistent with the Government's reform program for parastatal
enterprises, ASAL-II would also support divestiture of OC activities unrelated
to the management of the cereals subsector (e.g., investments outside the
subsector) and withdrawal from those which overlap with activities of other
Government agencies (e.g., extension). Private sector imports and sales of
seed potatoes would also be allowed. OC's remaining regulatory functions
(e.g., maintenance of quality standards) would be strengthened.
49.      Refinements would be introduced in the producer support price fixing
formula agreed under ASAL-I aimed at reducing the period of averaging world
market prices from five to four years and introducing incentives for on-farm
storage through seasonal price differentiation. Consistent with the minimum
tariff policy and following the practice already established under ASAL-I,
cereal support prices would continue to be set so as to provide about 152
nominal protection above the 4-year moving average of world market prices plus
transport and handling. Variable levies would be charged on imports to bring
their price to the desired levels. Cereal producer support prices would be
adjusted following the new formula beginning in the 1989/90 crop season.
50.      Action Program Under Loan.  On she basis of the first phase of the
Cereal Marketing Master Plan, the Government has submitted an action plan
aeceptable to the Bank eovering specific measures to be taken under the
proposed loan to stimulate the private and cooperative sectors to play a
larger role in domestic cereal collection and feedgrain imports. It has also
developed a detailed methodology to be used annually to determine the support
prices of durum wheat, bread wheat and barley (as discussed in para. 49).
O    As a condition of effectiveness, the Government would open grain
collection to the private and cooperative sectors including, among
other actions, withdrawal of the OC from zone& where the cooperatives
already provide adequate service, authorization of cereals collection
by millers and private traders and movement toward full cost recovery
by OC collettion centers.
O    As a key action under the Letter of Sectoral Adjustment Policy (Annex
IV), to te taken by June 30, 1989, the Government would submit to the
Bank an action plan to disengage the OC from investments and
activities not directly related to the cereals subsector and to
strengthen its regulatory role. By December 31, 1989, it would take
initial steps acceptable to the Bank to implement the action plan
such as withdrawal from extensiou activities and from investments
outside the subsector.
O    Also as key actions under the Letter of Sectoral Adjustment Policy
(Annex IV), to be taken by December 31, 1989, the Government would
prepare a study to introduce a seasonal price system and would adjust
support prices according to the new formula.
O    As a condition of second tranche release, the Government would
prepare and present recommendations to the Bank based on the second
phase of the Cereal Marketing Master Plan. These recommendations
would cover such issues as the transport cost equalization system,
further deregulation of private traders and private access to storage.
390E7



- 18 -
o    As key actions under the Letter of Sectoral Adjustment Policy (Annex
IV), to be carried out by December 31, 1990, the Government would
take measures acceptable to the Bank to implement the action plan for
di,engaging the OC from outside activities; it would make a second
adjustment of support prices according to the new formula; and it
would conduct a joint evaluation with the Bank of the study for a
seasonal price system and eventually adopt the recommendations.
51.      Edible Oils.  Olives account for 10  of sector GDP and olive oil is
the leading agricultural export, accounting for some 322 of sector export
earnings. As many as 302 of Tunisian farmers are involved in olive oil
production and 302 of arable land is planted under olives. While most
domestic production of olive oil is exported, cheaper grain oil is imported to
provide for the bulk of domestic consumption needs. The imported oil
represents some 142 of agricultural imports. These imports are blended
locally with varying amounts of olive oil depending on availability, and
subsidized at the consumer level by the CGC.
52.      At present, marketing, trade and price policy is dominated by the
autonomous Office National des Huiles (ONH). Run essentially as a Government
agency without any commercial incentives for improved performance, it is
questionable whether this agency should control or be operationally involved
in such a wide range of activities (imports, exports, processing, pricing and
non-subsector related investments).
53.      The edible oil trade, marketing and processing issues are of
increasing concern to Tunisia. Market diversification is critical to improve
Tunisia's receipts from olive oil exports and to prepare for the possibility
of a reduced quota from the EEC (presently at 46,000 tons p.a.) as the current
agreement expires in 1991. With growing pressure from increased surpluses in
the EEC resulting from the dccession of Spain (the world's largest olive oil
exporter), Portugal and Greece, the need to penetrate new olive oil markets
has never been more critical. It is questionable whether ON! is doing as well
as the private sector could do in aggressively finding and developing new
markets for Tunisia's olive oil. Tunisia needs to divert its precious high
quality oil to new markets rather than to "mix down" its olive oil to cater
for the low quality ("lampante") requirements of Italy, the largest user of
Tunisia's exports under the quota.
54.      ONH's monopoly control of imports of edible oil aid their processing,
including the forced mixing of olive oil to utilize surpluses arising from
yield cycles, has been very costly for the subseztor. Cheaper edible oils
could have been imported to the benefit of consumers and the CGC. ONH
currently imports grain oil, consigns it to the refineries, repossesses it to
mix it with olive oil to form the subsidized mix, and then sells it to the
private sector. This is done to prevent fraud in the mixing process, but it
involves cumbersome physical movements of oil and generates unnecessary
costs. Another result has been a processing industry with no efficiency
incentives as the refiners only act as service agents for ONH.
55.      Producers have also been receiving a declining share of olive oil
export receipts due to the system of second payments which many do not receive
and ONE's activities unrelated to the subsector. ONH has been retaining funds
to finance investments in banks, hotels and other businesses outside the olive
oil subsector. If ONH had distributed these retained earnings, estimated at
TD 2.5 million per year, the price paid to the mills for olive oil might have
averaged some 5S higher.
3907E



- 19 -
56.      The Government's medium-term objective for the domestic oil market
under the MTASAP is a more liberalized market where there are no controls on
edible oils processing and where imports of different types of oil are
permitted. For the export sector, ONH will need to maintain a role as a
regulatory agency (e.g. sector monitoring, quality control) but this should
not prevent the private sector from expanding into new export markets and
products.
57.      Under ASAL-I and during the preparation of ASAL-II, several studies
were undertaken that examined the edible oils subsector and identified the
issues described in paras. 51-55. The results of the agricultural export
promotion study indicated that there is potential for Tunisia to expand the
scope of its export markets beyond traditional horizons by using more
innovative and aggressive marketing strategies. The agro-industry study
exposed a number of ineffeciencies in the domestic marketing and processing of
edible oils primarily with regard to the refining of imported grain oil and
the blending of imports with domestically produced olive oil. A third study
examined the problem of low remuneration to olive farmers.
58.      ASAL-II seeks to build on this analytical base and support the
Government in the preparation of an Edible Oil Marketing Master Plan which
would recommend actions to deal with the problems highlighted under the
previous studies. On the basis of the first phase of the Master Plan, the
Goverment plans to:
o    open up olive oil exports to the private sector;
o    liberalize imports of edible oils, decontrol domestic processing,
including the forced mixing of olive oil with grain oil, and
implement a more economic way of managing olive oil surpluses; and
o    improve incentives for olive producers by eliminating the second
payment system (i.e., paying the full producer price in a single
payment).
The second phase of the Edible Oil Marketing Master Plan would make
recommendations covering the role of processors and middlemen, the regulatory
constraints that could be eliminated to make domestic marketing more efficient
and prospects for further privatization of domestic marketing.
59.      ASAL-II would also support disengagement of ONH from investments
outside the oil subsector currently being financed by retained earnings; and
strengthen ONE's role in providing essential Government regulatory functions,
such as sector monitoring, policy formation and strategic planning.
60.      Action Program Under the Loan.  The Government has already submitted
criteria satisfactory to the Bank for licensing private exporters of olive oil.
O    As a key action under the Letter of Sectoral Adjustment Policy (Annex
IV), the Government would submit the results of the first phase of
the Edible Oil Marketing Master Plan by June 30, 1989. This Master
Plan would include specific measures to improve the efficiency of
importing and local processing of oil in order to reduce subsidies
from the Caisse G6n6rale de Compensation (CGC). A first action plan
covering these recommendations would be submitted to the Bank by
December 31, 1989, and a second action plan by December 31, 1990.
3907E



- 20 -
o    As a condition of effectiveness, the Government would publish the
agreed criteria for licensing olive oil exporters and authorize the
exporters meeting such criteria to export olive oil. These criteria
would ensure that potential exporters have appropriate laboratory and
testing units for maintaining proper quality, that they possess
adequate storage facilities and that they conform to local and
international standards relating to olive products. Private exports
would be allowbJ as long as they involve new markets, quality oil or
bottled/"anned products.
O    Also as a key action under the Letter of Sectoral Adjustment Policy
(Annex IV), to be taken by December 31, 1989, the Government would
submit an action plan addressing the disengagement of ONH from its
investments outside the sector consistent with national policy for
the divestiture of state enterprises.
61.      Livestock Products.  The internal pricing and marketing of sheep
(9.01 of sector GDP), goats (1.0%) and poultry (3.02) is fully liberalized.
Only beef (51) and milk (51) remain controlled. Beyond beef as a by-product
of dairying, the potential for beef production in Tunisia is relatively
limited for climatic reasons, and the country has historically been heavily
dependent on imports. However, in areas where beef production is economically
viable, efficient growth has been hampered by restrictions on consumer prices
and imports.
62.      The Government's medium-term objective for beef under the MIASAP is
to improve the incentive environment for increased efficiency and harmonize
protection rates with other sectors to reduce distortions in resource
allocation. Under the MTASAP:
o    the current system of classifying all cuts of beef sold by the
parastatal meat company into three categories (without bone,
bone-in and organ meat), each with a controlled price (TD3.2/kg,
TD2.8/kg and TD2.3/kg, respectively), and fixed retail margins,
would be eliminated; and
o    quantitative restrictions on imports would be replaced by
variable levies designed to achieve 15% nominal protection above
a 4-year moving average of world market prices plus transport
and handling costs.
63.      As a result of the Agricultural Prices and Incentives Study carried
out under ASAL-I, it was found that liberalization of the beef market would
allow greater price differentiation for different cuts to emerge thereby
providing incentives for quality beef production. However, due to projected
reductions in the world market price of beef, the overall level of beef prices
is expected to decline. In any case, beef is not a major item in the
expenditures of poor groups, accounting for less than 11 and 41, respectively,
of the total expenditures of the rural and urban poor, according to the 1985
Household Expenditure Survey. ASAL-II would support the liberalization of the
beef market within an appropriate health and tariff framework.
3907E



- 21 -
64.      Action Program Under Loan.  As a condition of effectiveness, beef
would be transferred to the list of freely importable products. The
Government would use a variable tariff to provide 152 nominal protection for
producers and would establish sanitary norms conforming to international
standards to protect human, animal and vegetable health. As a key action
under the Letter of Sectoral Adjustment Policy (Annex IV), to be carried out
by December 31, 1989, the Government would ensure that the parastatal meat
company (El Louboum) sells beef at its breakeven price.
65.      Besides technical factors such as relatively low rainfall which limit
the areas where milk can be produced economically, the growth of a viable
fresh local milk production industry has been handicapped by the lack of a
coherent pricing and marketing policy. In an effort to keep the cost of
living down in the cities, the Government has subsidized the consumer prices
of predominantly imported reconstituted milk through the CGC. This has
discouraged consumption of local fresh milk. Also, since the parastatal
processing industry has been reimbursed for the difference between its costs
of production and the Government controlled prices at which it has been
obliged to sell, it has had little or no incentive to contain costs and has
invested heavily in expensive processing techniques such as high cost
packaging which have inflated the Government's subsidy bill. Meanwhile, the
private sector, which does not have access to Government subsidies, has been
effectively excluded from the fluid milk reconstitution business. It has also
been restricted in both the absolute amount of powdered milk it can purchase
and in the percent of powder it can mix into milk products (primarily yogurt
and cheese).
66.      For fresh milk, the Government has fixed support prices based on
costs of production leading to investment in inefficient production systems.
However, the parastatal processing industry has been able to meet most of its
needs with less expensive powder imports. Under this regime, domestic milk
production grew by 4.52 per year from 1980-86 while imports grew by 11% per
annum.
67.      The Government's medium-term objective for milk under the MTASAP, to
be fully achieved after the elimination of consumer subsidies, is to improve
the efficiency of production and marketing by liberalizing the domestic milk
and milk products market and linking prices to world market prices. Towards
this end, the MTASAP is designed to:
o    establish a more appropriate support price policy for milk
producers by shifting from costs of production as the basis for
fixing support prices to opportunity costs as determined by a
formula like the one for beef (i.e., a 4-year moving average of
world market prices plus transport and handling costs and the
152 nominal tariff); variable import levies would be charged to
adjust the prices of imported milk powder to the levels
indicated by this formula; and
o    introduce greater competition into the milk products industry by
allowing private manufacturers the sam access to imported
oowdered milk as the parastatal sector, after application of any
variable levies which may be required by the new support price
formula.
39079



- 22 -
68.      As a result of the study of agro-industrial efficiency carried out
under ASAL-I, it was found that the increase in private sector milk processing
which would result from these measures would lead to improved markets for
small- and medium-size milk producers utilizing production systems based
primarily on local raw materials. Capital intensive production systems
dependent on imported capital and feed concentrates would have to become more
efficient or go out of production. ASAL-Il therefore aims to liberalize the
milk market within an appropriate tariff framework.
69.      Action Program Under Loan.  The Government has prepared a detailed
methodology acceptable to the Bank to be used annually to determine the
support prices of milk (4-year moving average of GATT International Milk
Council Prices plus transport and handling costs and the 15% minimum tariff).
As a condition of effectiveness, the Government would eliminate quantitative
restrictions on imports of powdered milk and impose the variable levy
necessary to provide 152 nominal protection, following the same formula as for
support prices. As key actions under the Letter of Sectoral Adjustment Policy
(Annex IV), to be carried out by December 31, 1989, it would adjust support
prices according to the new formula; and by December 31, 1990, it would make
another round of price adjustments according to the formula.
70.      Input Subsidies.  Under the MTASAP, the Government is committed to
phasing out input subsidies with the exception of those on irrigation water by
1993. Under the Irrigation Management Improvement Project (Ln. 2573-TUN), it
was agreed that the operation and maintenance (O&M) costs of irrigation water
vould be fully recovered on 65S of the irrigated area by 1991 and on the
remaining area by 1995. Under the MTASAP, fertilizer subsidies were
originally to be phased out over 5 years, animal feed and improved cereal seed
subsidies over 3 years and herbicide subsidies over 2 years, but due to the
severe drought of 1988, the program had to be suspended for one year. The
Government intends to resume the program in 1989, but due to the difficult
climatic conditions again experienced in 1989, to extend the period for
complete phase-out of the subsidies by twpo years.
71.      Under ASAL-I, the Government made two rounds of adjustments in the
prices of subsidized inputs achieving agreed targets for subsidy reductions.
ASAL-II would pursue the process of input subsidy phase-out in two additional
steps. Approximately 15% of the remaining unit subsidies on fertilizers,
animal feed, improved cereal seeds, seed potatoes and herbicides would be
eliminated in each step.
72.      Action Program Under Loan.  As a key action under the Letter of
Sectoral Adjustment Policy (Annex IV), to be carried out by December 31, 1989,
the Government would increase the prices of subsidized inputs, including
fertilizers, animal feed, improved cereal seed, seed potatoes and 2-4-D
herbicide so as to eliminate 152 of unit subsidies. It would also increase
the price of irrigation water by 92 in real terms, as agreed under the
Irrigation Management Improvement Project. At negotiations, an assurance was
obtained that the Government would carry out a review of the level and
structure of irrigation water charges by October 31, 1990. As a condition of
second tranche release, the Government would make a second adjustment of the
prices of subsidized inputs to eliminate an additional 15X of the unit
subsidies (the equivalent of a 30% reduction relative to the unit subsidy in
1988) and, based on its review of irrigation water charges, take action to
improve cost recovery including a second 9% real increase in water charges as
co-enanted under the Irrigation Management Improvement Project (Loan 2573-TUN).
3907E



- 23 -
Reorienting the Public Investment and Expenditure Program
73.      In the course of preparing ASAL-I, the public agricultural investment
and expenditure program for the five years of the VIIth Plan (1987-91) was
reviewed and found to be generally satisfactory. Agreement was also reached
with the Government on overall sectoral investment strategy, specific
subsectoral programs (e.g. for grain storage, livestock, research etc.), a
series of project selection criteria and the content of a "core" program which
would be protected in the event of resource shortfalls. These understandings
were reflected in the Government's Letter of Sectoral Development Policy for
ASAL-I.
74.      The investment component of ASAL-II would span the final two years of
the VIIth Plan and the frist two years of the VIIIth Plan. The investment and
expenditure situation in the sector would be monitored during this period with
a view to ensuring the best possible economic and social return on the public
investment resources devoted to agriculture. Agricultural projects and
programs meeting agreed criteria would also be financed under the investment
component of the loan (paras. 109-Ill).
Strengthening Essential Government Support Services
75.      Input Marketing.  Retail marketing of fertilizers, improved cereal
seeds, seed potatoes, herbicides and pesticides has been dominated by public
sector agencies, principally the OC but also the Offices de Mise en Valeur
(OMV), while the fertilizer wholesale trade has been handled by the Societe
Tunisienne d'Engrais Chimiques (STEC). The timeliness and quantities of
inputs distributed by these national agencies remain inadequate to provide the
necessary support to farmers. Budgetary constraints have precluded the
expansion of input distribution by public sector agencies to provide the
required improvements in service. However, since the Government retail
agencies operate with at least subsidized overhead costs and with retail
margins for fertilizer fixed at quite low levels until ASAL-I, there has been
little incentive until recently for the private sector to enter input
distribution which requires investments in transport and storage facilities.
Additional ways must be found to stimulate the private and cooperative sectors
to play a larger role in this activity if the agricultural sector is to
deliver a higher growth rate.
76.      To address this situation, the Government's medium-term objective for
fertilizer distribution under the MTASAP is to improve the conditions
necessary for the private sector and service cooperatives to increase their
participation in input marketing, thereby increasing farmer access to inputs
and to phase out public sector agencies from this activity except in areas
where the private sector cannot operate. As a first step taken in connection
with ASAL-I, the Government equalized the mark-ups on fertilizers between the
public and private sectors by raising the public sector margins to the level
of the private. In 1987, in fulfillment of a condition of second tranche
release under ASAL-I, the Government liberalized fertilizer retail margins for
both the public and private sectors, but the main public sector agencies did
not raise their margins, thereby continuing to undercut the private sector.
Private retailers have nevertheless increased by about 300 since the start of
the MTASAP.



- 24 -
77.     To meet the medium-term objective of increasing farmer access to
inputs at acceptable budgetary cost will require increased efforts to get the
public sector to withdraw from input distribution and, where its presence is
still needed, the introduction of full cost recovery by the public sector
agencies. Under ASAL-II, criteria would be developed for the withdrawal of
public sector agencies from "d6legations" where the private and/or cooperative
sector is providing adequate service and a phased withdrawal would be
undertaken. For cost recovery, most of these agencies and particularly the OC
have no detailed breakdown of their costs of input distribution which are
often part of a credit in kind system where accounts are settled when the
grain harvest is delivered. The Government would complete studies underway of
these agencies' costs with the aim of insuring full cost recovery.
78.     Marketing of improved cereal seeds is different from fertilizer
marketing because of the quality control requirements. When farmers had to be
convinced of the benefits of certified seed for improved varieties, the role
of the OC in the distribution of such seed was essential. Now the situation
has changed and subsidized certified seed is an unnecessary burden on the
budget. Subsidization of certified seed has also led to excessive use by
large farmers who often use only certified seed and who typically replace 901
of their seed each year when it would be sufficient to replace only 102, the
remainder being obtained from on-farm produced second generation seed,
adequately cleaned and treated against soil-born diseases. Moreover, because
distribution of certified seed is a monopoly of the OC, no private sector
activity has developed with the result that farmers at some distance from the
OC distribution centers have little access to certified seed.
79.     ASAL-I required a study of the seed and seedling subsector which was
carried out in April/May 1987. It concluded inter alia that the remainder of
the subsidy should be phased out over a period of 3-4 years and that the
Coop6rative Centrale des Plants et Semences (CCPS) and the Cooperative des
Semences (COSEM) should take over the OC's role in planning and wholesaling
certified seed. The report also recommended that the Cooperative Centrale du
Ble (COCEBLE), the Coop6ritive Centrale des Grandes Cultures (CCGC) and a
network of authorized private retailers handle retail sales under the
technical supervision of the Seed Control Service of the Ministry of
Agriculture which would need a network of regional seed control laboratories
to analyze the quality of farmers' second generation seed. ASAL-Il would
support the continued phase-out of subsidies on improved seed and the opening
up of seed wholesaling and retailing as described above. Following a review
of the monopoly of improved cereal seed sales by the OC, the Government has
decided to amend the legislation to allow the private and/or cooperative
sectors to enter this activity under adequate quality control arrangements.
Based on the recommendations of the ASAL-I seed study, the Government has
started to authorize limited amounts of seed potato imports by private
dealers, and ASAL-II would support the expansion of the role of private seed
potato importers.
80.      Pesticide and herbicide marketing has also been operated as a
subsidized monopoly of the OC in order to convince farmers of the benefits of
chemical weed control. Use is now fairly widespread on mechanized farms.
Besides removing subsidies, ASAL-I included a review of the legislation
governing pesticide and herbicide use and handling. Revised legislation has
recently been finalized and ASAL-II would support its enactment. The program
3S n.w



- 25 -
of training, education and extension on the safe use, storage and handling of
pesticides and herbicides started under ASAL-I would also be pursued under
ASAL-II and continued under the proposed Research and Extension Project,
expected to start in late 1989.
81.      Action Program Under Loan.  As a key action under the Letter of
Sectoral Adjustment Policy (Annex IV), to be taken by June 30, 1989, the
Government would present to the Bank criteria for the withdrawal of public
sector agencies from "d6l6gations" where the private and.;or cooperative sector
is providing adequate service. As a key action under the Letter of Sectoral
Adjustment Policy (Annex IV), to be taken by December 31, 1989, it would
select, according to these criteria, "tdelegations" from which the public
sector agencies could be withdrawn and then effectively withdraw from 202 of
them.   By December 31, 1990, it would withdraw from 802 of the selected
"d6legations". As a condition of second tranche release, the Government would
promulgate the new law regulating the use of pesticides and herbicides.
82.      Farm Mechanization.  In 1982, Tunisia implemented a total ban on
imports of tractors in the horsepower range produced in the country (30-120
hp). Lacking any prospect of new sales and in view of the 352 ceiling on
marketing margins, importers have reduced stocking of spare parts, especially
of slow moving ones. In addition, there is a 35% tariff on imported machines
outside the range of the ban and a 38S tariff on imports of spare parts which
have resulted in substantially higher cost machines and spare parts and
significantly increased the cost of farm machinery operations. More recently,
the increase in the cost of imports following the devaluation of the dinar has
compounded the problem. The price of locally assembled tractors has increased
by about 501 since 1986 with the result that the demand for new tractors has
fallen from some 2,400 to below 1,000 per year. The growth of farm machinery
rental services by farmers who have excess capacity has also been handicapped
by the need for farmers to extend the lifetime of their equipment and, to a
lesser extent, by the Government's reluctance to allow the public sector hire
company (SONAM) to adjust its rates upward in line with rising costs.
83.      The Government's medium-term objective for the farm machinery
subsector under the MTASAP is to achieve a more open and competitive system
which would be more responsive to farmers' needs. Under the macroeconomic
adjustment program supported by ASAL-I and ITPAL, the Government liberalized
most capital goods imports as of January 1, 1988, but despite proposed
safeguards limiting the number of tractor makes which could be imported and
affording a reasonable measure of tariff protection to the local industry,
tractors have so far been excluded from the liberalization program on infant
industry grounds. Imports of spare parts were liberalized under ASAL-I, but
as noted above, without new sales prospects, dealers still have little
interest in maintaining adequate stocks. Nonetheless, the new Agricultural
Investment Code provides for credit incentives for farm machinery purchases to
partly offset taxes and duties, and for the first time allows financing of
farm machinery renting units by non-farmers. Except in unprofitable areas
(e.g., remote parts of the country with few farmers), these units are expected
to ultimately replace SONAH which would then provide technical assistance to
them instead of direct services to farmers.
84.      To achieve the medium-term objective of a more open and competitive
system will require further domestic market and trade liberalization
measures. The Government has recently decided to reduce the 381 tariff on
spare part imports to 15X, the minimum duty for all imports. The current ban
on imports of tractors in the horsepower range produced in Tunisia would also
39073



- 26 -
be abolished and imports would be allowed, subject to a tariff that respects
the ceiling negotiated under the SAL (351 by 1991) with, if necessary, a
temporary surcharge as allowed under the safeguard mechanism envisaged by the
SAL. These measures should result in the achievement of medium-term
objectives.
85.      Action Prozram Under Loan.  At negotiations, the Government confirmed
its decision to reduce the tariff on imports of spare parts from 38X to 151.
As a condition of effectiveness, it would authorize the importation of
tractors of the same horsepower as that of tractors manufactured in Tunisia,
subject to the imposition of a tariff not exceeding 351 and, where relevant, a
temporary surcharge of up to 301.
86.      Livestock Services.  Livestock products represent some 291 of sector
GDP (Annex VI), yet the provision of technical services to livestock producers
has suffered from a number of inefficiencies. First, the Government has gone
beyond providing services to private farmers and entered into directly
productive activities including managing livestock farms and distributing
inputs such as seed and fertilizer for pastures free of charge which has led
to distortions in resource allocation. Second, the activities of the
Government's two livestock agencies, the Direction G6nerale de la Production
Auimale (DGPA) and the Office de l'Elevage et du PAturage (OEP), have
overlapped in the areas of animal disease prevention and control, extension,
genetic improvement and provision of inputs such as seed and fertilizer for
pastures, resulting in excessive employment of staff, greater than necessary
demand on the budget and crowding out of private and cooperative sector
activity.   Third, animal health and breeding services have been provided free
of charge by the public sector which has impeded the development of private
enterprise and/or delayed the organization of producer groups to provide
services and/or inputs. Fourth, there is a lack of data on the costs of
production of livestock products under different produ;tion systems and a lack
of evaluation of the results of past investments in the subsector.
87.      The Government's medium-term objective for livestock services under
the MTASAP is to privatize as much as possible and strengthen the remaining
public sector activities. Under ASAL-I, some OEP farms were privatized, and
the Government made some progress toward cost recovery for livestock services
in order to pave the way for the eventual transfer of these activities to the
private sector or cooperatives. A study of how to recover the cost of
artificial insemination services was carried out. Some agencies have reduced
donations of inputs for pasture improvement, but the practice continues.
Thirty-five private veterinarians received assistance to set up their own
clinics, and public veterinarians have begun providing treatment outside
office hours.
88.      More is required, however, to achieve the liberalized situation
envisaged by the medium-term adjustment program. Under ASAL-II, additional
actions would be taken including:
o    further privatization (e.g., through sale or leasing to private
parties) of State livestock farms belonging to OK? and
unprofitable Unites Cooperatives de Production (UCP).
Non-privatized farms would be subject to an external audit each
year; for privatized farms, the audit and technical assistance
activities of the Bureau de Contr8le des UCP would be taken over
by external auditors or by UCP technical experts; the farms
would no longer receive free public assistance, and would employ
enough specialists to ensure their financial and technical
efficiency;
3207K



- 27 -
o    implementation of action plans to divest OEP and DGPA of tasks
which can be taken over by the private sector and, for remaining
functions, clarification of the responsibilities of the DGPA and
OEP with the DGPA to be in charge of regulation and control of
livestock inputs and outputs and the OEP responsible for genetic
improvement pending privatization; the Government would issue
the necessary administrative texts and reorganize the DGPA and
OEP accordingly; and
o    establishment of agreed criteria for, and implementation of, a
program to achieve privatization of animal breeding and health
services in areas of high animal concentration, including
private veterinarians in artificial insemination activities on
state farms and in mass vaccination campaigns; in low density
areas not suitable for privatization, a charge schedule insuring
full cost recovery for artificial insemination and natural
breeding services would be prepared for use by OEP technicians;
follow-up actions would be taken in the later stages of the
MTASAP.
89.      Action Program Under Loan.  As key actions under the Letter of
Sectoral Adjustment Policy (Annex IV), the Government would, by December 31,
1989, withdraw OEP from 20% of its remaining directly productive units; by
December 31, 1990, it would withdraw OEP from 701 of its remaining directly
productive units.
90.      Research and Extension.  Many of the same problems affect both
research and extension beginning with the proliferation of institutions and
the lack of centralized work programming and budgeting linked to sector
priorities. A total of eight research institutes, 11 OMV's, 4 other Offices,
1 university and 6 agricultural schools carry out agricultural research in one
form or other with the result that the national research effort has often been
;6k,orly focused, overlapping and insufficiently coordinated. In extension,
some 1,000 extension agents operate as part of the activities of 25 entities
focusing on specific commodities (e.g., olive oil, cereals), area development
(e.g., the Northwest) or irrigation development with little attention to the
needs of the whole farm.
91.      The Government's ultimate objective for both research and extension
under the MTASAP is unification of the institutional framework of research and
extension within an autonomous body designed to bring together the dispersed
efforts currently deployed and improve interaction between research and
extension. Under ASAL-I, considerable progress was made in this direction.
An Agricultural Research Division was set up in the Direction G6nerale de la
Formation et de la Recherche Agricole of the Ministry of Agriculture, and an
Agricultural Extension Division was established in the Direction Generale de
la Production V6g6tale (DGPV). These units will become responsible for
unified programming and budgeting of research and for extension coordination
at the national level. In addition, a major achievement under ASAL-I was that
the career status and remuneration of agricultural researchers was upgraded as
a condition of second tranche release.
92.      To assist with the implementation of institutional improvements and
with the execution of a priority program, a Research and Extension Project has
been appraised. Rowever, experience in Tunisia and other countries has shown
that it would be a mistake to enter into a traditional investment project
without first improving the institutional framework. The proposed ASAL-II
39073



- 28 -
would therefore play an important supporting role in reinforcing the
institutional improvements needed.
93.      With respect to research, under ASAL-II the Government would first
issue official circulars acceptable to the Bank defining the role and
operating procedures for programming and budgeting of high priority
agricultural research programs by the Research Division. Later, the
Government would adopt a methodology for the programming and budgeting of
research programs by the single research institute now being created by
combining the Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique de Tunisie
(INRAT), the Institut de l'Olivier, the Institut des R6gions Arides, the
Centre de Recherche du G6nie Rural (CRGR) and the Institut National de la
Recherche ForestiEre (INRF).
94.      With regard to extension, the Government is currently reorganizing
the regional and local extension services to combine agencies responsible for
irrigated areas with those in charge of rainfed areas. The next step is the
preparation of an organigram for the regional and local extension services
showing the responsibilities of each, and the proposed means for ensuring
their coordination at the central level. Regional extension staff would then
be selected and subject-matter specialists and research liaison staff
appointed. The final objective of institutional unification of research and
extension would be achieved in the later stages of the MTASAP.
95.      Action Program Under Loan.  As a key action under the Letter of
Sectoral Adjustment Policy (Annex IV), to be taken by June 30, 1989, the
Government would issue the necessary directives acceptable to the Bank
defining the role and operating procedures for the programming and budgeting
of one to three priority agricultural research programs by the Research
Division. As key actions under the Letter of Sectoral Adjustment Policy
(Annex IV), to be carried out by December 31, 1989, the Government would: (a)
adopt a methodology for the programming and budgeting of research programs by
the single research institute currently being created (combining the
institutions listed in para. 93); and (b) submit to the Bank an erganisational
chart for extension services at the regional and local levels, including the
responsibilities of each, and proposals for their coordination at the central
level.
96.      Credit.  Greater reliance on private as opposed to public investment
is a key element of the Government's growth strategy for the post-petroleum
era, yet most investment in agriculture has come from budgetary sources.
Typically, farmers have financed 201 of the cost of investments with the
remaining 801 coming from special funds (FOSDA, FOSEP and FODERI) in the form
of low interest loans or outright subsidies managed on the Government's behalf
by the Banque Nationale de Tunisie (ENT) or the Banque Nationale de
D6veloppement Agricole (BNDA). Besides constituting an increasingly heavy
burden on the budget as a result of liberal eligibility criteria and poor
repayment performance, these funds have undercut commercial banking activity
in the sector and thereby limited the overall supply of funds.
97.      The Government's medium-term objective under the MTASAP for
agricultural credit reform is to achieve greater commercial bank participation
in the financing of agricultural development and to reduce the burden on the
budget. The program aims inter alia:
39073



- 29 -
o    to improve the incentives for banks to apply their own internal
and external resources to agricultural lending, notably through
a policy of interest rates which cover the financial and
operating costs at reasonable efficiency and risks of
agricultural lending;
o    to reduce progressively the budgetary allocations to the loan
parts of FOSDA and FOSEP with the ultimate objective of better
targeting these funds to the poorest farmers; and
o    to consolidate the BNT and the BNDA into one institution.
98.      Under ASAL-I, the Government took initial action on the first two
fronts including:
O    increasing interest rates for medium-term loans from 6.0% to
7.01 in 1986/87 and to 7.51 in 1987/88, and for short-term loans
from 6.01 to 6.752 in 1986/87 and to 7.02 in 1987/88; and
o    freezing FOSDA loan allocations in 1987 at their 1986 level of
TD 13 million and reducing them by 151 to TD 11 million in 1988.
It also decided recently to merge the BNT and the BNDA.
99.      More remains to be done, however, to achieve the objectives of the
medium-term program, and under the Fourth Agricultural Credit Project
(Ln. 2865-TUN) the Government agreed to take the following actions:
o    raise interest rates each year so as to decrease by 0.5 to 1.0
point the differential between prevailing rates and those needed
to fully meet the medium-term objective of full recovery of
financial and reasonable operating costs and risks of
agricultural lending by 1991 (after the increases of 1987/88,
the differential was estimated at 2-3 points); and
o    further reduce FOSDA loan allocations by 151 per year.
ASAL-II would help monitor the implementation of these measures over the
1989/90 and 1990/91 crop seasons.
100.     Action Program Under Loan.  As key actions under the Letter of
Sectoral Adjustment Policy (Annex IV), to be carried out by December 31, 1989,
the Government would reduce the credit part of FOSDA in 1989 by 152 compared
to 1988 and increase interest rates so as to reduce the differential between
market rates and preferential agricultural rates by 0.5 to 1.0 point. As a
condition of second tranche release, it would reduce the credit part of FOSDA
by an additional 151 in 1990 compared to 1989. As a key action under the
Letter of Sectoral Adjustment Policy (Annex IV), to be carried out by December
31, 1990, it would again increase interest rates so as to reduce the
differential between market rates and preferential sector rates by a further
0.5 to 1.0 point.
Improving Management of Natural Resources
101.     Land. Fundamental to achieving Tunisia's agricultural potential is
39075



- 30 -
better utilization of the country's scarce land resources. Since
Independence, Tunisia has made considerable progress in this direction
including the abolition of religious land holdings (habous), the division of
communally held lands, the reform of land holdings in public irrigated areas
and the introduction of certificates of ownership to enable farmers without
title to their land to have access to credit. Of the some 3 million hectares
of communally owned lands, 1.4 million is being broken up into individual
holdings while 1.6 million will be used as common grazing lands. Since 1984,
200 technical specialists have been settled on 13,000 hectares of public lands
to perform a demonstration function. The Office des Terres Domaniales (0TD)
which was previously involved in direct production activities has also been
reorganized into a holding company in order to increase the accountability of
operating units.
102.     Under ASAL-I, the Government took additional measures including: (a)
adoption of a law extending the duration of rural land leases to a minimum of
three years thereby encouraging on-farm investment and facilitating access to
medium- and long-term credit; (b) provision of tax incentives for the
maintenance of inherited farms as a unit; and (c) reduction of the land
transfer tax from 15.6% to 6S. Draft legislation has also been prepared
comparable to that existing for irrigated areas to keep the size of cereal
farms in rainfed areas above certain minimum sizes ("superficie minimum
d'exploitation viable", or SMEV). As described broadly in the Letter of
Sectoral Adjustment Policy (Annex IV), further measures are being considered
including: (a) extension of the authority of the irrigated land consolidation
agency, Agence pour la Reforme Agraire dans les Perimetres Publics Irrigues
(ARAPPI), to rainfed areas; (b) establishment of a "land bank" where farmers
could sell non-contiguous plots and buy adjacent ones in order to permit more
efficient farming practices; and (c) establishment of a legal framework to
allow members of the same family to own shares in "family land companies"
which would preserve the farm as a unit. The Government also plans to
continue transferring state-owned lands to private parties, including leasing
to private companies, and increasing the accountability of remaining publicly
managed units.
103.     Action Program Under the Loan.  As a key action under the Letter of
Sectoral Adjustment Policy (Annex IV), to be carried out by December 31, 1990,
the Government would carry out a joint review with the Bank of actions taken
on land issues and future programs for the restructuring of agricultural land
holdings.
104.     Fisheries.  Accounting for over 202 of agricultural exports and
growing at over 252 per year (1982-86), marine products are Tunisia's fastest
growing agricultural export. Most such exports have gone to the French and
Italian markets where the country is highly competitive due to its geographic
position. Most marine product exports from Tunisia consist of shrimp,
octopus, shellfish and sponges as well as white demersal fish which are
currently exploited at about 85S of their potential. Only an estimated 402 of
coastal pelagic species are currently being exploited. This is due to the
underdeveloped state of the domestic market for such species. The calmer
waters of the the South and East are also in danger of being overfished while
the more turbulent waters of the North are underfished. In an effort to
stimulate domestic consumption of pelagic species, controls on domestic fish
marketing margins were lifted under ASAL-I, and a pilot project for domestic
fish marketing was designed.
3907 K



- 31 -
105.     ASAL-II would support the launching of a domestic fish marketing
pilot project along two major roads leading into the interior, and the
establishment of incentives for fishermen to operate in the North rather than
the South and East.
Building Up Sector Performance Monitoring and Impact Analysis Capabilities
106.     Within the Ministry of Agriculture, the unit responsible for
monitoring sector performance and proposing appropriate responses is the
Department of Development Planning and Agricultural Investment (DGPDIA). It
is currently being strengthened with assistance from USAID. In addition, in
the course of preparing ASAL-II with Bank teams, the DGPDIA has acquired tools
to assess the economic, financial and social impact of the proposed price
policy package.
107.     Several policy planning and impact assessment tools have been
developed with the Ministry of Agriculture, in particular:
o    a multi-market model capable of being run on personal computers
has been prepa:ed to assess the impact of simultaneous price
changes on the balance of payments, Government budget,
production, consumption, farm income and the income of
consumers; these results may also be broken down by region,
income group or zone (urban and rural); staff from the Ministry
of Agriculture as well as other Government units have been
trained in the model's operation;
o    representative farm budgets have been prepared which make it
possible to examine the direct impact of price changes at farm
level on a total of 7 farms varying in size from 5.0 to 600 ha
and including private farms, production cooperatives and state
farms; again Ministry of Agriculture staff have been trained in
their use; and
o    a study carried out by consultants has equipped the Ministry of
Agriculture with the analytical tools necessary to estimate the
comparative advantage and nominal and effective protection
coefficients of different production systems, and Ministry of
Agriculture staff were also trained in their use.
Together with improved on-farm monitoring data, obtained from a selected
sample of actual farm profiles on an continuous basis, these tools will be
useful in the course of Bank supervision to assess the ongoing impact of the
adjustment program. Sector performance and the implementation of the MTASAP
would also be monitored through a series of indicators.
PART IV - WOAN ADMISViRATION
108.     Eligible Expenditures.  The proposed Bank loan of US$84.0 million
would be a hybrid operation. About 601 of the loan amount (US$50.0 million)
would finance a positive list of agricultural imports and 40% (US$34.0
29007



- 32 -
million) would finance part of the foreign exchange cost of high priority
agricultural projects and programs, as follows:
Item                                    Indicative Amount
(US$ million)
(a) Agricultural Imports
(i)  Agricultural Inputs,                          37.5
including animal feed and
agricultural equipment,
including machinery and
spare parts
(ii) Petroleum Products                            12.5
Sub-total:             50.0
(b) Agricultural Projects and Programs                   34.0
Total:               &
109.      Investment Component.  A four-year expenditure period is envisaged
for this component, covering 1990-1993. To be eligible for financing,
agricultural projects and programs would have to be included in the ongoing
VIIth Plan (1987-91) or forthcoming VIlIth Plan (1992-96). Both would also
have to be consistent with the subsector investment strategies set out in the
Letter of Sectoral Adjustment Policy (Annex IV). Projects would have to have
an economic rate of return of at least 102 (based on economic pricing of
inputs and outputs, including labor and foreign exchange); programs would have
to represent the least cost solution. In addition, projects and programs
would be justified in terms of the following criteria agreed upon under ASAL-I
on the basis of the 1986 Agricultural Expenditures Review (para. 73) and set
out in the Letter of Sectoral Adjustment Policy (Annex IV):
(a) favorable impact on the agricultural trade balance;
(b) productive employment creation at low cost per job created; and
(c) low Government contribution to investment and operating costs.
110.      As with all agricultural projects and programs included in the Plan,
the DGPDIA would be responsible for the identification, preparation and
appraisal of proposed projects and programs to be financed by the proposed
loan. Preparation would be undertaken with the support of the appropriate
technical service of the Ministry of Agriculture (the Direction G6nerale des
Etudes et Des Grands Travaux Hydrauliques (DGEGTH), for example, in the case
of irrigation projects, or the Direction Gen6rale des Ressources en Eau (DGRE)
in the case of wells). These services are well known to the Bank as a result
of years of project lending, and their technical capabilities were found to be
satisfactory at appraisal. Before submission to the Bank, the proposed
projects and programs would be appraised against the above criteria by the
DGPDIA. The Government and she Bank would agree each year on annual
investment programs meeting the agreed criteria for financing under the loan.
111.      Based on a preliminary screening and subject to revision in light of
3907E



- 33 -
the availability of other sources of finance, the following agricultural
projects and programs have been identified as suitable for financing under the
investment component:
Name                 Execution Agency             Indicative Amount
(US million)
Agricultural Projects
Sidi Ismail Irrigation         DGEGTH                                9.0
Gafsa Irrigaton                 DGGR                                10.0
El Houaria Area Development    DGEGTH                                6.0
Grain Storage II                BNT                                 16.0
Sub-total:        41.0
Agricultural ProRrams
Soil Studies                    DRS                                  1.0
Groundwater Investigation       DGRE                                14.0
Studies of Aquifers             DGRE                                 1.5
Equipment of Existing Wells    DGGR                                  7.0
Land Ownership Studies         DGAFn                                 0.8
Low Cost Erosion Control        CES                                  2.0
Fisheries Patrol Boats         CGP                                   4.0
Fisheries Port Maintenance     CGP                                   0.4
Land Consolidation             ARAPPI                                1.5
NW Rural Development            ODESYPANO                            9.8
Quality Control of Olive Oil   ONE                                   2.0
Exports
Sub-total:        44.0
Total:        LQ
Foreign Exchange Component (4O0):                                   34.0
112.      Procurement.  For agricultural imports, international competitive
bidding (ICB) would be used for contracts of US$5.0 million or more.
Purchases below this amount would be made following the usual practices of the
purchaser based on no less than three quotations from prospective suppliers
whenever possible. For agricultural projects and programs, ICB would be used
for civil works contracts of US$2.0 million or more and for equipment
contracts of US$500,000 or more. Contracts for amounts below these thresholds
would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank. For equipment procured
under ICB, qualifying domestic manufacturers would be granted a margin of
preference equal to 152 of the CIF bid price of the imported goods or the
actual c' im duties and import taxes, whichever is lower. For all ICB
procureme._, bids, bid evaluation reports and certified copies of contracts
would be presented to the Bank prior to the submission of the first
application for withdrawal of funds. For other procurement, prior to the
submission of the related withdrawal application, the borrower would furnish
all information and documentation that the Bank may reasonably request in
respect of such procurement. Sample bidding documents for each type of
procurement (imports, civil works, equipment) would also be reviewed prior to
the start of bidding.
3907£



- 34 -
113.      Disbursement.  The Central Bank would be responsible for the
administratiun of the import component of the loan, and the Ministry of
Agriculture (DGPDIA) would be responsible for administering the investment
component, including certifying projects and programs as meeting the selection
criteria and preparing withdrawal applications. Disbursements from the loan
account would be made against 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost of
eligible imports. For the investment component, disbursements would be made
against 1001 of foreign or 751 of local expenditures for imported equipment
(representing the foreign exchange component), 60% of expenditures for civil
works and 1001 of expenditures for consultants. Withdrawal applications for
disbursements on contracts to be procured under ICB would be fully
documented. In otber cases, disbursements would be made on the basis of
statements of expenditures (SOE's), detailing individual transactions in a
given period, and certification of payment and of eligibility of the
transactions for loan financing. Supporting documentation for disbursements
under SOE's would be retained by the Central Bank for the import component and
by the Ministry of Agriculture for the investment component, until at least 12
months after the closing date of the loan. A revolving fund (special account)
would be established at the Central Bank. The initial deposit would be US$10
million (approximately four months of disbursements). Replenishments would be
made for a minimum amount of US$2.5 million or when half of the revolving fund
has been utilized, whichever is sooner. The import component is expected to
be fully disbursed within about one and a half years after effectiveness. The
investment component which is a time slice operation would require four years
consisting of the remaining two years of the VIIth Plan, 1990 and 1991, and
the first two years of the VIIIth Plan, 1992 and 1993. The first tranche
would thus consist largely of imports while the second tranche would be
comprised mainly of investments. The closing date of the loan would be
December 31, 1994. The estimated schedule of disbursements is as follows (see
Annex VII for details):
Disbursements       FY90       FY91       FY92      FY93      FY94
(US$ million)i-
Annual           18.6       41.6        7.2      10.0       6.6
Cumulative                  60.2      67.4       77.4      84.0
114.      Accounts and Audits.  The Central Bank would retain records of all
transactions under the loan in accordance with sound accounting practices.
All accounts (including the revolving fund) would be audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank and audit reports would be sent to the Bank
within nine months of the end of the borrower's fiscal year. Audit reports
would include a separate opinion on claims submitted to the Bank on the basis
of SOE's and would state whether the claims were made in accordance with the
terms of the Loan Agreement.
115.      Release of Funds and Tranching.  The proceeds of the loan would be
made available for withdrawal in two tranches, each of US$42.0 million. The
first tranche would be released upon loan effectiveness; the second would
become available upon fulfillment of agreed conditions, expected to be around
December 31, 1990. Actions monitored to date, and future actions and their
timing are described below.
390SE



- 35 -
116.      Conditions of effectiveness (expected by December 31, 1989):
(a)  implementation of measures satisfactory to the Bank to open
grain collection to the private and cooperative sectors (para.
50);
(b)  publication of criteria satisfactory to the Bank for licensing
olive oil exporters and authorization of exporters meeting such
criteria to export olive oil (para. 60);
(c)  transferal of beef to the list of freely importable products;
imposition of a variable tariff to provide 152 nominal
protection for producers; and establishment of sanitary norms
conforming with international standards (para. 64);
(d)  elimination of quantitative restrictions on imports of powdered
milk and imposition of the variable levy necessary to provide
151 nominal protection (para. 69); and
(e)  authorization of the importation of tractors of the same
horsepower as that of tractors manufactured in Tunisia subject
to the imposition of a tariff not exceeding 351 and, where
relevant, a temporary surcharge of up to 301 (para. 85).
117.      Conditions of second tranche release (expected by December 31,
1990):
(a)  preparation of and submission to the Bank of the
recommaendatious from the second phase of the Cereal Marketing
Master Plan covering such issues as the transport cost
equalization system, further deregulation of private traders
and private access to storage (para. 50);
(b)  adjustment of the prices of subsidized fertilizers, animal
feed, improved cereal seeds, seed potatoes and herbicide 2-4-D
so as to eliminate 301 of unit subsidies (para. 72);
(c) based on the review of the level and structure of irrigation
water charges to be carried out by October 31, 1990, enactment
of all necessary measures satisfactory to the Bank to improve
cost recovery (para. 72);
(d)  reduction of the volume of FOSDA lending for agricultural
credit by 151 in 1990 compared to 1989 (para. 100); and
(e)  promulgation  of new law regulating use of pesticides and
herbicides (para. 81).
3907E



- 36 -
118.      Management, Coordination, and Monitoring.  Management, coordination
and monitoring of the sectoral adjustment program would be the responsibility
of a Government's Interministerial Coordinating Committee composed of
representatives of the key ministries involved in the execution of the program
including the Ministries of Planning and Finance, Agriculture, National
Economy and the Central Bank. The Committee was established under ASAL-I and
has played a key role in the preparation of ASAL-II. The Interministerial
Coordinating Committee would be maintained under ASAL-II and an assurance to
this effect was obtained at negotiations.  Analytical and monitoring support
for the committee would be provided by the DGPDIA of the Ministry of
Agriculture.  An assurance was obtained at negotiations that an annual report
on the implementation of the program would be provided to the Bank, and that
there would be an exchange of views on its status between the Government and
the Bank.
119.      Cooperation with Other Agencies.  Tunisia successfully completed the
program agreed with the IMF under its first stand-by arrangement covering the
period November 1986 to May 1988 and an extended financing facility was signed
in July 1988. Cooperation and coordination between the Bank and the IMF have
been excellent. The stand-by program provided a short run macroeconomic
framework for the ITPAL and the ASAL, and the content of the two loans were
discussed extensively with the IMF staff. The components of the SAL were also
discussed at various stages with the IMF staff with no substantial divergence
of views. The German KfW started adjustment lending to Tunisia in 1987 and
has granted so far a DM27.5 million (US$16.0 million) loan for the second
tranche of ASAL-I. Following the appraisal of ASAL-II, in which it
participated, the KfW expects to make a second loan of at least the same
amount to support the import financing component of ASAL-II. As noted above,
the sector performance monitoring and impact analysis capabilities of the
Ministry of Agriculture, which are an essential element of the MTASAP, have
been strengthened with assistance from USAID under its Agricultural Policy
Implementation Project (APIP).
120.      Economic. Financial, and Social Impact.  The MTASAP supported by
ASAL-II is expected to achieve the objectives of maintaining sustained
sectoral growth by promoting greater efficiency and economy in agricultural
production and in the use of public and private resources in the sector.
Rowever, many of the specific measures under the program have effects that are
not quantifiable. For example, the institutional improvements to be
introduced are expected to improve efficiency by increasing the role of the
private sector and stimulating competition. In particular, allowing the
private sector to collect local cereal production, import animal feed, export
olive oil, distribute inputs and provide credit should improve the efficiency
of these operations, allow the savings to be passed on to farmers and thereby
stimulate production. Greater incentives for private sector activity and
higher returns to farmers would be complemented by improved use of public
resources in the sector leading to lower incremental capital output ratios
(ICORs). By unifying the disparate efforts currently deployed in research and
extension, the MTASAP would allow these activities to focus on improving
productivity in the production of key commodities. Opening up tractor imports
and reducing tariffs on spare parts imports would lower farm mechanization
costs, increase profits and raise production.
3907E



- 37 -
121.      The impacts of other actions under the MTASAP, particularly pricing
measures, are more easily quantified and an attempt has been made to do so
using sevaral tools developed in the context of recent sector work. These
include a set of typical farm-level models, the results of a study on
agricultural profitability, protection and comparative advantage, and a
multi-market model. The multi-market model has been used explicitly to take
into account the inter-relationships between commodities within a subsector
and between commodity groups across subsectors. Estimates have been made of
the incremental impact of the MTASAP policy measures and compared to a
"without adjustment" situation, based on continuation of observed trends
before the adjustment process began. The key element analyzed has been the
effect of introducing the improved price policy framework linking producer
prices of both outputs and inputs to world prices and eliminating restrictions
on the imports of specific agricultural commodities.
122.      The impact of the entire MTASAP (1985/86-1990/91), which spans the
period of both ASAL-I and ASAL-II, was examined. Thus the analysis includes
both impacts that have already occurred during the early stages of the
medium-term program as well as those projected under the proposed loan since
the MTASAP is essentially a single program that cannot be neatly divided into
distinct periods covered by individual loans. Also, the volatility in
rainfall and international prices means that extremely short periods are not
very meaningful to analyze. The medium-term program is best evaluated on its
overall merits.
123.      While these results provide valuable insights into the potential
impact of the proposed changes, they should not be interpreted too rigidly
given the inherent uncertainty associated with predictive modeling. The
results should be considered as indications of the direction of change and
possible orders of magnitude. It should also be emphasized that the results
only quantify the impact of price changes. Negative effects on specific
variables (e.g., production) do not necessarily mean that the impact of the
entire policy package on that variable will be negative. For example,
increased efficiency of water use and better cropping techniques may result in
higher output of irrigated crops, despite the fact that the effect of an
increase in the water price, taken by itself, is negative.
124.      The estimated impact of the improved price policy framework can be
sum-arized as follows.
(a) Aggregate growth of the commodities analyzed would be higher by
1.5%-2% p.a. than in the "without adjustment" situation. This would
be due primarily to increases in cereals, milk and forage crops
which would more than offset expected declines in beef and fruits
and vegetables. In addition, shifts in the structure of cereals
production can be expected with durum increasing at the expense of
bread wheat and barley (paras. 125-129).
(b)  The budgetary effect of the new prices would be positive, primarily
due to reductions in input subsidies and the introduction of a 152
minimum tariff on imports of agricultural products and inputs (para.
130).
39071



- 38 -
(c)  The effect on foreign exchange would also be positive due to
reductions in imports of durum wheat and milk powder which outweigh
the increase in imports of other cereals and the reduction in
exports of fruits and vegetables (para. 131).
(d) The impact on income is generally positive with the relative
benefits going primarily to farmers that produce durum wheat using
low-input techniques, use integrated livestock systems instead of
pure-bred systems, and produce under rainfed instead of :rrigated
conditions. Since these tend to be small farmers, the
distributional consequences would also be positive (para. 132).
125.      Overall, the price changes could have a positive impact on the
production value-added of commodities covered by the impact assessment 1' of
slightly under 102 (at constant prices) over the five years of the MTASAP, or
between 1.52-22 per year. This is due essentially to a large positive impact
on durum wheat production, and to a lesser degree to expected growth in milk
production and forage crops. Gains in these commodities offset the negative
price impacts on other commodities. These results are consistent with the
overall thrust of the medium-term program which seeks to stimulate production
of commodities in which Tunisia has a comparative advantage (such as cereals
and certain fruits and vegetables) while at the same time, reducing protection
for commodities which have been heavily subsidized (such as irrigated crops)
or for which certain production systems are not efficient when measured by
world standards (such as intensive livestock production).
126.      The price changes, by themselves, have a highly positive effect on
cereals production. The models suggest that value-added of cereals could
increase, in constant prices, by some 35% over the five year period (or
approximately 6.22 per year). Given the relative price changes among cereals,
there would be a change in the composition of cereals production, with shifts
out of soft wheat and barley into higher price durum. Thus the value-added of
cereals production in constant prices would increase by much more than the
volume because of the switch into a higher value commodity. The introduction
of seasonal prices for cereals is expected primarily to affect the amount of
on-farm storage. It may eventually have an impact on the timing of the
harvest (by spreading it over a longer period), but should not affect overall
levels of production. The policy package provides for other measures that
affect the cereals market, but their impact on prices could not be quantified
and thus they have not been included in the discussion above. These measures
are aimed at opening domestic collection activities to the private sector
which should increase efficiency in the sector and permit higher producer
prices for all cereals. This should have a further positive effect on
production.
127.      The effect of the price changes on the production of livestock
products is expected to be mixed. Value-added for milk production could be
around 2.4% p.a. higher, and value-added for meat could be around 5.4% p.a.
1/   These include: cereals (durum wheat, bread wheat, barley), milk, meat
(beef and sheep), fruits and vegetables, and hay. This is not, of
course, exhaustive coverage of Tunisia's agricultural production and
these growth rates should not be interpreted as representative for the
entire sector.
3907S



- 39 -
lower, than they would otherwise be. The positive impact on milk production
is due to higher projected prices. The negative impact on beef production is
partly due to the declining prices for meat, but also to the increases in the
prices of livestock feed. Reduction in high cost beef production systems is
consistent with the medium-term program which seeks to shift resources out of
intensive pure-bred systems and into more efficient alternatives. Value-added
for lamb production would be positively influenced by expected price changes
albeit only slightly (perhaps some .12 per year higher than usual).
128.      The impact of the price changes, by themselves, on the value-added
of production of fruits and vegetables is expected to be slightly negative
(just under one percent lower per year) due primarily to increases in water
charges for irrigation. This is not to say that the overall policy package
will have a negative impact. Measures to increase efficiency in water use and
raise crop intensity such as those described in the Irrigation Management
Improvement Project (Ln. 2573-Tun) and adopted as an integral part of the
medium-term adjustment program could increase yields by 30-701, even in the
face of higher water charges. Nonetheless, the price impact on fruits and
vegetaoles is consistent with the objectives of the MTASAP to improve
efficiency in the allocation and use of resources.
129.      It is unclear how much production of olive oil will be stimulated by
a higher producer price. This will depend on how much of the increased
profits are retained by the oil processors and how much is passed along to the
farmers. Higher profits should allow farmers to invest in yield increasing
maintenance such as pruning and weeding.
130.      The analysis suggests that the net impact on public finance of the
price changes over the medium-term program would be small but positive
(approximately TD 5 million per year). This increase in revenues, however,
would be the result of several opposing forces. First, there is the net
effect of movement toward world levels for producer prices. To the extent
that certain commodities were paid less than their border equivalents before
the NTASAP began, the adjustment program involves additional costs for the
government budget, and to the extent they were paid more it generates
savings. Moreover, the price setting formula is based on a moving average of
world prices. Therefore, the formula price can be higher or lower than the
actual world price, depending on the evolution of the other prices in the
average. This can produce either costs or savings for the budget depending on
the specific circumstances. Throughout the adjustment period, the net effect
on the budget of the new producer price policy is expected to be negative.
Nonetheless, these additional costs would be outweighed by the savings from
other elements of the package. There are clear economies for the budget from
the continual reduction in the subsidies on inputs and there are the
considerable revenues from the 151 minimum duty introduced under the MTASAP on
all imports of agricultural products and inputs.
131.      The net impact on foreign exchange of introducing new prices under
the MTASAP is also expected to be small and positive, on the order of TD 6
million per year. This is due primarily to the positive effect on cereals
production, particularly on high-value durum, and on milk production. Since
the consumer prices of cereals and milk remain fixed, increases in production
translate directly into reductions in imports. Within the cereals subsector,
the new price changes are likely to have the effect of increasing bread wheat
and barley imports, but reducing durum imports by a more than offsetting
3907E



- 40 -
amount. There is even the possibility that durum could be exported. The
positive influence on foreign exchange by cereals is somewhat mitigated by the
negative effect that the price changes would have on exports of fruits and
vegetables and imports of beef. To the extent that production of fruits and
vegetables actually increases under the medium-term program, however, the
foreign exchange situation would improve further.
132.      The impact of the MTASAP price changes on income was analyzed both
using the multi-market model which looked at all income, by income group and
by region; and using the farm budgets which looked only at the direct impact
on farm income of the price changes (i.e., without any behavioral response).
The results of the multi-market model show a slight positive impact on income
(it could be higher by 02 - 2.5% per year) everywhere except in the North East
and in urban areas. There could be a negative impact on incomes in the North
East (though virtually insignificant) because that is where most of Tunisia's
large farms producing soft wheat and using modern inputs are located. The
urban sector should be essentialb- unaffected by the program because the
prices for the vast majority of products it consumes (that are coverd by the
analysis) are fixed. The results of the farm budget analysis show that all
types of farms should gain from the new prices except those in animal
fattening and those using irrigation. The larger the share of farm income
derived from cereal production and the lower the share of fertilizer in
variable costs, the more favorable the impact of the price changes. Clearly
these policies most benefit the small armer who produces primarily durum
wheat with few modern inputs.   Farm income is also likely to be improved by
reduced prices of tractors and spare parts-' when imports are liberalized
and tariffs are reduced, by increased efficiency and competition in cereals
collection as a result of greater private sector participation, and by any
increases in olive oil prices that may occur.
133.      Environmental Impact.  The proposed operation would have a positive
impact on the environment.  The reduction of input subsidies would help
control the build-up of fertilizer and pesticide residues in the soil by
curbing excessive use. The improved regulation of herbicide and pesticide use
would help prevent contamination by dangerous substances. Raising water
charges would encourage water conservation in a water scarce environment. The
measures to discourage fishing in the overfished waters of the South and East
and stimulate fishing in the underexploited waters of the North would also
help conserve one of Tunisia's most valuable natural resources.
134.      Risks.  The risks facing the agricultural sector adjustment program
relate to the length and difficulty of the process, unpredictable developments
in the external environment and uncertainties in the response of the private
sector to the program. While Tunisia's record in implementing reforms agreed
with the Bank is excellent, the magnitude of the adjustments needed and
inter-relationships between them create some risk about the pace of
implementation and maintaining the integrity of the reform package. Actions
on input subsidy reduction have to be coordinated with adjustment of producer
prices. In these circumstances, maintaining fiscal objectives and ensuring
reasonable food prices pose a major challenge to those managing the adjustment
1/   Costs of mechanization are currently equal to approximately 30-50X of
variable costs.
39075



- 41 -
program. Weather is another potentially important factor which might affect
the pace of implementation of reductions in input subsidies. The response on
the export front is contingent on actions by Tunisia's trading partners and
competitors, and how the private sector would respond to the changing
environment is difficult to predict with precision.
135.      The design of the adjustment program has built in features to
minimize these risks. First, essential linkages with macro-economic actions
are an integral part of the design. Second, the specific actions are to be
taken over a short 18-24 month period for which uncertainty is small. Third,
the phased approach to implementing the MTASAP inherently permits flexibility
and adjustments between phases.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
135.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve
th proposed loan.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
May 1, 1989
Washington, D. C.
3907E



- 42 -                             ~~~~~ANNEX Io 
ol4-tip PwopAtln 01. 
1W P W c.1o. gotoP    In 
.   saf  ra       S1   it                         *G*iJ(fe aswmw price et)  (fro costs"M price Oh)
1~~   1913   1910   196   19*    IW       I96.73193-801"We   196   191
arm  5    fg PreM uLP.        100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0             71     6.4    3.5   *1.6   -3.8
aOt I11tret Two              12.3   13.6   13.5   1* 5   13.3   12.6
IWiaaUiu             1~~~~~9*4   19.?   14.1   15.5   13.3   15.5        6.      2.t    3.4  -12      17.5
IrAitr                       *              1     29.6   34.9   38.3             8.6    7.4    3.2   -0.4    0.3
(of thd  tofrM                7?J    9.3   11.8   11.6   13.1   13.0            10.6   11.0    6.4    4.8    4.3
twvfcw   ~47.5   45.3   41.3  4Q.s   4.6   43.5                           6.0    6.3    4.0    1.3    6.0
INOsMwsbtuws                  -13.1   *2.5   *S.4   -6.t   -7.3   -13 *2*
Ejpgva of SF$                18.8   5.1   40.2   32.6   30.6   31.91. 9                          10      2 14.0
Itits of SW$                 31.9P   3.5   45.6  3SL7   3B.0   3W.               5.2   11.9   -0.5   -Li   -4.2
TO  otalgiwi                  113.1  102.5  105.4  105.1  107.3  101.2             5.5    7.3    2.6   *4.0   -0.9
Touta 0oms"t"                Ug.1   £1.3   76.0   19.6   53.8   80.1             7.6    7.5    4.3    CA       1.4
Patmo wate   s te           MS.  16.0   61.5   63.0   16.5   63.8               6.0    7.5    4.1    1.0    1.3
Owsisi Gramme              15.0   15.1   14.5   16.5   17.3   ¶6.3             5.9    7.J    M.   -kg    LS
ae"e Oumatf two 1            31.    31.3   29.4   3.6   U.5   31.1               1.5    6.7   .1.9  .18.    -*.7
PINud bnmswi               27.5   31.5   23.3   3.4.   31.0   20.3             3.3    9.7   -0.9  -16.   -13.4
owl" .in SUN"               0.1    0.8    1.1   -0.3   -0.5    0.9               .      *
Grwood  *Aml                14.5   18.8   21.0   VA.   16.2   19.9              6.0    3.6   4.3   -1.7   U.L?
NOt past wu                  .2.8-L  -3.6   -2.6   -4.2  -4.6   -4.8               .      .
eat *ra ruWruaso             0.0    3.3    4.0    3.3    4.1    5.0
area bolsul Iwfrg              11.7   18.5   23.3   19.4   15.5   20.1             5.5    3.7   -L.5  -DJ.       64.4
tn  uitto  of LOU             1I6    193   1"O    "a    196   liP
(at OmEw* 1911 plfea)
IN m oati pyoLjt             131       0 31         38       3 43                 .      6.4    3.5   -1.6    5.8
cmattyt fs tint               W9      W0    143    1391   1311   1501            11.1   10.2   -1.5   -5.9   14.5
Toom of Tiub *djusm*          -56    -81      0    -77   -as   -ini 
uar  Semiti flnuS          1in     214    3541   421    4011   4343              7.i1   5       2.6   .15.    5.4
GM"s Nofoul Projm            137   3172   3447   4146   455    4518              7.1    6.4    3.3   21.0    5.7
crew Ustleu  Inom            ¶29    M       3147   40W9   339W   4057            7.0    6.5    2.    -5.9    5.4
C. Frioe tudocw                                      "a¶9  13    196    ip       19045-  197-S0 lm-    1"a    191
............   ..    .. ..                   .. ..          .. ..               ...  ...  ...    .. ..
Cuw m.Pis (1PS1)          100.0  131.9  146.3  1560  167.1  119.1              3.3    6.8    9.1    5.8    7.2
Voiml  Priem (IF$ 65)         100.0  140.2  150.3  ¶61.0  173.0  174A6             3.7    6.6    9.1    5.6    2.7
tqiloit MP haftata            100.0  141.3  151.7  153.9  164.3  171.2             3.3    8.7    3.6    3.3    7.9
looteIt Sanwdlb.    SafI.    100.0  133.6  151.7  161.8  173.3  15.0               3.7    6.6    9.7    7.0    8.6
p.Se   IdeaUsl           196-73 197-S 1910.6
Ga  mi  ates(3 PA.U)                   .       .
PqpAatlm                      L       A     a
Ldos Poem.                                  3.0
ors al b trKaminp.O           4.,    4.0    0.0
Privais Cmesfe p   .C.        5.9    4.9    1.7
Iqurt Elstatctys
jqSn  CGOUP  I W)             0?     1.9   -0.2
megleul SMlO Sates
Grols Natfeit swiW           30.5   36.6   16.2
Genam ltIc $eve             25.7   32.3  -37.0
Ico (we4d WAM)s                        4.6   10.?
ownu of tota                  1965  1915   ¶91    196
Ldwesf IM                    .. ... ... ..
Is6w6vU                      49.2   39.7   3.0    3.7
hiatmy                       21.4   3.8   36A4   34.?
suwlc                        29.4   31.5   3.6   39.6
ToUt                        108.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
........   .................     ..   ................................~..............



ANNEX I
- 43  -                                        Page  2 of 3
n-ninA
113151*  ~ ~  ~    ~    ~    vwwiniIA £1wiC   SIC1TU                     atP46203 (wiiu  o
.....................*.....
1.    *        e Iiar                   w      t ¶50    15lf 0   150    1W             1 15  11     5      95    1657t
X.L                           100.0   73.8 '5.1   70.4   73.5   75.0  137.4  831.5  ?9.2   MJ.3    ,               .o
x.atU.P CP9minu Sint)         100.0   90.0   1.4   S&A    77.4   as.?   54.6    .6    33-9   32.5    2.5   32.6
..~~~*                . ...  ......  ... ..  ... ..
_JdUKlW                       tOO'O  135   tli  15.i  1IS.   15.i    9.i  9 W              n.I   9s  ttni 145
100.0   95.4  147.9  142.0  145.4  173.1   O.1   81.9   "..    9.6  132.S  151.3
total c£rt  46                100.0   Uo.   99.1   "51   1o.   119.6 OW6.o  1l0.1  1501.1  179.2  1745.0 2iU.4
F. Iftudw      I1u
...............................
Few                           100.0  14QA   146.5  113.3  140.0  1.0  W.9  43.3  4613  383.4  361.5  311.9
Flat ow  w                    100.0   49.9      .6    5.    5.6   7n.1  79.   347.1  m.   3A   51.8  31r.
Oth.coai                      100.0  13   110.8  113.?  I05   10.8  3MA.6   WA   31. 5Sa           41.4  0U.2   775.9
o    * _ § f;;-W~Voft100.0  109.5  I12.1  16e.9  112.1  112.0  lo0                 918    900.0  8.  1OU   1o06.
Coiu   ol&                    100.0  131.4A  14.3  16.1        .2   61.5  741.0  M.A1   U          0     6X.8  519.0
otam iqwu CIf                 100.0  I07.0  113.3   95.0  9W.s   9I? 3.   316.1 33.  2V4.J  201.5  5 9
G. ramof trt        o (19010   15      19a    195    150    19*    lW
............................... ....... ....... ....... ....... ....... .......
N... swu"  Psi 1a             100.0   79.3   75.9   7.4   67.3   74.5
mu'. its fne  1if             100.0    0.1    75.8   78   U0.2    .1
ad,. Tm  of Tr                100.0   W.o   SL4    9.A   51.9   3.3
U.s mlttas (at awre pinas)s
N. ftl     of P0¢             ..;;     196    19      195    15; 1;                1/ Total hare   I   sS ttltuinue 65
bg'gof 0b&  weM8               B1i    5       2g21   275   27Z2   D10              2J Not 1? PM
f frdwius  (MD)                D5    1150   1M1   1M        1755   21            3/ WSt IL? __tn      U
Nm.fscr  zsvio               l1a3   10       9W      i      6      im
Ns"   of cta   &a W$           35      367   348       W     3       345
Iadud1as (P05)               34      507   305    5o        27A    5
N nmFw ar Savia                W      Mi    45    a3         410    43
_mm  5lt                        A -s4  ff      .9     -SW    -"2   .1¶
Not Vir t                       .83    -W      -a4 *-352   .45    -W
(Total fn~   ) I/              W      W       W      m      Dt    3
--t o*rsW Tswafts               348    34      317    10    39    45
c;ar, rmttuSe )               38      39    317    VI    362    40
oCr  ac lot ex off ty          .31    .4   -ws    90           15     - *-W
i7en CwItat tnfln               644    7m      45      5n     41s    3
offatIm        t              06    54       as      140    153      S2
Ns Offieidt *rUUfW              2 a    5      a       3      41      3
let LT Lam  (W   du) V         36    St    360    DS         216    219
otL,T linflw (W)  3/            19    .5      a       a       *4    4
Tout ost itm  CM)              .10    .10       47    114    21I       43
Not hsrt Tw eltt              .54      .5     33      1s     43       0
C65iUIP FlIN.LI.                0       0      0       0      0       0
&ws  trd                      1nnies  .15    .rn  9    *136    172  42
a.ps in Nu  __arv              -151      31    173    1n       73   .162
Not emlt frt VS   tw           32       0      0       0    1N       5s
oo   hMwq  O- SU Wo           .71      31    173    10    -in   .29
As      of gift
su m  We=                     *-5.4    8.6  .11.?   -6.1 .7.3   .1.2
uft*     paoWs                2.9    2A      3.3    3.3    3.7    3.8
owl-t  linsM  blow           -4.0    r.74  *10.9   *7.i   4.0   .1.0
_mrsti  Itma
Nuu u     L. Md( mlL.1 u          3     W4?    451            305    55
_ ons lm. SOd Cod1.  3)    M7           46    47 4            374     W9
Oftefd Xa IO.H (L M            0.41  0C       0.73   0*    0.79   0.
tuu    Ml Ut. X1  S   1900  100.00  97.3   97.3   W7    60.70   11
lpmtlIs of vivo  1u)    WIu    s00   am                      13 19   507
......................n............... ................................................................. .........................



ANNEX I
44                                            Page  3 of 3
11.3111*                                        1A1StA   £ 10MUC IUSICATUS
me 3 OF 3
............................................................................
..... ......,,,,,,,, ............................... *-*-- ....... ....... .......**   .......* * -*4 s +-**-
Ow1w,t aips.3                          3¶.4   2.9   31.6   316   29.0                        20.2    3.9    1.o       .
Owm*  it I                      19.7   .a    36.1    5.6    3.1   21.0                       a.$    6.7    3.9    4,*
Oj tg               ao w  gal   6.      .1    7.6    6.2    5.4    5.0                      11.6  *12.1  *10.9    5.4
camtel~ ~   ~ b f       01    0.2    0.1    O 1    O.t    O.O                       19.  9.0  0S.     .O      *r:o
CWtal tgwd 1a                   12.4   15.9   14.7   11.2   tO.?    6.5                      20.3   *15.5   *2.4   *9.9
Ovalt  Mt Osfltot               .3*4   r7.     * 6i    4.9    53 .i l*3                        i.  10 i    9:i  .36i
OffidA C.ltal GreeO              0.0    0.1    0.1    0.0    0.1    0.1                       .1   *5.7  207.?  ..5
mtinjwmi gwyutI  (rot)          0.9    5.0    3.6    2.4    3.0    1.3                       44.1    2.2   2.?  .51.3
Ot1e Uw  PliwuluW               2.5    2.5    3.0    2.5    2.2    2.0                       21.6   .9.1    0.5    7.
Not Oftbwta (UIS OmVA  low)           oft ,stefq & Di  A'mi (U  mfl WoO)
J. Eteria aUI FtV, 04*    .........................  ***w* --*- *----------------*--***-............................
orWd  t C a*     ftIetU      I       19g      15    1       Ila5   lw7   19       19"      1at   1a    19        lw
PUle A AIcly   r. LT             35     52      360    350    216    219    m        3E4   3M6   "W    50 
O;fica Creltm                  219     W?     301 215          Z?     190    2W            2?   31    MI   "la
mattlats a                    61      U      56    15       150    173    433    i         <      614   111   195
ofd 1d  l                   36      5      51      62      0      67    306    43       3M      550     W      ION
dofs  1MA                    1      -1     -1      *1      .1     .1      de     6?      66      d       66     63
sitatat                      Wr   13        VA      116  z          47   155    1m7    1M        MT   2a         MT
PIiVa  Q  4itoi                107  1          36     15      30      -2    I      1414   1?    16    1m    11
smofws                         3      A      .¶o    .30    .30    -V3      I?    Vs    51         ad      W 1
FttIuSl  mwta                101     W7      46    145       7      35   106   1141    "6   1t1l   In            150
Pritie   W,uwetmm                 10    -a      5a        s      4    .3       ISO 195                21V     55      U
Totl   I                         366    5%      43      355    2U      I"    3601   396    395    475    541    6616
W  Crgat                         .32      0       0      0    In5       53      0       0       0      0    1n       21
Mat Sit-TQg  C     dtal         -.34      .5      8      13     45       0    136    131    16    1in         W      12
Tota iit. liE & Nt ST            -      43      436    3A      43      247   3346   407    400    495   5W         g919
'W* ad IA atoe                   195    195    1a    1         195    1w
.. ._.................. ... .... ..... ....  . ....    .... .....    .... .....    ....
SiW of TOs LawTem 06
1.  u  a  of totW               T.9   11.0   10.1   11.8   14.4   16.4
2. oA a Xtolutd                  2.0    1.7    1.7    1.4    1.2    1.0
3.  tolA      II of tout         9.9   12.7   11.8   13.2    I.6   17.4
fiv of VT Oft 5.'fl
1. 195 a X of Tota               T.J   10.3   10*    12.1   15.3   1?.?
2. ItA a X of  tol               0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2
3. I_tOA a X of total            7.9   10.7   11.0   12.3   15.4   17.9
.....................
t. LwTinu Oat.0  119.0   15.2  116.6  17t.6  14.3
2. IW  Cruit/                    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    5.9    7.o
3. Darttwo    I      r                  4.0    5.4    6.0    7.3    3.8
4. LT+I T                       96.5   2L39   13.A  162.6  106.0  170.1
.................
1. WTom OatW                    359   46?   46.9   57.2   61.6   66.5
2. IW  Crdit/U                   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    2.1    2.6
3.  uwt-Tuo  */U                1.6    1.6    2.1    2.2    2.6    2.3
4. LTIU47 ROS/U                40.3   50.3   51.0   59.4   66S    71.6
Otu Iwvle / ta
1. PI*tic 4 Stewed LT           10.9   17.2   20.6    .3   26.8  28.5
2.W hsw lm uawh  sLT             11.5    1.3    1.3    1.6    2.0    2.2
i. tat  L't 0 Oabt See   12.4   163    21.9   24.0   MA               S.7
4. W  OpodwSrv.                  0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.9    0.3
S. bvwvely  Tv                   0J     OA.    0.5    0.7    o.7    0.5
6. TOta (Lt.1f  tat.)           13.1   19.1    2.4   21.7   30.4   36.5
....................................................................................................................................



- 45-                                        ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
THE VMS OF  AN  GRO   OPERAIQNS IN TUNISIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1989)
Loan or                                                                                  US$ million Amount
Credit                                                                                  (Less Cancellationst
Nfuor     Year     Borrower                        Purpose                           an         IQ9    Undisburseu
Forty-seven Loans and Ten Credits fully Disbursed                                   780.11    75.16
1797     1980      Office des
Ports Nationaux            Third Port                            3S.20                  1.23
1961     1981      Republic of Tunisia        Fourth Education                       21.00                 6.09
1969     1981      Republic of Tunisia        Small-Scale Industry Development    30.00                    3.74
1997     1981      Republic of Tunisia        Northwest Rural Development            17.54                 2.09
2005     1981      Republic of Tunisia        Health and Population                   8.50                 2.76
202     1981      Republic of Tunisia        Grain Oistribution and Storage         33.40                  1.01
2108     1982      Republic of Tunisia        Fifth Highway (Rural Roads)            35.50                 7.75
2157     1982      Republic of Tunisia        Irrigation Development                 15.30                 2.14
2223     1983      Republic of Tunisia        Urban Oevelopment III                  25.00                16.02
2230     1983      Republic of Tunisia        Education V                            27.00                 15.59
2234     1983      Republic of Tunisia        Central Tunisia Irrigation             13.70                 5.08
22S5     1983      Republic of Tunisia        Urban Sewerage III                     34.00                20.54
2289     1983      Republic of Tunisia        Sfax Flood Protection                  22.30                   .29
2346     1984      Republic of Tunisia        Mining Technical Assistance             7.80                  2.31
2368     1984      Republic of Tunisia        Seventh Water Supply                   SO.00                27.54
2429     1984      Republic of Tunisia        Second Urban Transport                 33.00                19.74
245S     1984      Societd Tunisienne de
l'Electricit6 et du Gaz  Fourth Power                            21.52                  6.25
2502     1985      Republic of Tunisia        Northwest Agricultural Production    8.80                    7.49
2522     1985      Republic of Tunisia        Export Industries                      32.50                20.06
2554     1985      Republic of Tunisia        Second Electrical
and Mechan'ctl Industries             32.50                 22.84
2573     1985      Republic of Tunibia        Irrigation management Improvement   22.00                   16.52
2605     1985      Republic of Tunisia        Gabes Irrigation                       21.70                12.57
2735     1986      Republic of Tunisia        Energy Conservation                     4.00                 3.87
2736     1986      Republic of Tunisia        Fourth Urban Development               30.20                24.26
2754     1986      Republic of Tunisia        Agricultural Sector Aojustment        150.00                42.37
2781     1987      Republic of Tunisia        Industrial & Trade Policy Adjust.  150.00                   SO.11
2865     1987      BNT                        BNT IV                                 30.00                21.86
2870     1987      Republic of Tunisia        Agriculture                            20.00                17.93
2896     1987      Republic of Tunisia        Highways Maintenance
& Rehabilitation                      63.00                 62.99
2911     19d8      Republic of Tunisia        Second Small & Medium Scale
Ind. Development                      28.00                 28.00
2962     1988      Republic of Tunisia        SAL I                                 1SO.00               150.00
3023     1989      Republic of Tunisia        Petroleum Exploration Ia                S.O       S.SO.
TOTAL                                                         1,963.00    75.16       626.54
Of which has been repaid                                      4.1.52    13.06
Total Now Outstanding                                         1,481.48    62.10
Amount Sold                                 34.82
of which has been repaid                  26.93                 7.89
Qz.I
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                1,473.59
Total Undisbursed                                                                     626.54
/a   Not yet effective.
4798/pS
4/4/89



- 46 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENt OF IfC IESTENTS IN TUNISIA
(as of March 31. 1989)
Fiscal                                                                     Amount of USS HMillon
Year Lhl1gar                                 Tm° of Bustiness         Lain        [ui            E10
1962       IPK Engrais                            Fertilizers          2.00          1.S0         3.50
1966/70/78 Societi Nationale d'lnvestissement
(now BOET)                           Oev. Finance Co.                  2.30          2.30
1969       COFIT Tourism (now BIOT)               Dev  Finance Co.    8.00           2.2         10.20
1973       Soci1te Touristique et Hotel1ire
RVM SA                               Tourism               1.60         0.3          1.90
1974       Industries Chimiques du Fluor          Chemicals                          0.6          0.60
1975       Socidt4 d'Etudes et de
DOveloppament de Sousse-ord          Tourism              2.50          0.6          3.10
1985/86    Soci1t4 Tunisienne de Leasing          Leasing Co.          3.40          0.5          3.90
98S        Soci6t6 Mini6re de Spath Fluor
et de Barytine (Fluobar)             Mining Co.                         0.3          0.30
1986       Socidtd Industrielle des Textiles
(SITEX)                              Textiles and Fibers S.0           3.2           8.20
1987       Adwya S.A.                             Pharmaceuticals      2.0           0.3          2.30
1987       Rozzi Edilizzia Industrializzata
(REIT S.A.)                          Prefabricated Panels 1.3          0.4           1.70
1987       COHETE Engineering                     Engineering Services  -            0.04         0.04
1988       Socidte des Industries Textiles
Riuneis S.A. (SITER)                 Textiles & Fibers    2.35          2.14        4.49
Total Gross Comiitments                                    28.45         14.38        42.83
Less cancellations. Terminations,
Repayments and Sales                                    1.21         .260        1A01
Total Comoitments Held by IFC                              L1.           L5J         Mau
of which Undisbursed                                      L.I           I2n         6i6
4798/p6
from IFC/04/14/89



- 47-                          ANNEX III
Page 1 of 9
TUNISIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Proeess Under Existig Adjuswtent Operations
First Amricultural Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL-!)
Policy Area                 Conditionalitv                     ProRress to Date
MACROECONOMIC          Announcement of first round of im-   Actions taken
port liberalization and budget cuts.
Confirmation that the Government      Confirmation received
has taken all necessary measures to
remove restrictions on imports of
spare parts for use in industry,
agriculture, hotels, hospitals and
other services, raw materials and
semi-finished products for enterprises
that export at least 252 of their
output, and capital goods for
investment projects approved by
API, APIA and the Tourism Investment
Board after October 1, 1986
Bank confirmation of satisfactory    Satisfactory progress confirmed
progress in implementation of the
overall program
COORDINATING           Establishment of Interministerial    Committee established
COMMITTEE             Coordinating Committee
PRICING AND MARKETING
Cereals and Inputs  Revision of administered producer    Targeted adjustments achieved
prices for cereals and input
prices to achieve targeted
adjustments and subsidy reductions
for the 1986/87 and 1987/88 crop
seasons
* ASAL-I also supported a broad range of uncovenanted measures designed to bring about
progress in the five major areas of the MTASAP. Of some 70 actions recommended for
early implementation under the MTASAP, 45 have already been fully implemented.
3 S9aS



- 48 -                     ANNEX III
Page 2 of 9
TUJNISIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
proress Under Existing Xdiustment Operations
First Agricultural Sector Ndjustmnent Loan (ASAL-!)
Policy Area                Conditionality                        Progress to Date
SUPPORT SERVICES
Credit               Confirmation that FOSDA                 FOSDA loan allocations
loan allocations for Lhe 1987          frozen at D 13 million
budget have not exceeded               in 1987 budget; interest rates
D 13 million, and that action          increased for medium and
satisfactory to the Bank has           short term credit
been taken to start implementing
the Government's policy to establish
by 1991 agricultural interest rates
which cover the financial costs,
operating costs at reasonable
efficiency and a reasonable share
of the risks of agricultural lending
Input Marketing      Updating of fertilizer retail           Fertilizer retail margins
margins for inflation, selling by    liberalized ahead of schedule
public sector of fertilizer at         in August 1987
prices adequate to fully cover the
costs of purchase and distribution
and announcement of fertilizer
retail margin liberalization to take
effect as of January 1, 1988
Farm Mechanization Full cost charging for mechanization Full cost charging achieved.
services.  Authorization for the       Imports authorized
import of 5% of the annual needs of
tractors in the range manufactured
in Tunisia
Researcher           Increase in the remuneration of         Career status and
Remuneration       agricultural researchers to an         of agricultural researchers
adequate level following guidelines  upgraded through adoption of
acceptable to the Bank                 "Statut de chercheurs"
Extension            Designation of lead extension           Direction de la Vulgarisation
agency for rainfed areas with          created in Direction Generale
appropriate responsibilities and       de la Production Vegetale and
personnel, to achieve gradual          designated as lead extension
unification                            agency for rainfed areas
NATURAL RESOURCES
Fisheries            Liberalize domestic fish marketing   Margins liberalized
margins
* ASAL-I also supported a broad range of uncovenanted measures designed to bring about
progress in the five major areas of the MTASAP. Of some 70 actions recommended for
early implementation under the XTASAP, 45 have already been fully implemented.
3 sa8 6 



- 49 -                       ANNEX III
Page 3 of 9
TUNISIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Proaess Under Existin  Adiustment Operations
Industrial and Trade Policy Adiustment Loan (ITPAL)
Policy Area     Conditionality                         Progress to date
I. MACROECONOMIC MEASURES
Macroeconomic      1987 budget satisfactory to           172 reduction in real exchange
Policies          the Bank as condition of               rate in 1986, maintained since
effectiveness.  Satisfactory          then.  Except for low level of
progress in implementation            investment, macroeconomic
of macroeconomic and industrial       performance in 1987 was good.
sector program as condition of        The severe drought of 1987/88
second tranche release.  Action       had negative impact on growth
program for liberalization of         1988.
interest rates to be discussed
with the Bank.
Nominal wages were frozen in
1983 and SMIG and SMAG were
raised slightly in 1986 and 1988.
Toward end 1987, measures were
taken to strengthen economic
growth and encourage private
investment (tax amnesty, lower
interest rates, etc.)
II. FOREIGN TRADE REFORM
Quantitative      Phasing out of all QRs by 1991         Elimination of QRs for:
Restrictions      except for some infant industries    (a) most raw materials and
that may receive quantitative         semi-manufactures, except poorly
protection for up to three years.    integrated industries;
(b) capital goods except for
infant and poorly integrated
industries; and
(c) semi-manufactures and raw
materials for enterprises
exporting more than 152 of their
output.
Customs           Raise minimum duty to 152, reduce    TFD has been integrated into the
Tariffs           maximum duty to 502, reduce by         tariff structure, reduction of
6 per.zentage points duties between   the maximum rate from 2362 to 412
262 and 551 by January 87 and by      and rationalization of tariff
9 points by January 88.               structure.
Incorporate Custom Formality Tax
(TFD) in duties.  Action program to
achieve effective protection of 252
by 1991 to be agreed with Bank.
39861I



- 50 -                      ANNEX III
Page 4 of 9
TUNISIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Proeress Under Existing Adjustment Operations
Industrial and Trade Policy Adiustment Loan (1TPAL)
Policy Area      Conditionality                         Progress to date
III. PRICE LIBERALIZATION
Producer Prices   Price controls in well established   Simplification of control
industries to be phased out by 1988. mechanism by merging homologation
Other producer prices to be            and auto-homologation with
liberalized in 1989-91.  More          liberte controlee.  60% of
flexibility in the system of control producer prices (weighted by
of non-liberalized industries.         production value) are now
decontrolled.
IV. FISCAL LIBERALIZATION
Taxes              Submission of a draft VAT to           VAT system adopted in July 1988
Parliament before second tranche
release.
V. INVESTMENT INCENTIVES
Investment         Promulgation of a new Investment       Investment Code abolishing
Liberalization    Code satisfactory to the Bank and    investment controls, except for
establishment of Approvals Committee investments requiring special
independent from the Industry          incentives was approved in
Promotion Agency by second tranche   Summer 1987.
release.
VI. EXCHANGE RISK GUARANTEES
Forwarding         Adoption of improved system of         New system adopted in August
Exchange Risk      exchange rate guarantee by second    1988.
tranche release.
398 6



- 51 -
ANIXr I I
Page 3 of 9
TUNISIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR AD.JUSTMENT LOAN
Progress Under Existing AdLustment Operations
Industrial and Trade Policy Adjustment Loan (ITPAL)
Policy Area     Conditionality                         Progress to date
VII. INDUSTRIAL EMPLOYMENT
Social Security   Discussion with Bank of changes        Actuarial study of Soc. Sec
Charges           needed to reduce employer's            finances being done by the
contribution to Social Security       Government and ILO.
before second tranche release.
Wage              Employment of consultants to           Consultants (ILO) hired.
Determination     assist Min. of Social Affairs to
help entrepreneurs relate wage
increases to productivity by
second tranche release.
Labor             Agreement on timetable for             Measures to reduce cost
Legislation       introduction of labor legislation    of labor discussed with the
reforms by second tranche release.   Bank; some already implemented.
VIII. TOURISM SECTOR
Sector            TORs for study of situation and        TORs for a study were approved
Development       prospects of Tourism Sector to be    in Summer 1987.  Draft study
approved by Bank before loan          being prepared.
effectiveness.
3986E



- 52 -                      ANNEX III
Page 6 of 9
TUNISIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTNIENT LOAN
Progress Under Existing Adijstment Operations
Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL)
Policy Area     Conditionality                         Progress to date
Macroeconomic
Performance       Satisfactory review to                  Overall economic
be carried out before                  performance satisfactory
second tranche release                 in 1988.
Foreign Trade Reform
Quantitative      Reduction of at least                   QR elimination on schedule
Restrictions       15 points (relative to
June 1988) in the
weighting of restricted
imports before second
tranche release.
Custom tariffs    Preparation of program
to achieve objectives
for 1991 to be monitored
under macroeconomic
review
Safeguard         Employment of consultants               Consultants employed
measures           for a study on
transparent antidumping
measures before
effectiveness. Review
and implementation of
study conclusions by
second tranche
Price Liberalization
Producer Prices   Percentage of fully
decontrolled goods to
be raised to 70% by
second tranche release
3 9,a



53 -                    ANNE   "II
Page 7 of 9
TUNISIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR AD.JUSTMEiNT LOAN
Progress Under Existing Adjustment Operations
Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL)
Policy Area     Conditionality                         Progress to date
Price Liberalization, Cont'd
Improvement of    Draft law agreed with
Domestic          the Bank on domestic
Competition       competition at the
production and
distribution stage to
be presented to Parliament
by second tranche release
Distribution
Margins           Margins of goods                       Margins representing 101
representing at least                 had been liberalized before
10% of production to be               Board presentation. No
liberalized for the release           difficulties foreseen
of the second tranche
Consumer
subsidies         Before second tranche                  Drought and low economic
release the Bank would                growth in 1988 have
review performance in                 raised the volume of
1988 and the measures                 subsidies beyond
contemplated to achieve               expectations, but overall
the agreed ceiling in                 satisfactory progress.
1989. Semi-annual
reviews as part of
monitoring
3986E



- 54 -                     ANNEX III
Page 8 of 9
TUNISIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTME-NT LOAN
Progress Under Existing Adjustment Operations
Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL)
Policy Area     Conditionality                          Progress to date
Allocation of Financial
Resources
Interest Rates    Circular announcing                     Circular published in
increase of effective                  September 1988
cost of preferential
rates to at least 72 to
be issued by loan
effectiveness; circular
announcing a further
reduction of one third
in the gap between
effective cost of 7% and
the money market rate to
be issued before second
tranche release.
Consultants for a                      Consultants hired
review of inter-bank
competition to assess
possible elimination
or raising the cap on
spread to be hired by
loan effectiveness;
review to take place
before second tranche
release
Treasury Bonds    Taxation system on
treasury bonds to be
rationalized and the yield
on bonds to be increased
to compensate for the
elimination of their
fiscal advantages, before
second tranche release
3986



~ 55 -                  ANX I I I
Page 9 of 9
TUNISIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Progress Under Existing Adjustment Operations
Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL)
Policy Area     Conditionality                          Progress to date
Foreign Exchange
Risk                 iption of a new                      New system adopted in
--reign exchange risk                 August 1988.
guarantee system based
on market mechanisms;
review and eventual
adjustment of the
operation of the new
system in agreement
with the Bank by second
tranche release
Tax Reform
Indirect Taxes    Introduction of VAT law                 VAT law adopted in July
by loan effectiveness.                 1988.
Extension of VAT to
large wholesale traders
by second tranche
release.
Hiring consultants for                 Consultants hired
study on eventual
extension of VAT to
retail trade by loan
eff ctiveness; agreement
on the program for
implementing study
results by second tranche
release
Direct Taxes       Submission to Parliament               Draft law reviewed by Bank
of new, single law                     in March 1989, to be sent
covering taxes on                      to Parliament shortly
individuals and on legal
entities by loan
effectiveness; law to be
applied to income earned
in 1988 prior to second
tranche release
3,86a



- 56 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 12
TUNISIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Letter of Sectoral Adjustment Policy
Mr. Barber Conable
President
World Bank
1818 U Street, N. W.
Washington, D. C. 20433
Dear Mr. President:
1.     The Government's medium-term objective for the development of
agriculture is to reinforce the sector's contribution to general economic
growth, equilibrium in the balance of payments and the budget, and employment
creation, in other words continuation of the policy pursued since 1986 and set
forth in the Letter of Development Policy for the Agriculture Sector sent to
the World Bank prior to presentation to the Bank's Board of the First
Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL-I).
2.     The measures which we will take in the context of the ASAL-II
constitute an integral part of the larger adjustment program which is underway
to increase the overall efficiency of our resource allocation through a
lessening of administration controls on economic activities and improvement of
incentives to stimulate private initiative. These measures are also aimed at
increasing the outward orientation of the Tunisian economy. The strengthening
of commercial activities in our country in the last few years is thus an
indication of the efficiency of the measures which have already been taken by
the Government.
3.     In order to attain these objectives, it is essential to maintain a
macro-economic balance.  In the context of our adjustment program, which the
Bank is supporting with a Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL), we review with the
Bank the macro-economic performance on a semi-annual basis. These reviews are
based on a certain number of agreed economic indicators, including a set of
indicators which reflect possible exogenous developments (such as weather
conditions, terms of trade and international exchange rates) and we exchange
views with the Bank on the most appropriate measures to take to maintain a
macro-economic balance in the medium-term.
4.     The Government will accordingly develop measures to provide incentives
for private enterprise and to promote the economic liberalization of the
agricultural sector. It will make improvements at the level of the
institutional structures to ensure that they will be able to furnish optimum
support for the implementation of its policies and will give priority to
increasing agricultural production, notably by improving sector efficiency.



- 57 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 12
5.     The Government is pursuing a medium-term policy focusing mainly on:
(a) Progressive divestiture by the State of commercial activities
coupled with strengthening of its essential regulatory role.
(b)  A more important role for price policy, with emphasis in the
majority of cases on market forces (70% of the agricultural GDP)
or else incentive prices where price control is still in effect
(302 of agricultural GDP), thereby prompting higher production of
foodstuffs currently imported (cereals and milk) and of export
crops (olive oil, citrus fruit, dates, fish and early vegetables)
in which the country has a comparative advantage.
(c) Improvement of the efficiency of the public expenditure and
investment policy, consistent with the above-mentioned development
objectives.
(d) Improvement of support services for production, especially
research and extension activities.
(e) Improving management of use of natural resources such as land,
water, forests and fishery resources.
(f) Strengthening of the capabilities for monitoring the sector's
performance and for economic and financial analysis.
_mprovemen of the Fnstitutna  Fmeomk for Mrieulture
6.     The objective with regard to the institutional framework is to ensure
optimum utilization of human and financial resources by means of greater
clarity in the respective roles of the State and of the economic agents. To
achieve this objective, the Government will encourage withdrawal of the public
services from commercial activities and will take all appropriate steps to
strengthen the State's regulatory role.
7.     In the cereal sector, and on the basis of the recomendations from the
first phase of the study currently in progress as part of the Master Plan for
cereal collection and from the study shortly to be started on transport
equalization charges, the Government will draw up an action plan that will
permit, on a gradual basis:
(a) an enhanced role for the private or cooperative sector in cereal
collection;
(b) encouragement of storage by producers and users (mills, animal
feed factories, etc.) including eventually the leasing or sale of
facilities to private individuals;
(c) introduction of seasonal price differentiation to encourage
on-farm storage and spread out the period of delivery to
collection centers;



- 58 -
ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 12
(d) reductions in the costs of collection, storage, distribution and
transportation of cereals;
(e) simplifications of the current quality measurement standards
applicable to cereals in order to better reward quality.
8.     In the edible oil sector, the Government is studying how best to seek
new markets for olive oil exports and to improve the marketing of edible oils
on the local market. An action plan that is presently being finalized will
make it possible to specify the appropriate measures to motivate private
individuals to contribute toward attainment of these objectives. More
precisely, a set of rules will be issued to govern involvement by private
individuals in olive oil exporting, together with the modalities and
conditions for such involvement. The action plan will also provide
recommendations concerning marketing of edible oils on the local market (olive
oil, pure grain oil, blended oil), with the aim of reducing the subsidy paid
out by the Caisse G6nerale de Compensation by offering a range of oils,
subsidized or not, at prices within the reach of the different social strata.
ImDlementation of a Pice and Subsidy Policy that is Consistent
with the Sector Adjutment Goals
9.    With regard to prices and subsidies, the Government's policy since 1980
has been to liberalize and adjust producer prices and eliminate subsidies,
with a view to creating an environment propitious for privatisation and
liberalization of economic activities in the sector. At present, producer
prices for the majority of agricultural products (representing 701 of the
value of agricultural output) are uncontrolled and therefore subject to market
forces. This is the case with vegetables, fruit, pulses and fish in
particular. Prices for food staples are controlled and are set at incentive
levels. For example, cereal prices are reviewed annually and for the 1988-89
crop year have reached figures close to the international reference prices.
for milk, the aim is to encourage national output in efficient production
systems. In view of the considerable price differential between the consumer
price of processed fresh local milk and that of reconstituted milk made from
imported milk powder, due to the subsidy for reconstituted milk, the
Government proposes to change its subsidy policy in order to lessen the
differential and encourage dairies to process fresh milk.
10.         In addition, and with a view to encouraging substitution of
imports of products in which Tunisia possesses a comparative advantage
(cereals and milk), the policy initiated by the Government since the start of
the Seventh Plan covers in particular:
(a) For products the producer prices of which are controlled for
reasons of consumer price policy (cereals and milk):
establishment of producer prices that are in line with
international reference prices, with measures to protect local



- 59 -
ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 12
production when necessary, applied in a manner that is consistent
with the macro-economic protection policy while taking into
account any subsidies given by the exporting countries.
(b) For input subsidies: continuing the process of liberalization and
subsidy reduction in order to align prices of fertilizer, animal
feed, seed and herbicides with international prices and eliminate
those subsidies before the end of 1993. Care will be taken to
ensure that the pace of this process is compatible with the need
to preserve the incentives for producing the items in which the
country has a comparative advantage and the modernization of
agriculture.
(c) For irrigation water: progressive recovery over 10 years of the
operating and maintenance cost of the systems, in accordance with
the conditions specified in the Irrigation Management Improvement
Project. This project calls for 1002 recovery of these costs in
two-thirds of the publicly irrigated areas by 1991. To this end,
water charges have been increased by an average of 9X p.a. in real
terms.
11.         Subsidy elimination was, in large part, deferred in 1988 owing to
the major difficulties suffered by Tunisian agriculture during the 1987-88
crop year as a result of the persistence of an unprecedented drought. The
rain shortfall was of the order of 55S over almost the entire country. This
caused a significant decline in agricultural production (-5.31 compared with
the average for the Sixth Plan), the cereal crop was only 2.9 million quintals
as opposed to an average of 12 million quintals for the Sixth Plan, and a
difficult situation for tree crops (trees dried out, parasite attacks,
decreases in production). In addition to the drought, there was a plague of
locusts which threatened crops and plantations and kept the agricultural
services busy around the clock during March, April and May 1988. The drought
continued through the fall of 1988 when an appreciable precipitation shortfall
was posted in several regions of the country. The situation did not improve
until the second half of November. The Government accordingly put into effect
a strategy for helping farmers: assistance in safeguarding livestock and
plantations, deferment of payments due on farm loans and postponement of
increases scheduled in prices of agricultural inputs.
12.         In conjunction with encouragement of import substitutes, the
Government is promoting exports of items in which Tunisia has a comparative
advantage. The target for the Seventh Plan is to achieve real growth of 41 by
diversifying the markets for traditional products and increasing, despite the
foreseeable difficulties, our exports to the EEC. In addition to measures at
the macroeconomic level (exchange rate) and the granting of tax and financial
incentives, administrative procedures will be simplified. It should be noted
that outstanding results-in terms both of exports and of the food balance



- 60 -
ANNEX IV
Page 5 of 12
-were achieved in 1987 thanks to the combined effect of favorable climatic
conditions and the incentives introduced. The percentage of imports covered
by exports reached 88X compared to an average of 442 during the Sixth Plan.
In 1988, and notwithstanding the exceptional drought, exports showed a marked
increase (D 251 million as opposed to D 220 million in 1987).
Rationalization of Investments
11.         The Government has raised the priority level of the agriculture
sector during the Seventh Plan, which allocates 20% of total investment to
agriculture. Resources will be assigned on the basis of the following
criteria:
(a) Efficiency of public investments and their capacity to generate
private projects and actions.
(b) Improvement of the food balance.
(c) Encouragement of private enterprise in competitive activities and
integrated development projects.
14.         The identification and preparation of development projects and
programs for the Seventh Plan are based on the subsector strategies for
agriculture and fisheries:
(a) For cereals, a long-term development plan has been drawn up,
implementation of which has begun during the Seventh Plan. This
long-term plan is consistent with the approach described earlier
regarding improvement of the institutional framework.
(b) For livestock, the systems that have been developed are those that
utilize local fodder resources, especially in the areas where
opportunity costs are low and where livestock and cereals are
integrated, so that byproducts can be used for animal feed and
irrigated fodder areas developed. In addition, the genetic
improvement program will be strengthened by assigning greater
importance to cross-breeding. Two camel and horse-breeding
development programs will also be started, these being areas which
have declined in recent years notwithstanding Tunisia's advantage
in this area.
(c) With regard to tree-croDs, the Government will encourage
maintenance programs for existing plantations, especially in the
central region, and also development of export crops such as
citrus fruits in the north, pistachios and almonds in the central
region, and dates in the south. For olives, a crop that is
receiving considerable attention, the strategy will be based on
improvement of olive oil quality, modernization of olive groves
and expansion into favorable areas, including the north, in
conjunction with water and soil conservation works.
(d) The forests will benefit from new financial resources earmarked
for halting plant cover losses and developing forestry



- 61 -
ANNEX IV
Pawe 6 of 12
production. Priority needs include the establishment of
nurseries, the strengthening of warden systems and the protection
of zones set aside for natural regeneration, mechanization of
logging and reforestation and improvement of inventories and
studies.
(e) In the irrigated areas, the strategy applied will further develop
on-farm investments, especially in the northern areas, and also
investments designed to increase water use efficiency. In the
central region, flood irrigation techniques will be refined.
(f) For fisheries, light investments will be made in infrastructure at
the principal ports to better adapt it to the needs of the
sector. In addition, the private sector will be encouraged to
promote sale of bluefish in the interior of the country and to
make better use of the existing fleet through improved management.
15.         The choice of new projects in the Seventh Plan will therefore be
based on the subsector investment strategies, and on the criteria already
adopted in mutual agreement by the Government and the Bank. In order of
priority, these criteria are:
(a) an economic rate of return of at least 10% for projects,
calculated on the basis of the economic costs of the inputs and
outputs, especially labor and foreign exchange, and the least cost
solution for program;
(b) a positive impact on the agricultural trade balance;
(c) significant employment creation at a low cost per job created;
(d) a reduction of the State's share in investment and recurrent
costs; and
(e) a favorable impact on the least developed regions (Mid-West,
Northwest, Southwest).
These criteria will be applied with flexibility, however, projects will have
to be justified by a minimum rate of return to be included in the list of
projects for the Seventh Plan.
16.         With regard to private investment, the Government promulgated an
Agricultural Investment Code in 1982 which instituted tax and financial
incentives and authorized corporations to undertake projects in agriculture.
The State has granted long-term leases to public lands to encourage their
optimum utilization. This Code was revised in April 1988 and now includes
provisions relating to:
(a) Expansion of the investment concept to service activities
connected with agricultural or fishery production.
(b) General improvement of tax and financial advantages granted to
project entrepreneurs.



- 62 -
ANNAX IV
Pane 7 of 12
(c) The granting of specific advantages for priority activities that
will further accomplish the Plan's objectives, particularly with
regard to import substitution and export promotion under
economically viable conditions (tax exemption on profits,
additional interest rebate, etc.).
(d) The granting of a subsidy to all categories of farmers for
purchase of agricultural equipment to offset the absolute
protection given to local industry.
(e) The granting of specific benefits to young farmers, fishermen and
technicians (repayable grants not exceeding 802 of the deposit
required, land loans, repayable grants for technicians who kre
managers of agricultural corporations for their share in the
capital, etc.).
(f) The granting of additional benefits for the regions with difficult
climatic conditions and, in fisheries, for the coastal
governorates whose resources are under-exploited.
These incentives will make it possible to speed up the rate of execution of
integrated, projects in particular. The objective will be to promote 3,000
projects during the Seventh plan, i.e. three times the number promoted during
the Sixth Plan. The Government will continue to encourage the banks to
contribute more to the financing of agricultural activities. It has already
established a National Guarantee Fund to provide security for the banks in the
financing of small and medium farms, and has also strengthened the cost
recovery procedures and raised interest rates, which are now positive in real
terms.
17.         Agricultural credit is presently one of the Government's central
economic concerns. Much thought is being put into restructuring this credit
and ensuring that it fully assumes its pivotal role in agricultural
development. The principal approaches being followed are:
(a) Improvement of access procedures for agricultural credit by means
of simplification, decentralization of decision-making and
increasing of the banks' role in the granting of credit.
(b) Merging of the two agricultural banks (BNT and BNDA) with the aim
of harmonizing their operations and benefitting from their
combined capacity.
(c) Enlargement of the group of farmers with access to credit, first
by distinguishing homogeneous groups according to their degree of
eligibility (bankable farmers, potentially bankable farmers, and
farmers needing special credit programs), then by setting up
specific supervised credit programs for the potentially bankable
farmers with the ultimate aim of transferring this group into the
bankable group.



- 63 -
AM=EX IV
Page 8 of 12
This reorganization will be completed as of 1989 and will be based on an
action plan that is currently under study, the main components of which would
be:
(a) Mobilization of the banks' internal resources (particularly by
encouraging the attraction of rural savings) and enhancement of
the fungibility of agricultural credit funds.
(b) Progressive reduction, as alternative sources of funds are
mobilized, of the State budgetary allocations to the credit arm of
the FOSDA and other special funds.
(c) Transferal of greater responsibility to the new agricultural bank
and to other banks in order to reduce the risk presently borne by
the State.
(d)  Granting "privilege de l'Etat" to the banks in agricultural credit
recovery.
(e) Raising of interest rates authorized for credit to the
agricultural sector, to provide coverage for financial costs,
operating costs and a reasonable part of the risks these
operations entail.
(f) Promotion of supervised credit projects for the purpose of
progressively and permanently transferring the beneficiaries to
the banking system.
(g) Harmonization of the modalities, conditions and procedures for the
granting of agricultural and fisheries loans.
Improvement of Support Services for Agricultural Development
18.         Regarding input marketing, the Government has undertaken a process
of liberalization and privatization in parallel with a progressive withdrawal
on the part of the public services. On the one hand, it has already taken
measures designed to encourage the private sector and cooperatives to increase
their participation in this activity: the retail margins for fertilizer were
freed in 1987 and the Agricultural Investment Code now favors input
distribution enterprises. On the other hand, and in parallel with the state
services' withdrawal from commercial activities, the charges applied for
services still provided by the public sector will be increased to recover the
costs involved and to prevent unfair competition for the private sector in
this transitional phase. In this context, the price of irrigation water will
be adjusted over the next 10 years, as already noted, to recover operating
costs and maintenance of the system, thereby helping to ease the financial
situation of the development agencies, imprcve the quality of their service
and ensure that the most economical use possible is made of the water.
To relieve the development agencies of the management of the irrigated areas,
the Government has embarked on a policy of setting up "Associations dIlnt6ret
Collectir" whose purpose is to administer the use of the water. The legal
provisions governing these associations (Law of July 6, 1987, Decrees of



- 64 -
ANNE IV
Page 9 of 12
October 27, 1987 and January 12, 1988) have been updated with a view to making
them more dynamic and increasing their number. In addition to the 138
associations formed before that period, 100 are in the process of being
established for irrigation and 200 for drinking water.
19.         The state agricultural mechanization services will withdraw from
the regions where the private sector can take over their functions under
appropriate conditions. The promulgation of the new Agricultural Investment
Code (April 1988) and the lifting of quantitative restrictions on imports of
capital goods for agriculture, in accordance with the macroeconomic adjustment
program, will open the way for private entrepreneurs in this respect.
20.         The maintenance of a high rate of agricultural growth will depend
on a full-scale reorganization of the research and extension system. The
Ministry of Agriculture has drawn up a master plan for these two areas that is
aimed at improving their efficiency and assuring rapid and appropriate
development of agriculture. Therefore, a national research and extension
development project is under negotiation with the Bank for possible
financing. This project will give priority to production of cereals, meat,
milk and olive oil and will strengthen research on forestry and water and soil
conservation together with research on agriculture in arid zones and on crop
protection. The principles adopted for this project are multidisciplinary
reorientation, geographic decentralization and unification of extension
activities in the field and at the planning level.
21.         In the livestock subse!tor, the Government is currently taking
measures to improve the efficiency of the work of its agencies (DGPA and OP
in particular) by more precise clarification of their roles and their
progressive disengagement from activities that could be carried out on a
for-profit basis. Incentives have been instituted to encourage veterinarians
to set themselves up in free practice and an effort is being made to gradually
recover the cost of breeding services such as artificial insemination. In
addition, OEP is pursuing its program to divest itself of production and
input-related activities.
22.         The supply services (fertilizer, livestock feed, seed and
pesticides) carried out by official agencies will be progressively scaled down
as an effective private sector develops. Private entrepreneurs are
accordingly being encouraged to undertake agricultural service projects.  The
new Agricultural Investment Code promulgated by Law No. 88/18 of April 2, 1988
has expanded the concept of investment in agriculture and fisheries to include
agricultural or fisheries production related services and has instituted
significant tax and financial advantages for projects of this type.
ationalization of the Utlization of Nataml Resourees
23.         In the sphere of land policy, considerable efforts have been made
and some important reforms undertaken since independence: abolition of
habous, splitting up of common lands, agrarian reforms in the public irrigated
areas, improvement of land documentation, introduction of certificates of
ownership, etc. However, some constraints still persist and the Seventh Plan
will devote considerable attention to landholding questions in order to



- 65 -
ANNEX IV
Page 10 of 12
prevent land itself from becoming a factor that holds back the progress of
agriculture. Several reforms are in fact in progress at this time:
(a) Acceleration of the splitting up of common lands and their
integration into the development process. These lands cover some
3 million ha and are located primarily in the center and south of
the country. Of this total, 1.4 million ha are being broken up
into individual holdings and 1.6 million ha are usable for common
grazing and subject to the forestry system. The Law of February
8, 1988 has opened the way for this reform.
(b) Organization of rural leases to provide security of tenure and
encourage investment: the Law of June 12, 1987 has set a minimum
duration of three years for these leases and thus made it possible
for long-term tenants to obtain medium- and long-term credit.
(c) Continuation of the settlement of technical specialists on plots
of public land in order to perform a demonstration function and
contribute to the provision of employment for young people. To
date and since 1984 around 200 technicians have been installed on
'13,000 ha. A further 200 lots will be allocated in the course of
the next two years.
(d) Reorganization of the Office des Terres Domaniales into a holding
corporation combining the Societ6s de Mise en Valeur et de
D6veloppement (on the large farms offering additional potential
for investment) and the Soci6tes d'Exploitation (on the farms that
have completed their investment programs).
In addition, the Government has begun a study on continuation of the land
reforms: prevention of fragmentation, land consolidation, improvement of farm
size, rural cadastre, etc. Accordingly, the Ministry of Agriculture intends
to submit to the Government a note outlining actions to be taken to improve
the restructuring of agricultural land.
24.         Regarding water and soil conservation, the Government is
implementing a strategy to accelerate protection of soil resources and improve
the water use rate. This is a matter of vital importance in view of the large
areas of arable land that are threatened and the presently high volumes of
water losses due to runoff. It should be noted that water and soil
conservation works covering about 900,000 ha have been carried out since
independence. This leaves around 1.5 million ha still to be protected, i.e.
nearly one third of the country's cultivable land. A program to provide
protecticu for I milliou ha between now and the year 2000 at a cost of nearly
D 200 million is currently underway on a region-by-region basis. In addition
and to improve their economic return and encourage active participation by the
owners of developed land, the CES projects include agricultural development
components (tree crops, fodder plants, etc.).
25.         As regards forests, the essential goal is to restore the role of
the forests in socioeconomic development taking into consideration the needs



- 66 -
ANNEX IV
Page 11 of 12
of the people living in the forest areas on the one hand and the requirements
of a proper agriculture, forestry and livestock balance on the other.
Rational management of this resource requires better utilization of the
production potential, permanent protection of the forests and forestry
development based on planned improvement of existing forests and
reforestation. Projects to develop forests and forest clearings will serve to
further implement these objectives.
26.         The fisheries sector has over recent years been the component of
the agriculture sector that has shown the best performance, with annual growth
of the order of 11.32 during the Sixth Plan and placing first in food and
agricultural exports in 1988. This rate of growth will be maintained by means
of a special effort to develop night fishing and deep water trawling off the
northern coast with its rich but under-exploited resources, and also to
develop aquaculture, which will make it possible again to increase production
of bottom fish and crustaceans which is currently at its ceiling because of
lack of resources. Aquaculture benefits from favorable locations and the
incentives provided by the Agriculture and Fishery Investment Code. Our
bluefish resources, on the other hand, are only 25X exploited. Sales of this
product have suffered because of its low market value and the lack of suitable
outlets. The bluefish subsector is therefore in process of organization with
incentives for marketing in the interior of the country, development of cold
storage, decontrol of profit margins and modernization of the industries
concerned. Development of fishery research and restructuring of the
institutional services (Commissariat G6n6ral a la Peche - National Fisheries
Board) with the aim of higher efficiency and greater autonomy for the fishing
ports will make it possible to support sustained development of this sector.
Aaricultural Performance Monitoring and Policy Analysis
27.        The program aims to strengthen the capability of the Ministry of
Agriculture and the concerned services in other departments for analysis of
agricultural policies, undertaking detailed agricultural price policy reviews
and studying the relationships between agricultural policies and selected
macro-economic options. It was to further this objective that the
Agricultural Policy Implementation Project (APIP) was prepared in April 1987
and cofinanced by the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID).
28.         The project will undertake special economic studies which will
help decision makers with the necessary economic tools for implementing
actions included in the ASAL. In this context, studies have been undertaken
on competitiveness and export markets of three agricultural products: citrus
fruit, olive oil and wines; and on subsidy reduction and input distribution.
Others are underway or being started. These include analysis of producer
responsiveness using modeling techniques, studies of the milk subsector, the
transport equalization payments for cereals, and the cereals and edible oil
Master Plans. The last two studies were launched in preparation of ASAL-II.



- 67 -
Annex TV
Page 12 of 12
Finally, and in order to improve the efficiency of the administration
responsible for these actions (DGPDIA), new staff have been recruited and
computer equipment has been acquired.
Sincerely yours,
SIGNED BY MOHAMED GHAMNOUCHI
April 28, 1989
Mohamed Ghannouchi
Minister of Planning and Finance
Republic of Tunisia
C 3*06K)



SECOND AGR CUL?IIAL  LECTOR AD?UIThemT LnA
Letter of Seetnral Adituinnt Poliev - Tcy  tabla of Key Aetiona
Actions to be taken                    Actions to be taken                     Actions to be takten
by June 30, 1989                       by OeceN6er 31, 1989                   by Oece_wr 31. 1990
PAkASTATAL REFORM
Office des Cerbales (OC)            1. Submission to Bank of an action      1. Initial actions acceptable to       1. Follow-up actions acceptable to
plan to disengage OC from              the eank to impleent action plan       the eank to implement action plan
investments and activities not         (e.g. withdrawal from
directly related to the cereals        extension and from investments
subsector and to strengthen its        outside the subsector)
resulatory role
Office National des Huiles          2. Submission to the Sank of the        2. Submission to the Bank of an        2. tnitial Implementation of
(ON")                               first phase of the Edible Oil           action plan based on the first         action plan based on the first
Marketing Master Plan. including       phase of the Edible Oil Marketing       phase of the Edible Oil Marketing
specific measures to improve the       Master Plan                            Master Plan, and submission to the
efficiency of importing and local                                             Bank ci an action plan based on
processing of edible oils In order                                             the second phase of the Master
to reduce subsidies from the                                                  Plan
Caisse GQn6rale de Compensation
(CC)c
3. Submission to the Sank of an
action plan to disengage the OUR
in a amnner consistent with the
national policy of disengagement of
parastatal enterprises
3878E/6)                                                                                                                                        Page 1
OQ "S



RK0 ARIOITUOL SECTOhRDltlEllLA
Letter of Semaral         t  POlC' -        ab. f  v Acti1ns
Actions to be taken                    Actions to be taken                   Actions to be taken
by June 30, 1969                      by Dece ber 31. 1989                   by Oecenxer 31, 19"0
PRICING AND ARKETING
Cereals                             4. Presentation to the Bank of a       4. Adjustment of support prices        4. second adJustment of support
deta1led methodoloiw to be used       awcording to new formula               prices according to new formula
annually to determine the support
prices of durum Weat. broad Wheat
and barley (4-year ovwing average
of International reference prices
plus transport and haling costs
and the 15 minimus tariff)
S. Preparation of a study to          S. Joint evaluation with the Bank
introduce a seasonal price            of the study and eventual adoption
system                                of the recoendations
eeef                                                                       6. tl Louhour to sell at Its
breakeven price
Milk                                7. Presentation to the Sank of a       7. Adjustment of supWort prices        7. Second adjustment of support
detailed methodology to be ustd        according to formula                  prices according to formula
annually to determine the SuPPort
price of milk (4-year moving
average of GATT International illk
Council prices plus transport and
handling costs and the 13k
minim tariff)
(S37 OE/7)                                                                                                                                     Page 2
f C



Letter of Sactoral  u    mt Po lez . Tift"eb1, r K        t
Aetions to be taken                   Actions to be taken                    Actions to be taken
by June 30, 1989                      by Oecen"er 31, 1989                   by Oecmber 31. 199
PRICNG AND  MIETIJI
Input subsidies                                                            B. Increase in prices of
subsidized inputs (i.e. fertilizers
animal feed, t$proved cereal seed.
seed potatoes and 2-4-0
herbicide) so as to eliminate 15l
of unit subsidies and
Increase of irrigation water
charges by 91 in real terms
SUPPORT SERVICES
Input marketing                     9. Presentation to the lank of         9. Selection of *d6l6gations- from    9. Effective withdrawal of public
criteria for withdrawal of public      which public sector agencies could    sector agencias from 60t of
sector agencies from *delegations     withdraw consistent with criteria      selected *del6gations^
where the private and/or               and effective withdrawal from 20t                                          o
cooperative sector is providing        of those *delegations-
adequate service
Amnex
(3878 UIS)                                                                                                                                     Page 3
u'



TUNISIA
SECOND AGRICULTtIAL SECTOR AOJOSTMhrT LtOA
Letter of Sectoral Adiaustknt, Policy - Timetable of Kev Actions
Actions to be taken                      Actions to be taken                      Actions to be taken
by June 30. 1989                         by December 31. 19X9                     by December 31.  990
Livestock Services                                                             10. Wtthdrawl of the Ltvestock           ID. Withdraw) of OEP from 70$ of
and Pasture Office (OEP) from 20S        its remainins directly productive
of its remaining directly                units
productive units
Research and Extension                11. Issuance of necessary                11. Adoption of the methodology
directives acceptable to the Bank        for programming and budgeting of
cefinino the role and operating          research programs by the single
procedures for programaing and           agriculturdl research institute
budgeting of 1 to 3 priority pro-        being created by combining
grams of agricultural research*          tNRAT. the Institut de l Olivier.
the Institut des Regions Arides.
CROGR and INRF*
12. Submission to the Bank of an
organi2ational chart for extension
at the regional and local
levels with descriptions of the
responsibilities at each
level and pioposals for their
coordination at the cential level
Credit                                                                         13. In 1989, reduction of the
credit part of FOSDA by 15%
compared to 19S8
14. Increase interest rates so as        14. Increase interest rates so as
to reduce the differential               to reduce the differential between
between market rates and                 market rates and preferential
preferential agricultural rates          agricultural rates by a further
by 0.5 to 1.0 point                      to 0.5 to 1.0 point
These actions would be developed further in the context of the Research and Extension Project which is under preparation.                                 °>
.478E/9                                                                                                                                                           |
0I0
VW



-72-                                      ANNEX IV
Attachment
Page 5 of 5
ENI
E S.           ii
ii0*F 
a E e
3-



- 73 -                        AME  V
TUNISIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:                          about 18 months
(b) Responsibility for project preparation:                 Government/Bank
(c) Project first identified by Bank:                       September 1987
(d) Bank appraisal mission:                                 Oct./Nov. 1988
(e) Negotiations:                                           March 1989
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:                          December 1989
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Conditions of Effectiveness (US$42 million)
Isee paragraph 116]
(b) Conditions of Second Tranche Release (US$42 million)
[see paragraph 1171



Value of Agricultural Production
L ' u  nLU,.. 01afL31..PrJ cesi
19"    1978    1979    1980    1981    l962    1983    1984    Share of Value                 1985    198b    1987
of Production 4t)
-    -.-------.... __ ___ .j 194.A .                           .. .
Cerouls             68.0.i S- l  2   i       2i..0    ILIZa    MLU    Z494    iL!tl        U111)                 1U6.4    47.7    19111
Ourud wbat          41.28  55.90   51.60   63.64   69.14   64.76   43.77   50.22           J 7.43                 91.93   32.5      91.6
Bread .Aeat          6.93   7.70    6.16    9.93   12.24   12.156    8.39    9.76          4 1.4)                 23.95    7.4      22.7
Bailey               5.9  13.80   15.93   17.46   15.91   20.00   17.88   18.41            4 2.1)                 40.47    7.8      31.1
trn.n               ISLsO.  L.Mz    124I  103.9   39LJ   INA,   ilL.)   21.A-               (14l 491'.Y   220.1    ZM,0
01 olives          38.25  S6.2S   36.00   38.2S   65.2S   36.00   24.75   67.10           I 9.93                 47.2S   47.3      S1.3
Citrus              25.26  34.76   26.91   25.28   34.76   26.07   21.60   34.76           4 5.3)                 30.9   319.9      39.5 
Wine grapes          9.4    S.00    8.00    9.40    6.70    7.20    7.00    6.50          1 .2)                   6.80    b.r       7.0
Table grapes         7.S    3.1S    6.2S    7.50    8.75    7.00    8.7S   33.2S              1.6)                12.50   12.1      13.6
Almo_s              19.24  25.90   22.20   27.38   25.90   22.20   27.38   31.08           1 4.5)                 38.48   31.1      34.0
Apricots             3.6    3.3S    2.71    3.3S    2.71    2.32    2.58    2.45            10.4)                  2.52    2.1       2.6
Bates               23.2   20.60   18.40   21.20   20.00   16.00   24.00   18.40           I 2.7)                 24.00   21.6      26.0
Other               23.56  26.65   30.14   313.51   34.25   32.06   37.81   41.10           4 6.0)                49.6?   52.9      S4.0
Yuamtableu          JQ3Q.  102.2  *L..    111.0   1143   10.5   1_27.2   125.2                1.3I                 134.9   144.2   3524
Potatoes             7.46   9.24   13.00   10.56   12.32    9.68   13.20   11.86            ( 1.7)                13.20   1S.0      16.5
Tcatoes             16.00  13.00   14.00   14.00   19.00   13.00   18.00   21.50           J 3.13                 21.00   20.9      24.3
Artichokes            1.66   1.80    1.68    1.56    2.16    1.80    1.44    1.32           ( 0.2)                 1.32    1.6        1.7
Peppers             31.63  32.89   32.89   29.10   31.37   22.77   32.89   30.36           ( 4.4)                 3S.42   38.0      38.0
Helons              21.00  22.00   30.00   28.00   28.00   31.00   32.00   30.00            ( 4.43                32.00   34.0       3S.0
Other               25.2   27.00   27.00   26.35   27.45   29.25   29.70   30.35            J 4.4)                35.10  31.6        36.9
Livebtock           103.5  120ZQ  102.1   18          1?215  1.2.12  In'#   120.3            12?                      1 2'3.t5        21.Q
Cattle              44.4   39.60   33.00   33.60   34.20   32.40   33.SO   33.60            1 4.93                36.00   41.4       36.4
Sheep                58.9   49.40    0.3S  59.85   14.06   54.15   S9.8s   60.80           1 8.9)                69.35   bb.S      69.4
Goats                11.18   9.72    7.31    8.43    7.05    7.22    8.17    6.60           1 1.2)                 9.29    9.6       10.3 1
Poultry             14.62  17.03   20.24   24.33   23.45   29.48   22.00   23.76            4 3.4)                24.20   24.s      26.4
Other meats          2.25   2.25    2.25    2.25    2.70    2.70    2.70    2.70    |   0.4)                       2.70    2.?        3.2
Eggs (millions)    12.25  12.75   17.00   18.15   19.43   20.80   23.S0   24.25               3.6)                25.80   ?b.2      23.3
Nik                 31.28  34.70   27.97   30.87   33.26   30.74   34.90   36.54            4 5.41                39.69   41.0      43.1
Other                4.69   4.69    4.69    5.36    5.36    5.36    5.36    6.03            1 0.9)                 6.03    6.7        6.7
fisCellAiOnu          15197  ).oZ   19.920   20,79   29.b3 .20.2    l,P"    17704   l     2.0)                    2.A?   z'.~        ?4 -
Beans                2.6    4.00    S.00    S.10    4.10    3.40    2.20    3.60            4 O.S)                 4.30    2.9        3.S
Chsckpeas             3.6    4.32    4.50    5.40    5.16    S.94    5.76    3.06           4 0.1)                 1.40    1.4        5.8
Sugarbeet             1.77   0.78    0.75    1.10    0.93    1.24    1.01    2.10          I 0.3)                  2.34    3.1       4.u
Tobacco              I .76   1.84    1.64    1.64    2.12    2.20    1.76    1.32            0 0.23                1.48    1.6       2.0
Esparto grass          .bb   1.21    1.24    1.30    0.92    0.33    0.78    0.36    l   0.051                     0.46    0.6       0.40
Cork                   .28   0.37    0.35    0.25    0.40    0.40    0.40    0.40    l   0.0S)                     0.40    0.4        0.4
Other'                5.3  5.50    1.50    6.00    6.20    6.70    7.00    7.00             1 1.0)                 9.10    7.         7.15
I s),               I0.'S   5.9$   V173    38404  3150    1             5.13 4S.1   .      4t 1.41                55-22   55,7      6131
Coastdl             21.2S  20.36   19.65   21.16   19.47   21.79   26.43   28.40            t 4.21                32.33   36.3      40 2
Deepsea               7.21   6.57    7.05    7.46    7.87    9.10   10.88   12.72           ( 1.91                 12.3t   11.6      11.8
By light              2.57   3.12    3.37    3.16    3.44    3.51    2.91    3.39           ( 0.5)                 S.3l    4.9        4.6
Othier                S.9    5.90    7.10    6.30    $.30    6.20    5.50    6.00           4 0.91                 5.40    3.9        4.3
Vaiuc Qt
ofr odCtiOn    543.6  502.2   5.31   609.   OS),?   19.? 3   g03.9   061.3                M M0,9)               i94.-   111-.    831.9
value of O)QULs    B0-6   94 2   1Q2-1   110:Q   335.5   119.3   L.1.9   M2#AQ              ( 13,?)               145.9   141 3    le.4 0
Value added         46Q.0  488 Q   409,0   49.9   533,3   469.0   466,0   551.3              11.)                                    WU 49 9   57Q 0    i   0
4tiuai arowth
vaLe               _7 4.0 0.Q99    5 74-    OI 53        S   10 .0    .1,0?   133.2                              37.39   3.fu      l/.S.
Growth Rate of Value Added 1977-87: 2.84
Source: lnw.t,y of Ago iCultute
t Wo,otui , year



ANNEX VII
TUNISIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Disbursement Schedule
Bank                    Import Component           Investment Component
L    Fiscal Year            Quarter    Cumulative    Quarter           Cumulative   Total
__ ~~~~US$ million _  _ 
FY90                      -            -            _
10.0         10.0          1.8              1.8         11.8
5.0         15.0          1.8             3.6          18.6
FY91                     10.0         25.0          1.8              5.4         30.4
10.0         35.0          1.6             7.0         42.0
10.0         45.0          1.6             8.6          53.6
5.0         50.0          1.6            10.2          60.2
FY92                                                1.8             12.0         62.0
1.8            13.8         63.8
1.8            15.6         65.6
1.8            17.4         67.4
FY93                                                2.5            19.9          69.9
2.5            22.4         72.4
2.5            24.9         74.9
2.5            27.4         77.4
FY94                                                1.7            29.1          79.1
1.7            30.8         80.8
1.7            32.5         82.5
1.5            34.0         84.0
Signing  :    August 31, 1989
Effectiveness  : December 31, 1989
Completion  : December 31, 1993
Closing Date  : December 31, 1994



TUNISIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
LOCATION OF MAIN CROPS
Mediparrraf'9ean    Seo                                            M $4ediD~e s>n e on    Sea
/|;¢Oet    ¢°    Oo0o*Oa}                  v ce2   u           >      BREAD
>tO-t  6d4-- >oX07~      BARLEY                           . e6-           4$f       WH A
> g °< ¢ a O 4 $ ~~WHOoeAT   6I      
35  1   v  °° @h 5"0  0  oe ¢ t-go*w+;e \a-) >4 < ! ° o * o°<3e\
o r '. '.'. -' ...... X. O .. 9 0 ,,. 
>   eOt      a  ¢  ° * --;;4c,D< r co°° %%
voooo4¢  :-X ,y' °'. °- X~~u
L  L-J                     oo                              f        
t.g    t             WHEAT [                   |~~12                 to, XN         T Irl
_ +1 O ( t O j t t ¢ ,,. 5+, e tt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e
26- ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~ ~ ~ ~              i                                            INDUSTRIAL"undrie
ffi                                                     0,{Ml^ 0                        2       0      6 
-jb A



TUNISIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
SOIL SUITABILITY FOR CROPS
O     20      40     60      tO    tOO                                   Bur        gib6
KILOMERTERS                                d.n*,
37 'c^ro                                                                                                                                            37'
iTUNIS    ~ ~ Z              CAPOON
, ~  Kelibia'
EIA      \          ; -2   2- RIAN    TUNIs      'NABIEUL
Th .o$M"      'e   E               S            A               Poh ,                lIomn:o
3)  A-.
,     A      *        g      J 0RSTIR
ca,,,,  la7) v Si; /YX s } E\\ o~..~MANOIA
U~~~~~~~~~~~~HU
35                                    j                                                                                                                     IS;.>    ,  _*    5
,  t L ,  lfA
<   f *+efoef 4    g       _       t      / ^                  * {    z~~~~~~~~~~~~~t  id
I    MONASTIRENA  IS
*           \ Iye            GAF SA                      /  ;   
34  )   .g,9egoche  ,/           .                  9&                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~34.
KA ROU                                           DJEBSA 1,
0'dEK,~~~~~                       ~~~~~ Forest shu,                            / \NIN
nus, a.. Gdti 1r .e. /.\ ,.    ;   !n*  Vw                              ba6elan                                                         -tn
FRANCE              K       YUGO _sd _SLAV           t IA  ' Tre cra. I                                                               -B  K
/  /   ~~~  <8*  '.    <      33.   . .   >~~~ Treeo craps combinetd with onnuel crops *.                                  -            -33
--;~~~ \   t J91ALA  Trete craps combined with rangelnd                                                                       --1 
SPAINg <-r                 <        ,Va                      ^uIcr   comblinred with rrangeland                  latane ln                              IO
_ MA rldite1      XeQ <             GREiCE        100    Annual average roinhilL millimerters   .           /i 
/    oiE;;ure_    Main roaxds                                                                           /                                      ~ -
/         }            *~~~MAIXA             s --i-- iStoer.d gouge railw s                            T AT AQOU I NE               \
/TUNI IA         o ee NarrwOgougeratlw as 
o    >          /            U Z~~~~-i---. Narrow gouge rasilway under construction                                 o 
8 S 8 ~~~~~~~~~~International airports  
AL.GERIA                          2                           ~t $ Porth                xReeodEa   1.
6 > L I b Y A                  -                  roinoGEe L  s I
._._. InterFrationl boubs daries                                                                           g
i S                       _            _                         9,                       _c. tD                                 I                                onA. i  _



TUNISIA              I
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
RAINFALL AND IRRIGATED AREAS
Taba!rk   ,      o p                     VCAP SON
'Ii~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
-34"' tt ' e ro C t t_
\v\zA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EB I> f to                 n
runrf,,,,f,fff,,f,tfff$rrffrra,.a.fdi  t    - Igated Areas                       /      \ <       <
.',,¢,',wf','o>,,# ,,fff_" ,,tf,,ftBoundaries of Agricultural Reg9ions                           ----   -.
.                ~~~~~~~75 ~  Annual Average Rainfall in mm.\fct
<.--g}nzlislA            !    ~~~~Freshwater Lakes        \_~A
rf-r--                            ~      ! Coi (Saltwfater Lakes)     \    \        d   =       _      _ e150
A      RICA-<                            Rivers                    \       \A                    AM
tX,,  A  F R i C A  9        -4-      RalwfinRayls                                                          12g t 5
i         Iaj nteational Airports
_j          Sl            S-f~International Boundaries                \                                "  100
|        9,     0      t~~f       °  t                                                                    S0 *  <    e  \tifffff   
j,  --_                                             Klt'ON'0EtEfS  ' T                                   ,H-  \cr



