Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3078 TUN
           (Second Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan)
                              between
                        REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                        Dated June 30, 1989
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3078 TUN
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated June 30,  1989,  between REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
(the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Bank  has  received  a letter dated April 28,
1989,  from  the  Borrower   describing   a  program  of  actions,
objectives and policies designed  to  achieve an adjustment of the
agricultural  sector  of  the  Borrower  (hereinafter  called  the
Program), declaring the Borrower's  commitment to the execution of
the Program,  and  requesting  assistance  from  the  Bank  in the
financing of urgently needed  imports for the agricultural sector,
required during such execution,  and of high priority agricultural
programs and projects;
     (B)  the Borrower intends  to  obtain  from Kreditanstalt fur
Wiederaufbau (KfW) under an  agreement (hereinafter called the KfW
Loan Agreement) a loan  (hereinafter  called  the  KfW Loan) in an
amount equivalent to  $16,000,000  to  support  the Program on the
Page  2
terms and conditions therein set forth; and
     (C)  on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has
decided in support of  the  Program  to provide such assistance to
the Borrower by making  the  Loan  in  two tranches as hereinafter
provided;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications thereof  set  forth  below  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
     (a)  Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified to read:
              "'Project' means  the  imports  and other activities
          that may be financed  out  of  the  proceeds of the Loan
          pursuant to the  provisions  of  Schedule  1 to the Loan
          Agreement.";
     (b)  the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted; and
     (c)  Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
              "(c)  Not later than  six  months  after the Closing
          Date or  such  later  date  as  may  be  agreed for this
          purpose between the Borrower  and the Bank, the Borrower
          shall prepare and furnish to  the Bank a report, of such
          scope and in such  detail  as  the Bank shall reasonably
          request, on the  execution  of  the  program referred to
          in the Preamble to  the  Loan Agreement, the performance
          by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective obliga-
          tions under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of
          the purposes of the Loan."
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Banque Centrale de Tunisie"  means  the Central Bank of
the Borrower;
     (b)  "FOSDA" means Fonds  Special  de Developpement Agricole,
the Borrower's Agricultural Development Fund, established pursuant
to Law No. 63-17, dated May 27, 1963;
     (c)  "OC" means Office des  Cereales, the Borrower's National
Cereal Board;
     (d)  "Dinars" and "TD" mean the currency of the Borrower;
     (e)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (f)  "Fiscal Year"  means  the  Borrower's  fiscal year which
runs from January 1 to December 31;
     (g)  "Category" means  a  category  of  items  to be financed
out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan  as  set  forth in the table in
paragraph 2 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (h)  "DGPDIA" means Direction Generale de la Planification du
Developpement et des Investissements  Agricoles, the Department of
Development  Planning  and  Agricultural  Investments  within  the
Page  3
Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture;
     (i)  "Agricultural Programs" and "Agricultural Projects" mean
high priority agricultural  programs  and  projects satisfying the
eligibility criteria set forth  in  Part  I  of Schedule 6 to this
Agreement;
     (j)  "IOE" means the  International  Office  of Epizootic, an
intergovernmental organization established  in Paris and operating
under an international agreement of January 25, 1924; and
     (k)  "Second Phase of the Cereal Marketing Master Plan" means
the second phase of  a  study  to  be  carried out by the Borrower
under  terms  of  reference  satisfactory   to  the  Bank  on  the
rationalization of the commercialization of cereals.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank  agrees  to  lend  to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the Loan
Agreement,  various  currencies  that   shall  have  an  aggregate
value equivalent  to  the  amount  of  eighty-four million dollars
($84,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the
Loan with each withdrawal valued  by  the  Bank  as of the date of
such withdrawal.
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Program,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in its Central Bank
on terms and conditions  satisfactory  to the Bank. Deposits into,
and  payments  out  of,  the  Special  Account  shall  be  made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1994, or
such later  date  as  the  Bank  shall  establish.  The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a  rate  per  annum  for  each Interest Period equal to
one-half of one  percent  per  annum  above  the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for the last Semester  ending prior to the commencement
of such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower  of  the  Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest  Period"   means   the  six-month  period
               commencing on each  date  specified in Section 2.06
               of this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
Page  4
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
     Section  2.08.  (a)  The   Banque   Centrale  de  Tunisie  is
designated as representative of  the  Borrower for the purposes of
taking any action  required  or  permitted  to  be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this  Agreement and Article V of the
General Conditions with respect to Category (1).
     (b)  Without limitation or restriction  to the foregoing, the
Borrower  hereby  entrusts   Banque   Centrale   de  Tunisie  with
responsibility  for  the  preparation  of  withdrawal applications
under Category (1) and  for  the  collection  of the documents and
other evidence to be  furnished  to  the  Bank  in support of such
applications; such  withdrawal  applications  shall  to the extent
practicable be  consolidated  so  as  to  apply  for withdrawal of
aggregate amounts of not less than $1,000,000 equivalent.
                            ARTICLE III
                       Particular Covenants
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower  and  the Bank shall from time
to time, at the  request  of  either  party, exchange views on the
progress achieved in  carrying  out  the  Program  and the actions
specified in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     (b)  Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank for  its  review  and  comment a report on the
progress achieved in carrying out  the  Program, in such detail as
the Bank shall reasonably request.
     Section 3.02.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods,  works  and  consultants' services to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. For purposes of  coordinating the actions to be
taken under the  Program,  and  for  reporting  on the progress in
achieving the objectives of the Program, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  maintain the  Coordinating  Committee  established under
Loan No. 2754 TUN (Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan); and
     (b)  cause DGPDIA to assist the Coordinating Committee in the
monitoring of the actions to  be  taken  under the Program and the
preparation of the reports referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of this
Agreement.
     Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause DGPDIA to:
     (a)  select   for   appraisal   Agricultural   Programs   and
Agricultural Projects on the basis of the eligibility criteria and
following the procedures set forth in Parts I and II of Schedule 6
to this Agreement; and
     (b)  not later than October  31  in  each year, in accordance
with the procedures set forth  in  Part  III of Schedule 6 to this
Agreement, submit to the Bank  for  its review and approval a list
of proposed Agricultural Projects  and Agricultural Programs to be
carried out during the following year.
     Section 3.05. The Borrower shall,  not later than October 31,
1990, carry out a review of the level and structure of the charges
applied to irrigation water in the Borrower's territory.
     Section  3.06.  The  Borrower   shall:  (a)  not  later  than
Page  5
March 31,  1990,  carry  out  a  study  under  terms  of reference
satisfactory to the Bank to  design a pilot program permitting the
private sector to import animal feed;  (b) furnish to the Bank for
review  and  comment  the   recommendations  of  such  study;  and
(c) thereafter, based on such  review, take all necessary measures
satisfactory to  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  to  implement such
recommendations.
     Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with  consistently  maintained  sound  accounting  practices,  the
operations, resources and expenditures  in  respect of the Project
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for the
carrying out of the Project or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
         (i)   have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) of this  Section, including those for
               the Special Account, for  each fiscal year audited,
               in accordance with  appropriate auditing principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Bank;
        (ii)   furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later  than  nine months after the end
               of each such year,  a  certified copy of the report
               of such audit by  said  auditors, of such scope and
               in such detail  as  the  Bank shall have reasonably
               requested; and
       (iii)   furnish  to   the   Bank   such  other  information
               concerning said records and  accounts and the audit
               thereof  as  the  Bank  shall  from  time  to  time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
        (i)    maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
        (ii)   retain, until at least one  year after the Bank has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audits  referred  to in paragraph (b)
               of this Section and  that  the report of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during  such   fiscal   year,   together  with  the
               procedures and internal  controls involved in their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
                            ARTICLE IV
                  Additional Event of Suspension
     Section 4.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following  additional  event is specified, namely,
that a situation has  arisen  which  shall make it improbable that
the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
Page  6
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 5.01. The following  events  are  specified as  addi-
tional conditions  to  the  effectiveness  of  the  Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  that  the  Borrower  has  taken  all  necessary measures
satisfactory to the Bank to  open  grain collection to the private
and cooperative sectors;
     (b)  that the  Borrower  has  taken  all  action necessary to
establish criteria satisfactory  to  the  Bank for licensing olive
oil exporters and has taken  all action necessary to authorize the
exporters meeting such criteria to export olive oil;
     (c)  that the Borrower  has  taken  all  action necessary to:
(i) establish sanitary norms for  beef imports conforming with IOE
norms;  (ii)  transfer  beef  to  the  list  of  freely importable
products; and (iii) impose a  variable  tariff  on beef of a level
such as to permit achieving a 15% nominal protection;
     (d)  that the Borrower  has  taken  all necessary measures to
eliminate quantitative restrictions  on  imports  of powdered milk
and has imposed a variable  tariff  on  powdered milk imports of a
level such as to permit achieving a 15% nominal protection; and
     (e)  that the  Borrower  has  authorized  the  importation of
tractors of the same horse  power as that of tractors manufactured
in the Borrower's territory, subject to the imposition of a tariff
which shall not exceed 35% and a temporary surcharge of up to 30%.
     Section 5.02. The date  one  hundred  twenty (120) days after
the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. Except as provided  in Section 2.08 (a) of this
Agreement, the Minister of Planning  of the Borrower is designated
as representative of  the  Borrower  for  the  purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministere du Plan
          Place Ali Zouaoui
          Tunis
          Republic of Tunisia
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               MIPLAN                           93415117
               Tunis
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
Page  7
               INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT),
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                        REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
                        By /s/ Abdelaziz Hamzaoui
                                         Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ Kemal Dervis
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   Subject to the provisions  set  forth  or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the Loan  may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account for expenditures made (or, if  the Bank shall so agree, to
be made) in respect  of  the  reasonable  cost of goods, works and
consultants' services required during the execution of the Program
or required for  Agricultural  Programs  and Agricultural Projects
and to be financed out of such proceeds.
2.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the Loan, the allocations of the
amounts of  the  Loan  to  each  Category  and  the  percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                              Amount of the
                             Loan Allocated             % of
                             (Expressed in          Expenditures
     Category              Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Imports for the
     Agricultural Sector:
     (a)  Agricultural          37,500,000  )
          inputs, including                 )
          animal feed, and                  )
          agricultural                      )
          equipment, includ-                )
          ing machinery                     )      100% of foreign
          and spare parts                   )      expenditures
                                            )
     (b)  Petroleum             12,500,000  )
          products                          )
                              Amount of the
                             Loan Allocated             % of
                             (Expressed in          Expenditures
     Category              Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(2)  Agricultural
Page  8
     Programs and
     Agricultural
     Projects:
     (a)  Civil works           23,000,000         60%
     (b)  Equipment             10,000,000         100% of foreign
                                                   expenditures
                                                   and 75% of
                                                   local expendi-
                                                   tures
     (c)  Studies and            1,000,000         100%
          Consultants'
          services
                                __________
          TOTAL                84,000,000
3.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods supplied from the territory  of  any country other than that
of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
4.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;
     (b)  expenditures for goods,  works  or consultants' services
required  for  Agricultural  Programs  and  Agricultural  Projects
unless, the Agricultural Program  or  the Agricultural Project has
been approved by the Bank;
     (c)  expenditures for goods under Category (1) procured under
contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent; and
     (d)  expenditures for goods  supplied  under a contract which
any national  or  international  financing  institution  or agency
other than the Bank shall have financed or agreed to finance.
5.   No withdrawal  shall  be  made  and  no  commitment  shall be
entered into to pay amounts to or  on the order of the Borrower in
respect of expenditures to be financed  out of the proceeds of the
Loan after the aggregate  of  the  proceeds  of the Loan withdrawn
from the Loan Account  and  the  total  amount of such commitments
shall have reached the equivalent  of $42,000,000, unless the Bank
shall be satisfied, after  an  exchange  of  views as described in
Section 3.01 of this  Agreement  based on evidence satisfactory to
the Bank: (a) with the  progress  achieved  by the Borrower in the
carrying out of the Program; and (b) that the actions described in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement have been taken.
6.   If, after the  exchange  of  views  described  in paragraph 5
above, the Bank shall have  given  notice to the Borrower that the
progress achieved  and  actions  taken  are  not satisfactory and,
within 90 days  after  such  notice,  the  Borrower shall not have
achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Bank, then
the Bank may, by  notice  to  the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn
amount of the Loan or any part thereof.
                            SCHEDULE 2
Page  9
                       Amortization Schedule
                                            Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each April 15 and October 15
     beginning October 15, 1994
     through April 15, 2006                      3,500,000
____________________
*    The figure in  this  column  represents the dollar equivalent
     determined as of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawals. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     Pursuant to Section 3.04  (b)  of  the General Conditions the
premium payable on the  principal  amount  of  any maturity of the
Loan to be  prepaid  shall  be  the  percentage  specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:
   Time of Prepayment                            Premium
                                         The  interest  rate  (ex-
                                         pressed as percentage per
                                         annum) applicable  to the
                                         Loan   on   the   day  of
                                         prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                          0.18
     before maturity
More than three years but                          0.35
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but not                        0.65
     more than eleven years
     before maturity
More than eleven years but not                     0.88
     more than fifteen years
     before maturity
More than fifteen years                            1.00
     before maturity
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Contracts  for  the  procurement  of:  (i)  imports  for  the
agricultural sector estimated to cost the equivalent of $5,000,000
or more  each;  (ii)  civil  works  for  Agricultural  Programs or
Agricultural  Projects  estimated   to   cost  the  equivalent  of
$2,000,000 or  more  each;  and  (iii)  equipment for Agricultural
Programs or Agricultural Projects estimated to cost the equivalent
of $500,000 or more  each  shall  be awarded through international
competitive bidding in accordance  with procedures consistent with
those set forth  in  Sections  I  and  II  of  the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits" published by the
Bank in  May  1985  (the  Guidelines),  subject  to  the following
modifications:
     (a)  Paragraph 2.8  of  the  Guidelines  is  deleted  and the
following is substituted therefor:
Page  10
     "2.8 Notification and Advertising
          The international  community  should  be  notified  in a
     timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
     advertising invitations to apply  for inclusion in a bidder's
     invitation list, to  apply  for  prequalification, or to bid;
     such  advertisements  should  be   placed  in  at  least  one
     newspaper of general  circulation  in  the Borrower's country
     and, in addition, in at least one of the following forms:
          (i)  a  notice  in   the   United  Nations  publication,
               Development Business; or
         (ii)  an  advertisement  in  a  newspaper,  periodical or
               technical    journal    of    wide    international
               circulation; or
        (iii)  a notice to local  representatives of countries and
               territories referred to in  the Guidelines that are
               potential suppliers of the goods required."
     (b)  The following is added at  the  end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
          "As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
     the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
     used in  international  trade  and  specified  in the bidding
     documents."
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part  A  hereof,  goods  manufactured  in Republic of
Tunisia may be granted a  margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of  paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for imports  for  the agricultural sector estimated
to cost the  equivalent  of  less  than  $5,000,000  each shall be
awarded on the basis of  the  normal procurement procedures of the
purchaser  of   such   goods,   including,   when   possible,  the
solicitation of quotations from not less than three suppliers.
2.   Contracts for (i) civil  works  for Agricultural Programs and
Agricultural Projects estimated to  cost  less than the equivalent
of $2,000,000 each; and  (ii)  equipment for Agricultural Programs
and Agricultural Projects  estimated  to  cost  less than $500,000
each,  may  be  awarded  on  the  basis  of  competitive  bidding,
advertised locally, in  accordance  with the Borrower's applicable
procedures provided, however,  that:  (A)  no  preference shall be
granted for purposes of  bid  comparison  to any group of bidders;
(B)  all  bidders  shall  be  treated  equally  in  terms  of  the
requirements of furnishing  bids  and  performance securities; and
(C) bids shall be opened in public.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   With respect to each contract  referred  to in Part A of this
Schedule, the Borrower shall  furnish  to  the  Bank, prior to the
submission to the Bank of  the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the  Loan  Account  in  respect  of  such contract, two
conformed copies of such  contract,  together with the analysis of
the respective bids and  recommendations  for award, a description
of the  advertising  and  tendering  procedures  followed and such
other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   With respect to each contract  referred  to in paragraph C of
this Schedule, the Borrower  shall  furnish  to the Bank, prior to
the submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
Page  11
of  funds  from  the   Loan   Account  in  respect  thereof,  such
documentation and information as  the  Bank may reasonably request
to support withdrawal applications in respect of such contract.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of  paragraphs  D.1 and D.2 of
this Schedule, where payments under a  contract are to be made out
of the  proceeds  of  the  Special  Account,  the  copies  of such
contract or the documentation and  the information to be furnished
to the  Bank  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of  paragraph  D.1 or
paragraph D.2 of  this  Schedule,  as  the  case  may be, shall be
furnished to the  Bank  as  part  of  the  evidence required under
paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
4.   The provisions of the  preceding  paragraphs D.1, D.2 and D.3
shall not apply to  contracts  on  account  of  which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower in carrying out Agricultural
Programs  and  Agricultural  Projects  the  Borrower  shall employ
agricultural, technical, financial  and economic consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms  and conditions of employment
shall be  satisfactory  to  the  Bank.  Such  consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Bank  on  the  basis  of  the  "Guidelines  for  the Use of
Consultants by World  Bank  Borrowers  and  by  The  World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
              Actions Referred to in Paragraph 5 (b)
                  of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
1.   The Borrower  has  prepared  and  furnished  to  the Bank the
recommendations of the Second Phase of the Cereal Marketing Master
Plan.
2.   The Borrower has  adjusted  the  prices  of subsidized ferti-
lizers, animal  feed,  improved  cereal  seeds,  seed potatoes and
herbicide 2-4-D to eliminate 30% of unit subsidies.
3.   The Borrower has established to  the satisfaction of the Bank
that FOSDA's volume of lending for agricultural credit purposes in
1990 has decreased by 15% compared to 1989.
4.   Based on the  review  referred  to  in  Section  3.05 of this
Agreement,  the  Borrower   has   taken   all  necessary  measures
satisfactory to the Bank  to  improve cost recovery for irrigation
water in the Borrower's territory.
5.   The Borrower has taken all necessary measures satisfactory to
the Bank to regulate the use of pesticides and herbicides.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of  goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan in  accordance  with the provisions of Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (b)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to $10,000,000 to  be  withdrawn  from the Loan Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
Page  12
for eligible expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Bank  a  request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which  do  not  exceed the aggregate amount of
the  Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of  such  request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)   (i)  For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
                deposits  into   the   Special   Account  at  such
                intervals as the Bank shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the  time of each such request, the
                Borrower shall furnish  to  the Bank the documents
                and   other   evidence    required   pursuant   to
                paragraph 4 of  this  Schedule  for the payment or
                payments  in  respect  of  which  replenishment is
                requested. On the basis  of each such request, the
                Bank shall, on  behalf  of  the Borrower, withdraw
                from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special
                Account such  amount  as  the  Borrower shall have
                requested and as  shall  have  been  shown by said
                documents and other evidence to have been made out
                of the Special  Account for eligible expenditures.
                All such deposits shall  be  withdrawn by the Bank
                from  the  Loan   Account   under  the  respective
                eligible  Categories,   and   in   the  respective
                equivalent amounts, as  shall  have been justified
                by said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account, the  Borrower  shall,  at  such  time  as  the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to  the  Bank such documents and other
evidence  showing  that  such  payment  was  made  exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Bank shall not  be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be  made  by the Borrower directly from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph  (a)  of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn  amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible  Categories  less  the  amount  of any outstanding
special commitment entered into  by  the  Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions  with respect to the Project, shall
equal  the  equivalent  of  twice  the  amount  of  the Authorized
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account  of the remaining
unwithdrawn  amount  of  the   Loan   allocated  to  the  eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures  as the Bank shall specify
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after  and  to  the  extent  that  the  Bank  shall have been
satisfied that  all  such  amounts  remaining  on  deposit  in the
Special Account as of the date  of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
Page  13
payment  out  of  the  Special   Account:  (i)  was  made  for  an
expenditure or in an amount  not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule;  and  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished to the Bank,  the  Borrower  shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may
request, or (B) deposit into the  Special Account (or, if the Bank
shall so request,  refund  to  the  Bank)  an  amount equal to the
amount of such payment or  the  portion thereof not so eligible or
justified. Unless  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  no further
deposit by the Bank into  the  Special Account shall be made until
the Borrower has provided  such  evidence  or made such deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion  of  the  funds  on deposit in the Special
Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank  made  pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or  for  cancellation in accordance with
the relevant provisions of  this  Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
                            SCHEDULE 6
          Eligibility Criteria for Agricultural Programs
           and Agricultural Projects and Procedures for
              Appraisal and Approval of Agricultural
                Programs and Agricultural Projects
I.   Eligibility Criteria
     The Agricultural Programs  and Agricultural Projects eligible
for financing  under  Category  (2)  shall  satisfy  the following
criteria, on the basis of a methodology acceptable to the Bank:
     (a)  the  Agricultural  Programs  and  Agricultural  Projects
shall be included  in  the  Borrower's  VIIth Economic Development
Plan (1987-1991) or in its VIIIth Economic Development Plan (1992-
1996);
     (b)  the  Agricultural  Programs  and  Agricultural  Projects
shall be consistent  with  the  subsector  strategy defined in the
Program;
     (c)  the Agricultural Projects shall have an economic rate of
return of at least 10%,  based  on  economic pricing of inputs and
outputs, including labor and foreign exchange; and
     (d)  the Agricultural Programs shall represent the least cost
solution to achieve the envisaged objectives.
II.  Procedures  for  Appraisal   of   Agricultural  Programs  and
     Agricultural Projects
1.   The  identification,   preparation   and   appraisal  of  the
Agricultural  Programs  and  Agricultural  Projects  shall  be the
responsibility of DGPDIA.
2.   Each appraisal of an Agricultural  Project shall consist of a
technical, financial, and  economic  analysis of such Agricultural
Project satisfactory to the  Bank.  Each  appraisal of an Agricul-
tural Program shall consist of  a technical and financial analysis
of such Agricultural Program satisfactory to the Bank.
III. Approval of Agricultural Programs and Agricultural Projects
Page  14
1.   Each year  the  list  of  proposed  Agricultural Programs and
Agricultural Projects to be carried  out during the following year
shall  be  prepared  by  DGPDIA  and  submitted  to  the  Bank for
approval.
2.   When  presenting   Agricultural   Programs   or  Agricultural
Projects to be carried out  during  the following year to the Bank
for approval, DGPDIA  shall  for  each  such proposed Agricultural
Program  or  Agricultural   Project   furnish   to  the  Bank,  an
application, in a form  satisfactory  to  the Bank, together with:
(i) an appraisal of such Agricultural Program or such Agricultural
Project, including a description  of  the expenditures proposed to
be financed out of the proceeds  of  the Loan; and (ii) such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
