Page  1
His Excellency
H.E. Mustapha K. Nabli                            April 24, 1991
Minister of Planning and
  Regional Development
Ministry of Planning and
  Regional Development
Place Ali Zouaoui
Tunis
Republic of Tunisia
                         Re:  Loan No. 3078 TUN
                              (Second Agricultural Sector
                              Adjustment Loan)
                              Amendment to the Loan Agreement
Excellency:
           We refer to the Loan Agreement (Second Agricultural
Sector Adjustment Loan) between the Republic of Tunisia (the
Borrower) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (the Bank) dated June 30, 1989.  We also refer to the
Borrower's request contained in your telex to the Bank dated March
31, 1992, for amendment of the Loan Agreement to delink the
investment component from the adjustment component to permit
disbursements for investment expenditures before all the conditions
of second tranche release as provided in the Loan Agreement have
been fulfilled.
           We are pleased to inform you that the Bank, after due
consideration, has acceded to the above request.  Accordingly, the
Loan Agreement is hereby amended as follows:
      In Schedule l, paragraph 5 is amended to read as follows:
     "No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be
     entered into to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower
     in respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds
     of the Loan allocated to Category (l) after  the  aggregate
     of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan withdrawn from the Loan
     Account under Category (l) and the  total  amount  of
     commitments  entered  into with respect  of  such  Category
     shall  have  reached  the equivalent of $37,500,000, unless
     the Bank shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as
     described in Section  3.01  of  this  Agreement based  on
     evidence satisfactory to the Bank: (a) with the progress
     achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the Program;
     and (b) that the actions described in Schedule 4 to this
     Agreement have been taken."
     All the terms and conditions of the Loan Agreement,  as
amended hereby, shall remain in full force and effect.
      Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing amendment
by signing and dating the confirmation on the enclosed copy of
this letter and returning it to us.
                             Very truly yours,
                          INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                             Rene L. Costa
                            Acting Director
                          Maghreb Department
                   Middle East and North Africa Region
CONFIRMED:
Page  2
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
By /s/ Mustapha Kamel Nabli
Date: 15 May 1992
