Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
LOAN NUMBER 7454-PAK 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Second Punjab Irrigation Development Policy Loan) 
 
between 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated June 7, 2007 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7454 - PAK 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated June 7, 2007, entered into between the ISLAMIC 
REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN (
“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing 
financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The 
Bank has decided to provide this financing on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of: (a) the actions 
which the Punjab has already taken under the Program and which are described in the 
Schedule to the Program Agreement; and (b) the Borrower’s and Punjab’s maintenance 
of an appropriate macro-economic policy framework. The Borrower and the Bank 
therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement.  
 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred million United States 
Dollars (US$100,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 
of this Agreement (“Loan”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program 
in accordance with Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to three-fourths 
of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, subject 
to any waiver of a portion of such charge as may be determined by the Bank from 
time to time. 
 
2.04. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one percent (1.0%) 
of the Loan amount, subject to any waiver of a portion of such fee as may be 
determined by the Bank from time to time. 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread, subject to any 
waiver of a portion of such interest as may be determined by the Bank from time 
to time; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion 
Period on such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
 
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.09 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.10 of the General 
Conditions, the Borrower shall promptly furnish to the Bank such information 
relating to the provisions of this Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, 
reasonably request. 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
ARTICLE III - PROGRAM 
 
3.01 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end: 
 
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of 
either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any 
proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Loan which 
would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the 
Program, or any action taken under the Program including any action 
specified in the Schedule to the Program Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is any of the Secretary, Additional Secretary, 
Joint Secretary, Deputy Secretary or Section Officer, of the Borrower’s 
Economic Affairs Division, acting indistinctly.  
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Secretary to the Government of Pakistan  
Economic Affairs Division 
Ministry of Economic Affairs and Statistics 
Islamabad, Pakistan 
 
Phone: 
   Facsimile: 
 
92-51-9203815  
 
92-51-9218976 
Page  5
-
4
-
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day 
and year first above written. 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN 
 
By /s/ Abdul Wajid Rana 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Yusupha B. Crookes 
 
Country Director 
Pakistan 
Page  6
-
5
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Availability of Loan Proceeds 
 
A.
 General. 
 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance 
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank 
may specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
B.
 
Allocation of Loan Amounts.
 
The Loan shall (except for amounts required to 
pay the Front-end Fee) be withdrawn in a Single Tranche.  The allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below: 
 
Allocations 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(Expressed in USD) 
 
(1) Single Tranche  
100,000,000 
(2) Front-end Fee 
0 
(3) Premia for Interest Rate Caps and 
Interest Rate Collars  
0
TOTAL AMOUNT 
100,000,000 
C.
 
Deposits of Loan Amounts.
 
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:   
 
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank 
into an account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; 
and 
 
2.  
the Borrower shall ensure that within two business day of each deposit of 
an amount of the Loan into this account, an equivalent amount is 
accounted for in 
Punjab’s Consolidated Fund Account No. 1- Non-Food, 
in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 
 
3. 
within forty five (45) days after each deposit of an amount of the Loan 
into the Borrower’s designated account, the Borrower shall cause Punjab 
to provide to the Bank a written confirmation by Punjab’s Finance 
Secretary certifying the crediting of the Rupees equivalent of each such 
deposit into Punjab’s Consolidated Fund Account No. 1–Non Food; such 
written certification to include number of the account, date of receipt of 
funds, and the credited amounts and exchange rate applied.  
 
Page  7
-
6
-
D.
 Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Loan shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines 
at any time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an 
Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts 
refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled.
 
E.
 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is December 31, 2007. 
Page  8
-
7
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (
“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
On each March 15 and September 15. 
Beginning on September 15, 2015 through 
September 15, 2026. 
 
4.17% 
 
On March 15, 2027 
4.09% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies.
 
Page  9
-
8
-
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for 
each such amount. 
Page  10
-
9
-
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Area Water Boards” means the irrigation administrative bodies established 
pursuant to Section 14 of the PIDA Act and the PIDA (AWB) Rules. 
 
2. 
“Assets Management Plan” means the IPD’s irrigation assets management plan 
prepared under the Program.  
 
3. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, 
or grant; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the 
Borrower: 
Page  11
-
10
-
Group
Sub-group 
Description of Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-
manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525  
Radioactive 
and 
associated materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear 
reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals 
(except watches and 
watch cases) and 
goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares 
(including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party, and any other goods 
designated as environmentally hazardous by agreement between the 
Borrower and the Bank); 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
Page  12
-
11
-
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower 
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur. 
 
4. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development’s General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
5. 
“FY” means Punjab’s fiscal year beginning on July 1 of a calendar year and 
ending on June 30 of the following calendar year.  
 
6. 
“FOs” means farmer organizations established pursuant to Section 14 of the 
PIDA Act and the PIDA (FO) Rules. 
 
7. 
“IPD” means Punjab’s Irrigation and Power Department, and any successor 
thereto.  
 
8. 
“PIDA” means Punjab’s Irrigation and Drainage Authority and any successor 
thereto.  
 
9. 
“PIDA Act” means Punjab’s Irrigation and Drainage Authority Act of 1997 (XI 
of 1997), as amended from time to time. 
 
10. 
“PIDA (AWB) Rules” means the PIDA’s (Pilot Area Water Board) Rules of 
2005, prepared under the PIDA Act, as amended from time to time. 
 
11. 
“PIDA (FO) Rules” means the PIDA’s (Pilot Farmers Organization) Rules of 
2005, prepared under the PIDA Act, as amended from time to time.  
 
12. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or 
referred to in the letter from the Borrower dated April 18, 2006, transmitting to 
the Bank a letter from Punjab dated April 15, 2006, declaring the Punjab’s 
commitment to the execution of the Program, reconfirmed through the 
Borrower’s letter of April 11, 2007 transmitting Punjab’s letter of April 4, 2007, 
and requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its 
execution. 
 
13. 
“Punjab” means the Borrower’s Province of Punjab.   
 
Page  13
-
12
-
14. 
“Reform Unit” means the unit established within IPD for carrying out strategic 
planning and coordinating monitoring and evaluation activities pursuant to Letter 
No. Misc. 9SO(P) 2006, dated June 28, 2006. 
 
15. 
“Rupees” or “Rs” means the currency of the Borrower. 
 
16. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category entitled 
“Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
Section II.  
Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the “International Bank for Reconstruction and Development’s 
General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through 
 
October 15, 2006) are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 5.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 5.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
under the Loan until two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower 
shall enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.” 
 
6. 
Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
 
Page  14
-
13
-
Section 5.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date, a 
report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by the Loan 
Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Legal 
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan. 
 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Loan Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in 
support of which the Loan is made.”  All references to “Project” 
throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to 
“Program”. 
 
(d) 
The term “Project Agreement” is modified to read “Program Agreement” 
and its definition, as set forth in the Appendix, is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“‘Program Agreement’ means the agreement between the Association 
and the Program Implementing Entity relating to the implementation of 
the Program, as such agreement may be amended from time to time. 
‘Program Agreement’ includes these General conditions as applied to the 
Program Agreement, and all appendices, schedules, and agreements 
supplemental to the Program Agreement.” 
 
Page  15
-
14
-
(e) 
The term “Project Implementing Entity” is modified to read “Program 
Implementing Entity” and its definition, as set forth in the Appendix, is 
modified to read as follows: 
 
“‘Program Implementing Entity’ means the legal entity (other than the 
Recipient) which is responsible for implementing all or part of the 
Program and which is a party to the Program Agreement.” 
 
(f) 
The term “Project Implementing Entity’s Address” is modified to read 
“Punjab’s Address” and its definition, as set forth in the Appendix, is 
modified to read as follows: 
 
“‘Punjab’s Address’ means the Punjab’s address specified in the 
Program Agreement for the purpose of Section 9.01.”  
 
(g) 
The term “Project Implementing Entity’s Representative” is modified to 
read “Punjab’s Representative” and its definition, as set forth in the 
Appendix, is modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Punjab’s Representative’ means the Program Implementing Entity’s 
representative specified in the Program Agreement for the purpose of 
Section 9.02 (a).”  
 
