Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
—Appraisal Stage 
Report No.:  
AB3004
 
Project Name 
Second Punjab Irrigation Sector Development Policy Loan    
Region 
South Asia 
Sector 
Irrigation and drainage (100%); 
Project ID 
P102333 
Borrower(s) 
Government of Pakistan 
Implementing Agency 
Government of Punjab 
Date PID Prepared 
March 21, 2006 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
March 14, 2007 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
May 31, 2007 
1. 
Key development issues and 
rationale for Bank involvement
 
1.      
Pakistan's economy showed strong resilience in the face of devastation caused by the October 2005 
earthquake and a sharp increase in international oil prices. Economic growth slowed down somewhat, but at 
6.6
%
,
the GDP growth was among the strongest in the region and only marginally slower than the target of 7% 
set for the year. While on the production side, the capacity constraints have started to become increasingly 
binding, continued strong domestic demand, which remained buoyant despite some tightening of monetary 
policy, was the main factor behind the strong growth performance by the economy.  As aggregate demand 
exceeded domestic supply of goods and services, domestic prices and balance of payments remained under 
severe pressure.  While the exports increased by 14% in 2005/06, imports grew by almost twice that rate. As a 
result, the current account deficit rose to US$ 5.7 billion (4.4% of GDP), compared with US$ 1.8 billion (1.7% 
of GDP) in 2004/05.  Although the foreign exchange reserves continue to remain at a comfortable level of over 
US$ 10 billion, they now support only 3.2 months of country’s imports. The Government has already started 
tightening the money supply and is committed to take additional measures to stabilize the price and external 
trade situation.  The prospects for continued strong economic growth, therefore, remain strong.  
 
2.      
Strong economic growth during the last three years has led to higher household incomes and lower 
poverty.
 
Incomes have increased steadily over the past few years. Per capita income in 2005/2006 rose to $847, 
up from $742 a year earlier. World Bank estimates of poverty based on the 2004/2005 Pakistan Social and 
Living Standards Measurement Survey (PSLM) reveal that, between 2001 and 2005 poverty incidence declined 
by 5 or 10 percentage points. All segments of the population, in both urban and rural areas, have gained from 
income growth. This reduction in poverty could be attributed not only to economic growth, but also to the 
Government’s commitment for an accelerated reduction in poverty. The Government is currently in the final 
stages of updating its poverty reduction strategy, and it commitment towards poverty reduction is underscored 
by the sharp increase in pro-poor expenditures.  The PRSP expenditures have increased at an annual rate of over 
23% p.a. and are now tentatively estimated at 5.5% of GDP compared to 3.7% of GDP in 2000/01.   
 
3.      
The crucial importance of irrigation
.
With an average annual rainfall of less than 240 mm, Pakistan is 
one of the world’s most arid countries.  The population and the economy are heavily dependent on the Indus 
river system. Starting from the 19
th
 century, weir controlled irrigation was developed and gradually the Indus 
irrigation system became the largest contiguous irrigation system in the world.  Today, irrigation is a critical 
factor for Pakistan’s economy. About 80 percent of the arable land and 90 percent of agricultural output are 
entirely dependent on irrigation, making this a critical sector for rural development and poverty alleviation. 
However, Pakistan faces major water related issues that have serious social, economic and environmental 
implications: growing demand and declining water availability per capita; competition and mistrust among the 
Page  2
riparian; deteriorating infrastructure --as a result of inadequate operation and maintenance and lack of modern 
asset management plans; over-exploitation and deteriorating quality of groundwater resources spurred by 
drought, and inequitable canal water deliveries; increasing risk of flooding, particularly in the lower Indus 
basin, due to rising river beds; sea intrusion and environmental degradation of the Indus delta and coastal areas 
resulting from inadequate environmental flows; poor governance and irrigation service delivery, in part due to 
lack of user participation; and low water use efficiency and agricultural productivity. As a consequence, the full 
potential of irrigation as the major contributor to agriculture growth and employment is not being achieved.  
 
4.      
The federal government has taken several important actions during the last two years to address water 
sector challenges that fall within the federal domain, including support to the provinces for water conservation; 
developing additional water storage capacity; determination of environmental flow requirements of the Indus 
delta; and initiation of a reform program that supports institutional development and capacity building at the 
federal level, including building the capacity of the Indus River System Authority (IRSA), which is responsible 
for the administration of the Inter-Provincial Water Apportionment Accord of 1991. 
 
5.      
Punjab is a microcosm of Pakistan.  Surface and groundwater resources constitute the lifeline of 
Punjab’s agro-based economy.  Agriculture is the major contributor to Punjab’s economy, accounting for 28 
percent of its output and employment to over 40 percent of its work force.  Over 90 percent of Punjab’s 
agricultural output comes from 25 million acres of irrigated land.  Irrigation has the same importance and the 
sector faces the same institutional and policy issues, as the rest of Pakistan.   
 
6.      
To address the issues in irrigation, in the year 2004, Punjab prepared a medium term irrigation sector 
reform program (ISRP), after consultations with various stakeholders within and outside the government, with 
the full backing of the political leadership. Continuing consultation with water users/farmers is an integral part 
of the reform process. The ISRP supports, within the irrigation sector, the broader provincial strategy articulated 
in the Punjab Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (P-PRSP)
1
,
which emphasizes improving governance by 
enhancing the accountability of state institutions; improving service delivery systems; accelerating 
growth and generating employment through enhanced focus on productive sectors; and enhancing the 
effectiveness of public expenditures through budgetary and institutional reforms.  The ISRP is built on four 
pillars:   
 
Pillar I:  Institutional and Policy Reforms
 
to improve the management and maintenance of the irrigation 
system to
 
ensure its long term physical and financial sustainability. 
Pillar II: Water Resources Management Reforms
 
to 
make intra-province water allocation and 
distribution more transparent
.
Pillar III: Irrigation Service Delivery Reforms
 
to 
improve the quality, efficiency and accountability with 
which irrigation services are delivered
.
Pillar IV: Reforms 
to improve water use efficiency and on-farm productivity
.
Rationale for Bank involvement 
 
7.      
Link to Country Assistance Strategy
.
Based on the past experience, both GOPunjab and the Bank agreed 
that new approaches and instruments were needed to meet the diverse set of challenges facing the water sector. 
The Development Policy Loan (DPL) instrument was considered a more suitable instrument for supporting the 
newly formulated reform agenda, given that a programmatic approach provides the flexibility to support 
reforms while managing risk; permits greater attention to capacity building; and focuses on results.  In line with 
the Country Assistance Strategy, the first irrigation sector development policy loan (DPL1 of US$100 million 
1
The Punjab government has initiated the process of updating the P-PRSP. The ISRP would be an integral part of the 
updated P-PRSP. 
Page  3
equivalent), in a programmatic series of three
 
loans, was approved by the Bank on June 1, 2006, to support the 
first year of the ISRP.
 
8.      
Outcomes of DPL1
:
Spurred by high level ownership by farmers and government, the first year of 
ISRP, supported by DPL1, has yielded very positive outcomes under each reform pillar. For example:  
 
a. 
A
good
beginning has been made in moving away from the policies that had resulted in gradual 
deterioration of the hydraulic infrastructure in the past. 
 The issue of chronic budgetary gap for 
routine and preventive maintenance was resolved by rationalizing budgetary “yardsticks” by 
linking them with market prices; the maintenance budget was nearly doubled and a substantial 
reduction in  the backlog of deferred maintenance was achieved; a system of performance 
evaluation was developed to ensure transparent and judicious spending of the enhanced budget 
resources, and a system of fortnightly meetings of the Departmental Accounts Committee 
(DAC) was institutionalized to resolve audit observations; and to improve the efficiency of 
collection of 
abiana
 (water charges), the responsibility of O&M of distributary canals was 
handed over to farmer organizations (FOs) in one canal system (LCC East), with good results. 
 
b. 
Intra-province water entitlements have been made more Transparent. 
The Irrigation and Power 
Department (IPD) has established a robust Irrigation Management Information System (IMIS) 
under which the water diverted in each of the 24 main canals and all distributary canals of the 
LCC East Canal system, is metered and the data captured on daily basis. The IPD website 
displays the entitlements and the actual flows diverted in all main canals. 
 
c. 
The quality, efficiency and accountability of irrigation services have improved in the areas 
served by canals where reforms have been implemented. 
 In the LCC East Canal system the 
responsibility for operation and maintenance (O&M) and 
abiana
 collection has been devolved 
to democratically elected FOs under irrigation management transfer agreements (IMTAs), 
which specify the rights and obligations of the bulk water providers and water users.  
Benchmarking and monitoring data show that in this canal system the equity of water 
distribution has improved; 
abiana
 collection is higher than in non-FO canals; the overall 
maintenance regime has improved; and water related disputes among users have reduced and 
are resolved more expeditiously and in a participatory manner.
 
d. 
Investments in
 
water conservation technologies are proceeding on, or ahead of, targets, with 
visible improvement in water use efficiency (20%-30% increase) and productivity
.
A
structured 
program to promote use of laser guided land leveling equipment is being successfully 
implemented with good uptake of this technology by farmers and service providers.  In parallel 
to the reforms supported under the development policy loan, GOPunjab is supporting 
complementary reforms as well. A draft amendment to the 
Punjab Agricultural Produce 
Ordinance
 has been prepared and submitted for approval. The amendment supports the role of 
private sector, and public-private partnerships and the establishment of market information 
systems at the district level.  Finally, proposals were prepared for restructuring of agricultural 
research that would promote private sector participation and set up autonomous corporate 
bodies to carry out demand driven research. 
 
e. 
Demonstration of Reform Success
.
Punjab is now recognized all over Pakistan as the leader in 
Irrigation Reform, and other provinces are aspiring to follow suit. 
 
Page  4
2. Proposed 
Objective 
 
9.      
The purpose of the proposed loan is to provide continued financing to the Province of Punjab, to move 
forward with implementation of the ISRP agenda under each reform pillar, focusing, 
inter alia
,
on
(i) 
sustainability of the hydraulic infrastructure by sustaining adequate funding for M&R, reducing costs, and 
further improving financial accountability; (ii) expanding the coverage and improving the quality of the IMIS to 
further enhance transparency in the administration of water entitlements; (iii) improving service delivery by 
scaling up irrigation management transfers to FOs, benchmarking of performance, improving communications 
with stakeholders, and mainstreaming environmental and social safeguards in O&M and asset management 
activities; and (iv) enhancing productivity through policy reform and incentives for adopting new technology, 
improving markets, and restructuring research.  Specific 
prior actions
 have been identified under each reform 
pillar.
 
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
A. Pillar I: 
Reforms to improve the management and maintenance of the irrigation system to
 
ensure its long 
term physical and financial sustainability 
 
10.        During the second year of the ISRP, the IPD is moving ahead with the following reforms actions,
 inter 
alia
:
(i) preparation of a 5-10 year Asset Management Plan that would set priorities for medium/long term 
rehabilitation and maintenance of the existing infrastructure with social and environmental consideration 
incorporated as an integral part; (ii) revision of maintenance and repair (M&R) yardsticks to reflect FY07 
market prices, and allocation of budget, accordingly; (iii) establishment of a performance evaluation system for 
M&R, and a Procurement Unit in IPD; (v) a 20% reduction of advance audit observations in FY07; (iv) 
transition/transfer of public tubewells to farmers for O&M, and (vi) improvement of 
abiana
 collection 
performance.
 
B. Pillar II:
 
Water Resource Management Reform
 
11.      
The objective of this reform is to emphasize the nexus of entitlements, measurements and transparency 
and build on Punjab’s existing platform of water entitlements
2
,
to make intra-province water allocations and 
distribution more transparent.
 
These reforms would enhance farmer confidence, reduce uncertainty of water 
deliveries and help increase productivity.   
 
12.       During the second year of the ISRP, the following actions, 
inter alia
,
are being taken to deepen and 
broaden the reform under this pillar: (i) water accounts for all main canals continue to be posted on IPD 
website; (ii) installation and calibration of gauges has been completed for the LCC East Canal system, and 
distributary canal discharge data posted on IPD website; (iii) 
warabandi
 schedules
 
(proxy for water entitlements 
at the farm level) are being published by FOs on their respective notice boards; and (iv) work has started on the 
preparation of a 
holistic groundwater management strategy
 covering all sub-sectors (agriculture, urban and 
rural drinking water, industry, environment).   
2
Pakistan has a long- and well-established tradition of water entitlements.  The 1991 Inter-provincial Water Accord 
establishes clear entitlements for each province.  Implicit in the Water Accord, too, is a set of water entitlements at the 
canal command level.  There are also well-established rules for further distributing water to the distributary and outlet 
levels.  Below the outlets, the 
warabandi
 is a proxy (appropriate in its era) to a water right, in which a farmer has a 
right to time, a surrogate for water.  However, the administration of intra-province water entitlements needs to be 
made more transparent and implemented in a participatory manner. 
Page  5
C. Pillar III
:
Irrigation Service Delivery
 
Reforms
 
13.      
The objective under this pillar is to
 
improve the quality, efficiency and accountability with which 
irrigation services are delivered
.
This objective is being achieved through a combination of organizational 
changes and introduction of incentives and instruments. This entails, among others, decentralization of 
operation and management of the system; the use of contracts which specify the rights and obligations of 
service providers and users; and benchmarking for water services.   
 
14.       During the second year of the ISRP, the reforms initiated in the first year are being moved to the next 
stage, involving scaling up and further deepening as well as supplementary measures. Key actions being taken 
include: (i) establishment of 100 additional FOs and signing of IMTAs with them; (ii) continuation of FO 
capacity building program; (iii) staffing and 
capacity building of IPD’s Social and Environmental Unit (SEMU) 
that is responsible for increasing awareness within IPD, AWB, and FOs, for assessing and mitigating social and 
environmental risks associated with asset management activities
3
;
(iv) preparation of a communication strategy
4
(internal and external communication); (v) arrangements for both internal and external monitoring (including 
third party validation); (vi) rehabilitation of FO managed channels under ongoing projects; and (vii) staffing of 
IPD Reform Unit.   
 
D. Pillar IV: 
Reforms to improve water use efficiency and on-farm productivity 
 
15.      
The objective of this reform is to improve water use efficiency and productivity
 through policy reform 
and incentives and for adopting new technology, improving markets, and the quality of agricultural research.  
 
16.       During the second year of the ISRP, the following key actions are being taken: (i) continuation of the 
water conservation measures on a larger scale; (ii) analytical work that could provide the basis for models of 
economic incentives for farmers to move away from crops and practices that waste water; (iii) processing of an 
amendment to the Agricultural Produce Marketing Ordinance of 1978, which among others will open up entry 
of farmers and private sector in the management of agriculture market places; help to formulate and implement 
internal and export market strategies; and facilitate linkages and partnerships between farmers and cooperatives, 
and (iv) restructuring the agricultural research sector. The package includes reactivation of the Punjab 
Agriculture Research Board (PARB), and creation of corporate bodies for dealing with important crops, with 
the ability to attract qualified scientists and with adequate administrative and managerial flexibility. 
 
4. Environmental 
Aspects 
 
17.       The Strategic Country Environmental Assessment (SCEA), completed in June 2006, determined that 
Pakistan has a comprehensive national policy and institutional framework for environmental management in 
place.  The Pakistan Environmental Protection Act of 1997 confers broad-based enforcement powers to the 
Pakistan Environmental Protection Agency (Pak-EPA) and the provincial environmental protection agencies. 
The Pak-EPA Review of Initial Environmental Examination and Environmental Impact Assessment 
Regulations, 2000 (IEE-EIA Regulations, 2000) provides the necessary details on the preparation, submission, 
and review of initial environmental examinations and environmental impact assessments. The National 
Environmental Quality Standards (NEQS) define maximum allowable concentrations of pollutants in municipal 
and liquid industrial effluents discharged to inland waters.  The Pak-EPA has published a set of environmental 
3
Preparation of social and environmental guidelines for screening M&R activities is one of the prior action for DPL2. 
4
While a comprehensive communication strategy (covering internal and external communications) is under preparation, 
IPD has already adopted some good practices, including consultation with farmers on scheduling of canal closure for 
annual maintenance as well for rehabilitation works.  
Page  6
guidelines for carrying out environmental assessments and the environmental management of different types of 
development projects, including those in the protected and sensitive areas.   
 
18.      
The  SCEA  highlights  the  ubiquitous
 
shortage of trained manpower and insufficient budgetary 
allocations, a lack of clear definition of roles, work plans and targets, and ineffective coordination and 
communications between federal, provincial and local administrative entities.  The result is that, while an 
appropriate and necessary administrative capacity exists on paper, its effectiveness is seriously curtailed in 
practice due to these shortcomings.  To help address these weaknesses, the Bank has shown its willingness to 
provide assistance to the Ministry of Environment and provincial environmental agencies for the 
implementation of the National Environment Policy 2005. 
 
19.       The financing provided under the DPL will support a wide range of improvements in irrigated 
agriculture in Punjab through strengthening of institutions, and the introduction of systems and practices
 
to 
provide adequate, equitable and reliable irrigation supplies.  The expected results are improvements in the 
management of asset stock, the management of water resources, irrigation service delivery, land productivity 
and water use efficiency.  These improvements are expected to lead to environmentally positive outcomes, 
including some reduction in water-logging and salinization. 
 
20.       The on-going operations of the IPD include maintenance and rehabilitation of existing hydraulic 
infrastructure.  These activities present localized, small-scale environmental risks. To address these concerns, 
the proposed loan supports strengthening of
 the IPD’s Social and Environmental Management Unit (SEMU), to 
build awareness and capacity for environmental and social risk management. The SEMU has prepared draft 
guidelines for the management of environmental and social risks in IPD operations. The guidelines will be 
disseminated through the IPD website once they are finalized. 
 
5. 
Tentative financing  
 
Source: (US$m) 
GOPunjab 160 
IBRD 100 
Total 260 
 
6. Contact 
point 
 
Manuel Contijoch 
Co-task Leader 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street 
Washington DC NW 
20433 
Tel: 202-473-3919 
Fax: 202-522-2420 and  
202-522-1770 
mcontijoch@worldbank.org 
 
InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street 
Washington DC NW 
20433 
Tel: 202-458-5454 
Fax: 202-522-1500  
www.worldbank.org/infoshop
