Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15088-VN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
APRIL 2, 1996
Agriculture and Environment Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of March 23, 1996)
Currency Unit = Vietnamese Dong
US$1.00 = Dong 11,018
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ACRONYMS
ADB                       Asian Development Bank
BIDV                      Bank for Investment and Development of Viet Nam
BP                        Bank for the Poor
CGAP                      Consultative Group to Assist the Poorest
DOSTE                     Department of Science, Technology and Environment
FRP                       Fund for the Rural Poor
GOV                       Government of Viet Nam
ICBV                      Industrial and Commercial Bank of Viet Nam
EFAD                      International Fund for Agricultural Development
MAFI                      Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry
MARD                      Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
MOF                       Ministry of Finance
MOSTE                     Ministry of Science, Technology and Environment
MPI                       Ministry of Planning and Investment
NGO                       Non Government Organization
PCF                       Peoples' Credit Funds
PFI                       Participating Financial Institution
RDF                       Rural Development Fund
SBV                       State Bank of Viet Nam
SOE                       State Owned Enterprise
SOCB                      State Owned Commercial Banks
UNICEF                    United Nations Children's Fund
VBA                       Viet Nam Bank for Agriculture
VFU                       Viet Nam Farmer's Union
VIETCOMBANK               Bank for Foreign Trade of Viet Nam
VLSS                      Viet Nam Living Standards Survey
WU                        Viet Nam Women's Union
FISCAL YEAR (FY)
Government: January 1 - December 31
IDA: July 1 - June 30



SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                Socialist Republic of Viet Nam
Implementing Agency:     State Bank of Viet Nam (SBV)
Beneficiaries:           Participating Financial Institutions and Bank for the Poor
Poverty Category:        Program of Targeted Intervention. The Project includes specific
measures to increase access to financial services for the poorer'
half of the rural population.
Amount:                  SDR82.7 million (US$122 million equivalent)
Terms:                   Standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity
Commitment Fee:          0.50% on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver.
Relending Terms:         The Government of Viet Nam (GOV) represented by SBV
would onlend the proceeds of the IDA credit to Participating
Financial Institutions (PFIs), either in US dollars or in Dong
and to the Bank for the Poor (BP), in Dong, to finance eligible
sub projects. SBV would bear the credit risk at the level of the
PFIs. Maturities of loans from SBV to PFIs and BP would
conform to the composite maturities of sub-loans made by the
PFIs and BP to sub-borrowers. Dollar loans to PFIs would bear
a LIBOR-based variable rate of interest plus margin. Local
currency loans to PFIs would bear a variable rate of interest
equal to the weighted actual cost of loanable funds adjustable
quarterly, or a fixed rate with a return similar to that of the
variable rate. Onlending to sub-borrowers would be at
commercial (market) rates and terms of the PFIs for similar
lending operations in accordance with a lending policy manual
agreed to with IDA. GOV would bear the foreign exchange risk
associated with the Credit in SDRs and either the PFI or the
end-user would bear the foreign exchange risk associated with
dollar loans. For the Fund for the Rural Poor (FRP), IDA
proceeds would be onlent to the BP in Dong to finance eligible
sub-projects, at a fixed or variable rate of interest adjustable
quarterly. For both the RDF and FRP, proceeds accrued from
the repayment of the principal of the loans to PFIs and BP
would be used to establish and maintain revolving funds for
onlending for the same purposes and under the same terms and



- ii -
conditions as those for onlending under the IDA Credit (RDF
and FRP).
Financing Plan:         See Para.3.8
Economic Rate of Return:  For sub-projects requiring loans greater than the equivalent of
US$50,000, a cash flow analysis would be required for RDF
sub-loans. No overall rate of return is applicable. FRP sub-
loans will not exceed $1,000 and therefore no cash flow
analysis will be required.
Staff Appraisal Report:  No. 1 5088VN
Project Identification No:   4847



Socialist Republic of Viet Nam
Rural Finance Project
Staff Appraisal Report
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT AND  PROJECT SUMMARY ........................................................i
1. THE RURAL SECTOR .......................................................1
Agricultural Structure and Performance .                    ......................................................I
Rural Industries ......................................................3
Rural Services .......................................................4
Rural Poverty ....................................................4
Sectoral Issues and Policy ..................................................5
2. THE  RURAL  FINANCIAL   SECTOR ......................................................7
Structure ........................................................7
Policy Reforms and Outstanding Issues ........................................................8
Banking for the Rural Poor .......................................................                            10
IDA's Financial Sector Assistance Strategy .......................................................  12
Lessons Learned from  Previous IDA  Involvement ............................................... 12
3. THE  PROJECT .......................................................                                                  14
Project Objective and Rationale for IDA  Involvement ......................................... 14
Project Objective .......................................................                                     14
Detailed Project Description .......................................................                          15
Project Costs and Financing .......................................................                           17
On-Lending Arrangements .......................................................                               18
Procurement for Technical Assistance and Project Management ......................... 19
Procurement Under Sub-Loans .......................................................                           20
Disbursement ....................................................... 20
Monitoring, Accounts and Audit ....................                       ................................... 22
This report is based on the findings of a pre-appraisal mission of July 1995 and an appraisal in
December of the same year. Mission members were Messrs. William Cuddihy (Task Manager),
Arie Chupak (Sr. Financial Analyst, EA1AE), Cuong Hung Pham ( Operations Officer, RMV),
Khalid Siraj (ASITP), Carlos Cuevas (ASTHR) and Klaus Vogl (PMDAI). Peer reviewers were
Ms. Lynn Bennett (ASTHR), Mr. Jacob Yaron (AGRAP), and Mr. Khalid Siraj (ASTPP). The
responsible Division Chief was Mr. Jeffrey Gutman (EA I AE) and the Director was Mr. Callisto
Madavo (EAI). The Task Assistant responsible for document processing was Ms. Amanda
Days.



- iv -
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                                                 ................................................ 24
A.  RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND  ........................................................... 24
Organization  and  Fund  Management ...........................................................                                  24
Interest Rate Policies, Procedures, and  Maturities ................................................ 26
Accreditation  and  Eligibility  Criteria ...........................................................                            27
Sub-loan  Eligibility  Criteria ...........................................................                                     28
Subproject Appraisal, Review   and  Disbursement ................................................. 28
Compliance with  Environmental  Regulations .....................................................   29
Supervision   and  Reporting ...........................................................                                        29
B.  FUND  FOR  THE  RURAL  POOR  ..................................                                      ......................... 30
C. INSTITUTION  BUILDING ........................................................... 32
5. PROJECT  IMPACT, BENEFITS  AND   RISKS  ........................................................... 34
Impact and  Benefits ...........................................................                                                34
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ...................................... 36
Recommendation  ........................................................... 39
TABLES IN TEXT
3.1  Expenditure Accounts Project Cost Summary ......................................... ................. 18
3.2   Procurement Arrangements ...........................................................                                                  20
ANNEXES
ANNEX 1: PROJECT COST TABLES . ........................................................... 40
ANNEX 2: FINANCIAL SERVICES TO THE POOR ................................ ................. 46
ANNEX 3: TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING ...................... ................. 57
ANNEX 4: TENTATIVE COMPOSITION AND STRUCTURE OF THE PMU ......... 65
ANNEX 5: ESTIMATED CREDIT DISBURSEMENT .............................. ................. 68
ANNEX   6:   PROJECT  SUPERVISION   PLAN   ........................................................... 69
ANNEX 7: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN ................................... ................. 71
ANNEX 8: PROJECT PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ........................... ................. 75
ANNEX 9: POLICY MANUAL ............................................................                                                         78
ANNEX  10: ENVIRONMENT ............................................................                                                         87
ANNEX   11:  DOCUMENTS  IN  PROJECT  FILES  .......................................   ................. 93
CHARTS
CHART 1  VIET NAM: STRUCTURE OF AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION .2



1. THE RURAL SECTOR
Agricultural Structure and Performance
1.1   Background. Viet Nam's society is predominately agrarian and its traditions are
based on production and distribution of rice. Some 80 percent of the population of 73
million people live in rural areas and 70 percent of these rely exclusively on farming.
Another 20 percent are dependent on a mix of farming and non-farm employment. The
,tal workforce in rural areas is about 27 million of which some 22 million are engaged in
iculture. Despite increasing urbanization, the rural workforce is growing rapidly due
ie young age structure of the population. Recent growth in sectoral GDP of some 4
ent has been high relative to that of other countries but low relative to that of the
nomy as a whole currently approaching 9 percent. The main source of sectoral growth
iias been intensification of rice production following de-collectivization and the return to
family farming after the 1986 - 89 reforms. The different rates of sectoral growth have
transformed the structure of the economy and agriculture now contributes 36 percent to
GDP, behind services at 37.5 percent of GDP and growing at 10 percent per year, and
soon to fall behind industry at 25.3 percent of GDP and growing at 14 percent per year.
The uneven growth has also resulted in widening income differentiation and concerns
about poverty concentration in rural communities (para. 1.9).
1.2   Land Use and Production Structure. Of the total land area of 33 million ha. in Viet
Nam, 7 million ha. are cultivated. Some 5.5 million ha. of this are cropped annually and
1.5 million ha. are planted to perennials and pasture. The area served by irrigation is 2.4
million ha. and is mainly for rice growing. Food crops, mostly rice, account for about 50
percent of the gross value of sectoral output of some US$7,503 million at current prices
for 1994, while livestock and industrial crops account for some 22 percent and 11
percent, respectively (Chart 1). Fruits and vegetables contribute another 7 percent and 5
percent. Inland aquatic products contribute 2 percent and other minor crops make up the
balance of 2 percent.
1.3   Production and Growth. Until the recent reforms, the major constraints on
aggregate growth were low levels of on-farm investment, weak production incentives,
and poor performance of state farms and collectives. Response to the policy changes has
been remarkable with a 37 percent increase in paddy output between 1988 and 1994, from
17 million tons to 23.4 million tons. Most of the growth comes from a 37 percent
aggregate yield increase with marginal expansion of irrigation area and cropping
intensities. Yields are moderately high at 5.0 tons/ha. for the spring crop and low at 2.8
tons/ha. for the summer crop mainly as a result of cloud cover during much of the
growing season. The major rice production regions are the Mekong Delta producing 50



-2 -
percent of the paddy crop and the Red River Delta producing a further 20 percent.
Chart 1 - Viet Nam: Structure of Agricultural Production
Vegetable  Aquatic Other
FruVt 5%  2e            2%
Industrial Crops
11%                                                           Rice
48%
Livetc
22%                 Other Grains
3%
1.4    Among other crops, the production response has been slower but is beginning to
emerge. For example, production of industrial crops of coffee, tea, rubber, groundnuts,
jute, sugarcane, soybeans, coconut, cotton and mulberry has been concentrated among
state owned enterprises (SOEs) and was disrupted by the curtailing of subsidies and
financing. Enterprise restructuring and the entry of the private sector has begun to show
an output response. Production of other food crops such as fruits, vegetables, maize,
sweet potatoes, and cassava is increasing slowly but the poor development of export
markets generally discourages investment except in special cases. For example, fruit tree
establishment is beginning to displace large areas of paddy in the Plain of Reeds. The
livestock subsector, dominated by pork production is growing rapidly at about 4 percent
annually fueled by urban demand and exports. Similarly, output of inland aquatic
products is expanding rapidly, from 876 tons per year in the late 1980s to about 1,200
tons per year by 1995.
1.5   Supply Potential. Although most of the recent sectoral growth comes from
adjustment response in rice production, there is still considerable scope for paddy yield
improvements. Progressive growers in those areas well served with reliable irrigation,
extension, credit and other services are routinely achieving 8 tons/ha. of spring paddy.
With the spread of improved services, it can be expected that this yield level would at



- 3 -
least flow through the major deltas. In particular, the further spread of hybrid rice would
increase average yields. In addition, major gains would come from closing the 30 percent
gap between irrigation design service areas and areas actually irrigated. Of the industrial
crops, the lagged production response is beginning to be evident particularly in rubber,
cotton, coffee and tea. However, yields are still low. Renovation of the generally
outdated primary processing facilities would greatly improve prices received from higher
overall product quality and better grade differentiation - particularly for rubber and tea.
Output of other foodcrops, fruits, vegetables, and livestock products is expected to grow
rapidly to meet rising domestic demand in urban areas. Based on these considerations, a
continued annual growth rate in agricultural value added of about 4 percent is to be
expected. The main constraints on reaching a higher growth rate are the limited scope for
expansion of any one crop without reduction of the area of another or moving into
marginal lands (para. 1. 1 1) and the shortage of investment funding for on-farm
development and for improvement in supply of public services, particularly irrigation.
1.6   Demand Potential. Both domestic and foreign demand prospects are strong.
Rising population and real income is increasing demand for more, and more diversified,
farm products. Just to maintain the present situation a 3 percent real growth in sector
output would be required. The scope for import substitution is large with, for example,
present dairy production meeting only 10 percent of current consumption and present
cotton production only meeting 7 percent of cotton demand. On the export side, there is
strong demand particularly for Vietnamese rice and for rubber in which Viet Nam has a
strong comparative advantage due to low labor costs and considerable sunk costs in
plantation infrastructure. However, Vietnamese agricultural products are generally sold
at a discount on world markets because of low and variable quality resulting from poor
processing facilities. Exports from rural areas account for more than 70 percent of Viet
Nam's total exports. Agricultural exports make up about 65 percent of total exports.
Rice exports are the largest (US$423 million in 1994), and together with rubber and
coffee exports (US$462 million), are of greater value than petroleum exports (US$866
million). Recent growth in the value of agricultural exports has been quite high with rice
exports growing at about 15 percent per annum and rubber and coffee exports growing at
80 percent and 190 percent per annum, respectively, over the last three years.
Rural Industries
1.7   Some 10 percent to 30 percent of the gross value of production in rural areas
comes from non-farm activities - rural industries and services. Rural industries in Viet
Nam are small, mostly employing 5 people or less, are not well developed, have low
productivity with equipment typically 15 - 25 years old, and are usually associated with
primary processing of farm products. Nevertheless, the presence of industry in a rural
location is strongly correlated with income levels and growth. In 1993, the value added
per worker in agriculture was Dong 1,673 compared with Dong 4,174 for the economy as
a whole reflecting the higher value added of industry and services. The 1994 Viet Nam
Living Standards Survey (VLSS) confirmed that farm families with some off-farm
income typically had higher incomes than those without. Of the total rural labor in that
year, some 83 percent were occupied in agriculture, forestry and fisheries while 6.5



-4-
percent were occupied in industry and construction, and a further 10.5 percent were
occupied in services and administration. A 1992 Ministry of Agriculture and Food
Industries (MAFI) survey of 60,019 rural enterprises found that 98 percent belonged to
the private sector and that most lacked adequate capital, market knowledge, technology
and management skills.
Rural Services
1.8   Supply of services to rural areas, such as water supply and sanitation, electricity,
health, education, savings and credit are inadequate and relatively less than those
provided to urban areas. The VLSS indicated that formal credit covered about 30 percent
of households receiving loans with the balance coming from private money lenders at an
interest rate of up to 9 percent per month. The MAFI survey indicated that only 25
percent of the demand for credit for industrial enterprises in rural areas was being met and
that terms were too short for industrial enterprise development. Despite installation of
over 80,000 rural water supply facilities, UNICEF estimates that less than 25 percent of
the rural population has access to safe drinking water. Similarly, rural areas typically
have poor access to electricity, transport, health and educational services. In 1994, 50
percent of rural households were without electricity and 60 percent without
telecommunications service. The road density of Viet Nam is only 0.03 kmi/ square km
compared to ratios of 0.15 for Thailand and 0.52 for the Philippines, and with 90 percent
of local roads being unpaved.
Rural Poverty
1.9   Viet Nam is poorer than the Philippines, Indonesia, or China with 51 percent of its
people living in absolute poverty compared with 37 percent, 15 percent, and 9 percent
respectively for the other countries. The Bank/SPC poverty report " Viet Nam: Poverty
Assessment and Strategy", of January 1995, uses the broad definition of poverty that
includes consumption of food and non food and found that more than 90 percent of Viet
Nam's poor live in the countryside and the incidence of poverty in rural areas is 57
percent, more than twice that of 27 percent for urban areas. Poverty incidence is highest
among minorities and in the mountains of the Northern Uplands and the Central
Highlands. The 1993 data show that the poorest provinces of Son La and Lao Cai in the
Northern Uplands had per capita annual average incomes of only US$60 and US$80
equivalent. Malnutrition continues to be a serious problem. Nearly 50 percent of children
under the age of 5 suffer from malnutrition and more than one half the population eats
less than 2,100 calories per day. The main cause is that the average farm is simply too
small to support the average family. For example, a typical farm family of seven would
require about 2.5 tons of paddy per year to meet its minimum income requirements. An
average farm size of 0.3 ha. in the North giving two crops per year would give about 2.0
tons of paddy per year. Families with less than the average area or unable to double crop
would not meet acceptable subsistence needs.



-5-
Sectoral Issues and Policy
1.10  Food Security. The main sector issues are food security, land use, poverty, and
regional imbalance, and low resource mobilization. Viet Nam's population is likely to
continue to grow at some 2 percent annually for the rest of the decade then to decline to
about 1.4 percent annually thereafter. This would add another 10 million people by the
year 2000 and would end rice exports and give rise to localized shortages even in
producing areas, unless production growth can be maintained. While famine no longer
occurs, malnutrition is still common with severe food shortages in the northern uplands
and elsewhere in the winter months. The alternative of importing shortfalls is not entirely
satisfactory because of the lack of purchasing power of significant groups and the
logistical difficulties involved in distributing food over the poor transport network in an
emergency. Government policy requires floor prices for paddy in formal markets,
maintains strategic rice reserves, and regulates use of paddy lands as well as investing in
irrigation, drainage and support services.
1.11  Land Use. The competition for land between farm and non-farm use is
particularly intense around urban areas as buildings spread and land prices increase.
Within agriculture, the competition is between diversified crops to increase incomes and
spread risk, and basic food production. In upland areas, land use competition between
shifting cultivation and watershed protection is particularly severe. Of Viet Nam's 19
million ha. of forest land, only 48 percent is actually covered by trees. The Bank's 1995
study "Viet Nam: Environmental Program and Policy Priorities for a Socialist Economy
in Transition", estimates that forest cover on the Northern Mountains, the largest forested
area, has declined from 95 percent to 17 percent over the recent decades and that the
remainder is degraded. Watershed degradation by shifting cultivation of steep slopes is
the cause of land slides, destroyed roads and bridges, erosion, dam siltation, river bank
scouring, and increased flood damage. This issue is particularly difficult to resolve
because some 3 million people are dependent on this economic activity. Government has
initiated an extensive reforestation program and is assisting with resettlement into
lowlands. Unfortunately, the absorptive capacity of the already crowded lowlands is small
and resettlement is being directed to marginal lowlands that have other severe land use
limitations such as susceptibility to frequent and severe flooding, and acid sulphate soils.
1.12  Labor Productivity. Viet Nam's labor force is well educated with a 90 percent
literacy rate, highly motivated and disciplined yet labor productivity is low because of a
high degree of underemployment - there are too many workers on the land. SPC
estimates that some 6 million could leave farming without materially affecting
agricultural output. Between 1987 and 1993, employment was terminated for almost 2
million workers in the state sector including the military. During this period the number
nominally employed in agriculture rose by 3.5 million as school leavers joined the
retrenched workers. With the supply of land relatively inelastic and technology changes
requiring even fewer workers it is unlikely that growth in land productivity will have a
large impact on rural underemployment.
1.13  Resource Mobilization. The limited availability of formal credit in rural areas is a
major constraint on investment in modernization and expansion of rural industries as well



- 6 -
as on long term on-farm investments. The main cause is the very low level of savings
mobilization and the poor coverage of financial services. In 1993, less than 8 percent of
household savings were deposited with banks, 10 percent were held as local currency, 4
percent held as US$, and 44 percent as gold.
1.14 Rural Policy. The Government's rural development policy explicitly recognizes
that both improved land productivity and income diversification are required to make a
significant impact on rural incomes. For land productivity gains it supports utilization of
modem inputs, better husbandry, and provision of support services and recognizes the
difficulty of reconciling food security considerations with farm income maximization by
growing higher value crops. It is encouraging investment in land by issuing land titles
and improving credit availability. To improve income diversification opportunities the
Government is rebuilding the former strengths of the education and health systems and
investing in infrastructure to attract private investment to rural areas.



- 7 -
2. THE RURAL FINANCIAL SECTOR
Structure
2.1    Vietnam has already taken basic macro level actions to give its economy a market
orientation. As part of this reform, the formal financial sector has been restructured. The
mono bank system was replaced by a two-tier banking structure to serve the needs of a
market oriented economy, and facilitate implementation of monetary and credit policy for
more effective macro-economic management. Accordingly, the government reorganized
the State Bank of Vietnarn (SBV) to function exclusively as the central bank of the
country and established the Vietnam Bank for Agriculture (VBA) and the Industrial and
Commercial Bank (INCOMBANK/ICB) to take over its commercial banking activities
together with the two specialized banks, the Bank for Investment and Development (BID)
and the Bank of Foreign Trade (VIETCOMBANK/BFT). These four State Owned
Commercial Banks (SOCBs) were also restructured as independent economic entities to
undertake general commercial banking activities in addition to their traditional functions.
In addition the government has paved the way for the establishment of private banks,
branches of foreign banks, joint venture banks, and rural credit unions. Work is also
under way for the promotion of the payment system as well as bonds and equity markets.
The interest rate structure has been significantly rationalized and brought closer to market
conditions. All this is happening in the financial sector along with substantial
liberalization of the economy including prices. The response of the financial sector has
been impressive.
2.2   Financial services in Vietnam are provided by a network of banks, non-banks
financial institutions, and to a large extent by the informal financial sector, particularly in
the rural areas1. As part of the reform in the formal financial sector, the entry into the
sector has been increased substantially in the last four years. The formal financial sector
in Vietnam consists essentially of the banking sector. The banking system, comprises the
State Bank of Vietnam (SBV), 4 SOCBs, 46 private shareholding banks, 3 joint venture
banks, 9 foreign banks (and about 35 foreign bank representative offices), 69 credit
cooperatives, about 200 People's Credit Funds (PCFs), 2 finance companies, and one
government owned insurance company. Total deposits in SOCBs and 16 reporting
private commercial banks amounted to about US$4 billion2 (September 1994), of which
SOCBs accounted for about 90 percent (US$3.6 billion).
2.3   The commercial banking sector is currently dominated by the SOCBs, which
accounted for about 85 percent of commercial bank operations in Vietnam in 1994.
Despite transitional problems (mainly, the inadequacy of the legal framework and
banking regulations, inadequate equity and SOEs non-repayment of frozen debts, little
public confidence in the banking system, and inadequate experience and expertise in
commercial banking operations) commercial banks have made significant progress. Total
According to the Vietnam Living Standard Survey (known as VLSS) loans from informal sources such as
moneylenders, relatives, and private individuals account for about 72% of total private rural borrowings.
2    Based on the Financial Sector Review dated March 15, 1995.



- 8 -
assets of all commercial banks almost tripled between 1990 and 1994. The share of
SOCBs in total bank assets, which was about 95 percent in 1990/1991, declined to about
85 percent in 1994, reflecting the significant entry of shareholding and foreign banks into
the sector. There has been substantial growth in fund mobilization from, and credit to,
the private sector since 1990. While in previous years most credit funds were borrowed
from SBV, in 1994 about one third emanated from resources mobilized by the banking
system on its own, about one third was borrowed from foreign banks, and net borrowing
from SBV was reduced to about one third.
2.4   An assessment of bank financial performance is problematic as accounting
practices deviate in many ways from international standard. Such information as exists
on bank operations is scanty, scattered, and incomplete. Except the Vietnam Bank for
Agriculture (VBA), none of these financial institutions has been audited by an external
independent auditor (there are, however, plans to carry out an external auditing for all
SOCBs and joint stock banks under the Banking_Modernization Project during 1996).
Bank profits are difficult to measure, as the information regarding their non-performing
loans is incomplete and provisioning practices are inadequate. The main data available
regarding bank performance and the quality of their loan portfolio relate to overdue on
loan repayment, which were as high as 20 percent of their loan portfolio in 1991, but
declined to 12 percent in 1994. More than 60 percent of these overdue loans are loans
related to State Owned Enterprises (SOEs) of which most were inherited from SBV.
2.5   There are positive developments in the provision of rural credit through VBA,
which reflect the VBA's shift away from financing SOEs toward financing private
households and businesses. In 1994, VBA's lending to private rural households continued
to grow, both in relative and absolute terms. From US$0.25 billion or 35 percent of its
total lending in 1992, to US$0.7 billion or 57 percent in 1993, and to US$1.1 billion or 62
percent in 1994. However, VBA, and other rural financial institutions such as the
emerging rural shareholding banks, the PCFs, and other credit pilot programs remain
undercapitalized and require significant institutional strengthening.
Policy Reforms and Outstanding Issues
2.6   Credit Needs. Agriculture and the rural economy account for a significant share
of Vietnam's employment, production, and export. The sector has played a leading role in
the transition to a market-based economic system through the formation of private farms
and small scale rural enterprises. This transition has been accompanied by a major
increase in private demand for both investment and working capital, which has exceeded
the capacity of VBA and other financial lenders to meet. It appears that the institutional
credit system (mainly VBA) is currently financing only about 30 percent of private rural
households, providing mainly short term credit. Based on 1994 VBA's lending volume to
rural households of about US$ 1.1 billion, it is estimated that total credit needs for the
sector is at least US$3.5 billion, a shortage of some US$2.4 billion. The credit gap in the
rural sector (including credit to finance agriculture and other rural economic activities),
particularly for financing medium and long term investments, is even larger, and will
likely remain that way until fundamental constraints are removed, competition is



- 9 -
enhanced and more financial institutions would actively participate in providing financial
services to the rural areas, and public confidence in the banking system is restored.
2.7    Interest Rates. The range of interest rates for deposits and lending, although
positive in real terms, are still controlled by the SBV3. In 1993 the SBV moved away
from imposing sector-specific lending rates and instead, introduced different rates for
financing fixed assets and working capital. Its current interest rate policy sets maximum
rates on lending with no ceilings on deposits. In January 1996, the ceiling on interest
rates for short term loans was set at 1.75 percent per month (21 percent per year) while
that for medium and long term loans was set at 1.7 percent per month (20.4 percent per
year). Term deposit rates ranged from 1.1 percent per month to 1.25 percent per month.
The main issue regarding SBV's interest rate policy is its inverted lending rate structure
and the ceiling on the maximum spread allowed of 0.35 percent per month (4.2 percent
per year). Interest rates on medium and long term loans are slightly lower than those for
short term. This inverted rate structure does not reflect maturity or credit risk premia, and
discourages term lending. This situation not only generates excessive demand for long-
term loans, but also adversely affects the allocation of scarce financial resources. Also,
as a result of the inverted term structure, the banks cannot offer competitive
corresponding deposit interest rates that could facilitate increased long-term savings.
Government policy is to liberalise interest rates over the long term and interest rate
reform is being pursued under the three year ESAF 1994-96. The reform agenda and
status have been updated by a Bank/Fund Policy Framework Paper rnission which took
place in parallel with the IMF second year ESAF mission from November 9-20, 1995.
Agreement on an interest rate liberalization plan satisfactory to IDA and starting in 1996
was reached. The changes in January 1996 were in line with that agreement.
2.8    Non-Performance State Enterprise Debt. One of the major causes of poor
performance of the banking system has been the large amount of non-performing state
owned enterprise debt. The 1995 Law on State Enterprises and the State Enterprise
Reform Action Program provides the comprehensive framework and plan for reforming
this sector. Already much progress has been made in reducing the number of SOEs and
reregistering those remaining. A General Department has been established within the
MOF to represent the State as the owner of these enterprises and, inter alia, to settle the
outstanding debt problems. As a first step, SOE non-performing debt has been taken off
the balance sheets of the banks while asset liquidation and other measures are taken to
reduce the amount owed. In the meantime this debt is guaranteed by Government.
2.9    Supervision and Prudential Regulations. SBV maintains an off-site surveillance
system, developed with technical assistance from the IMF, which is based on monthly
prudential returns submitted by banks. While improvements are required, the systematic
collection and analysis of data are good first steps in ensuring supervisory oversight of the
3    The Financial Sector Review (Report No. 13135-VN) dated March 15, 1995, does not recommend, at this stage,
to fully liberalize interest rates and allow the market to determine the level and structure of interest rates. This
is because Vietnam's macroeconomic stability is not yet strong enough to bear the impact of complete interest
rate liberalization. Also, the performance of the banking system and its financial position is not yet sound and
complete liberalization might encourage banks to move into more risky lending areas and further upset their
profitability and soundness.



- 10-
deposit money banks. On-site supervision is largely bottom-up at the branch or sub-
branch level, and is conducted by the SBV's provincial branch network. A change in the
focus of supervision to a more top-down approach is required to ensure the health and
stability of the banking system as a whole. This implies a redirection of resources toward
the sources of greatest systemic risk. SBV is a recipient of donor assistance in upgrading
staff skills and modernizing operation of its functions.
Banking for the Rural Poor
2.10  Access to financial services stands out as a severe limitation to increasing
agricultural productivity and diversifying rural enterprises as means of poverty reduction,
The Viet Nam Living Standards Survey indicated that only 30 percent of the rural
households taking loans borrow from formal sources, primarily government banks, while
a majority (72 percent) borrow from informal sources at interest rates two to three times
higher than those charged by formal financial institutions. The availability of deposit
services in rural areas is extremely limited, forcing rural households to save in physical
assets, often unsafe and illiquid. The poor conditions of accessibility and
communications prevailing in rural areas, which create substantial costs of providing
financial services, and the inability of rural households to offer collateral explain the
limited access to formal finance by the rural poor.
2.11 The Viet Nam Bank for Agriculture (VBA) is the main supplier of formal
financial services in rural areas, with a network of 2,654 branches and about 20,000 staff,
of which more than 7,000 are credit officers. In 20 out of 53 provinces in Viet Nam, the
VBA is the only formal financial institution. The VBA has made significant progress
during the last 3 or 4 years in terms of staff productivity, reliance on self-mobilized
capital, and lending to non-state enterprises. From 4 percent of the loan portfolio in 1990,
the share of non-state enterprises in the VBA portfolio increased to 76 percent in 1994.
As a consequence, the proportion of rural households with access to VBA loans has
increased from 9 percent in 1992 to about 30 percent in 1994, with a further increase
expected in 1995.
2.12  The recent increase in outreach to the poor by the VBA has been achieved through
the establishment of sub-district transaction offices, visits of mobile banking teams to
villages, and the use of joint-liability groups in some areas. These new mechanisms have
been implemented through the re-deployment of existing staff and the utilization of
service agencies such as the Women's Union and non-governmental organizations
(NGOs). This has also led to greater operational efficiency. The transactions offices
provide better service to rural households by virtue of being physically more accessible.
The mobile-banking teams are primarily used to initiate loan applications. Actual loan
approvals and disbursements require the borrowers to visit a bank office. While these
efforts are able to reduce the transaction costs of loans, the district-based lending still
entails some access costs. The use of borrower groups (joint liability, solidarity group)
appears to have had the greatest impact on increasing the outreach of the VBA.
2.13  Given the limitations of accessibility and communications indicated above, the
VBA's coverage of the potential clientele may be considered remarkable. However, the



- II -
work of field loan officers, typically based in the district town, is severely restricted by
distances and road conditions. As a consequence, the frequency of VBA presence at the
commune level is low and the services provided are limited to a minimum of loan-related
transactions and procedures. Furthermore, the provision of deposit services by the VBA
appears to be below capacity, the number of deposit accounts being only a small fraction
of the total number of borrowers, while the branch personnel assigned to service
depositors seems to be limited and ill-prepared to perform their role.
2.14  In the absence of other formal financial institutions, the still substantial
population not reached by the VBA relies upon informal sources of credit and, in a few
areas, on savings and credit schemes promoted and implemented by NGOs associated
with mass organizations, notably the Women's Union. These schemes appear to be
effective in smoothing cyclical consumption imbalances and creating favorable
conditions for small investments, especially among rural women. In addition, the SBV
recently created the People's Credit Funds (PCFs) as a means of supplementing the VBA
activity in rural areas. The PCFs are expanding rapidly, although their number is still
limited by the training requirements associated with their formation.
2.15  Bank for the Poor. The most recent initiative aimed at enhancing the provision of
financial services to the poor is the establishment of the Bank for the Poor (BP). The BP
was established by Government Decree No.525/TTg of August 31, 1995, and began
operations on January 1, 1996 . The objective of this bank is to mobilize capital for
lending only to the poor who are defined as having an income less than that considered
necessary for subsistence. Village committees cooperate with Government agencies in
identifying eligible borrowers. A master list is compiled and passed to the BP which is
responsible for credit decisions. Loans are generally limited to the equivalent of $US 100
per family and collateral is not required. The Bank for the Poor is a State-owned credit
institution operating in the entire country with a head office in Hanoi. During the initial
phase it uses the existing infrastructure and personnel of the VBA. Its transactions do not
form part of VBA's portfolio nor appear in its financial statements. The Bank for the
Poor consolidates in one entity funds from the VBA's existing Fund for Preferential
Loans to Poor Households, and several other poverty alleviation funds thus far
administered by different government agencies. In addition, the Bank for the Poor seeks
capital from government and external sources. It is governed by a Board comprised of
representatives from the Government Office, the State Planning Committee, the Ministry
of Labor, War Invalids and Social Affairs, the State Bank of Viet Nam, the Ministry of
Finance, other governmental agencies in the social sector, and representatives from mass
organizations of Government (Women's Union, Farmers' Union).
2.16  While the objectives and rationale for this bank are well founded, several specific
features and modalities proposed for the new institution would need to be designed
carefully to reflect current best practice in banking with the poor, and prevent the risks of
undermining and distorting the financial markets accessible to the poor. The main
concerns relate to below-market interest rates to the ultimate borrowers, under-estimation
of the administration costs associated with micro-lending, an apparent underemphasis on
the role of savings mobilization services, and an overall underemphasis on the minimum



- 12 -
conditions required for sustainability of credit institutions based on experiences of other
countries in the region.
2.17  In summary, the key constraints in reaching the rural poor with quality services
can be stated as: (i) poor accessibility and communications; (ii) shortcomings in group
formation and development; and (iii) lack of adequate savings mobilization incentives,
instruments, and practices. These constraints are addressed by the technical assistance
and training components proposed under the project following a two-prong approach:
first, at the institutional level through supporting improvements in outreach and quality of
service of the VBA , and assisting in the development of the Bank for the Poor; and
second, at the community level through endorsing and leveraging non-governmental
efforts in group formation and promotion of savings and/or credit schemes at the village
level. The expected medium-term results of this approach are twofold: (i) enhanced and
reliable outreach with credit and deposit services to the rural poor, and (ii) the integration
of formal finance with village-based financial intermediation. Long-run sustainability
and market-priced financial products for the rural poor are the main underlying principles
inspiring the proposed approach.
IDA's Financial Sector Assistance Strategy
2.18  IDA is assisting in the development of the financial sector through a variety of
measures. Two financial sector reports form the basis of a policy dialogue with
authorities on financial sector development issues. The Structural Adjustment Credit (Cr.
2657-VN) is supporting removal of turnover tax and audit of one bank. The
Agricultural Rehabilitation Project (Cr.2561-VN) is supporting the institutional
strengthening of the VBA and is providing a line of credit to smallholders. IDA has
recently approved the Payment System and Bank Modernization Project aimed at
improving banking efficiency. IDA has been instrumental in mobilizing bilateral
assistance for training and technical assistance in banking and is executing a UNDP-
financed technical assistance project for State Enterprise Reform which is assisting
Government in legal reform relating to the financial sector and for auditing the VBA with
Australian bilateral financing (now completed). In addition, the Economic Development
Institute has provided training in payment system issues.
Lessons Learned from Previous IDA Involvement
2.19  IDA is involved in implementation of five effective projects, in agriculture,
irrigation, banking modernization, transport, and education as well as one Structural
Adjustment Credit. It also assists with macroeconomic management and external aid
coordination and carries out analytical work in support of the reform program including
studies in poverty, environment, financial sector, transport, and water resources
management. The preparation of the project draws upon the analyses and
recommendations of these studies especially those on the financial sector and on poverty.
In both the Structural Adjustment Credit and the Agricultural Rehabilitation Project
where design is not complicated and procurement is relatively simple, disbursements are
well ahead of schedule. Under the Agricultural Rehabilitation Project, with the IDA



- 13 -
amount of US$52.2 million, loans of about US$70 million have been made, all to the
private sector. About 45 percent of these loans are for medium term and 55 percent for
short term compared with 15 percent and 85 percent respectively over the total VBA loan
portfolio. The 1993 pre-project medium term lending was 1.5 percent of total lending for
that year. Under the project, the average short term loan size was US$200 equivalent,
enough to grow about 0.5 ha. of irrigated rice. The average medium term loan was
US$625, enough for a small motor pump, outtake pipes, and tractor hire for small tertiary
canal works. No loans were made above the free limait of US$20,000 equivalent, and in
Ha Tay Province alone for example, 1,091 loans for less than US$45 (500,000 Dong)
equivalent were made. The cumulative recovery rate on short term loans is 98.7 percent
and on medium term loans is 98.4 percent. Overall, VBA is mobilizing some 75 percent
of the funds onlent, with less than 25 percent now coming from SBV.
2.20   On the institutional development side, VBA's equity has been increased, the
external audit has been completed, a General Inspection Department has been established
for internal audit and control, changes have been made in organizational structure and a
plan is being prepared for further significant changes, as well as other measures. On the
other hand, progress of the Education and Highways projects has been slow because of
uncertainty about national procurement procedures and slow approvals of final designs.
The main lessons learned from implementation of ongoing projects is the need to
complete detailed design and procurement documentation as early as possible in the
project cycle and the need for technical assistance at the national level to develop clear
operational policies on such matters as resettlement, procurement and local budgetary
support for ODA-assisted projects. A number of IDF and other grant-assisted initiatives
are under implementation to resolve these issues. This lesson is similar to that from the
previous single IDA project in Viet Nam, the Dau Tieng Irrigation Project (Cr. 845-VN)
approved in 1978 and closed in 1986, where significant problems were found to be due to
incomplete design and delays in procurement. For the ongoing projects, the main lessons
learned are the need for decentralized decision making on day-to-day project operations,
minimal conditionality to fulfill after Board presentation and simple mechanisms to
ensure timely release of counterpart funds to the implementing level.






- 14 -
3. THE PROJECT
Project Objective and Rationale for IDA Involvement
3.1   The proposed project supports several key components of the IDA's Country
Assistance Strategy discussed by the Board on November 21, 1995. These are:
a) assist transition to a market economy;
b) strengthen the rural finance system through finance targeted to agriculture and
small and medium enterprises in rural areas, accompanied by technical
assistance;
c) reduction of poverty through promoting growth and enabling the poor to
respond to opportunities to improve their welfare
3.2  IDA is already deeply involved in policy analysis, investment in rural
development, and institutional strengthening, and the proposed project is a complement to
that work. The Environment Report, the Poverty Report, the Financial Sector Report, and
the Agricultural Marketing Report, among others, have made major contributions to
policy formulation for rural Viet Nam and provide the contextual basis, both policy and
operational, for the proposed project. The Agricultural Rehabilitation Project began
IDA's assistance to reform the rural finance sector, and the institutional development
program for VBA has provided leadership in banking reform in general. The external
audit of VBA is the first for a bank in Viet Nam and has set a precedent for the other
state-owned commercial banks and its results will influence further banking reform. The
proposed project, particularly a wholesale operation, would take the reform process to a
further stage of development in line with the recommendations of the Financial Sector
Report. Similarly, IDA involvement in outreach efforts to improve credit access for the
poorer half of the rural population would directly address issues raised in the Poverty
Report. The experience with both rural finance and lending to the poor would be of value
not only to Viet Nam but also to the Bank's work elsewhere and to other development
institutions. Similarly, IDA experience with similar operations in other countries would
be of assistance.
Project Objective
3.3   The objective of the project is to assist the Borrower in its efforts to improve
living conditions in the rural areas through: (a) encouraging private sector investments;
(b) strengthening the banking system's capacity to finance private sector investments; and
(c) increasing access of the rural poor to financial services. These goals are in line with
those of Government and the project would support the ongoing initiatives mentioned



- 15 -
above over a four year period. A targeted operation is based on the premise that the
financial sector of Viet Nam is too undeveloped and market conditions are still too
imperfect to allow and adequate flow of credit to the rural sector. Because of its large
size, development of the rural sector is crucial to achieving the social and economic goals
of the country as a whole.
Detailed Project Description
3.4   General Rural Credit. The project would be implemented over four years
beginning on July 1, 1996 with project completion on March 31, 2000 and credit closing
on June 30, 2000, and would consist of a line of credit for rural investment in general, a
line of credit restricted to investment by the rural poor, and institution building. The
general line of credit would be used to make short, medium and long term credit available
through competing Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs) to finance household and
enterprise investments in agricultural and other viable rural operations, (both fixed assets
and incremental working capital) in accordance with a Policy Manual satisfactory to IDA
(para. 4.2). Because SOEs in rural areas remain important in providing essential services
and market outlets for farmers, small and medium scale state owned enterprises defined
as having no more than US$2 million equivalent in assets and fewer than 500 employees
would be eligible to borrow from the proceeds of the IDA Credit allocated to RDF sub-
loans but only up to an aggregate equivalent to 5 percent of this amount. The proceeds
of the IDA Credit would be used to finance eligible sub-loans made by PFIs with respect
to production, processing, trade, services, on-farm development, and other viable
investments in medium and small-scale enterprises in areas outside the main cities of
Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City. All provinces would be eligible and no allocation would
be made by crop or type of investment. The funds would be onlent to accredited PFIs
who have signed a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with SBV acceptable to IDA. Proceeds
accrued from the repayment of the principal of the subsidiary loans by PFIs would be
used to establish and maintain a revolving fund for onlending for the same purposes and
under the same terms and conditions as those for onlending under the IDA Credit. The
sum of the proceeds of the IDA Credit and of the revolving fund would be known as the
Rural Development Fund (US$111.0 million, base cost, Table 3.1).
3.5   Poverty Targeted Rural Credit. A line of credit would be provided to make short,
medium and long term credit available through the Bank for the Poor (BP) for similar
purposes to beneficiaries classified as poor as defined in a Policy Manual satisfactory to
IDA (para 4.17). This directed credit would be used to overcome imperfections in the
rural credit market thereby opening market access to groups previously excluded by
reason of remote location, inadequate collateral and limited resources of formal financial
institution funds. This line of credit would be released in tranches. The initial tranch
would be released upon (i) adoption by SBV of the Policy Manual satisfactory to IDA
setting out operational details of the FRP including the method of setting interest rates,
client eligibility criteria, subloan supervision, accounting and reporting; (ii) signing of a
Financing Agreement between SBV and BP acceptable to IDA; (iii) adoption by BP of an
institutional development plan, satisfactory to IDA; (iv) approval of SBV of the BP
Charter; and, (v) establishment by BP of a small-savings program satisfactory to IDA.



- 16-
Subsequent tranches would be released upon reaching performance targets on repayment
rates, maintenance of capital adequacy, and other criteria set forth in the Policy Manual.
Proceeds accrued from the repayment of the principal of the loans to BP would be used
to establish and maintain a revolving fund for onlending for the same purposes and under
the same terms and conditions as those for onlending under the IDA Credit. The sum of
the proceeds of the IDA Credit and of the revolving fund would be known as the Fund for
the Rural Poor (US$16.6 million, base cost).
3.6  Institution Building and Community Development. Technical assistance and
training would be given in support of: (i) a program to assist SBV staff in managing and
supervising a wholesale operation, new to Viet Nam, and particularly in evaluation and
accrediting PFIs; (ii) a program to upgrade the PFIs in loan appraisal, accounting,
auditing, portfolio management, resources mobilization, and other banking activities
including training in environmental clearance requirements for sub-projects, all in
accordance with an agreed institutional development plan. The program would include
training at home and abroad, workshops, seminars and consultant assistance in bringing
the latest international banking skills to Viet Nam. The PFIs may include the VBA, other
State-owned commercial banks, the private Shareholder Banks, and the Joint Stock
Banks, among others; (iii) a program to assist the design of operation of the BP in a
sustainable manner including strengthening the outreach program to reach the ethnic poor
in the uplands and mountains through development of sustainable community-based
savings and loan groups for the poor (micro-banking) who typically require loans of less
than 500,000 Dong (US$50). The small savers program would consist of technical
assistance to the VBA and to the BP in promoting and managing rural savings, and in
working with the joint- liability credit group to encourage members to deposit small sums
regularly. This approach has been piloted with some success by NGOs and should be
supported to increase resources available for lending and increase community
responsibility for resource mobilization; and, (iv) technical assistance and training would
be given to the village groups and to the sponsoring agency assisting in group formation
and promotion of financial literacy. Technical assistance may be provided by grant
funding from NGOs, CGAP, UNDP, bilateral agencies or others, in which case the IDA
funds would be available for reallocation to the FRP credit (US$9.4 million, base cost).
3.7   Project Management. In addition to technical assistance and training, support
would be given to staff and equip the Project Management Unit (PMU) which has been
established within the SBV on October 2, 1995 to inter alia, manage the RDF, the FRP
and the technical assistance program. The PMU would evaluate the PFIs, make
recommendations to the SBV senior management on accreditation of individual PFIs,
monitor and supervise PFI performance, maintain project accounts and carry out other
duties as detailed in para 4.4 (US$1.2 million, base cost).



- 17 -
Project Costs and Financing
3.8   Total project costs over the four years of the project, including taxes and price
contingencies,4 are estimated at about US$139.67 million (Table 3.1), of which working
capital, medium, and long term credit for the RDF credit line would be about US$1 11
million. Working capital and medium term capital for the FRP credit line would cost
another US$16.6 million. Vehicles and equipment for project implementation would cost
about US$4.7 million, of which US$3.2 million would be taxes (Annex 1, Table 5).
Institution building consisting of local and overseas training, workshops, provision of
specialist advisors, and studies would cost US$5.50 million and recurrent cost assistance
to project management would cost another US$0.25 million. Price contingencies of
US$1.42 million would be included to account for inflation. IDA would finance a total of
US$122 million (90 percent) of total project costs, exclusive of taxes and US$72.0
million of foreign exchange (90 percent) (Annex 1, Table 6). Government direct
contribution to the project would be US$6.7 million of which US$3.7 million would be
taxes, and US$1.6 million would be equity contribution to the BP under the project. The
PFI's share would be US$11 million. IDA would finance up to 75 percent of sub-project
cost under the credit line for the RDF program (US$100 million) and the PFIs would
finance at least 10 percent of sub-project cost (not less than US$11 million), while
beneficiaries would be expected to contribute an amount of not less than 15 percent of the
cost of the sub-project in cash or kind, including the value of their own labor, but
excluding the value of land. IDA would finance up to 75 percent of sub-project cost
under the credit line for the FRP Program (US$12 million). The BP would finance at
least 10 percent of sub-project costs while beneficiaries would be expected to contribute
15 percent of the sub-project costs. Of the cost of technical assistance, training, and
support to project management, IDA would finance US$6.4 million. Bilateral funding of
institution building and community development is being considered.
IBRD forecasts August 1995, domestic inflation for 1996 given 10 percent and 6 percent thereafter.
International inflation for 1996 given as 2 percent and 1.62 percent thereafter during project period.



- 18-
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
Table 3.1 Expenditure Accounts Project Cost Summary
Total
(VND Million)                        (USS '000)        Foreign    Base
Local      Foreign       Total       Local    Foreign       Total    Exchange  Costs
1. Investment Costs
A. Rural Development Fund
I. Rural Development Fund - Long Term                   334,400    501,600        836,000    30.400    45,600       76,000         60        55
2. Rural Development Fund-ShortTertm                    154,000    231,000        385,000     14,000    21,000       35,000        60        25
Subtotal Rural Development Fund                           488,400    732,600       1,221,000    44,400    66.600      111,000         60       80
B. Fund For The Rural Poor
I. Fund For The Rural Poor- Short term                   50,160      33,440        83,600      4,560      3,040      7.600         40         5
2. Fund For The Rural Poor - Medium Term                 59,400      39,600        99,000      5,400      3,600       9.000        40         7
Subtotal Fund For The Rural Poor                          109,560      73,040        182,600     9,960      6,640      16,600         40        12
C. Vehicles
I. MotorCycles                                            3,104       1,411         4,514        282       128         410         31         -
2. 4WD Vehicles                                          21,725       9.875        31.599      1,975        898       2,873        31         2
3. 2WD Vehicles                                           3.879       1,763         5,643        353        160        513         31          -
Subtotal Vehicles                                          28.707      13.049        41,756      2.610      1,186       3,796         31         3
D. Equipment
1. Computers                                              4,655       2,116         6,771       423         192        616         31         -
2. Other Office Equipment                                 2,832       1,420         4,252        257        129        387         33         -
Subtotal Equipment                                          7,487       3,536         11,023       681        321       1,002         32         1
E. Training
1. Workshops /a                                           5,946        642          6,588        541        58         599         10         -
2. Overseas Training                                          -       1,693         1,693          -        154         154        100
3. Local Training                                        12,180       2,203        14.383      1,107        200       1,308         15         1
SubtotalTraining                                           18,126       4,538        22,664       1.648       413       2,060         20         1
F. Technical Assistance
1. Advisory Services                                      1,058      37,912        38.970         96      3,447       3,543        97         3
Total Investment Costs                                      653,338     864,675      1,518,013    59,394    78,607      138,001         57       100
11. Recurrent Costs
B. Incremental Operating Costs/b                            1,706         987         2,694        155         90         245         37
Total Recurrent Costs                                         1,706         987         2,694        155         90         245         37
Total Baseline Costs                                        655,044    865,662       1,520,707    59,549    78,697      138,246         57       100
Physical Contingencies                                           -           -                        -         -           -          -
Price Contingencies                                         9,234       6,456         15,690       839        587       1,426         41         1
Total Project Costs                                         664,278     872,118      1,536,396    60,389    79,283      139,672         57       101
\a Workshops on fund management
\b Amount is based on PMU estimates
On-Lending Arrangements
3.9    The Socialist Republic of Viet Nam, would be the Borrower. The proceeds of the
Credit would be made available to SBV under a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU),
satisfactory to IDA, to be entered into between MOF and SBV. The MOU would form
part of the RDF Policy Manual (Para 4.2) and would include at least a grace period of 10
years and return of the principle and interest, minus a fee to cover operating costs of the
PMU and loan loss provision, in 20 to 30 years. This would allow the normal function
with adequate flow of funds of the RDF and FRP funds. Finance for the RDF Credit line
and the FRP Credit line would be made available to the PFIs and the BP, respectively,
under subsidiary loan agreements between Government, represented by SBV and the
PFIs, and under a financing agreement between the SBV and the BP. A condition of
disbursement for sub-loans would be that the relevant PFI or BP had entered into a
subsidiary loan agreement or a financing agreement. (paras. 6.3 and 6.4 (a)). SBV



- 19-
would (i) onlend the proceeds of the IDA Credit allocated to the RDF credit line to
Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs) to finance eligible sub-projects and, (ii) onlend
the proceeds of the IDA Credit allocated to the FRP credit line to BP to finance eligible
sub-projects. The SBV would administer the RDF and would bear the credit risk at the
level of the PFIs in return for a fee. Funds would be onlent to PFIs either in US$ or in
Dong. Maturities would conform to the composite maturities of sub-loans made by the
PFIs to sub-borrowers. US$ loans would bear a LIBOR-based variable rate of interest
plus a margin to cover full costs including loan loss provision of at least 1 percent. Local
currency loans would bear a variable rate of interest adjustable quarterly and equal to the
latest available quarterly weighted average actual cost of loanable funds in the banking
system or at a fixed rate of interest calculated in a manner satisfactory to IDA (para 4.5).
For local currency sub-loans, GOV would bear the foreign exchange risk against a fee
payable by the PFIs. For foreign currency sub-loans, either the PFI or the sub-borrowers
would bear the foreign exchange risk. Onlending to sub-borrowers would be at the
commercial (market) rates and terms of the PFIs for similar lending operations in
accordance with a policy manual satisfactory to IDA (para 4.2). The Government would
bear the foreign exchange risk on sub-loans under FRP. Onlending to poor sub-borrowers
as defined in the FRP Policy Manual would be at a positive rate of interest above the
weighted average cost of actual loanable funds in the banking system and covering full
costs including loan loss provision and calculated in a manner described in the FRP
policy manual satisfactory to IDA (para 4.17). During negotiations, the Borrower
undertook that it would, with the proceeds accrued from the repayment of the principal of
the Subsidiarv Loans and the FRP Loan, establish and maintain a Rural Development
Fund and a Fund for the Rural Poor for the purposes of financing on a wholesale basis
through the PFIs and the BP rural investments under the same terms and conditions as
those financed by the proceeds of the IDA Credit (para 6.1 (c)).
Procurement for Technical Assistance and Project Management
3.10  Procurement for technical assistance and project management (Table 3.2) would
follow IDA guidelines. All procurement by International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
would be carried out using IDA standard bidding documents. With respect to each
contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of US$150,000 or more, IDA would
review the bidding packages prior to tendering and award, covering 100 percent of the
total contract value procured by ICB, and about 10 percent by national competitive
bidding (NCB) by procedures satisfactory to IDA. Selected post review of awarded
contracts below the threshold levels would be carried out on about 1 in 8 goods contracts.
3.11  Goods. Most vehicles (US$2.6 million) would be procured by ICB. Computers
(US$200,000), and office equipment (US$200,000), consisting of small packages for
diverse use over several agencies and years, and a few vehicles (US$150,000) would be
procured by NCB procedures acceptable to IDA in contracts not exceeding US$150,000
and equal to US$1.8 million in total. Locally manufactured goods procured under ICB
would be eligible for a domestic preference of 15 percent or the applicable customs tariff,
whichever is less. For procurement of office equipment in small packages spread across
several agencies and over four years not to exceed US$400,000 in total or US$50,000 per



- 20 -
contract, procurement by national shopping with a minimum of three price quotations in a
manner satisfactory to IDA would be acceptable.
3.12       Consultants would be engaged  following IDA's guidelines for use of
consultants. Consultant selection arrangements and contracts for amounts above
US$100,000 for firms and US$50,000 for individuals would be subject to IDAs prior
review.
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
Table 3.2 Procurement Arrangements
(US$'000)
Procurement Method
International  National
Competitive    Competitive   National   Financial    Consulting
Bidding      Bidding    Shopping    Intermediaries   Services    N.B.F.    Total
A. Rural Development Fund             -             -          -           111,558         -          -      111,558
(100.032)                        (100,032)
B. Fund For The Rural Poor            -             -          -           16,600          -          -      16.600
(14,940)                         (14,940)
C. Vehicles and Equipment           2,581         1,771       391            -             -          -      4,743
(807)        (553)      (131)                                          (1.491)
D OverteasTraining                    -             -          -             -            170         -       170
(170)              (170)
E. Domestic Training                  -             -          -             -            2,378       -      2,378
(2,378)            (2,378)
F. Technical Assistance                      -            -                  -            3,925       -      3,925
(3,925)            (3,925)
G. Staff Salaries and                 -             -          -             -             -         298      298
Incremental Operating
Costs
Total                                2,581         1,771       391         128,158        6,473       298    139,672
(807)        (553)      (131)        (114,972)      (6,473)            (122,936)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by Intemauonal Developrent Assn
NBF:Non-Bank Financed
Procurement Under Sub-Loans
3.13    Credit Funds. Procurement of goods and works financed by sub-loans would be
on the basis of procedures which are customary for a development finance operation.
Most procurement would be of items costing below  US$10,000 and would be procured
from local suppliers of the sub-borrowers' choice. Subloans above US$150,000 each
would be subject to prior review by IDA. For contracts below US$150,000 and above
US$20,000 PMUs would have the right to prior review. As with other credit operations,
ICB would not normally be required and would apply only on an exceptional basis where
the size of contract is above US$1 million. These contracts would follow IDA Guidelines
for Procurement and would be carried out using IDA standard bidding documents. No
contracts of this size are anticipated.
Disbursement
3.14 The proposed IDA credit of (US$ 122 million) would be disbursed over a period
of four years, from FY 97 - FY2000. These estimates are based on experience with the



- 21 -
Agricultural Rehabilitation Project which accounts for almost all the disbursement profile
of Viet Nam projects. The disbursement schedule is shown in Annex 1, Table 6. The
project would be completed by March 31, 2000, and the expected Credit closing date
would be June 30, 2000. Disbursement of the Credit proceeds would finance short,
medium, and long term investment in fixed assets, plus associated working capital, in
rural areas of Viet Nam, defined as areas outside the municipal boundaries of Hanoi and
Ho Chi Minh City. Land purchases would not be eligible. Each eligible sub-project
would be financed by a sub-loan comprised of a maximum of 75 percent of the cost of
that sub-project from the RDF or FRP plus 10 percent of that cost from PFI's
contribution, assuming the sub-borrowers' contribution in cash or labor to be equivalent
to 15 percent of the cost of the sub-project excluding land. IDA would finance 100
percent of SBV disbursements to PFIs and the BP for eligible subloans. Disbursements
would also be made for vehicles and equipment for the PMU and for the technical
assistance program. For these goods, IDA would finance 100 percent of foreign
expenditures; 100 percent of local expenditures (ex-factory costs); and 65 percent of other
locally procured goods. Consultant services would also be financed 100 percent by IDA,
net of taxes. Disbursement for all expenditures above US$100,000 would be based on
full documentation except for sub-loans below US$150,000 for which disbursements
may be made under statement of expenditures (SOEs) and for other expenditures below
US$100,000. Supporting documents for disbursements based on SOEs would be
retained by SBV for review by independent auditors and by IDA supervision missions.
Disbursements to PFIs would be made in accordance with the RDF policy manual (para
4.2). During negotiations, agreement was reached that because of the recent
establishment of the BP, the initial disbursement to the FRP would be made in a tranche
of US$2 million after the approval of the BP Charter and adoption by SBV of the FRP
policy manual agreed to by IDA and SBV, the financing agreement will have been
entered into by SBV and BP (para. 6.4(a) (c)); and the adoption by the Board of the BP of
(i) a small-savers program to increase the resources available to the BP and to increase
beneficiary participation and (ii) an institutional development plan satisfactory to IDA
(para 6.4 (b)). Agreement was also reached at negotiations that subsequent disbursements
of up to US$7 million cumulative would be confirmed after SBV has certified to IDA
that the BP is in compliance with the performance criteria agreed in the FRP policy
manual and BP's institutional development plan , and thereafter up to US$12 million
cumulative following a final review(para 6.4 (d)). To increase competition, agreement
was also reached at negotiations that no PFI will have access to funds from the proceeds
of the IDA Credit in excess of US$50 million (6.1 (d)(ix)). SBV through the PFIs and BP
would onlend to beneficiaries, the proceeds of repayments of the principal of sub-loans to
finance sub-projects under the terms and conditions of the RDF policy manual (see
Annex 9) and the FRP policy manual to be developed.
3.15  Special Account. A Special Account in accordance with IDA guidelines would be
established in SBV to facilitate rapid disbursement of the Credit. An initial deposit of
US$10 million into the Special Account would be made by IDA representing about 4
months of the first year's disbursements. However, the authorized allocation for the
Special Account shall be limited to an amount equivalent to US$5.0 million until
disbursements and outstanding commitments against the credit shall be equal to or exceed



- 22 -
the equivalent of SDR20 million. Applications for replenishment of the Special Account,
supported by appropriate documentation would be submitted regularly (preferably
monthly, but not less than quarterly) or when the amounts withdrawn equal 20 percent of
the initial deposit.
Monitoring, Accounts and Audit
3.16  A project supervision plan is presented in Annex 7. The SBV would send to IDA,
on the basis of an agreed format, periodic progress reports on project implementation
(quarterly reports on the RDF and FRP and semi-annual reports on the institutional
strengthening component SBV, the PFIs, and the BP would maintain separate project
accounts covering all financial transactions for project activities, and that the project
accounts, the Special Account, and Statements of Expenditures would be audited
annually by independent auditors satisfactory to IDA and made available (in English) to
IDA not later than six months after the end of the fiscal year and that the SBV would be
responsible for the preparation of Government's contribution to the Implementation
Completion Report. The SBV would also require PFIs, as necessary, to provide auditors'
opinions on whether sub-loans under the project are in agreement with the terms and
conditions of project lending. In addition, SBV would selectively review project
subloans and provide a brief report on the quality of sub-loans and the adequacy of PFIs
supervision and recording. During negotiations. agreement was reached (para 6.1(a)),
that SBV, PFIs, and BP would maintain separate project accounts and that SBV would
transmit to IDA (i) quarterly reports on progress of implementation of the RDF and FRP
beginning October 31 1996, (ii) semi-annual reports on progress of implementation of
the institutional strengthening program beginning January 1 1997, (iii) audited accounts,
including the auditors' report, of the RDF, the FRP, the PFIs, the BP, the Special
Account, and the Statement of Expenditures, for activities under the project within six
months after the end of the Government's fiscal year (audit of financial statements of
PFIs and BP to be furnished within six months after the end of the Government's fiscal
year), beginning June 1998, covering FY96 and FY97, and, (iv) part two of the
Implementation Completion Report of the project within six months after the Credit
closing date.
3.17  Agreement was reached during negotiations that SBV would by December 31
1996, establish and thereafter maintain a monitoring and evaluation system, satisfactory
to IDA, for the project components with the objective to identify constraints, initiate
corrective measures, and upgrade project performance (para. 6.1 (b). The main elements
in the monitoring and evaluation system would be: (a) regular reporting on the financial
and physical progress within both SBV and the PFIs, including the BP; (b) semi-annual
evaluation during project implementation to assess performance of (i) the institutional
strengthening and training programs, (ii) typical sub-projects, and, (iii) the project's
financial impact on the PFIs and the BP.
3.18  Financial Indicators. Financial indicators to be monitored would include: (i) for
the funds, repayments to the RDF and FRP by the PFIs and BP, profitability, and
operating costs as a percentage of funds loaned; and (ii) for the PFIs, solvency, liquidity



- 23 -
and profitability, among others (annex 8). Detailed indicators would be maintained for
accreditation as stipulated in the RDF and FRP policy manuals (para 4.7). Development
indicators would measure the effect on living standards of beneficiaries through sample
surveys.



- 24 -
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND
Organization and Fund Management
4.1  Implementation of the credit program would be as a commercial wholesale
operation based on three main participants: the apex financial institution (the apex bank)
which under this operation would be the SBV (Government Decree No. 5551/QHQT,
October 2, 1995); the Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs); and the sub-borrowers -
the PFIs' respective clients . The SBV would disburse to the accredited PFIs against
eligible expenditures for approved sub-projects from the proceeds of the IDA credit. The
PFIs would add their contribution of at least 15 percent of the total project cost. The final
client would also be expected to contribute at least 10 percent in cash or in kind
excluding land. Repayments by PFIs to SBV would be deposited into a fund (RDF) and
SBV would relend the proceeds of the fund to the PFIs provided they continued to meet
the agreed accreditation requirements and maintained sufficient client demand. If a
particular PFI failed to maintain its accreditation, the repaid funds would be diverted to
another PFI maintaining or achieving accreditation. During negotiations, agreement was
reached between IDA and Government that the RDF would be operated as a commercial
activity (para 6.1 (d)). The SBV would receive a spread to cover its related credit risk at
the level of the PFI, and operating costs. It would be responsible for accrediting the PFIs
according to agreed criteria of solvency, liquidity, profitability, and management quality.
Accreditation of a PFI would be a condition of disbursement for sub-loans to that PFI
(para 6.3(a)). The SBV would need to adequately staff and equip the PMU such that it
has the capacity to assess credit worthiness of PFIs, and is prepared to monitor, evaluate
and supervise PFIs. Training to be provided to PMU staff would fit within SBVs overall
institutional development plan.
4.2   RDF Policy Manual. An RDF Policy Manual (the Policy Manual) was agreed to
during negotiations to guide operation of the RDF once adopted. The Policy Manual
would set out the objectives and management structure of the RDF, define eligible PFIs,
specify qualifying criteria for participation in the Fund, define eligible projects for
financing, and set out loan terms - including loan size, method of determining interest
rates, default measures, collateral and insurance requirements. The manual would also
specify sub-loan appraisal, approval, disbursement procedures, conditions for
restructuring and rescheduling loans, supervision and reporting, audit requirements, and
environmental compliance certification. The approval by the SBV of the RDF Policy
Manual, agreed to by IDA. would be a condition of credit effectiveness (para 6.2(a)).
4.3   The following are the main functions of the SBV/PMU as the apex bank:
accreditation of PFIs through application of an agreed set of criteria;



- 25 -
assisting in the preparation and the implementation of the PFIs'
institutional development plan (IDP);
preparation of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements and the Financing
Agreement;
approving RDF funded projects (sub-project) applications over US$20,000
equivalent and less than US$150,000 supervising the implementation of
all sub-projects;
draw down of IDA funds including the administration of a Special
Account and the disbursement of funds to PFIs for the financing of sub-
projects and IDPs;
maintaining project accounts and arranging for their auditing;
monitoring PFIs performance vis-a-vis accreditation criteria, use of project
funds, and progress of IDP;
periodic review of onlending terms and IDPs with a view to adjusting
them in light of changing conditions; and
promotional efforts in support of the project.
4.4   Fund Management. A Project Management Unit (PMU) within SBV would
handle day-to-day matters related to the implementation of the credit component. The
PMU would report to the Board of Management of the SBV. A Steering Committee to
review project credit activities and policy matters has been established and includes
representatives of SBV (Chair), Ministry of Economy and Planning, the Ministry of
Finance, the Office of Government, and MARD. The Steering Committee will meet as
necessary but at least once every three months. The objective of establishing the PMU in
the SBV is to train a cadre in management of wholesale banking, a new concept in Viet
Nam, which would then be transferred intact to a commercial bank or other such
institutions. At negotiations agreement was reached that the fund would be transferred by
June 30. 1999. The action plan to reach this goal has begun with the audit of one
commercial bank and the expected audits of several others. The duties of the PMU are to
carry out the functions described in para 4.3 including PFI accreditation, reviewing
subloan applications, maintaining project accounts, managing the Special Account,
monitoring and evaluating project activities, assisting in institutional development of the
PFIs, contracting and supervising technical assistance and training. The PMU with the
PFIs would be managing a portfolio of about US$120 million equivalent. About 20,000
sub-loans would be anticipated for amounts below US$20,000 equivalent each together
with another 4,000 sub-loans above this amount. The PMU would review sub-loan
application and approval documentation on a sample basis and on an ex-poste basis
where warranted for sub-project below US$20,000 equivalent, as determined in the RDF
Policy Manual. For sub-loans above US$20,000 equivalent per client, PMU prior review
would be required except as shall otherwise have been agreed between IDA and the
Government. For sub-loans above US$150,000 per client, IDA's prior review would be
required except as otherwise agreed by the IDA and Government. The PMU would
include a project manager, a PFI accreditation and follow up sub-unit, a project
accounting and disbursement sub-unit, a sub-loan review sub-unit, a supervision and
monitoring sub-unit, and a technical assistance and training sub-unit (for contracting).
The staff of the PMU would be locally recruited and would generally be from within SBV



- 26 -
and the commercial banking sector. Technical assistance to the PMU in the initial stages
would be provided under the project (para 3.7). The PMU was established by Decision
No. 555 I/QHQT dated October 2, 1995. The appointment of a qualified and
experienced manager and chiefs of the accreditation unit, the accounting and
disbursement unit, sub-loan application review and supervision unit would be a condition
of Credit effectiveness (para 6.2 (b)).
Interest Rate Policies, Procedures, and Maturities
4.5   Interest Rate Policies and Procedures. IDA funds would be onlent by SBV to the
PFIs at a variable interest rate, adjustable quarterly and equal to the latest available
quarterly weighted average actual cost of loanable funds in the banking system and
equivalent to the price PFIs would pay if funds were mobilized from the market. A fixed
rate option would be allowed calculated in a manner satisfactory to IDA. Maturity of PFI
loans would conform to the composite maturity of related sub-loans. The weighted
average interest rate of time deposits (to be calculated quarterly by SBV) would be used
as a reference for setting the cost of funds to the PFIs5. This reference rate would be
6
adjusted to take account of the cost associated with the SBVs reserve requirements . PFIs
will be free to lend at the prevailing general interest rate. Given the constantly varying
conditions in the monetary and fiscal sectors and the need to avoid major distortion due to
differences in market determined conditions, an agreement was reached at negotiations
that by June 30 of each year. commencing on June 30, 1997, or at such other intervals as
the Borrower and IDA may agree, the Borrower, throu,gh SBV, would exchange views
with IDA on the level of interest rates charged on Subsidiary Loans , the FRP Loan and
sub-loans to determine if such rates are positive in real terms and above the weighted
average deposit rates prevailing in the market at the time of the review and, with the prior
concurrence of IDA. revise such rates, if required. (Para 6.1 (d) (ii). The foreign
exchange risk would be borne by the Government or the sub-borrowers as discussed in
para 3.9. However, given the onlending mechanism described above, it is anticipated that
the nominal interest rate difference between GOVs borrowing and onlending rate would
adequately cover the foreign exchange risk.
4.6    Sub-loan Maturity. The repayment period for medium and long term sub-loans
would be based on the sub-project's cash-flow and would be related to the sub-borrower's
overall repayment capacity. Repayment of sub-loans will usually be within five years but
will not exceed ten years, or the economic life of the sub-project whichever is shorter. A
As all deposits are currently short-term (less than one year), the weighted average of these time
deposits would be used as a reference rate for calculating the cost of loanable funds for short and term
lending. PFIs would be free to lend at the prevailing general interest rate taking account of the
different credit risk associated with short and term lending.
6   SBV's Reserve Requirement (RR) is currently set at 10 percent of the deposits. The RR, presently, do
not bear any interest income. That means that the cost of loanable funds is higher by about 11 percent
of the time deposits' interest rate. For example, the RR of a deposit of VNDI million for (say) one
month would be VND100,000 and the funds available for lending would be only VND900,000. The
cost to the PFI of a deposit of VND1 million for one month (assuming a deposit rate of 1.6 percent per
month) would be VND16,000. This cost should be covered by the loanable funds which in this case is
VND900,000. VND16,000 over VND900,000 would result in an interest of 1.78 percent per month.



- 27 -
grace period may be granted for repayment of principal based on sub-project's cash-flow
and the overall financial status of the sub-borrower. Maturity of short term sub-loans
would not exceed 12 months.
Accreditation and Eligibility Criteria
4.7    PFIs Accreditation Criteria. To safeguard the apex bank and the Fund financial
assets, and to ensure a successful implementation of the credit component, the PFIs
would be approved on the basis of agreed accreditation criteria to be detailed in the
Policy Manual of the RDF. SBV would inform IDA accordingly. Criteria to be selected
need to be credible, transparent, unequivocal, and compatible with sound financial
principles and with banking regulations. The accredited criteria would include the
following five fundamental elements: (i) compliance with banking law and audit
requirements; (ii) solvency;7 (iii) liquidity;8 (iv) profitability, usually measured by a set of
ratios such as: (a) return on equity (net profit after tax over equity), and (b) return on
assets generating income (net profit after tax over average outstanding loans and
investments over the year); and (v) the quality of management and staff. However, a
bank can be accredited even if it does not meet all the accreditation criteria provided that
an Institutional Development Plan (IDP) along with adequate training program and
detailed time table for achieving them would be submitted to, and found to be acceptable
by, SBV and IDA. At negotiations, agreement was reached that PFIs performance vis-a-
vis the accreditation criteria and the respective IDP would be reviewed semi-annually by
June 30 and December 31 of each year commencing on December 31 1996. and
thereafter by September 30 and March 31 of each year commencing on March 31, 1997,
furnish a report on PFI performance and corrective measures to be followed , if necessary,
for IDA's concurrence (para 6.1 (a)(v)). In the event that a PFI loses its accreditation
(having failed to: (i) meet one or more of the accreditation criteria; and (ii) satisfactorily
implement the agreed IDP). At negotiation it was agreed that SBV through the PMU
would instruct the PFI to take remedial actions within a time frame determined in
consultation with IDA. If the PFI fails to meet the accreditation within the agreed time
frame, SBV would: (i) cancel the uncommitted portion of the line of credit granted to the
PFI; (ii) take the necessary actions to safeguard the committed portion extended to the
said PFI; (iii) notify IDA; and (iv) onlend the uncommitted amount to other accredited
PFIs. SBV would assist the PFIs to prepare and would furnish to IDA for its comment
institutional development plans with detailed timetables and staff training programs for
7  A bank is considered solvent if the value of its performing assets is sufficient to cover its liabilities
particularly to its depositors and lenders. Therefore, the quality of its assets (mainly loans) and the
adequacy of its net equity (equity minus bad loans and/or provision for loan losses) should be assessed.
These are usually measured by a set of financial ratios such as: (i) overdue rate (amount of overdue
loans over outstanding loans, and amount of over due loans over loan amount due during the assessed
period (lower rates indicate a higher quality of loans and therefore a higher solvency level); and (ii) net
equity to risk assets (loans and investments excluding investments in Government securities; higher
ratio indicates a higher solvency level).
8  A bank is considered liquid if its liquidity assets (cash in hands, cash in banks, investments in gold and
Government securities up to one year) are sufficient to cover its liquid liabilities (deposits up to one
year and repayment of borrowing amount due within one year). A higher ratio indicates a higher
liquidity level.



- 28 -
those PFIs who are unable to meet the eligibility criteria set forth in the RDF Policy
Manual for purposes of their accreditation under the Project.
Sub-loan Eligibility Criteria
4.8   Sub-borrowers under the project will generally be limited to private sector
individuals or enterprises, cooperatives and joint-ventures. Because of their role in
providing primary processing and other essential services in rural areas, small and
medium scale SOE's, defined as having less than US$2 million in assets and less than
500 employees would be eligible to receive sub-loans up to an amount of no more than 5
percent in the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit for RDF sub-loans. Eligible
investment would be medium and long term investments financed for the establishment
of new enterprises (or economic operation by individual), expansion of existing economic
operation, or reinvestment in existing economic operation. All agricultural and rural
industries based projects throughout the country (except Hanoi and HCMC) would be
eligible, including fisheries, agro-industries, manufactures, construction activities, and
services. Land would be ineligible for IDA financing. To qualify, a proposed sub-project
would have to be appraised by the PFI as technically feasible, financially viable, and
environmentally sound.
Sub-project Appraisal, Review and Disbursement
4.9   Sub-project Appraisal and Approval. The credit risk associated with PFIs' sub-
loans would be borne by the PFIs. Therefore, sub-project appraisal and approval will be
the responsibility of the PFIs, whose capability to undertake these activities will be
determined by SBV under the project's qualifying criteria. Appraisal of medium and long
term sub-projects would be based on the technical and financial characteristics of the sub-
project. For each short, medium, and long term sub-loan above the equivalent of
US$50,000, a participating bank would prepare a financial plan including the sub-
project's cash-flow. For sub-loans below this amount, the character and standing of the
borrower and of the willingness of community members to enter into joint liability would
suffice.
4.10 Sub-project review and Disbursement. Except for sub-loans under US$20,000
equivalent, the PMU would review the sub-project appraisal work carried out by the PFIs.
It would review on an ex ante basis, the documentation of sub-projects above US$20,000
equivalent and if appropriate would authorize disbursements. In order to expedite sub-
loan approval, this ex-ante review may be waived for stronger and more experienced
PFIs. Such waiver would require IDAs concurrence. SBV, through the PMU, would grant
up to 60 days to PFIs to submit or make available required sub-loan documentation and
evidence of payment and procurement. The PMU would reverse the sub-loan-- and
charge a reversal fee-- if a PFI has not submitted or made available the required
documentation within 60 days after PMU disbursements to the PFI. In the case of sub-
projects below US$20,000, PMU would review the appraisal work on an ex post
disbursement basis. Disbursement to PFIs would be made automatically, although the
PMU would also require PFIs to submit or make available all the required sub-loan



- 29 -
documentation within 60 days. As in the case above, reversal would be made and penalty
fee imposed if PFIs fail to satisfactorily submit or make available required sub-loan
documentation within the 60 day period following PMUs disbursements. IDA prior
approval would be required for all sub-loans above US$150,000 equivalent for which full
documentation of the sub-project would be submitted. No sub-loans shall be committed
after October 31, 1999.
Compliance with Environmental Regulations
4.11  It is expected that the overwhelming number of subprojects would be small (less
than US$10,000 equivalent each ) and would be mainly for on-farm development and for
small agro-industries such as rehabilitation or expansion of 10-ton/day rice mills.
However, sub-projects must be in compliance with Government Decree No.1 75/CP on
Guidance for Implementation of the Law on Environmental Protection and other relevant
decrees, regulations and directives that may be issued from time to time. No RDF sub-
loans for sub-projects requiring environmental clearance issued by either the State
Ministry or a Provincial Department of Science, Technology and Environment in
accordance with the provisions of the Decree shall be approved before the sub-borrower
obtains such a clearance. Where the RDF sub-loan is for an amount above US$150,000
equivalent, and the proposed investment falls within the scope of Decree No.175/CP, the
sub-borrower would give to the PFI a copy of the environmental impact assessment report
submitted to the relevant authorities to secure environmental approval. During
negotiations, agreement was reached that sub-projects would conform to the enviromental
laws and regulations of Viet Nam. Where the RDF subloan is for an amount above
$150,000 equivalent and the proposed investment falls within the scope of the Decree
No. 175/CP (Implementation of the Law on Environmental Protection), the sub-borrower
shall submit to the PFI a copy of the Environmental Impact Assessment Report submitted
to the relevant authorities (MOSTE/DOSTE) to secure environmental approval. (para
6. 1 (d)(vii)).
Supervision and Reporting
4.12  Supervision of RDF Funded Projects. Supervision of RDF funded projects would
be the responsibility of the PFIs, which will designate specific officers for this purpose.
PFIs would require sub-borrowers to use project funds for approved purposes only, and
they would achieve this through direct payments to suppliers of equipment, inputs and
materials, as practicable, and through quarterly or semi-annual field visits to sub-projects.
Follow-up reports on each visit would comment on the utilization of project funds,
compare actual and planned operations, review management and financial problems of
sub-projects, compliance with environmental laws and regulations, and make
recommendations. PFIs would also obtain periodic operating and financial reports from
sub-borrowers of short, medium and long term loans and would undertake selective field
visits to problem projects for assessment of their issues. The PMU would conduct
selective end-use verification of sub-projects to ensure that PFIs supervision is
satisfactory.



- 30-
4.13  Reporting Reguirements. SBV through the PMU would transmit to IDA, on the
basis of agreed format, quarterly progress report on the implementation of the credit
component under the project. These reports would be submitted to IDA within two
months after the end of each quarter beginning October 31, 1996. The report would
include: (i) an assessment of RDF performance, issues and projection for the next six
months; (ii) RDF releases broken down by sub-sectors, duration (short, medium, and long
term), nature of sub-projects (new or expansion of existing operation), purpose of sub-
loans (fixed assets and/or working capital), type of PFIs (government commercial banks
or private banks), regions or provinces, and sub-borrowers' asset size, and sub-loans size;
(iii) overdue of subsidiary loans9 and sub-loans broken down by sub-sectors, type of PFIs,
regions, sub-loan duration, nature of sub-projects, purpose of sub-loans, and sub-
borrowers' asset size; (iv) list of accredited PFIs, the respective line of credit granted, and
availments; (v) sub-projects' investment broken down by sub-sectors, financiers (sub-
borrowers' equity, PFIs participation, SBV contribution, and IDA), and duration; (vi)
RDF interest rates over the reported period; and (vii) progress report on the
implementation of IDP and the training program.
B. FUND FOR THE RURAL POOR
4.14  Organization and Fund Management. The FRP would be established within the
SBV and would be managed by the same PMU as for the RDF with the same Steering
Committee. The SBV would operate the Fund in accordance with an agreed Policy
Manual for Lending to the Poor. The SBV would disburse to the BP against eligible
expenditures for approved sub-projects from the proceeds of the IDA credit. The BP
would add its contribution of at least 10 percent of the total project cost and lend to the
final client who would also be expected to contribute at least 15 percent of total project
cost including the value of labor or in kind but excluding the value of land. Repayments
by the BP to the SBV would be deposited into a fund (FRP) and SBV would relend the
proceeds of the fund to the BP provided the BP continued to meet the agreed
accreditation requirements and maintained sufficient client demand. If the BP failed to
maintain its accreditation, the repaid funds would be diverted to the RDF or canceled.
The SBV would receive a spread to cover its operating costs associated with Fund
administration. All disbursements would be in VN Dong. The Govemment would bear
the foreign exchange risk and would receive a fee for this purpose.
4.15 Fund Management Duties. The SBV would certify that the BP was properly
constituted and operationally secure in terms of a set of performance criteria which have
been agreed at negotiations between the Government and IDA. It would assist in
preparation and implementation of the BP's institutional development plan, manage the
draw-down of IDA funds, administer the Special Account established for the purpose in a
commercial bank agreed to by IDA, authorize disbursements from the Special Account,
maintain FRP accounts and arrange for their audit, monitor financial performance and
progress of the institutional development plan, and carry out a periodic review of
onlending terms and conditions of loans from the Fund.
9 A subsidiary loan is a loan to be signed between SBV and a PFI.



- 31 -
4.16  Interest Rate Policies, Sub-Loan Size and Maturities. IDA funds would be onlent
by SBV to the BP at a fixed or at a variable interest rate, adjusted quarterly and not less
than the weighted average actual cost of loanable funds in the banking system or at a
fixed rate. This would be used as a basis for setting the onlending rate to sub-borrowers
and would be adjusted to include a margin for BP's costs including a provision for bad
debt to ensure sustainability of the Fund capital. This rate should be unified and not less
than the rate of inflation. The subloan size would depend on the investment to be
financed, and is currently about US$200 but would not be more than $1000 per borrower.
The maximum term would initially be for three years duration and maturities of the Loan
to the BP would correspond to those of the sub-loans. This would be reviewed from time
to time as to be specified in the Policy Manual for Lending for the Poor.
4.17  Policy Manual for Lending to the Poor. Since lending for the poor through the
Bank for the Poor is a directed program, a special lending manual would be used to guide
operation of the FRP. The policy manual would set out the objectives of the Fund,
define eligible borrowers and projects for financing and set out loan terms and
procedures to be followed. The manual would specify loan size, method of determining
interest rates, default measures, collateral and insurance requirements. The manual would
specify subloan approval and disbursement procedures, conditions for restructuring and
rescheduling loans, supervision and reporting, and audit requirements. The SBV would
assist the BP prepare and furnish to IDA for its approval an institutional development
plan with a detailed timetable and staff training programs for purposes of assisting the
Bank for the Poor to meet the performance criteria set forth in the FRP policy manual.
Issuance of the Charter of the BP. adoption by SBV of the FRP policy manual agreed to
by IDA and the SBV; the signing of the financing agreement by SBV and BP (para. 3.9);
and the adoption by the Board of the BP of (i) a small-savers program to increase the
resources available to the BP and to increase beneficiary participation (para. 4.21); and
(ii) an institutional development plan satisfactory to IDA would be a condition of
disbursement of the first tranch (US$2 million) against this component (para 6.4(a)-(c)).
4.18 Subproject Appraisal. The credit risk would be borne by the BP who would be
responsible for project appraisal and approval. The SBV would be responsible for
ascertaining that the BP has the capacity to undertake these activities in the locations for
which funds would be disbursed. Appraisal of sub-project or type of sub projects would
include technical and financial evaluation prepared by the BP who would discuss its
implications with the borrower to ensure that the loan repayment obligation was fully
understood.
4.19  Disbursement. The funds would be disbursed over the same period as for the
RDF (1996-99). Because of the special nature of the Fund, no sub-loans over US$1,000
would be permitted, hence no sub-loans would require prior review and no procurement
would be subject to IDA rules. The SBV, through the PMU, would make an ex-post
review of appraisal work and report on its quality as part of supervision and reporting.
After meeting the conditions for the initial disbursement, disbursements by the BP from
the Special Account would be made automatically on submitting or making available
required sub-loan documentation within 60 days of payment to the sub-borrower. The
IDA proceeds for the Fund would be disbursed until a total of US$2 million was reached



- 32 -
at which time a brief report on BP performance would be prepared and discussed with
IDA. Following the initial disbursement of US$2 million, a condition of further
disbursement up to an aggregate of $7 million for financing FRP sub-loans would be
made only after SBV has certified to IDA that BP is in compliance with the performance
criteria agreed in the FRP policy manual and BP's institutional development plan (para
6.4 (d)). A similar condition would apply for disbursement of the remaining US$5 million
to give an aggregate amount of US$12 million.
4.20 Supervision and Reporting. Supervision of FRP funded sub-projects would be the
responsibility of the BP which will designate specific officers for this purpose. The BP
would require sub-borrowers to use project funds for approved purposes only, and they
would achieve this through direct payment to suppliers, as practicable, and through
regular visits to sub-project sites. The BP would maintain reports on progress of sub-
projects for selective inspection by SBV to ensure that BP supervision is satisfactory. At
negotiations assurances were obtained that the SBV, through the PMU, would send to
IDA on the basis of agreed format, quarterly progress reports on the implementation of
the FRP component under the project (para 6. l(a)). These reports would be submitted to
IDA within two months after the end of each quarter. The report would include: (i) an
assessment of FRP performance, issues and projections for the next six months; (ii) FRP
releases broken down by sub-sectors, duration, nature of sub-projects, purpose of sub-
loans (fixed assets and/or working capital), regions or provinces, and sub-borrowers' asset
size, and sub-loans size; (iii) overdues of sub-loans broken down by sub-sectors,
regions, sub-loan duration, nature of sub-projects, purpose of sub-loans, and sub-
borrowers' asset size; (iv) sub-projects' investment broken down by sub-sectors, and
financiers (sub-borrowers equity, BP participation, Government, IDA and other financier
contribution, ), and duration; (v) FRP interest rates over the reported period; and (vi)
progress report on the implementation of IDP and the training program. In the event that
the BP loses its accreditation (having failed to: (i) meet one or more of the accreditation
criteria; and (ii) satisfactorily implement the agreed IDP), SBV through the PMU would
instruct the BP to take remedial actions within a time frame determined in consultation
with IDA. If the BP fails to meet the accreditation criteria within the agreed time frame,
SBV would: (i) cancel the uncommitted portion of the line of credit granted to the BP; (ii)
take the necessary actions to safeguard the committed portion extended to the BP; (iii)
notify IDA; and (iv) onlend the uncommitted amount to other accredited PFIs. At
negotiations agreement was reached that SBV would assist the BP to prepare an
institutional development plan with a detailed timetable and staff training program and
would furnish the IDP to IDA for its comment and that BP performance vis-a-vis the
accreditation criteria and the IDP would be reviewed semi-annually by June 30 and
December 31 of each year commencing on December 31, 1996, and thereafter b y
September 30 and March 31 of each year furnish a report on BP performance and
corrective measures to be followed, if necessary. for IDA' s concurrence (para 6.1 (i).
C. INSTITUTION BUILDING
4.21  The institutional strengthening program would play a major role in the project as
part of the overall development of Viet Nam's financial sector. The program would



- 33 -
consist of two related parts, one directed at an agreed Institutional Development Plan to
meet accreditation criteria for individual PFIs (para 4.7) and would relate to PFI
management and reaching financial targets. The other would be in training and technical
assistance to improve performance in outreach to the poor, savings mobilization,
community based banking, and Fund familiarization and management (para 3.6). The
program would be managed by the SBV. In the case of programs to strengthen VBAs
outreach and savings mobilization efforts, VBA could manage the program on behalf of
SBV, if so agreed. Experience in many countries with extending financial services to the
poor gives a clear indication that the inclusion of small-savers programs is a key
component of sustainability of financial institutions. Savings programs increase
resources available for lending, and more importantly, promote community participation.
Because of the importance of rural savings, a condition of disbursement for the FRP
would be the adoption by the Board of the BP of a small-savers program (para 6.4 (b).
4.22 The SBV runs two Banking Colleges which offer a college-level curriculum in
banking and specialized short courses for banking practitioners. They are the recipients
of significant donor assistance including that for an IDA-executed Banking Sector
Training Project. The VBA has a Training Department which is receiving assistance
under the Agricultural Rehabilitation Project. Training and technical assistance under the
project would work through this system using the SBV and VBA facilities.
4.23  The SBV would be responsible for the preparation and implementation of the
programs The Training Program would be prepared and would be updated annually.
During negotiations, agreement was reached that: (i) a training program would be sent to
IDA for review by November 30, 1996, and thereafter updated and sent to IDA by
November 30 of each year (para 6.1(f): and, (ii) SBV and VBA would employ
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions are satisfactory to
IDA (para 6.1(g). Government sponsored organizations such as the Women's Union,
NGOs, and others already active in formation of and assistance to savings and credit
groups for joint liability and related purposes would be eligible to contract with SBV to
provide technical assistance under the project.



- 34 -
5. PROJECT IMPACT, BENEFITS AND RISKS
Impact and Benefits
5.1   Financial Sector Refonn. The project would further financial sector reform (para.
2.1) by increasing competition between banks in rural areas of Viet Nam and would
support the evolution of private sector banks by making resources available for
onlending. It would further the reform of accounting, auditing , and other banking
practices already begun under other initiatives. It would introduce wholesale banking to
Viet Nam thereby lowering the cost of financial intermediation, introduce consistent and
upgraded standards for bank accreditation and promote banking modernization in a more
effective way than through the alternative of supporting banks individually. It would
increase short, medium and long term resources available for investment in the rural areas
and would address problems of savings mobilization, outreach to remote areas, and
financial literacy. Support to the Bank for the Poor would address market imperfections
in delivering financial services to remote areas and to otherwise creditworthy groups
lacking collateral and would assist in establishing a sustainable institution delivering
financial services directly to the very poor. The project is directly linked to the financial
sector strategy outlined in the CAS and elaborated in the Financial Sector Report (para
2.14). Viet Nam is considered ready to undertake the project in terms of institutional
capacity and the progress of financial sector reforms. At the level of individual PFIs, the
main bank is expected to be VBA which is already involved in an IDA-supported
institutional development plan with some success (para. 2.17). Other PFIs would be
required to undertake such an activity where required during the accreditation process
(para. 4.7).
5.2   Fiscal Impact and Cost Recovery. The RDF would be a fully commercial
operation with all costs being recovered directly. The interest rate margins would
include a spread to cover Government's foreign exchange risk, SBVs credit risk and cost
of managing the Fund, and the PFIs operating costs including loan loss provisions. The
interest rates on the FRP would similarly be set at a level to cover full cost of loanable
funds, intermediation costs, and loan losses. The cost of the technical assistance and
training would be recovered indirectly through lower cost of delivering financing savings
and credit services to the poor through group savings and lending mechanisms. In the
case of CGAP or bilateral grant funding of technical assistance, the benefit of lower
delivery cost and higher coverage would be obtained at little or no cost to Government.
Based on the experience with the VBA under the Agricultural Rehabilitation Project
(para. 2.16) loan losses are expected to be less than 5 percent (most of VBAs non-
perfomrning portfolio is SOE debt being addressed under separate IMF and IDA
activities).
5.3  Impact on Rural Poverty. The project would increase the coverage of financial
services to the poor which was identified in the Viet Nam Living Standards Survey as
being only 20 percent of poor with access to these services. It would bring investment
capital into remote areas, particularly uplands and mountains heavily populated by ethnic



- 35 -
minorities who are among the poorest in the country. While the FRP would be
exclusively for the very poor, the beneficiaries of the RDF would also be expected to be
mostly within the poorer half of Viet Nam's population, as borne out by experience with
the ongoing Agricultural Rehabilitation Project . Beneficiaries of the FRP are currently
defined as those with less than 15 kg of paddy per person per month and would be stated
in the Policy Manual. This is absolute poverty and is about half of the amount normally
considered to be adequate. Both Funds would be available for non-farm as well as on-
farm investment. This would increase creation of non-farm jobs in rural areas consistent
with Government's strategy of rural industrialization to increase incomes beyond the level
that can be provided by increasing farm productivity gains countered by rising farm
population and inelastic land supply( para 1.9).
5.4   Economic Analysis. The RDF and FRP components would finance economically
and financially viable investments in rural areas, both on-farm and non-farm. There
would be no ex-ante allocation by crop, type of industry or other categorization of
investment beyond those given in para 3.4. Since investment composition would not be
known, no internal rate of return can be calculated for the project. Loan processing
would include analysis of subproject viability. To ensure satisfactory economic impact of
the project, uneconomic proposals would be rejected. Training in evaluation would be
given as part of institutional support. Market interventions in Viet Nam have generally
been dismantled and policy induced divergence between economic and financial values
are not substantive for the purpose of the project.
5.5   Risks. For the RDF, the results of the ongoing project indicate that risk of
institutional failure would be low. However, the project includes specific measures to
reduce this risk through its institutional strengthening component (para 3.4). Potential
PFIs have expressed willingness to undertake institutional development plans. Similarly,
ongoing experience indicates that loan losses would be low (less than 5 percent of
amounts due). Provisioning adequately for loan loss would be part of the institutional
development plan for the PFIs.
5.6   For the FRP, both institutional and credit risk are high. The Bank for the Poor is
a new institution and its clientele would be largely untested. Directed credit initiatives in
Viet Nam have had mixed success and some have had many of the features that have
elsewhere led to unsustainability. In fact, part of the Government's reason for creating
this bank is to bring some order and consistency into the many targeted credit schemes,
usually externally funded, consistent with sound financial sector development. To the
extent that the BP uses VBAs existing staff already committed to smallholder lending
and procedures, the risk should be lowered. Emphasis, though, will have to be placed on
developing sound operational rules, staff training, promotion of financial literacy among
the poor, and linking lending to savings mobilization by the BP to lay down the pre-
conditions for a financially independent bank with resources not constrained by
Government budgetary circumstances. The project includes support to these actions. An
added feature to reduce risk is the release of FRP funds to the BP in tranches with
releases conditional on meeting and maintaining performance criteria acceptable to IDA
(paras 3.5, and 6.3(c)).



- 36 -
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND
RECOMMENDATION
6. 1   During negotiations agreements were reached with the Borrower on the following:
(a)   SBV, PFIs, and BP would maintain separate project accounts (para 3.16),
and that SBV would transmit to IDA the following:
(i)   quarterly reports on progress of implementation of the RDF and
FRP, beginning October 31, 1996 (paras 3.16, 4.20);
(ii)  semi-annual reports on progress of implementation of the
institutional strengthening program beginning January 1, 1997
(para 3.16);
(iii) audited accounts, including the auditors' report, of the RDF, the
FRP, the PFIs, the BP, the Special Account, and the Statement of
Expenditures, for activities under the project within six months
after the end of the Government's fiscal year (audit of financial
statements of PFIs and BP to be furnished within six months after
the end of the Government's fiscal year), beginning June 1998
covering FY96 and 97 (para 3.16);
(iv)  part two of the Implementation Completion Report of the project
within six months after the Credit closing date, (para 3.16);
(v)   by September 30 and March 31 of each year, commencing on
March 31,1997, an evaluation of the compliance of each PFI and
BP with regard to their eligibility criteria as set forth in the RDF
and FRP policy manuals and compliance with the agreed
institutional development plan (para 4.7 );
(b)   The Borrower would by December 31, 1996, establish and thereafter
maintain within SBV a monitoring and evaluation system satisfactory to
IDA (para 3.17);
(c)   Proceeds accrued from the repayment of the principal of the loans to PFIs
and BP would be used to establish and maintain revolving funds for
onlending for the same purposes and under the same terms and conditions
as those for onlending under the IDA Credit (para 3.9);
(d)   The RDF would be managed on a commercial basis (para 4.1) and funds
would be onlent according to the procedures as described in the agreed
Policy Manual (Annex 9) and changes in this manual would not be made



- 37 -
without IDA's prior concurrence (para 4.2). The manual would
incorporate agreements with IDA on the following:
(i)   eligibility criteria for RDF and FRP loans, including minimum
funding requirements and equity contribution of PFIs and sub-
borrowers, respectively (paras 4.2, and 4.17);
(ii)  interest rate structure and principles for determining the interest
rates under the project (para 4.5, and 4.16);
(iii)  sub-loan maturities (para 4.5);
(iv)   PFIs accreditation criteria, including that specific to the BP (para
4.7);
(v)   sub-project appraisal and analysis of viability (para 4.9);
(vi)  sub-project review and disbursement (para 4.10);
(vii)  certification of conformity with environmental laws would be
required for sub-projects above the free-limit (para 4.11);
(viii)  sub-project supervision (para 4.12) and,
(ix)   no PFI would have access to more than US$50 million equivalent
from the initial IDA funds made available to the Project except as
agreed between IDA and the Borrower (para 3.14):
(e)   by June 30 of each year, commencing on June 30, 1997, or at such other
intervals as the Borrower and IDA may agree, the Borrower, through SBV,
would exchange views with IDA on the level of interest rates charged on
Subs,idiary Loans , the FRP Loan and sub-loans to determine if such rates
are positive in real terms and above the weighted average deposit rates
prevailing in the market at the time of the review and, with the prior
concurrence of IDA, revise such rates, if required (para 4.5);
(f)   the project training programs for 1997 would be submitted to IDA for
review by November 30, 1996 and thereafter the updated programs for
each fiscal year by November 30 of each year (para 4.23); and
(g)   SBV would employ consultants whose qualifications, experience, and
terms and conditions are satisfactory to IDA (para 4.23).



- 38 -
(h)   by June 30, 1999, the Borrower would transfer the RDF to a suitable
commercial bank or other such institution (para 4.4).
(i)   SBV would assist the BP to prepare an institutional development plan with
a detailed timetable and staff training program and would furnish the IDP
to IDA for its comment and that BP performance vis-a-vis the
accreditation criteria and the IDP would be reviewed semi-annually by
June 30 and December 31 of each year commencing on December 31,
1996, and thereafter b y September 30 and March 31 of each year furnish a
report on BP performance and corrective measures to be followed, if
necessary, for IDA's concurrence (para 4.20)
6.2   Conditions of Credit Effectiveness would be:
(a)   the adoption by the Borrower through SBV of the RDF Policy Manual,
agreed to by IDA (para 4.2); and,
(b)   establishment within the PMU of SBV, sub-units for (i) PFI accreditation,
(ii) accounting and disbursement, (iii) subloan application review, and (iv)
supervision, and the appointment of qualified and experienced project
manager and core staff, all acceptable to IDA (para 4.4).
6.3   Condition of Disbursement for the RDF Sub-loans would be:
(a)  for each PFI, a Subsidiary Loan Agreement acceptable to IDA will have
been entered into with SBV (para 3.9) and accreditation will have been
obtained and maintained (para 4.1).
6.4  Condition of Disbursement for the FRP Sub-loans would be:
(a)   the Charter of the BP will have been approved and the Financing
Agreement will have been entered by SBV and BP (para 3.9);
(b)   the adoption by the Board of BP of (i) a small-savers program to increase
the resources available to the BP and to increase beneficiary participation;
and (ii) an institutional development plan satisfactory to IDA (para 3.14);
(c)   the adoption by the Borrower through SBV, of the FRP Policy Manual,
agreed to by IDA (para 4.17); and,
(d)   following an initial disbursement of US$2 million, subsequent
disbursements of up to US$7 million cumulative would be made only
after SBV has certified to IDA that the BP is in compliance with the
performance criteria agreed in the FRP policy manual and BP's
institutional development plan, and thereafter up to US$12 million
cumulative following a final review (para 3.14).



- 39 -
Recommendation
6.5   Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the project is suitable for a Credit
to the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam in the amount of SDR82.7 million (US$122 million
equivalent), on standard IDA terms with 40 years' maturity.



SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
Table 1. RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND
Detailed Costs
(USSOOO)
Quantlies                            Unit                         Bae Cost
Unit          1996      1"7       199       1999      2000      Tota      Cost    19B6    1997       198      1i99     2000      Total
h _efnt Comb
A. FUND CAPITAL
1. RDF - LONG TERM                                      BASE COSTS                                                                             10,000   15,000   15,000   18,00    18,000    76,000
2. RDF - SHORT TERM                                     BASE COSTS                                                                              5,000    8,000    9,000    8,000    5,000    35,000
SubleS FUND CAPrTAL                                                                                                                              15,000   23,000   24,000   26,000   23,000   111,000
B. PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT
1. EOANPMENTIn
WORKSTATIONCOMPUTERSANDSOFTWARE                          UNITS              10        20          -         -         *        30       14      137      274         -        -        -      410
OTHER OFFICE EOUIPMENT                                   UNITS              10        20          -         -         -        30        3       34       68        -         -    _          103
Subtotl EQUIPMENT                                                                                                                                 171      342        -         -        -      513
2. VEHICLES FOR FUND SUPERVISION lb                         UNIT               3         2          -         -         -         5      103      308      205        -                  -      513
Sublot PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT                                                                                                                      479      547        -        -               1,026
C. INSTITUTION BUILDING
1. TRAINNG /c
WORKSHOPS IN BANKACCREDITATION                           UNITS               3         3         3          3         -         12       4       13       13       13       13         -       53       .
LOCAL TRAINING IN WHOLESALE BANKING                    COURSES               5         5         5         5          -        20        4       22       22       22       22         -       88        0
OVERSEAS COURSES IN WHOLESALE BANKING                  COURSES               3         3         3          3         -         12       4       13       13       13       13         -       51
Su' lS TRAINING                                                                                                                                    48       48       48       48         -      192
2. TIA IN IMPROVING RURAL BANKING SERVICES Id
ADVISORYSERVICES                                     Consu,lntrMonh         12         6         6         6          -         30      18      212      106      106      106         -      529
STUOIES TO IMPROVE RURAL BANKING                    Consultant Month        12         6         6         6          -        30       18      212      106      106      106    _           529
Sdbotl TIA IN IMPROVING RURAL BANKING SERVICES                                                                                                    423      212      212      212         -     1,058
SuablS INSTlUllON BUILDING                                                                                                                          471      260      260      260               1,250
Totall hvse nt Coal                                                                                                                                15,950   23,807   24,260   26.260   23,000   113,276
11. R at Comb
A. INCREMENTAL OPERATING COSTS
1.CONTRACTSTAFFCOSTS/I                                   StaffMorth           30        60        60        60        30        240        1       17       33       33       33       17       132
2.0&M,PRINTING,OFFICESUPPLIES                              UNITS              10        10        10        10        10         so        1       II       11       11       11       11        54
Totd Racuamnt Coda                                                                                                                                     27       44       44       44       27       18e
Tota                                                                                                                                                15,977   23,850   24,303   26,303   23,027   113,461
\a I cjdss 60% tax on cif pnos p  excse bx of 100%
rb  1kxma 8l0% imnport taxon c price pkia 100% excise tux
\c For detk see Amex 3
Id nckbss 10% income tax
bs No mimental pen*mwt staff
x
I-j
Fst 4



SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
Rurl Fiance Projed
Table 2. FUND FOR THE RURAL POOR
Debtad Costs
(US$S000)
Quantities                              Unn                        Bee Coat
Unit          1996       1907        1995       it"         2000      Total      Cost   1996    1997    199        1999    20S0     Tot l
1. h   a_ Coats
A. FUND CAPITAL
1. FRP - MEDIUM TERM                                             Base Cosls                                                                                    1.000   2,000   2,000   2,000    2,000     9o000
2.FRP - SHORT TERM                                               Bae Costs                                                                                     1,000    2,000   2,000    1.600    1,000    7,900
Subtotl FUND CAPITAL                                                                                                                                             2,000    4,000    4,000    3,600    3,000    16,600
B. SUPPORT TO BANK MANAGEMENT
1. WORKSTATION COMPUTERS AND SOFrWARE                              UNITS                3           3          3           3          3         15       14      41       41      41       41      41       205
2.PRINTERS,COPIERS,OTHEROFFICEEQ.                                   SET                 3           2           1          1          1          8        3      10        7       3        3       3        27
3. VEHICLES FOR BANKSUPERVISION                                     UNIT                2            -          -          1          1          4      103     205        -        -     103     103       410
Subtal  SUPPORT TO BANK MANAGE1MENT                                                                                                                               256       48      44      147     147       643
C. INSTITIfTION BUILDING la
1. TRAINNG lb
LOCAL TRAINING OF BANK OFFICERS k                                UNITS                 1          1           1          1          1          5       99      99       99      99       99      99       494
LOCAL TRAINING OF SAVINGS AND LOAN GROUPS                       COURSES              80         200         240        200         80        800        1       8e     219     263      219      a8       877
OVERSEASSTUDYINBANKINGFORTHEPOOR                                COURSES                3          3           3          3                    12        4      13       13       13      13        -       51
SuR*t   TRAINING                                                                                                                                                195      331     375      331     186      1,422
2 TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE IN BANKING FOR THE POOR
ADVISORY SERVICES                                            Constat Month             6          6           6          6          -         24       16      96       56      96       go        -      385
STUDIES IN BANKING FOR THE POOR                              ConiUcti Moro            3           3           3          3                    12       16      48       48      48       48               192
S_SttI TECHNICAL ASUSTANCE IN BANKING FOR THE POOR                                                                                                              144      144     144      144               577
S_kta INSTITUTION BUILDING                                                                                                                                        344      475     519      475     156      1,999
Totbl h a  Coos                                                                                                                                                    2,600    4.523    4,564    4,222    3,334    19,242
L Reau t Coats
A. ENCREMENTAL OPERATING COSTS
1.CONTRACTSTAFFCOSTS                                              MONTHS                2           2          2           2         2          10        1       1        1       1        1       1         5
2.0& M,PRINTING,OFFrCESUPPUES                                      UNITS                 1          1           1          1          1          5       11      11       11      11       11      11        54
Tobl Racwrwg Coats                                                                                                                                                   12       12      12       12      12        59
Tatal                                                                                                                                                              2.612   4,535   4.575    4,234    3,345    19,302
%a Tririg *nd w ushops at SBV Bting Colege, ead other local inabtAtona
lb For deaitsm Am ne.L2
c For Oats See Anrsms
IDx



SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
Ru.ml Fmsnco Projed
Tab. 3 IMPROVING FINANCIAL SERVICES TO RURAL AREAS
DWAId costs
(USSOGO)
Q    _tms                         Unit                     Ba  Cost
unit         1t"       107       19n      1i       2000    Totl    Cost   1900    1007    139       It"    2000    Toal
1, M_O_d CEh
A. VEA OUTREACH
1. OFFICE EQUIPMENT FOR OUTREACH MANAGEMENT                                                       set              10        20        20       20        -       70       3      34     60       88     a8        -    239
2. VEHICLES FOR MOBLE STAFF N REMOTE AREAS
CARS FOR FIELD STAFFIN REMOTE AREAS Ia                                                         UNIT              iS        20        20       1S                60      41    410    821       u21    410        -   2.42
MOTOR CYCLESFORF1ELDSTAFFINREMOTE AREAS                                                    MAOTORCYCLE           10        iS       1         10       -       40     1    103    103    103    103            -    410
S _bboS VEHILES FOR LOBLE STAFF N REMOTE AREAS                                                                                                                                   513    923    923    513              2,e73
. TIAWO N OUTREACH TO REMOTE AND ETHNIC AREAS
VVORKSHOPS                                                                                     UNITS              3         3         3         3       -        12      4      13      13      13      13              53
LOCAL TRANNG IN OUTREACH PROGRAMS lb                                                         COURSES              5         5         5         5       -       20       4      22      22      22      22       -      8
OVERSEAS STUDY TOURS IN OUTREACH BAWING                                                      COURSES              3         3         3         3       -        12      4      13      13      13      13              51
Su_SU TRAING N OUTREACH TO REMOTE AND ETHNIC AREAS                                                                                                                                48      48      4       48       -    192
4. TECHNICAL ASETANCE N BANKG SERVICES FOR REMOTE AND ETHNIC AREAS
ADVISORY SERVICES                                                                         CnnoA.At hMo,           2         4         4         4       -       14      10      32      84      84      64       -    224
STUDIES IN OUTREACH METHODS                                                               ComsieoMoE              3         3         3         3       -       12      18      48      48      4e      48    _        192
SE.o  TECHNICAL ASYSTANCEWN 5A0K3O SERVICES FOR REMOTE ANDETH C AREAS                                                                                                             eo     1       112    112        -    417
Sb  VBEA OUTREACH                                                                                                                                                                  670   1.152   1,152    742            3,721
B. VRA SAVNGS MOBIIATIOO PRORAM  IC
1 OFFICE EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS FOR sAViNGS CAMPAIGN                                            SET                4         4        4         4                16       1       4       4       4       4              17
2 LOCALTRAJNG                                                                                  COURSES              4         4         4        4        -       1e       4      18      18      18      18 a            70
3 TEcHcAL ADVISERS AND STUDIES IN SAVINGS MOBLUZATION                                       Cauiat Mnth             2         2         2        2                 8      18s     32      22     32       32       -    128
S*b_S VEA SAV   TS MOLATION PROGRAM                                                                                                                                                 84      54      54      54       -    216
C. COWiWIITY DEVELOPMT PROGRAM N GROa  FORATUON AND SMALL SAVERS
FRCONDS 01111) Id
1 CON4SLLTANTSANDSTUeIES(LOCALAND FOREIG#                                                   Co.oatModEh            10        20       25        25               e8       16     100    401    401    401          -   1.363
2 COIRAINNTRAINIGINFINANCIALMANAGEENT                                                          COURSES              4        1        10       10        -       34       5      22      04      84      54             184
S-"te  CoGMrIY DOVU.GPNUEIT FRGRME GROU FORMATION AN SMALL
SAVERE PRUOMOTION                                                                                                                                                          182     456    455    455             1,547
Toga                                                                                                                                                                                 911   1.011   1,e61   12'0            5,43
IA Vdb           forb this pate fwm VBA
lb Fw dta - Annex3
Id Fr datk mee Aunn  3
Id For od_ urn Aisles 3
WCD
xX
LA



SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
Rural Finance Project
Table 4. Components Project Cost Summary
%     % Total
(VND Million)                    (USS'000)           Foreign   Base
Local    Foreign      Total      Local   Foreign    Total   Exchange  Costs
1. RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND                                500,184    747,892    1,248,076   45,471    67,990    113,461     60       82
2.FUNDFORTHERURALPOOR                                    128,168    84,149      212,317    11,652    7,650    19,302       40       14
3. IMPROVING FINANCIAL SERVICES TO THE RURAL AREAS        26,693    33,621       60,314    2,427     3,056     5,483       56        4
Total BASELINE COSTS                                       655,044    865,662    1,520,707   59,549    78,697    138,246      57     100
Physical Contingencies
Price Contingencies                                        9,234     6,456       15,690      839      587      1,426       41        1
Total PROJECT COSTS                                        664,278    872,118    1,536,396    60,389    79,283    139,672     57     101
(DxM
x
.1J



SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VET NAM
Rural Finance Project
Table 5. Expenditure Accounts Breakdown
(US$S000)
Physical
Cont.
Plus
Base Cost                    Physical Contingencies             Price Contingencies                  Total Incl. Cont.          Base Costs  Price
Local                              Local                             Local                              Local                       + Price   Cont. on
For.   (Excl.  Duties &             For.   (Excl.  Duties a           For.   (Excl.  Duties &          For.   (Excl.  Duties &              Cont. on   Physical
Exch.   Taxes)   Taxes    Total    Exch.  Taxes)  Taxes   Total   Exch.  Taxes)  Taxes   Total   Exch.   Taxes)   Taxes    Total   Base Costs  Coot.
1. investnern Costs
A. RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND
1 RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND- LONG TERM           45,600   30,400        -    76,000    -       '        .       .          .        .                -   45.600   30.400        -    76.000     76.000
2 RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND - SHORT TERM         21,000   14,000I            35,000    -                              -       -                          21,000   14,000        -    35,000     35,000
Subtotal RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND                 66,600   44.400        -   111.000    -                                                                 66,600   44,400        -   111,000    111,000
B. FUND FOR THE RURAL POOR
1. FUND FOR THE RURAL POOR - SHORT TERM        3,040    4,560              7,600    -                              -       -                           3,040    4,560        -     7,600      7,600
2. FUND FOR THE RURAL POOR - MEDIUM TERM       3,600    5,400        -     9.000    -       -        -       -          -        -        -            3,600    5,400              9,000      9,000
Subtotal FUND FOR THE RURAL POOR                 6,640    9,960        -    16,600    - W              -       -          -        -                -    6,640    9,960        -    16,600     16,600     -
C. VEHICLES
1. MOTOR CYCLES                                 128         -     282       410    -        -        -       -         14        -      30      44      142         -     312       454        454      -
2.4WDVEHICLES                                    898             1.975     2,873    -       -        -       -         97        -     214     311      995         -    2,189     3,183      3,183     -
3.2WDVEHICLE                                     160        -     353       513    -        -        -       -         14        -      31      45      174         -      383       558       558    -
Subtotal VEHICLES                                1,186             2,610     3,796                                      125        -     275     400    1,311              2,884     4,196      4,196               I
0. EQUIPMENT
1. COMPUTERS                                    192               423       616    -                                   19               43      62      212         -     466       677        677
2. OTHER OFFICE EQUIPMENT                        129       4      254       387    -        -        -       -         14       1       27      41       143       4       281       428       428
Subtotal EQUIPMENT                                321        4      677      1,002        -            -       -         33       1       69     103      354        4      746      1,105      1,105
E. Trainng
1. vORKSHOPS/a                                   58      541         -      599    -        -        -       -          7     146         -    153       65      687         -      752        752
2.OVERSEASTRAINING                               154        -                154                                       17        -               17     170         -                170        170
3 LOCAL TRAINING                                200    1,107         -     1,308    -                -       -         23     296         -    318      223    1,403         -     1,626      1,626
Subtotal TrIning                                  413    1,848         -     2,060    -       -        -       -         46     442         -    488      459    2,090         -     2,548      2,548
F. Tachnial Assance
1. AOVISORY SERViCES                           3.447        -      96      3,543            -       -        -        373        -      10    382    3,819          -     106      3,925      3,925
Totallnv_restmrCodst                              78,607   56,011    3,383   138,001    -       -        -                576     443      354   1,373   79,183   56,454    3,737   139,374    139,374
IL Racutrnt Costs
B. INCREMENTAL OPERATING COSTS hb                  90       155        -      245    -        -        -       -         10      43         -     53      100      198                298        298
Total RecurrentCoasb                                 90      155         -      246    -        -        -       -         10      43         -     53      100      198         -      298        298
Total                                             78,697   56,166    3,383   138,246    -        -                -       687     486       354   1,426   79.283   56,652    3,737   139,672    139,672
\a Worthops on tund management
\b Anmount is based on PMU estimates
W(D
x
tn



SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
Rural Finance Project
Table 6. Disbursement Accounts by Financiers
(US$'000)
Participating
Financial       International                                Local
The Government      Institutions   Development Assn         Total         For.    (Excl.  Duties &
Amount   %       Amount    %       Amount    %        Amount    %         Exch.   Taxes)   Taxes
1. RURAL DEVELOPMENT FUND                           383      0.3   11,142     10.0   100,032     89.7   111,558    79.9   66,774    44,400       383
2. FUND FOR THE RURAL POOR                         1,660    10.0                 -    14,940    90.0    16,600      11.9    6,640     9,960        -
3. VEHICLES & EQUIPMENT                            3,252    68.6         -       -      1,491    31.4     4,743      3.4    1,491        4    3,247
4. OVERSEAS TRAINING                                   -       -                         170   100.0        170      0.1      170         -        -
5. DOMESTIC TRAINING                                  0        -         -       -     2,378    100.0     2,378      1.7      288     2,090        -
6. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                             106      2.7         -       -     3,819     97.3     3,925      2.8    3,819         -      106
7. INCREMENTAL OPERATING COSTS                      298    100.0        -        -         -        -       298      0.2      100      198         -
Total                                                5,699      4.1   11,142      8.0   122,831    87.9   139,672    100.0   79,283    56,652     3,737
TOTAL - ROUNDED AND ALLOCATED                      6,700            11,000            122,000     87
u.
l,



-46-
Page 1
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
FINANCIAL SERVICES TO THE POOR
1.    This annex reviews the credit and savings mechanisms available to the rural poor
in Viet Nam. The objective is to identify and analyze the programs, institutions and
modalities that aim at reaching the rural poor with credit and savings services and that
appear to be sustainable. The technical assistance support under the Rural Finance
Project (Annex 3) focuses on enhancing the outreach of these sustainable programs. An
overview of the institutional provision of financial services to the rural poor is presented
first, followed by a more detailed analysis of the roles of the SBVs People's Credit Funds
(PCFs) and the Viet Nam Bank for Agriculture (VBA), given their relative significance in
reaching the poor, and their role in the proposed technical assistance under this project.
Overview
2.    About 51 percent of the Vietnamese population is classified as poor, i.e., at or
below the national average poverty line of VND 1.1 million (US$100) per person per year.
Poverty is most prevalent in rural areas where 80 percent of the population and 90 percent
of the poor live.' Among the many constraints to increase agricultural productivity and
diversify rural enterprises as means of poverty reduction, access to financial services
stands out as a severe limitation. The Viet Nam Living Standards Survey indicated that
only 20 percent of the rural households taking loans borrow from formal sources,
primarily government banks, while a majority (72 percent) borrow from informal sources
at interest rates two to three times higher than those charged by formal financial
institutions.2 On the other hand, the availability of deposit services in rural areas is
extremely limited, forcing rural household to save in physical assets, often unsafe and
illiquid. The poor conditions of accessibility and communications prevailing in rural
areas, which create substantial costs of providing financial services, and the inability of
rural households to offer collateral explain the limited access to formal finance by the
rural poor.
3.    Formal credit is severely rationed because banks are unable to mobilize sufficient
savings, due in large part to the interest rate structure set by the SBV. The deposit rate
for medium term (2-5 years) funds is set at a higher rate (currently 2.1 percent) than the
lending rate for the same term (currently 1.7 percent). This inverted structure discourages
I   World Bank. VietNam: Poverty Assessment and Strategy. January 1995.
2   World Bank. Viet Nam: Public Sector Management and Private Sector Incentives. An Economic
Report. September 1994. Interest rates charged by informal lenders range from 6% to 10% per
month, while formal sector rates vary between 2.5% and 3.5% per month.



-47-
Annex 2
Page 2
institutions from raising longer term deposits and thus limits the ability of households to
borrow, particularly for periods longer than 3 to 6 months.
4.    Savings are estimated to have increased from 3.2 percent of GDP in 1989 to 16.3
percent in 1992. This development confirms that households have the same strong
predilection to save that is observed throughout East Asia. Stabilization of the economy,
strengthening of property rights, and improvements in the banking system combined to
bring forth these savings and to channel them to productive uses. In 1993, however,
national savings declined to 11.2 percent of GDP. Of this five point decline in the
savings rate, about one fourth can be attributed to a decline in government savings and
three-fourths to a decline in savings outside of the government sector. Reversing this
decline is an immediate and important task for economic policy that will require actions
both on the government budget and on the incentives that encourage households and
firms to save and invest.
5.    Encouraging the mobilization of savings will reduce the shortage of funds
currently affecting financial intermediation in Viet Nam. In addition, the ability to save
in currency rather than gold or livestock benefits the poor, especially in times of
emergency.
6.    The total number of formal financial units serving the rural population in Viet
Nam (excluding NGOs) at the end of 1994 was 2,821, made up as follows:
2,564   Viet Nan Bank of Agriculture branches
16   Rural Shareholder Banks
172   People's Credit Funds
69   Credit Cooperatives
7.    The outstanding balance of formal credit to the rural population was US$5,487
billion at the end of 1994, of which 23 percent was funded from SBV and 77 percent
from deposits. In general, the formal financial markets are more developed in the south,
while the poorest regions in the central area and the Northeast provinces have little
access to formal savings and credit.
8.    It was found during project preparation that the current level of outreach to the
poor by the formal credit sector was better than expected. To measure outreach, average
loan sizes and lending methodologies were considered. Average loan size of
approximately VD500,000 (US$45)3 and less was used as an indicator of outreach to the
lower half of the population. Lending methodologies such as joint liability and savings
and credit groups, as well as mobile banking units, are also indicators of outreach in rural
areas. In reviewing the outreach of credit and savings to the poor, formal banks,
3 Average loan sizes of approximately $50 are considered appropriate for reaching the poorer half of the
population in countries where average per capita income is less than US$200. Average loan sizes for
organizations such as the Grameen Bank and Bangladesh Rural Advancement Committee (BRAC) are
US$40 to US$50. The level of poverty in Bangladesh is considered similar to that in Viet Namn.



-48-
Annex 2
Page 3
cooperatives, service organizations, and international organizations were examined. A
summary is provided below of the activities of each.
9.    The SBV recently created PEOPLE'S CREDIT FUNDS (PCFs) to supplement the
VBAs activities in rural finance. PCFs are approved by the SBV and managed by local
villagers. In spite of their stated objective to provide access to credit and savings for the
rural poor, it was found that they do not significantly utilize group lending methodologies
(although group lending is more common in the south), and generally require collateral
(50 percent to 70 percent) for loans. Average loan size appears to be greater than VD2
million (US$180) and in some cases as high as VD5 million (US$450), which is
generally too large for the poorer half of the population. If PCFs are to supplement the
VBAs activities, they must reduce their collateral requirements and encourage more
outreach through group lending. However, further training and technical assistance is
required to ensure appropriate mechanisms are in place prior to expanding the system.
10.   Other than the PCF system, the VIET NAM BANK OF AGRICULTURE is the only
state-owned formal financial institution active in rural finance. In 1992, the VBA
claimed to reach 9 percent of rural households with credit and savings services; by the
end of 1994, it claimed to provide credit to approximately 30 percent of rural households.
This increase is the result of establishing sub-district offices and mobile banking teams,
and using joint-liability groups. The VBA utilizes group lending for about 35 percent of
their loans and seems to be reaching thereby the poorer segment of the population. Loan
sizes appear to be between VD500,000 (US$45) and VD1 million (US$90) per group
member. However, there is some question as to whether or not the smaller loans actually
reach the poorer villagers as some interviews highlighted the possibility that village
leaders choose the group members and often include family members or other favored
people. The VBA is actively lending through service organizations and NGOs, a practice
which is working well to develop a linkage between the informal and formal sectors.
11.   Cooperatives and credit societies now represent a small share of the formal
financial market in contrast to the large number of cooperatives operating in 1988-1990.
Currently there are 69 cooperatives, down from 7,900 in 1987. RURAL SHAREHOLDING
BANKs are replacing many of the credit cooperatives in rural areas. In March 1995, there
were 16 rural shareholding banks in Viet Nam. Average loan sizes were VD 1 -3 million
which indicates that they may have greater outreach to the poor than the PCF system, but
they still claim to meet only 10 percent-3 0 percent of the estimated credit needs of the
rural population.
12.   SERVICE ORGANIZATIONS such as the Women's Union, Farmer's Association, or
Gardener's Association (VACVINA) are effective in reaching the poor due to their
reliance on group lending and mass membership. Generally, the service organizations
either borrow from the VBA or work with the VBA to provide savings and credit services
to their members. In addition, they often work with NGOs to deliver these services.
NGOs have very good outreach as they generally focus all their efforts on providing
services to the poor in a sustainable manner. Average loan size through NGOs appears to



-4 9-
Annex 2
Page 4
be VD200,000-300,000 (US$18-27). These NGOs, however, are operating on a
relatively small scale compared to NGOs in other parts of the world, which are growing
significantly and reaching levels of scale and sustainability that allow them to create
formal financial institutions to serve the poor. With the infusion of funds from the World
Bank project, NGOs may be able to increase their activities to a point where a formal
financial institution is possible, but this will likely take a number of years.
13.   The WOMEN'S UNION appears to be the most active mass organization in micro-
credit. Their plans to set up a Women's Union Bank require more study but from the
initial discussions, it appears that they may have sufficient scale and national outreach to
make a bank feasible. Training the Women's Union staff in financial management and
reporting is also required prior to the formation of a Women's Union bank.
14.   Since 1990, a number of MULTILATERAL ORGANIZATIONS have supported credit
activities in Viet Nam. Programmes implemented by UNICEF, IFAD, World Bank,
European Economic Community, UNFPA, ADB, and others all appear to be improving
access to credit and savings services by the poor. A positive element discovered during
project preparation was that in many programs interest rates and fees charged appear to be
high enough to cover all expenses, including operating costs, loan losses, financial costs
and inflation, assuming that the loan portfolio quality is as high as that reported. It
should be noted, however, that poor loan quality generally shows up over the longer term,
and since credit and savings organizations in Viet Nam are still quite young, the quality
of the loan portfolios should be monitored carefully. In addition, tight cost controls are
required to ensure that the interest and fees collected continue to cover all expenses. To
date, most of the PCFs have reported a profit after one year in operation and the VBA has
reported a profit for the last two years. This indicates a positive trend which will
hopefully continue as volumes grow.
15.   The biggest problem facing all financial organizations seems to be a lack of funds,
particularly medium to long-term. Since larger loans earn relatively more interest than
smaller loans, profit-motivated organizations will tend to lend to larger clients, thus
reducing any efforts to reach the poor. In addition, to overcome the lack of longer-term
funds, many lenders roll over short-term loans without the principal being repaid in order
to provide medium-term loans. Therefore, although the poorer half of the population
generally take short-term loans, the lack of medium to long-term funds ultimately affects
their access to credit since short-term funds are not truly available for short-term loans.
16.   Throughout Asia it has been found that the poor value access to savings as much
as they value access to credit. Due to the recent bankruptcies of cooperatives, and a
general mistrust of the banking sector, as well as historically high inflation rates, there is
a lack of confidence in saving in currency. This confidence needs to be restored to
increase savings. Firstly, the inverted interest rate structure set by the SBV needs to be
corrected. Then, savings products must be made available with terms (short-term or
demand) and minimum deposit sizes (VD1,000 and above) suitable to the poor.
Ultimately, the service provided to savings customers must be improved.



-50-
Annex 2
Page 5
17.   Technical assistance is required to help the SBV, the VBA, and service
organizations improve their capacity and outreach to the poor, particularly with regard to
financial reporting, monitoring and group formation. Specifically, technical assistance
should be provided in the design of reports to include various measures of loan portfolio
quality. For example, all organizations should be reporting overdue loans as soon as they
become one payment period past due. These amounts should then be categorized by age
of overdues (including the full amount of the outstanding loan balance, not just the
amount overdue) and loan loss provisions based on these "aged" amounts.
18.   Group lending and correspondingly smaller loans are key to providing access to
credit and savings services for the poor. In addition to monitoring the size of loans,
however, it is useful to periodically rank clients in terms of their wealth. Periodic wealth-
ranking allows project management to determine if the credit and savings services are in
fact reaching the poor. For loan disbursement, it is sufficient to use loan size as a proxy
for poverty.
19.   Many successful pilot projects have been instituted in Viet Nam and the findings
appear to be quite consistent: the poor are able to repay loans bearing interest rates that
make it profitable for organizations to lend; the poor do save; and there is tremendous
demand for credit and savings services amongst the poor which is not being met currently
from formal sources. A study of the savings and credit activities of NGOs could result in
a better design and implementation of the Rural Finance Project through the adoption of
their more successful features, particularly their savings components. Specifically, it will
be most useful to examine those NGOs that have the vision to create large, sustainable
micro-credit programmes.
20.   The linkage that has been created between the informal sector and formal
institutions like the VBA and PCFs is a positive finding and should be encouraged.
Although this Rural Finance Project seeks to strengthen the formal financial sector,
because so many service organizations and NGOs use VBA funds for lending purposes, it
is worthwhile to examine and encourage these linkages. Also, service organizations and
NGOs have developed effective outreach mechanisms which benefit the formal financial
sector. Finally, NGOs and service organizations sometimes also provide training as part
of their programmes. This training ultimately benefits the formal financial sector in
lower loan losses and more effective usage of credit and savings products.
Outreach activities of banks - the SBV and the VBA
21.   Until 1988, the State Bank of Viet Nam (SBV) discharged both central and
commercial banking functions. The Bank for Foreign Trade of Viet Nam
(VIETCOMBANK) handled trade finance and foreign exchange management, and the
Bank for Investment and Development of Viet Nam (BIDV) provided long-term finance
for public works and infrastructure projects. In 1988, two additional state-owned
commercial banks were created: the Industrial and Commercial Bank (Incombank), from
SBVs industrial and commercial loan department; and the Viet Nam Bank for Agriculture



-51-
Annex2
Page 6
(VBA), from the agricultural credit department. Legislation put in place after 1990
extended banking services to include shareholding joint stock banks, joint venture banks,
branches/offices of foreign banks, and credit cooperatives. Early 1994 regulations
allowed savings and loans institutions-- called popular credit funds-- to be established.
Only one of the four state-owned commercial banks lends to rural households or small-
scale agricultural enterprises, the VBA. Therefore, this section focuses on the State Bank
and the VBA and will not discuss the other state-owned commercial banks.
STATE BANK OF VIET NAM
22.   The State Bank of Viet Nam (SBV) is responsible for refinancing commercial
banks; providing guarantees and re-guarantees on government loans; controlling credit
limits; setting reference interest rates; and managing and monitoring credit operations and
performance. The SBVs strategy for increasing the availability of rural credit and savings
is to license new institutions that will supplement the efforts of the VBA.
23.   The SBV is currently piloting Popular Credit Funds (PCFs) to fill the void created
by the failure of rural credit cooperatives in 1990-91. PCFs are based on the Canadian
model of credit unions with the objective of increased access to production credit for
small farmers. Approval for PCFs was granted in July, 1993 and in March, 1994,
operations began in 14 provinces with 78 districts operating 153 PCFs.
24.   Each PCF is a legal, autonomous economic unit, operating independently, with
the SBV maintaining the solvency and liquidity of the whole system. Currently, PCFs are
active at the local and national level (Central Credit Fund) and plans are to set up regional
funds as necessary. The Central Credit Fund is responsible for safeguarding the local
PCFs against the covariant risks to which they are exposed due to the local and
specialized nature of their loan portfolios. The Central Fund receives 40 percent of its
capital through the SBV and the balance through shares held by the local and, in future,
regional units. Regional funds will be set up to examine and supervise the operation of
local funds and to distribute capital between local funds by receiving deposits and
granting loans. Technical assistance to develop the PCF structure is currently being
received from Quebec, France, and Germany. In addition, the Asian Development Bank
(ADB) and the SBV have a Memorandum of Understanding to finance the PCF system.
By the end of April 1995, the ADB project was to have been implemented with $300,000
provided for technical assistance and training and US$80 million for loan capital (to be
confirmed).
25.   PCFs are voluntary member-based organizations and are 1 00 percent rural. Each
credit fund must have at least 12 founders. PCFs have two kinds of share capital:
qualification shares and permanent shares. Qualification shares have a minimum nominal
value of VD30,000 and bear no interest. Permanent shares are those purchased by the
founders, and they are generally of much higher value than the qualification shares.
There are also two types of members: official members who are eligible to vote (one vote
per person regardless of the number of shares) and to stand for leadership of the credit



-52-
Annex 2
Page 7
fund; and unofficial members who are allowed to deposit and borrow money but are not
eligible to vote or to stand for the leadership.
26.   Loans are made to PCF members only. The minimum loan size is VD300,000.
Deposits are accepted from non-members as well as members. The maximum deposit
term is 3 months and the minimum deposit is VD10,000. Interest and deposit rates
cannot be higher than those at the State Commercial banks as set by the SBV. In March
1995, interest rates ranged as follows: from 2.3 to 2.5 percent in the North; 2 to 2.3
percent in the central region; and 3 to 3.5 percent in the South. Loan interest rates depend
on deposit rates. A spread of 0.5 to 0.7 percent per month between the two is accepted.
The SBV states that the spread can be as high as 1 percent over the PCFs average cost of
funds. The Central Credit Fund lends at 2 to 2.2 percent/month to PCFs. Local PCFs
lend to other PCFs at 1.6 percent (funds go through Central Fund). The SBV pays 2.0
percent to PCFs that have idle funds on deposit. This variance encourages PCFs to
maintain idle funds with the SBV rather than onlending to other PCFs. This needs to be
clarified and, if necessary, corrected.
27.   The growth rate of PCFs is high, as the following table shows:
Marh 1994                   May 30,1995
Number of PCFs                           153                           207
PCF members                            12,000                        65,268
Capital               VD4.8 billion (US$435,000)    VD15.7 billion (US$1.4 million)
Deposits               VD9 billion (US$820,000)   VD108.7 billion (US$9.9 million)
Outstanding loans    VD14 billion (US$1.27 million)  VD123.3 billion (US$11.2 million)
28.   The size of the PCFs differs depending on the area. In the North, average capital
per PCF is VD50 million (US$4,500); in the South VD100-300 million (US$9,000-
27,000); and in central Viet Nam VD30 million (US$2,700). Each local PCF can borrow
up to one-tenth of its capital and must have minimum capital of VD20 million
(US$1,800). Capital is provided by the PCF founders and the State Bank (up to 40
percent). The Credit Union in Quebec, Canada provided VD27 million (US$2,500) in
capital to 28 original PCFs.
29.   There are no required reserves for PCFs at the local level although they do reserve
10 percent to 20 percent of profit each year. In addition, each PCF must set up a
professional and technical development fund, a welfare fund, and a bonus fund.
Remaining profit is distributed to shareholders as dividends and/or rewards to depositors
and borrowers. Regional and central funds must have reserves according to SBV
regulations. Local PCFs can lend out up to 75 percent of their deposits.
30.   PCFs have now been approved in 34 provinces. By the end of 1995, the SBV
estimates there will be 1,700 PCFs based on 35 per province in 50 provinces. This seems
too ambitious a target based on a short testing period of less than 1 year for most PCFs
and a maximum of 2 years for any. In general, the PCF system appears as an appropriate



-53-
Annex 2
Page 8
mechanism to supplement the activities of the VBA and provide credit and savings to the
rural population. In practice however, average loan sizes appear to be relatively too large
(VD3 to 5 million or US$270 to 450) for the poor. The requirement for collateral further
restricts access to the poor; and the need to physically go to the branch office limits
outreach. It seems advisable that collateral requirements for smaller loans be reduced or
eliminated, group lending be encouraged in order to increase access to village members
and reduce time required to visit the branch, and that further training and technical
assistance be provided prior to rapid expansion of the PCF system.
VIET NAM BANK OF AGRICULTURE
31.   The Viet Nam Bank of Agriculture (VBA) was created in March 1991 under the
reforms of the SBV. The VBA is a state-owned enterprise with capital allocated by the
SBV. Interest and deposit rates are determined within the state interest rate framework.
The VBA selects its own investments and economic activities.
32.   The VBA is the largest formal credit institution in rural Viet Nam. It has an
extensive rural branch banking system which serves as a direct lender, as well as an
indirect lender through cooperatives and other rural financial institutions. As of February
1995, the VBA had 2,564 branches, averaging one banking facility per four communes.
Staff has been reduced by one-third over the past three years. There are currently 20,000
staff including 1,870 managers, 7,185 credit officers, and 1,022 business operations
personnel. Staff productivity increased from 100 loans per person in 1992 to 300 loans
per person in 1994 although the technical skills of staff members remain weak due to
inappropriate educational backgrounds and insufficient exposure to modem banking
methods. The VBA plans to undertake a detailed staffing analysis in 1995 leading to the
development of a staffing plan, a staff development strategy and long-term training
programme.
33.   The capital source structure of the VBA has evolved significantly since 1990 as
follows:
Year-End            1990    1991    1992    1993    1994
Loans from State Bank         80       73      70       28       23
Self-Mobilized Capital        20       27      30       52       77
34.   Loans from the SBV to the VBA are primarily through refinancing and
rediscounting soft loans for natural disasters, diseases, force majeure and for purchasing
import and export commodities, such as rice and coffee. The VBA also participates in
joint-venture banks and borrows capital from international financial institutions. At
December 31, 1994, VBAs assets totaled VD 12,000 billion (US$1 billion), an increase of
6.5 times over 1990.
35.   The VBA estimates that rural household demand for credit has increased twofold
since 1992 when 22.6 percent of households required credit, and by 1994, 45.2 percent



-54-
Annex 2
Page 9
required credit. The proportion of lending to non-state enterprises has increased from 4
percent of the loan portfolio in 1990 to 76 percent in 1994.
Year-End               1990    1991    1992       1993   1994
Loan Portfolio (VD billion)      1,524    2,393    3,213    5,139   9,186
State-Owned Enterprises          1,461    2,148    1,782    1,580   2,166
Non-State Enterprises               63     245    1,431    3,559  7,020*
% Share Non-State Enterprises      4.1      8.6    35.8      60.3   76.4
Profit/(Loss) VD billion            --    (82)      (52)      2.7   24.0
*5,766 or 62.7 percent of total loans were to production households
36.   The VBA is primarily an agricultural bank with a loan portfolio dominated by
short-term (3 to 12 months) production loans to farm households. Average loan size is
VD122 million (US$11,000). In 20 out of 53 provinces in Viet Nam, the VBA is the only
formal bank. This results in both a high level of credit risk exposure due to the
concentration of agriculture loans, and a lack of effective competition for the VBA in
rural areas. In 1992, the VBA provided credit to about 9 percent only of the potential
rural households in Viet Nam. Based on end of year 1993 loans outstanding, the
corresponding percentage of households receiving credit through the VBA had increased
to about 20 percent. At the end of 1994, the VBA provided credit to about 30 percent of
rural households and official statistics show that about 40 percent of Viet Nam's farmers
have received VBA loans. Plans in 1995 are to provide 282,000 loans of VD500,000
(US$45) to rural households.
Borrower Groups
37.   The recent increase in outreach to the poor by the VBA has been achieved through
the establishment of sub-district transaction offices, visits of mobile banking teams to
villages, and the use ofjoint-liability groups. These new mechanisms have been
implemented through the re-deployment of existing staff and the utilization of service
agencies such as the Women's Union and non-governmental organizations (NGOs). This
has also lead to greater operational efficiency. The transactions offices provide better
service to rural households by virtue of being physically more accessible. This allows for
more frequent savings deposits and withdrawals as well as loan repayments. The mobile-
banking teams are primarily used to initiate loan applications. Actual loan approvals and
disbursements require the borrowers to visit a bank office. While these efforts are able to
reduce the transaction costs of loans, the district-based lending still entails some access
costs. The use of borrower groups (joint liability, solidarity group) appears to have had
the greatest impact on increasing the outreach of the VBA.
38.   Joint liability groups are formed either by VBA staff directly or through service
organizations or NGOs. Loans made through joint-liability groups generally do not
require collateral, provided the loans are for VD500,000 (US$45) or less. The VBA has
established 157,000 groups in Viet Nam to date, the majority of which are in the south.



-55-
Annex 2
Page 10
Branches we visited in the south claimed 97 percent of their lending is through groups,
formed primarily by the Women's Union and Farmer's Association. In the north, the use
of borrower groups is less prevalent. VBAs Head Office in Hanoi believes that, overall,
between 30 percent to 35 percent of VBA loans to households are made through groups.
The mission is waiting for data, including loan sizes, from the VBA to verify this.
39.   Usually the service organization or NGO administers the loans and monitors the
borrowers, and in turn receives a conmmission from the VBA. Some schemes require the
service organization or the NGO to guarantee the loan funds as well.
40.   The VBA pays commission to groups as follows:
* groups are formed with a mass organization; VBA makes the final loan
approval; the mass organization supervises the activities of the group and
negotiates with VBA and the People's Committee; then either:
(i)   the group leader completes the loan application and brings it to the
VBA branch, receives the total group loan and disburses it; the
VBA credit officer then goes to the next group meeting to ensure
everyone has received their loans; or
(ii)  the VBA credit officer delivers loans directly to the members.
Loans are repaid by the borrowers at the branch or transaction office. In this case, no
commission is paid. Each group must go through this stage before being eligible for the next
stage in which commission is paid to the NGO.
*  the VBA gives authorization to the mass organization that formed the group
to complete all loan documents as well as disbursing, supervising, and
monitoring the loans; collection is done by the borrower going to the VBA
branch. Groups are eligible for this method once they have a history of
repayment of 5 cycles; group leaders receives 20 percent of the VBAs spread
as commission.
*  the VBA authorizes the group leaders to complete all loan documentation,
loan appraisal, disbursal, supervision, as well as collection. The VBA
supervises all activities and pays the group leader 30 percent of spread as
commission.
41.   When setting up a group, the VBA staff visits the local authorities to work with
the commune representative of Women's Union and People's Committees. VBA staff
instructs the groups on how to operate. VBA policy states that there should be rich,
average and poor households in each group in order to "exercise the principle of joint
liability" in case of default. If one or several members default on their loans, the VBA
requests the whole group to repay the loan or members cannot receive additional credit.



-56-
Annex 2
Page I 1
42.   Groups are made up of 10-50 people (average 15-20) and in each village there are
normally 2 to 3 groups. When a group applies to the VBA for a loan, they must present:
approval of the commune People's Committee; by-laws of the group; list of members;
business plan of group, if applicable; and signatures of the group representatives who will
deal with the bank on behalf of the group. Loan repayment is made monthly either by
borrowers going directly to the branch, paying during group meetings, or by the group
leader collecting from all the members and meeting with the VBA representative. Loan
terms are determined by the economic sectors and investment objectives of the borrower.
They generally range from 3 to 12 months.
43.   There are generally no savings requirements in groups formed by the VBA. Loan
repayment appears to be good within the groups although VBA staff are authorized to
reschedule loans at the District without approval from a higher level. Rescheduled loans
are routinely used to provide borrowers with a longer effective loan maturity period than
is possible under current bank policy. This makes it difficult to ascertain clearly the
quality of group loans.
44.   The VBA plans to continue with the strategy of reorienting its branch network and
using group lending programmes to serve rural households. These plans offer an
opportunity to selectively assist the bank in improving its institutional capacity and
outreach effectiveness for rural households. Assistance is needed in several areas. For
example, the VBA has so far not followed a systematic approach in developing its
outreach and customer services. In particular, there has not been any formal evaluation of
the different mechanisms employed for the delivery of financial services which can be
used to guide further investment decisions. Also, innovations in lending such as the use
of borrower groups have not been accompanied by innovations for mobilizing household
savings. The latter is extremely important since savings mobilization constitutes the key
to sustainable banking operations. Savings have been found to be as effective and
necessary a service as credit in alleviating poverty. In addition, savings mobilization will
help to correct the funds shortage problem so prevalent in Viet Nam.



-57-
Annex 3
Page 1
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
INSTITUTION BUILDING, TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING
1.    The proposed technical assistance extends over a period of five years. It
emphasizes institution building, adaptation and adoption of methods and practices in
sustainable outreach found successful in other countries, as well as expansion of
successful programs currently operating in Viet Nam. In addition, it encompasses
extensive formation of local expertise, through training programs at all levels, from the
Project Management Unit (PMU) in the SBV, to the PFIs, the Bank for the Poor, and the
village savings and credit groups. It also promotes financial market integration through
fostering linkages between microfinance savings and credit programs with banks and
non-bank financial institutions.
2.    The overall responsibility for training and technical assistance would reside at the
Project Management Unit (PMU) in the State Bank of Viet Nam (SBV), under the
direction of the PMU manager (see Annex 4). However, in the case of programs
strengthening the VBA, the VBA may manage the program on behalf of the SBV, if so
agreed. The components of the proposed TA are outlined below, organized according to
their institutional focus. A summary table follows with the estimated costs of each
component, and the institutions responsible for the corresponding activity.
Institution Building Program at the SBV Project Management Unit (US$1.25
million).'
3.   It is anticipated that a Senior Advisor for the outreach program will be responsible
for designing and implementing the program work plan, for the contracting of services,
for controlling the quality of the program, monitoring and supervising the progress of the
program components, and reporting regularly on the outcomes and performance of these
TA components. The senior advisor will also allocate and oversee the use of funds set
aside for studies and evaluations associated with the program. The senior advisor will be
recruited by SBV with IDA agreement.
4.    Training Program. The training program would concentrate on the training needs
of project related staff in SBV. i.e., the staff of the Project Management Unit and the
Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs).  The program will aim at improving the
competence of PMU and PFI staff in loan appraisal, accounting, auditing, portfolio
management, and other banking activities. The program will include training at home and
abroad, workshops, seminars, and advisory services to bring the latest international banking
skills to Viet Nam.
Institution building only. This amount does not include $1,026,000 budgeted under "Project
Management Unit" for equipment and vehicles (see Annex 1, Table 1).



-58-
Annex 3
Page 2
5.    The SBV, through the PMU, would review the broad range of tasks to be performed
under the project by the PMU itself, and the PFIs at different levels; the skill already
available within the institutions; and the skill gaps to be addressed by the project training
program, taking account of other ongoing training programs. The findings with this review
would be used to design the course modules, identify the clients to be trained, and
determiine the frequency of the courses. Based on a preliminary assessment, the following
represents a broad outline of the program.
6.    Training Objectives would be to remedy the skill gaps of officers and staff
associated with the Rural Development Fund (RDF) lending in SBV and the participating
banks. Training will be directed at three staff levels - senior, middle, and operating. This
will be achieved through the following:
a) pooling and training of potential trainers who will assume the lead role in
teachers' training. This priority training activity would be carried out by
technical assistance;
b) senior level officers would be given a familiarization briefing on the decision-
making and policy formulation requirements of the RDF lending program;
c) middle level officers would receive training in sub-loan appraisal, accounting,
monitoring, loan documentation, and environmental matters;
d) operation staff would be trained in sub-loan processing, collateral valuation and
custody, record keeping, bookkeeping and reporting;
e) loan team members of participating banks would be trained under the same
program as the PMU staff, focusing on medium- and long-term sub-project
appraisal and supervision, credit risk evaluation, inflation implications on sub-
borrowers cash-flow, value of collateral, profit and loss accounts, sub-loan
repayments, and environmental matters;
f) PMU staff responsible for PFIs accreditation would be trained in conducting
appraisal of financial institutions, with special emphasis of reviewing the quality
of loan portfolio, liquidity, and profitability of the participating banks; and
g) upgrading the skills of the PMU staff in various procedures associated with sub-
loans processing, accounting, monitoring, and reporting of RDF transactions.
7.    Teachers Training Course would train and develop prospective trainers who will be
constituted into a pool to provide skills and expertise to RDF related staff in the PMU and
the PFIs. SBV will assume a lead role in carrying out this course. The teachers' training
programn would be carried out by technical assistance and would include the following
specialties: wholesale- apex operation, banks' performance evaluation, sub-project
appraisal, cash-flow and credit risk analysis, accounting, monitoring, loan documentation
and reporting, and collateral evaluation.
8.    Selection of participants for the project training program. A standard requirement
would be that Course Participants would be those of staff who most need the skills, by'



-59-
Annex 3
Page 3
virtue of being involved in RDF lending. Participants in the teachers training course would
be in a position to continue with the program until basic staff requirements are met.
9.    Senior officers of the PMU and the PFIs would be provided with information
mainly through lecture-discussions and open forums. For middle-level officers, training
would emphasize case studies and situations, loan appraisal, lending decisions, portfolio
management and control reports. For operating staff, training would consist of lectures and
simulation of loan application processing and collateral evaluation. For loan team members
and credit supervisors, a combination of lecture, discussions and case studies would be
undertaken.
10.   Evaluation of Training Activities. The training program would be evaluated at two
stages. The first stage would involve an assessment of knowledge, skills, and attitude
acquired from the training. At the second stage a review of the impact of training of job
behavior and institutional functioning would be carried out. While the impact of the first
stage can be observed almost immediately, the assessment of the impact of the second stage
would require much longer observation period.
VBA - Outreach Program (US$3.11 million)
11.   Mobile banking The VBA has already initiated (March 1996), on a pilot basis, a
mobile banks program with 200 "mobile bank units" (MBUs), i.e., vehicles especially
equipped to provide transaction services in areas where market conditions, weak
infrastructure and poor communications do not justify or enable the establishment of a
permanent locale. The pilot program expands and improve outreach in selected districts
of the provinces surrounding Ho Chi Minh City (55 MBUs), the central provinces (33
MBUs) and the Northern provinces (110 MBUs, especially around Hanoi). Mobile units
are assigned to specific district branch offices in these provinces. The entire program
expects to reach 1,000 MBUs and a countrywide coverage in areas with road access.
12.   Each mobile unit consists of a four-wheel drive vehicle, with a safe installed in
the back. It is staffed with four employees: one treasury officer, one credit officer who
would be able to appraise loans on site up to a certain amount, an accounts clerk in charge
of deposit transactions, and a driver also able to assist in financial services when parked
in the village. Training for this staff involves driving, vehicle maintenance, and special
procedures for handling accounting practices, lending and deposit transactions in a
mobile unit. It is hoped that a portable computer could be added in the future to the basic
equipment of each MBU (currently a calculator and office supplies), so that transaction
and accounting entries will not need to be recorded manually in the MBU to then be
entered in the bank's system upon return to the branch office.
13.   The VBA has established a task force headed by a Deputy Director to implement
and oversee the pilot stage. The task force has issued a document establishing procedures
for management, accounting, and assessment of performance of the MBUs, and has
determined the assignment of units to the district branches in the pilot program.



-60-
Annex 3
Page 4
14.   The mobile units will increase the frequency of service to under-served
communes, and will provide a more complete set of financial services, especially
deposits. The MBUs will serve villages according to a schedule determined by the local
market conditions, with a frequency between 2 and 4 times per week. It is anticipated
that each unit will provide services to about 40 rural households per day, performing
lending transactions and procedures (applications, disbursements, collections) and, more
importantly, mobilizing deposits from clients that otherwise would need to travel 5 to 10
kilometers to deposit small sums of money (50 to 100 thousand VND in the estimate of
the VBA).
15.   The VBA estimates that each MBU will mobilize about 4 million VND per day.
A large proportion of this amount, one could assume, would not have been saved in
financial form were not for the service of the MBU. In addition, it is expected that loan
collection will improve by having a regularly scheduled service, and that the overall
quality of attention to the rural households will be substantially enhanced. Other services
may be introduced once the pilot stage has been evaluated. This evaluation is planned for
June 1996 and, if the pilot is judged to be successful, a second stage would be launched in
August.
16.   The level of support proposed here under the project would contribute an
estimated 200 MBUs to the second stage of the VBA mobile bank program (assuming the
VBA can obtain them at the same cost of the initial 200). The project would also provide
funds for a contingent of motorcycles to improve services in areas not reachable by four-
wheel vehicles.
17.   Training. Funds for training the equivalent of one staff per vehicle are included
in the proposed project support (see cost table). Training contents would include, in
addition to that currently provided in the VBA program (see above), instruction on group
lending, training of group leaders, and reducing transaction costs through group-based
financial intermediation. This training will help VBA officers in their work with the
Women's Union, other service organizations and NGOs at the commune and district
level. Also, it will allow increases in officer productivity where group-based services
have not been implemented.
18.   Overseas training and workshops (study tours and short courses) are contemplated
in the training program, to familiarize bank technical and managerial staff with outreach
experiences and techniques known to be successful in other countries. Participation of
VBA staff in international workshops to share the bank's experience in outreach to the
poor with other institutions is also foreseen under this component.
VBA - Rural Savings Mobilization Program (US$0.42 million)
19.   The VBA recognizes the importance of establishing a savings mobilization
program that enables the institution to substantially improve its deposit services. A



-61-
Annex 3
Page 5
proposal or plan to his effect, however, has yet to be developed. A savings-mobilization
long-term advisor funded by the Rural Finance project would have as a first order of
responsibility that of assisting the VBA in developing such a program.
20.   The long-term advisor will also be responsible for the design of instruments,
strategies, and incentives aimed at expanding deposit mobilization among rural
households and businesses. Special attention will be given to capturing small deposit
accounts with low transaction costs for both the institution and the client. The items
foreseen under this component are: staff training, and accounts management equipment
and software (see table).
21.   Staff training in savings mobilization, local and overseas, will focus on deposit
mobilization techniques, services and instruments, management of small accounts, and
savings campaigns. Selected staff may be sent abroad for short courses in specialized
institutes, to create internal expertise in this area.
SBV - Bank for the Poor (US$1.98 million)2
22.   This component of the technical assistance will proceed along specific lines
defined by the joint World Bank/UNDP/CGAP short-term technical advice provided
during the start up of the Bank for the Poor. At this stage, the TA elements foreseen for
the first stages of the Bank for the Poor are assumed similar to those indicated above for
the VBA outreach, given the objectives and philosophy of the new entity.
23.   The costs estimated for this component correspond, therefore, to training and
equipment associated with enhanced outreach to remote areas, and active promotion of
group-based lending mechanisms. The estimates derive from the current plans
formulated by the BP, and their assessment of resource requirements. Special
consideration has been given to the equipment needs foreseen for countrywide
management and accounting, and the requirements associated with some 100 district
branches the BP expects to receive in transfer from the VBA in under-developed areas.
24.   The training program includes:
* Local training and workshops for BP staff on credit, savings mobilization, loan
supervision, savings and credit groups, accounting, computer operation, and foreign
language
* Overseas training and workshops (study tours and short courses) to familiarize
technical and managerial staff with outreach experiences and techniques known to be
successful in other countries
2 Institution building only. Does not include $643,000 budgeted as "support to bank management" in
the FRP (see Annex 1, Table 2).



-62-
Annex 3
Page 6
Training of savings and credit group leaders in basic group accounts management,
lending, loan collection, and deposit mobilization procedures.
SBV - Community Development Program in Group Formation and Financial
Intermediation (US$1.98 million)
25.   A special long-term technical advisor based at the PMU will direct this effort
under the supervision of the PMU manager. This area of the proposed TA requires
special expertise and a long-run perspective given its institution building focus and the
paucity of generalized rules and practices in the promotion of sustainable village-based
savings and/or credit mechanisms.
26.   The special advisor will be responsible for contracting with service and non-
governmental organizations for the development of financial intermediation schemes in
under-served areas. These schemes must follow (comply with) a core set of principles,
practices and standards including but not limited to:
a) a business plan aiming at long-run sustainability;
b) demonstrated ability to effectively reach the poor;
c) commitment to market pricing of financial services and products, to the extent
allowed by the law;
d) focus on introducing and enhancing financial literacy, financial discipline, and
compliance with contractual obligations among the affected population; and
e) current or potential integration with, or evolution into, formal financial
intermediaries (i.e., banks, PCFs or other regulated financial institutions).
27.   Pre-existing programs identified during project preparation as meeting the
requirements outlined above will be eligible for consideration under terms of reference
satisfactory to IDA. In addition, the Community Development program will issue terms
of reference and invite proposals from prospective contractors, identifying priority areas
and target groups amnong the under-served population. The special advisor will interact
with existing programs' managers and advisors, as well as with mass organizations and
the donor community, to identify these priority areas and target groups, and determine
alternative models to follow, or test as pilot programs as the case may be, in the
promotion and development of savings and/or credit mechanisms that effectively reach
the poor.
28.   The special advisor will also be responsible for contracting advisory services to
carry out assessments and studies of microfinance activity, institutions and organizations
in the country. Likewise, consulting services will be sought for the development of a
database and a performance monitoring system for microfinance programs.



-63-
Annex 3
Page 7
29.   The special advisor will be recruited with IDA agreement. Contracts for the
development of financial intermediation schemes and programs will also be reviewed by
IDA prior to SBV issue.



SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
Rural Finance Project
Institution Building, Technical Assistance and Training Costs
Unit            oty.        US$/           Total                      Exec.lnstitution
unit          US$               SBV                    VBA
SBV Project Management Unit (a)                                                                 1250000           1250000
VBA - Outrech Program                                                                           3110000                                  3110000
Advisory services                           pern month         12         16000          192000
Studies in outreach methods                 poes nonth          8         16000          128000
Vehicles: cars                                 unit            200        12000         2400000
motorcydes                             unit            40          6000          240000
Training & workshops, local                  No. staff         100         500           50000
Training & workshops, overseas               No. staff         20          5000          100000
VBA - Savings Mobilizatlon Program                                                               421000                                  421000
Advisory services                           perwn month         6         16000          96000
Equipment and software                         set             50          3000          150000
Training & workshops, local                  No. staff         150         500           75000
Training & workshops, overseas               No. staff         20          5000          100000
SBV - Bank for the Poor (b)                                                                     1982000           1982000
Advisory services                           perwn month        24         16000          384000
Studies in outreach methods                 peron month         8         16000          128000
Vehicles: motorcycles                         unit             40          6000          240000
Equipment                                     set              240         3000          720000
Training & workshops, local                  No. staff         240         500           120000
Training & workshops, overseas               No. staff         30          5000          150000
Training, group leaders                     No. leades        6000          40           240000
SBV - Community Development Progrm in
Group Formation and Financial Intermediation                                                    1980000           1980000
Long-term advisor                           person mnorh       18         16000          288000
Studies and assessments                    perwn month         12         16000          192000
Development of financial -                  programs           10         150000        1500000
- intermediation programs (c)
|TOTAL                                                                                           8743000           5212000               3531000
(a)     Vehides and equipment induded under support to PMU (Annex 1, Table 1)
(b)    Other vehicles and equipment included under support to bank management (Annex 1, Table 2)                                                                X
(c)    Technical assitance and Instituton bulkding services contracted by the SBV with                                                                          U.)
organizations and specialized agencies.



-65-
Annex 4
Page 1
SOCIALST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
TENTATIVE COMPOSITION AND STRUCTURE OF THE PMU
1.    SBV is the executive administrator, on behalf of the Government, of the Rural
Finance Project. A Project Management Unit (PMU) within SBV has been established
(under Government decision No. 555 1/QHQT dated October 2, 1995 and decisions No.
269/QD-NH9 dated September 23, 1995 and 1641/QD-TCCB dated November 27, 1995
of the Governor of the SBV). The PMU will be responsible for implementing the Project.
It would handle day-to-day matters related to the implementation of: (i) the credit
component, i.e., the Rural Development Fund (RDF) and the Fund for the Rural Poor
(FRP); and (ii) the Institutional Building, including training and Technical Assistance
(TA) to address skill gaps of project-related activities in SBV and the Participating
Financial Institutions (PFIs). The PMU shall operationally be independent and would
maintain a separate account (or accounts) for all project activities which would be audited
annually.
2.    The main duties of the PMU are as follows:
(a)   accreditation of PFIs through the application of an agreed set of criteria (to
be spelled out in the Policy Manual);
(b)   assigning a line of credit to each of the PFIs. The size of the line of credit
would be based on the respective PFI financial strength (solvency,
liquidity, and profitability) and its rural outreach capacity;
(c)   assisting in the preparation and the implementation of the PFIs
Institutional Development Plan (IDP);
(d)   approving RDF and FRP funded sub-projects applications in line with the
respective lending policy manual and supervising their implementation;
(e)   draw down of IDA funds including the administration of a Special
Account, and disbursement of funds to PFIs for financing of sub-projects
and IDPs;
(f)   maintaining project accounts and arranging for their auditing;
The PMU is the manger (not the owner) of the RDF and the FRP.



-66-
Annex 4
Page 2
(g)   monitoring PFIs performance vis-a-vis accreditation criteria,
implementation of the respective IDPs, and the use of project funds;
(h)   periodic review of lending terms and conditions and IDPs with a view to
adjusting them in light of changing conditions;
(i)   carrying out the training and TA activities;
(j)   undertaking environmental examinations and providing consultancy
services to selected sub-projects; and
(k)   promotional efforts in support of the project, including marketing of the
RDF in order to increase investments in the rural areas and enhance
financial competition through the participation of as many as possible
private and government banks.
3.    Project success to a large extent depends on the capability of the PMU
management and staff. Our experience has been that the presence of a well staffed, well
equipped, adequately budgeted with timely release of funds, operationally independent
PMU are essntial to ensure proper progress and a satisfactory outcome of the project.
4.    The proposed PMU composition and structure is based on the following
assumptions:
(a)   the functions of the PMU would be as described in paragraph 2 above;
(b)   sub-loans of up to US$5,000 equivalent would account for 40% of IDA
credit or US$40 million equivalent;
(c)   the balance of about US$60 million equivalent would comprise of about
6,000 sub-loans - average of sub-loan size assumed to be US$ 10,000
equivalent; and
(d)   project funds would be disbursed over a four year period with about 2,000
sub-loans per annum.
5.    Based on the above assumptions, the initial PMU staff strength would be 48.
However, since the PMU is also managing the Banking Modernization Project, some
economies of scale could be obtained and the incremental staff strength required could be
reduced to 35 as follows:
(a)   project manager plus one assistant/secretary (2-pesons);
(b)   PFIs accreditation and follow-up unit - 3 persons (2 bank analysts plus 1
assistant/secretary;



-67-
Annex 4
Page 3
(c)   accounting, disbursement of project funds to the PFIs, and managing the
project Special Account and its replenishment - 6 persons (3 accountants
plus 2 assistants and 1 secretary);
(d)   review loan applications and documents below the free-limit, and approve
loan applications above the free-limit - 13 p1ersors (8 officers, mainly
economists or financial analysts, plus 3 assistants, and 2 secretaries);
(e)   supervision and monitoring - iprns (6 officers plus 2
assistants/secretaries.
(f)   review and provide, on selective basis, environmental impact of, and
related consultancy services to, sub-projects - 6 persons (one officer plus
1 assistant/secretary and 4 environmental experts).
6.    Based on the duties and responsibilities of the PMU as stated in para. 2 above, the
PMU as established by the SBV is capable of meeting its requirements. However, to
ensure successful implementation of the project, the PMU should be provided with
qualified staff and adequate training support, equipment, and budget allocation.



-68-
Annex 5
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
ESTIMATED CREDIT DISBURSEMENT
(US$millions)
IDA FY          Semester             Disbursement       Cumulative         Profile %1
1997            31-Dec-96                  7.00              7.00              0
30-Jun-97                10.00              17.00              6
1998            31-Dec-97                 15.00             32.00              18
30-Jun-98                20.00              52.00             34
1999            31 -Dec-98               20.00              72.00              54
30-Jun-99                20.00              92.00             70
2000            31-Dec-99                 20.00             112.00             78
30-Jun-00                10.00             122.00             90
'Standard Disbursement Profile for Financial Sector Operations East Asia and Pacific Region, January 23, 1996.



-69-
Annex 6
Page 1
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
PROJECT SUPERVISION PLAN
IDA's Supervision Inputs into Key Activities
1.    The staff inputs indicated in the table below are in addition to the regular
supervision needs at headquarters for review of progress reports, procurement actions,
and other requirements. During the project implementation period, it is estimated that
total IDA supervision staff and consultant resources would be 77 staff weeks, of which 57
staff weeks would be in the field and the balance at headquarters. An indicative
supervision plan is given in Table 1.
TABLE 1: INDICATIVE SUPERVISION PLAN
Approximate Date          Activity             Skill Requirement     Staff Input
July 1996             Launch Workshop           Task Manager                 8
PFI Accreditation Review  Banking Specialist
Finalize Tors for Studies  Micro-Finance Specialist
Institutional Development    Financial Institutions
Review for BP             Analyst
October 1996          Implementation Progress   Task Manager                 6
Banking Specialist
Review Training           Training Specialist
March 1997            PFI Accreditation         Task Manager                 8
Banking Specialist
Outreach Program Review   Microfinance Expert
Progress of Studies and   Training Specialist
Training
August 1997           Overall Progress          Task Manager                 6
Bank for the Poor Review  Microfinance Specialist
Accreditation Review      Bank Specialist



-70-
Annex 6
Page 2
Approximate Date       Activity                    Skill Requirement         Staff Input
December 1997          Overall Progress            Task Manager                  6
Progress of Studies and    Training Expert
Training
Review Audit Quality       Audit Specialist
April 1998             Overall Progress            Task Manager                  5
Review Fund Projections    Financial Analyst
Data Collection and Analysis  MIS Expert
September 1998         Overall Progress            Task Manager                  5
Accreditation Review       Banking Specialist
Outreach Program Review    Microfinance Specialist
January 1999           Overall Progress            Task Manager                  3
Progress of Studies and    Training Specialist
Training
May 1999               Overall Progress            Task manager                  3
Institutional Development  Banking Specialist
October 1999           Overall Progress            Task Manager                  3
Outreach Program Review    Microfinance Specialist
March 2000             Overall Progress            Task Manager                  4
ICR                        Banking Specialist



-71-                                  Annex 7
Page 1
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
Project Implementation Plan
(Prepared by the Borrower)
1.    To implement the project the SBV would have to establish and maintain its Project Management
Unit to administer and coordinate day-to-day implementation of the IDA credit. SBV would appoint the
Head of all sub-units under the management of PMU to carry out the work. The appointment of these
required Heads would be taken place in April 1996. Other staff would include accounting officers, loan
processing officers and others as necessary should be completely recruited and ready to work in May
1996.
2-    SBV would complete the establishment of Rural Development Fund (RDF) in late July or
early August. This Fund will be managed by the PMU with full obligations and provisions in
compliance with its Operational Policy ManuaL
3.    SBV would coordinate with the Vietnam Bank for the Poor (VBP) to develop a Manual
for the operations of the Fund For the Rural Poor (FRP). This Manual should be made available
in late May I 996 and be submitted to IDA for approval in July 1996. To operate the Fund for the
Rural Poor, SBV should complete the establishment of this FRP by September 1996-
4.    The PMU should establish the accreditation criteria and have it approved by the State
Governor in late August in order to start accrediting all PFIs in September. The list of qualified
accredited PFIs should be submitted to IDA for review and approval in December 1996.
Meanwhile the PMU has to develop and obtain an agreement with PFIs a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement and with VBP a Financing Agreement in January 1997. The Subsidiary Loan
Agreement is subject to be reviewed by IDA in February 1997.
5.    To ensure the project would be implemented smoothly and successfully, the PMU has to
establish a monitoring and evaluation system to supervise the activities performed by PFIs and
VBP. This establishment would be completed and put into operation in November or December
1996.
6.    PFIs would obtain a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with SBV in January 1997 and could
start processing its sub-project proposals in early March 1997 (including obtaining PMU's
approval on sub-loans with the value is more than $20,000 and less than $150,000 equivalent as
the case may be).
7.    PFIs would establish their own interest rate for its sub-loans with accordance with the
published interest rate policy enforced by SBV/ PFIs would have to submit, from time to time or
as requested, to SBV/PMU and thereafter its successor and IDA all necessary documents in
respect to its onlending operations.



-72-                            Annex 7
Page 2
8.    The Vietnam Bank for the Poor (VBP) would obtain a Financing Agreement with SBV
not later than Mid-January 1997. A small-saver program would be prepared and submitted to
IDA for review in January 1997. Adoption of this small-saver program will be taken place by
February 1997 upon the receipt of Bank's "no-objection" communication. VBP also would
prepare its Institutional development Plan (IDP) and submit this IDP to IDA for review and
approval in December 1996.
10.   During the implementation of FRP sub-component the Vietnam Bank for the Poor has to
submit, from time to time or as requested, to IDA and SBV/PMU and thereafter to its successor
all necessary documentation in respect of its onlending operations.
11.   During the implementation of the project the PMU has to carry out its regular supervision
missions to PFIs and VBP and/or supervisions on the random check basis or when PMU
recognizes a problem with a specified PFL Any actions relating to the problem to be taken by
PMU to the failed PFI should be reported to IDA accordingly.
A detailed Project Implementation Plan is reflected in the attached bar-chart as attached to this
annex.



VIETNAM RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
Project Implementation Plan
1                              ~~~~~~~~~~1996
ID   Task Name                                              Duration    Start    Finish    Nov    Dec,   Jan    Feb    Mar L Apr    May   Jun    Jul    A
I   Vietnam Rural Finance Project                              1395d   2/27/95   6/30/00
2       Preparation                                             270d   2/27195    3//96 
3            IDA: Project Preparation                           270d   2127196    318196               .
4                Identifcation mission                           14d   2/27/95   3/16/95
5               Appraisal mission                                1Od   12/5/95  12/18/95
S                SAR Preparation                                 85d   10/5/95   1/31/96
7                Pre-feasibility Report Preparation              33d   1/15/96   2/28/96
SAR and MOP Review Process                      16d   1/30/96   2/20/96
9                Finalization of RDF Manual                       10d   2/15/96   2/28/96
10               Invitation to Negotiation                         4d    3/5/96    3/8/96
11       PMU staffing                                             49d    3/1196    5/8/96
12       Negotiation                                               5d   3/18/96   3/22/96
13       Coordination with VBP on preparatlon of FRP Manual       30d   4/15/96   5/24/96                                             -
14       Board Presentation                                        ld   4/15/96   4115196                                       *  411
15       Project Signing                                           id   5/20/96   5/20/96                                                    5/20
16       Finalization of FRP Manual and Subrission to IDA         1 5d   5/27/96   6/14/96
17      IDA acceptance on FRP Manual                               1 d   7/15/96   7/15/96                                                                 7/15
1S       Project Effectiveness                                     Id   7/15/96   7/15/96                                                              *  7/15
19       Project hImplentatlon                                  1027d   7/25/96   6/30/00
20           Establishment of RDF                                  8d   7/25/96    8/5/96
21           Establishment of Accreditation Criteria              22d   7/25/96    /23/961
-J
Task                 __Summary                                              Rolled Up Progress 1
Project Rural Finarnce Project Cr  .............. .  Progress              Rolld Up Task 
Miibsone          *RRdbdUp Mlkstonem
Page 1I~~



VIETNAM RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
Project Implementation Plan
1996                                                      1997
ID   Task Name                                                Duration    Start    Finish  Ma  Jun  Jul Aug Sep !Oct |Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun  Jul
22           TORs for consultants                                  44d   8/15/96  10/15/96
23           Establishment of FRP                                   9d    9/3/96   9/13/96
24           Workshop on Bank Accreditation                         gd    9/3/96   9/13/96
25           Acceditation of PFls                                  33d   9/16/96  10/30/96
26           Finalization of list of accredited PFIs and Submission to I  13d  10/30/96  11/15/96
27           Letter of Invitation to consuKing firms               38d  10/15/96   12/5/96
28           Establishment of monitoring and evaluation system     29d   11/5/96  12/13/96
29           Finalizabon of IBPs and Submission to IDA             15d  11/25/96  12113/96
30          ICB for consultancy                                    52d   12/5/96   2/14/97
31           Entering into Financing Agreement (FA) with VBP        id  12116/96  12/16/96                                       1216
32           Submission of FA to IDA                                ld  12/20/96  12t20/96
33          IDA acceptance of list of accredited PFls               id  12125/96  12/25/96                                     *  1V26/
34           Entering into Subsidiary Loan Agreement with PFIs     30d    1/6/97   2/14/97                                          -
36           Submission of SLAs to IDA                             30d   1/10/97   2/20/97                                           -
36          IDA acceptance of FA                                    ld   1/15t97   1/15/97                                            1t15
37          IDA acceptance of SLAs                                 40d   1/20/97   3/14/97                                             -
38           Submission of small-savers program to IDA              Id   1/30/97   1/30/97                                          *  1t3
39           Disbursement to PFIs                                 890d    213/97   6/30/00
40           IDA acceptance of small-savers program                 1 d   2/25/97   2/25/97                                                  26
41           Disbursement to VBP                                  802d    3/5/97   3/30/00                                                           -
42           Project CompeionClosing                                1 d   6/00    6/30/00                                                                                >
rt, ~
Task                                 Summary                               Rolled Up Progress
Project: Rural Finance Project Cr ...... -  Progress                                                                                                                   (D
Date: 4/2/96                        Progress                             Rolled Up Task                                                                                 :
Milstone                             Roiled Up Milstone <I)
Page 2



-75-
Annex 8
Page 1
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
PROJECT PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
1.    The project key performance indicators are based on the nature and the basic
objectives of the project as agreed with the government. These objectives are as follows:
(i) assist transition to a market economy through encouraging private sector development;
(ii) strengthen the rural financial system by financing, through the banking system,
agriculture and small and medium size enterprises in rural areas; and (iii) reduce rural
poverty through promoting growth and enabling the poor to respond to opportunities to
improve their welfare.
2.    The project key performance indicators are as follows:
(a)   Encouraging Private Sector Development:
number of private sector beneficiaries;
*     volume of loans granted to small, medium and large sized beneficiaries
and the proportion of each as a percentage of total lending under the project;
*     number of participating private banks and their share in total lending under
the RDF;
(b)   Strengthening the Rural Financial System:
*     number of accredited banks for participating under the project;
*     number of actively participating banks under the project;
*     accomplishment of IDPs; this would include the following indicators: (i)
capital adequacy ratio (equity to risk assets ratio); (ii) liquidity ratio (liquid assets to
short-term liabilities ratio); (iii) profitability and efficiency which would include the
following financial indicators: interest spread between loans and deposits, net
income/average equity, net income/average total assets, and net operating income/ gross
income; (iv) quality of loan portfolio (over-due loans/total loans, restructured loans/total
loans, over-due loans/total loans that were due, i.e., collection rate); (v) adequacy of
provision for loan losses (total provision/over-due loans plus restructured loans, and total
provision as a percentage of total loan portfolio); and (vi) number of training courses and
participants.



-76-
Annex 8
Page 2
(c)   Poverty Alleviation: a household income and expenditure survey on a
sample basis would set a baseline against which impact on rural poverty would be
regularly measured. The survey would pay particular attention to ethnic groups and the
relatively poorer districts, including the northeastern upland and the central highlands.



SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
Rural Finance Project
Key Performance Indicators
Project Objective
1. Encourage Rural Enterprise                             End Yrl            Mid term              ICR
No. of Beneficiaries                               5,000             25,000             50,000
Loan Size Distribution % (a)  - small                75                 75                 75
- medium                24                 24                 24
- large                   1                  1                  1
Loan Amount Distribution % (b)  - small              50                 50                 50
- mt/lt                 50                 50                 50
Term Length Distribution % (c)   - short             75                 50                 25
- mtIt                  25                 50                 75
2. Strengthen Rural Finance System
Number of Accredited PFIs                             3                  6                  9
Number of Active PFIs                                 3                  6                  9
IDP Indicators                                        d                  d                  d
Savings Mobilization as % of Total                   25                 50                 60
Lending per PFI
3. Poverty Alleviation
Impact on Living Standard of Beneficiaries            e                  e                  e
Notes:
(a) Up to US$5000 equivalent
(b) From $US5001 to $US20,000
LQ :
(c) Above $US20,000                                                                                                     (D(D
(d) Institutional development plan indicators would be prepared for each PFI at accreditation                             x
(e) Multi-year sample survey of control and beneficiary populations



-78-
Annex 9
Page 1
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
Rural Development Fund
Policy Manual
Section A
Background
1.    The Socialist Republic of Viet Nam has negotiated with the International
Development Association (IDA) a Credit for a Rural Finance Project with the
objective of assisting the Vietnamese Government (GOV) in its efforts to improve
living conditions in the rural areas, through: (a) encouraging private sector
investments; (b) strengthening the banking system's capacity to finance private
sector investments; and (c) increasing access of the rural poor to financial
services. A part of the proceeds of the Credit will be loaned (subsidiary loans) to
accredited participating financial institutions (PFIs) for onlending to clients (RDF
sub-loans) to finance goods and services for approved investment. The repayment
of RDF sub-loans for this purpose will be used to establish a revolving fund, the
Rural Development Fund (RDF). Under the Decision 555 1/QHQT dated October
2, 1995, the Prime Minister designated the State Bank of Vietnam (SBV) to
administer the RDF on a wholesale basis. This policy manual is intended to assist
in management of the RDF and in all cases the provisions of the DCA will
prevail.
SECTION B
Rural Development Fund Management
1.    The Government established the Inter-ministerial Steering Committee for
the Rural Finance Project under Decision 5551/QHQT dated October 2, 1995,
which consists of representatives from Ministry of Planning & Investment,
Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development and
Government's Office, and is chaired by SBV . The Inter-ministerial Steering
Committee will be responsible for supervising the operations of the RDF and
reviewing policy-related matters in the utilization of the RDF financial resources.
2.    SBV shall administer and run the operation of the RDF through the Project
Management Unit (PMU of the SBV) which was established under Decision
269/NH-QD dated September 23, 1995, of the Governor of SBV. PMU will be
operationally independent, adequately budgeted, well equipped and adequately
provided with qualified staff in order to perform the wholesale function, and to
select and accredit PFIs in accordance with the principles specified in this Manual.



-7 9-
Annex 9
Page 2
SBV would retain a percentage of the interest income paid by the PFIs under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements to cover the costs of the PMU in managing the RDF.
SECTION C
Financial Institutions Subject to PFIs Accreditation Process
1.    State-owned Commercial Banks.
2.    Commercial joint-stock Banks.
3.    Other financial institutions
SECTION D
Qualifying Criteria for Participating Financial Institutions
1.    Participating Financial Institutions shall be financial institutions who meet
accreditation standards on the following criteria for the last two years:
a)   Legality
b)   Solvency
c)   Liquidity
d)   Profitability and Efficiency
e)   Management quality of staff
2.    Legality of financial institutions.
Legal financial institutions are financial institutions established,
organized and operating in accordance with regulations of SBV and other
law-making institutions in Viet Nam and who are in compliance with all
prevailing laws, rules and regulations in Viet Nam.
3.    Solvency of rmancial institutions.
A financial institution is considered solvent if its performing assets are
sufficient to cover its liabilities, especially those to its depositors and
creditors.
The assessment of solvency of financial institutions would be based on
the following financial ratios: net overdue rate not to exceed 10% of the
loan portfolio (net overdues is defined as overdues less provision for
expected loan losses) and the capital adequacy ratio must not be less
than 10% (defined as own capital or net equity over risk assets, where
risk assets means loans and investments excluding investments in
Government securities).



-8 0-
Annex 9
Page 3
The lower the overdue rate and the higher the adequacy ratio, the more
solvent the financial institutions will be.
4.    Liquidity of financial institutions
A financial institution is considered liquid if it can quickly convert its
assets into cash or its liquid assets (cash in hand, deposits at other banks,
investments in gold or in short-term Government securities) are sufficient
to cover its short term liabilities (defined as demand and short term
deposits and debt service on borrowings due within one year).
The liquidity ratio, defined as liquid assets over short term liabilities
must not be less than 40%.
The higher the rate of liquidity, the more liquid the financial institutions
will be.
5.    Profitability and Efficiency of financial institutions.
The profitability and efficiency of a financial institution shall be
measured by the following financial ratios:
Return on equity (ROE), defined as net profit after tax over equity
or own capital.
* Return on earning assets where earning assets is defined as loans
plus investments. This ratio (net profit for the year/ earning assets) would
be greater than 5%
In the review of this criteria, attention would be placed on profitability in
both nominal terms and real terms to ensure that the equity of the
financial institution is not eroded due to inflation i.e., Return on Equity >
Annual Inflation rate.'
6.    Management quality of staff of financial institutions.
As an approximation of ROE in real terms, net profit for the year/(equity
minus fixed assets) at the beginning of the year > annual inflation rate for
that year,



-81-
Annex 9
Page 4
A financial institution must have staff with managerial and professional
skills in accordance with regulations stipulated by SBV.
7.    Provisional Accreditation
The above accreditation criteria for Participating Financial Institutions as
well as the rates and ratios defined in Parts 2, 3, and 4 of this Section are
derived from international standards. In case a financial institution does
not meet all of the above criteria it may be provisionally accredited. To
participate in the project, these financial institutions must submit their
Institutional Development Plans (IDP) along with adequate training
programs and detailed time table for achieving these criteria to PMU for
review and approval in concurrence with IDA. PMU will be responsible
for monitoring and supervising the implementation of these plans
through a semi-annual review for the periods ending June 30 and
December 31 each year and for transmitting the results of these reviews
to IDA by September 30 and March 31 each year.
8.    Failure to Comply
In case a Participating Financial Institution ceases to comply with the
accreditation criteria and/or its approved IDP, and fails to carry out
remedial actions proposed by PMU, PMU shall have the right to call the
uncommitted balance of the subsidiary loan and take necessary actions to
protect the committed balance. The PMU will promptly notify IDA of the
situation.
SECTION E
Eligible Sub-Projects
1.    The Rural Development Fund (RDF) will be available to finance short,
medium and long term viable rural investments plus associated working capital
carried out by individuals and enterprises throughout the country, except Hanoi
and Ho Chi Minh City, in accordance with the project objectives. Sub-projects in
the following areas shall be reviewed to be eligible for RDF financing:
a)    Any viable activity relating to agriculture, forestry and fishery and
other rural industries such as aqua-culture, agro-industries, goods
manufacturing, construction, food and fruit processing, packaging,
and oil milling; and



-3 2-
Annex 9
Page 5
b)    Any viable investment to be carried out by service-oriented
enterprises to support rural economic activities, to promote
employment and export such as transportation, post harvest
facilities, garments, embroidery, and handicraft.
2.   Investments in land would be ineligible.
3.    To be eligible, sub-projects must be technically feasible, financially viable
and conform to the environmental laws and regulations of Viet Nam.
4.    The participation of State-owned enterprises shall be limited to medium
and small scale enterprises up to a total amount equal to 5% of the
proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the RDF sub-loans.
Small and medium scale enterprises means enterprises with total assets not
exceeding US$2 million equivalent and having not more than 500
employees.
5.    The sub-borrower's enterprise must meet a minimum  Vietnamese
ownership of 70%.
Section F
Loan Terms
Sub-project Approval and Disbursement.
1.  All risks inherent to RDF sub-loans made by PFIs for sub-projects will be
borne by PFIs. Therefore, evaluation and approval of sub-projects will be the
responsibility of PFIs. The evaluation of any sub-project shall be based on the
technical and financial characteristics of sub-projects, and in accordance with
regulations on evaluation and assessment of projects in Vietnam.
2.  For RDF sub-loans of less than US$20,000 equivalent, PMU would disburse
to PFIs from the Special Account on the basis of Statements of Expenditures
(SOEs). For RDF sub-loans above US$20,000 equivalent but less than
US$150,000 equivalent, PMU would review and approve the sub-project
appraisal documentation submitted by the PFIs prior to approval of disbursements
from the Special Account. However, based on the performance of a particular PFI
in appraising sub-projects, PMU may request the Association to exempt future
RDF sub-loans to be made by such PFI over US$20,000 equivalent but less than
US$150,000 equivalent from the prior review and approval of the sub-project
appraisal documentation by PMU. Where the Association concurs with this
request, disbursements would be made on the basis of SOEs with post-review by
PMU. In all cases, PMU would grant PFIs up to 60 days after the date of approval



-83-
Annex 9
Page 6
to submit or make available sub-loan documentation and evidence of payments
and procurement. Reversal of RDF sub-loans would be made and a penalty fee
imposed if a PFI fails to satisfactorily submit or make available the required RDF
sub-loan documentation within the specified period.
3.    For sub-loans above US$150,000 equivalent (over the free-limit), IDA
approval of the sub-project will be required prior to PMU authorizing
disbursements from the Special Account or making withdrawals from the Credit
Account.
Currency
4.    SBV will onlend to PFIs in either US dollars or local currency based on
the nature and requirements of eligible sub-projects and in accordance with
regulations on foreign exchange control in Vietnam.
Interest rates
5.    Loans in Dong lent by SBV to PFIs would bear a variable rate of interest
adjustable quarterly and equal to the weighted average actual cost of loanable
funds in the banking system. The weighted average interest rate of deposits would
be used as reference for setting the cost of funds to the PFIs. This reference rate
would be adjusted to take account of the costs associated with the SBV reserve
requirements.2 Reference rates for short term loans (up to twelve months) and for
medium and long term loans (above one year) would be the weighted average of
demand and time deposit rates for three months and time deposit rates for six
months and above in the banking system, respectively.
6.    Loans in US dollars lent by SBV to PFIs would bear a variable rate of
interest adjustable quarterly and not lower than the LIBOR rate for six months
plus a margin of at least 1% per annum to contribute to PMU's operating costs in
respect to the subsidiary loans including loan loss provision.
7.    The loan rates to the sub-borrowers will be in accordance with the interest
rate policy of each PFI and within the range of rates of interest set by SBV. Sub-
borrowers would be given a choice of a fixed rate (prevailing variable rate as
defined above, plus a premium) for the life of the loan or a certain period of time,
or a variable rate periodically adjusted. In the case of a fixed rate sub-loan made
2    SBV 's reserve requirements (RR) is currently set at 10% of deposits. The RR, presently, do not
bear any interest income. This means that the cost of loanable funds is higher by about 11% of the
deposit rate. For example, the RR of deposits of VND I million for, say, one month would be VND
100,000 and the fund available for lending would be only VND 900,000. The cost to the PFI of a
deposit of VND I million for one month (assuming a deposit rate of 1.2% per month) would be VND
12,000. This cost should be covered by the available loanable funds which, in this case, is VND
900,000. VND 12,OOOVND 900,000 would result in an interest rate of 1.33% per month.



- -84-
Annex 9
Page 7
by a PFI, the SBV would set a corresponding fixed rate of interest on the
subsidiary loan to the PFI in a manner acceptable to IDA.
Maturity
8.    The maturity of subsidiary loans made by SBV to PFIs would conform to
the maturities of sub-loans made by the PFIs. RDF sub-loans would not finance
sub-projects for which the projected period for recovery of the sub-project cost
exceeds 10 years. Repayment of the principal of the RDF sub-loans shall not
exceed the shorter of the period projected for recovery of the sub-project costs or
ten years, including a grace period detennined on the basis of the sub-project's
cash flow projections and the beneficiary's repayment capability. Maturity of
short-term RDF subsidiary loans shall not exceed twelve months.
Default
9.    Upon the failure of a PFI to repay the principal and or interest due under
subsidiary loans, SBV/PMU has the right to call on either the uncommitted
outstanding balance of the PFI's entire RDF portfolio or the specific subsidiary
loan or loans in default ( based on the circumstances of that default and the
financial conditions of the PFI) and suspend the right of the PFI to obtain further
subsidiary loan releases of the Fund to the respective PFI. In addition, SBV
would charge a penalty interest fee of 150% of the applicable interest rate or such
other rate as may be set from time to time on the outstanding balance and take
other necessary legal actions as required.
Prepayment
10.  In case of prepayment of an RDF sub-loan, PFI would prepay that portion
of the subsidiary loan. SBV would have the right to impose a penalty fee on
prepayment of part or the entire amount of the subsidiary loan.
Collateral, Mortgage and Insurance.
11.   All activities relating to collateral, mortgage of  RDF sub-loans and
subsidiary loan and to insurance for assets so collateralized or mortgaged must be
in compliance with regulations on collateral, mortgage and insurance activities in
Vietnam.
Sub- Project Financing
12.   The PFIs would be required to lend for each sub-project at least 10% of the
sub-project cost from their own funds. The minimum contribution of the sub
borrower to the sub-project cost would be determined by the PFI on the basis of
each sub-project's appraisal, but would not be less than 15% in cash and/or in



-85-
Annex 9
Page 8
kind, excluding land. RDF sub-loans for any single sub-project will not exceed, in
any case, 75% of sub-project costs.
Section G
Rescheduling and Restructuring of Loans
1.    A PFI may reschedule an outstanding RDF sub-loan made to a sub-
borrower upon receiving a specific proposal by the sub-borrower at least 30 days
prior to the due date of the RDF sub-loan. However, the PFI will repay the
subsidiary loan in accordance with the original repayment schedule set forth in the
subsidiary loan agreement. Rescheduling or restructuring of Subsidiary Loans
would require IDA's prior concurrence.
Section H
Environmental Protection
1.    Sub-projects must be in compliance with Government Decree No.175/CP
on Guidance for Implementation of the Law on Environmental Protection and
other relevant decrees, regulations and directives that may be issued from time to
time. No RDF sub-loans for sub-projects requiring environmental clearance
issued by either the State Ministry or a Provincial Department of Science,
Technology and Environment in accordance with the provisions of the Decree
shall be approved before the sub borrower obtains such environmental clearance.
Where the RDF sub-loan is for an amount above US$150,000 equivalent, and the
proposed investment falls within the scope of the Decree No.175/CP, the sub-
borrower shall submit to the PFI a copy of the environmental impact assessment
report submitted to secure environmental approval. No environmental certification
will be required for sub-projects which do not fall into the above categories.
Section I
Audit, Supervision and Reporting
Audit
1.    Annually, and not more than six months after the end of each fiscal year,
PFHs will submit to SBV/PMU  their financial statements audited by an
independent auditor acceptable to SBV/PMU.



-86-
Annex 9
Page 9
Supervision
2.    Supervision of RDF funded sub-projects would be the responsibility of the PFIs,
which will designate specific officers for this purpose. PFIs would require sub-borrowers
to use on lent funds for approved purposes only, and they would achieve this through
direct payments to suppliers of equipment, inputs and materials, and providers of
services, as practicable. PFI would also carry out quarterly or semi-annual field visits to
sub-projects. Follow-up reports on each visit would comment on the utilization of onlent
funds, compare actual and planned operations, review management and financial
problems of sub-projects, compliance with environmental laws and regulations, and make
recommendations. PFIs would also obtain periodic operating and financial reports from
sub-borrowers of medium and long term loans and would undertake selective field visits
to problem projects for assessment of their issues. The PMU would conduct selective
end-use verification of sub-projects to ensure that PFIs supervision is satisfactory.
Reporting
3.    PMU will prepare a quarterly progress report on the implementation of the sub-
projects financed by RDF sub-loans and reflows (the RDF). This report would include:
(i) an assessment of RDF performance, issues and projections for the next six months; (ii)
RDF releases broken down by sub-sectors, duration (short, medium, and long term),
nature of sub-projects (new or expansion of existing operation), purpose of sub-loans
(fixed assets and/or working capital), type of PFIs (government commercial banks or
private banks), provinces, and sub-borrowers' asset size, and sub-loans size; (iii) overdue
of subsidiary loans and sub-loans broken down by sub-sectors, type of PFIs, provinces,
sub-loan duration, nature of sub-projects, purpose of sub-loans, and sub-borrowers' asset
size; (iv) list of accredited PFIs, the respective line of credit granted, and availments; (v)
sub-projects' investment broken down by sub-sectors, financiers (sub-borrowers' equity,
PFIs participation, and RDF), and duration; (vi) RDF interest rates over the reported
period; and, a semi-annual progress report on the implementation of the IDPs and the
associated training program.
Annexes: Forms
1. Accreditation Form.
2. Form for Opening Account
3. Form for Reporting.
4. Form for Statement of Expenditure
5. Form for Subsidiary Loan Agreement
6. Memorandum of Understanding (MOF/SBV).



-87-
Annex 10
Page 1
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT APPROACH
Environmental Implications
The only investments likely to have any significant adverse environmental impact
potential are the larger loans made through the Rural Development Fund. It is not
expected that funds provided through the Fund for the Rural Poor could result in adverse
environmental impact sufficiently significant to justify any procedure designed to
environmentally assess them.
Since the larger investments to be made through the RDF will only be identified
progressively through the project implementation phase, it will be necessary to establish
procedures and processes to achieve the following three objectives:
a) to environmentally screen and, as required, evaluate loan proposals during the
appraisal processes being implemented by the PFIs;
b) to provide training to the PFIs regarding the governments environmental assessment
procedures and the way in which loan appraisal procedures should be linked to them;
and,
c) to monitor the effectiveness of the procedures as they apply to this project in
particular and, more generally, to carry out research and other activities related to
environmental issues, including the enforcement of the Government of Vietnam's
environmental laws and regulations, as they relate to the operations of financial
institutions generally within the country.
This Annex sets out the procedures and approaches proposed under the project to
achieve these objectives. Primary responsibility for implementation of the activities
outlined in this Annex will rest with an Environmental Group to be established within
the SBV's Project Management Unit which will be responsible for project
implementation. At the completion of the project, it is envisaged that the Environmental
Group would be incorporated into SBV's permanent institutional structure and extend the
scope of its operations to cover all financial sector activities within Vietnam.
The Environmental Group will be the unit responsible for ensuring that the
previously stated environmental objectives are achieved. The Terms of Reference for
the Environmental Group are contained in Attachment 1 to this Annex. The principal
means by which the objectives will be achieved are:



-88-
Annex 10
Page 2
a) environmental screening of loan applications - the Policy Manual governing
lending procedures to be followed by PFIs will include provisions requiring that, for
applications relating to developments listed in the Government's Decree on
Implementation of the Law on Environmental Protection (Decree No. 175/CP), loans
shall not be approved before the applicant presents a copy of the environmental
clearance issued by the State Ministry or Provincial Departments of Science,
Technology and Environment in accordance with the provisions of the Decree.
Where the application is for a loan in excess of US$150,000 (i.e. which requires prior
approval by IDA) and the proposed investment fell within the ambit of Decree
No. 175/CP, the applicant will also be required to submit to the PFI a copy of the
environmental impact assessment report submitted to secure environmental approval.
b) training of PFIs - training on the environmental provisions in the Policy Manual will
the responsibility of the Environmental Group within the SBV's Project Management
Unit;
c) monitoring effectiveness and related activities - these activities will also be the
responsibility of the Environmental Group who will be assisted, during the initial
stages of the project, by a technical adviser. The Terms of Reference for the
Environmental Adviser are contained in Attachment 2. to this Annex.



-89-
Annex 10
Attachment 1
Terms of Reference of Environmental Group
The primary responsibilities of the Environmental Group are:
*  to ensure that the environmental safeguards incorporated into the project
design are understood by the PFIs;
*  to prepare relevant instructions and provide on-gong advice to the PFIs
regarding the environmental requirements;
*  in association with the National Environmental Agency of the Ministry of
Science, Technology and Environment, to develop suitable information and
training materials and carry out training programs for PFIs to familiarize them
with Government of Vietnam environmental protection procedures;
*  to monitor the effectiveness of the environmental safeguards incorporated
into the project through the periodic inspection of PFI lending procedures and
follow-up in the field of environmentally significant investment projects;
*  to carry out other relevant environmental research activities, as required; and,
*  to advise SBV on the development of environmental guidelines for all
lending institutions within Vietnam.
Within the last category of activities, consideration would need to be given to
practices being developed or already under implementation in other comparable countries
(e.g. China, India) and to recent trends in the structure of loan portfolios in Vietnam, from
an environmental point of view. To make these assessments, visits to relevant countries
should be undertaken and portfolio research carried out within Vietnam. As one example
of the scope of guidelines which might be developed, the People's Bank of China recently
issued a directive to all financial institutions in China which requires that:
a) loans will not be made for certain specified types of projects which are considered to
be too environmentally hazardous;
b) suitable financial provisions have been made in the sub-project feasibility study to
cover construction and operation of the environmental protection facilities specified
in the environmental authority's clearance and that the designated funds are actually
used for that purpose; and,
c) funds borrowed for working capital are not released unless the pollution control
facilities have been commissioned and are operating in accordance with relevant
standards and regulations.



-90-
Annex 10
Attachment 2
ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
TO THE STATE BANK OF VIETNAM
Terms of Reference
Introduction
The proposed Rural Finance Project will be supported by the International
Development Association (IDA) and implemented by the State Bank of Vietnam (SBV).
Part of the project will involve establishment of a Rural Development Fund (RDF) which
will provide credit through Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs) to finance
household and private enterprise investments in agricultural and other rural activities
including loans for production, processing, trade, on-farm developments and related
activities. It is expected that the overwhelming bulk of loans made through the RDF will
be for amounts less than US$10,000 although there are provisions for PFIs to extend
loans for amounts in excess of US$150,000. Some of these larger loans might have
adverse environmental impact potentials and procedures have been developed to ensure
that loans for such developments will not be approved until applicants demonstrate that
they have received an environmental clearance through procedures set down in relevant
Government laws and regulations.
To supervise monitor and supervise the environmental aspects of the project, SBV
proposes to establish an Environmental Group which will work within the Bank's Project
Management Unit (PMU); the unit responsible for overall project implementation. The
particular responsibilities of the Group will be:
*  to ensure that the environmental safeguards incorporated into the project
design are understood by the PFIs;
*  to prepare relevant instructions and provide on-going advice to the PFIs
regarding the environmental requirements;
*  to develop suitable information and training materials and carry out training
programs for PFIs to familiarize them with Government of Vietnam
environmental protection procedures;
*  to monitor the effectiveness of the environmental safeguards incorporated
into the project through the periodic fields inspections;
*  to carry out other relevant environmental research activities, as required; and,
*  to advise SBV on the development of environmental guidelines for all
lending institutions within Vietnam.



-91-
Annex 10
Attachment 2
Scope of Work
Since the Environmental Group (EG) will only be newly established within the
SBV, a suitably qualified and experienced consultant will be required to provide training
and technical assistance to EG staff.
Training. The specific tasks required are:
*  to assist the EG in development of an environmental training program and associated
documentation to be delivered to PFI staff as part of wider training and development
activities to be carried out under the Institutional Development component of the
project;
* to assist EG staff to deliver the training program and, through this assistance, train EG
staff to deliver the program independently;
It is envisaged that the training program, which would be developed in
consultation with the National Environmental Agency of the Ministry of Science,
Technology and Environment, will cover:
*  general overview of environmental issues and problems in Vietnam;
*  environmental policies, laws and regulations in Vietnam - the identity and content of
the laws and regulations and the scope of their application;
*  administrative responsibilities for environmental regulation - the role of and
distribution of responsibilities between the Ministry and Departments of Science,
Technology and Environment;
*  the role of PFIs in supporting the activities of environmental authorities as provided
for in the Policy Manual for the Rural Development Fund and the administrative
procedures required to satisfy these requirements;
* general overview of the main environmental issues arising due to the establishment
and operation of small, medium and large scale industrial enterprises in Vietnam.
Monitoring and Evaluation. The consultant will assist staff of the EG to
develop standard, ex-post inspection procedures to provide a basis for assessing
compliance of PFIs with the environmental approval procedures, to carry out such
procedures on a pilot or demonstration basis and modify and finalize the procedures in
the light of this experience.
Study Tour. The consultant will organize visits for three staff of the
environmental group to China and India to study comparable developments in both
countries. In China, contact will be made with the National Environmental Protection



-92-
Annex 10
Attachment 2
Agency, the People's Bank of China (PBC) to discuss the recent Decree issued by the
PBC governing the environmental responsibilities of financial institutions and the
Agricultural Bank of China, to discuss environmental assessment procedures being
established under the World Bank-financed Rural Banking Commercialization Project
and to assess the relevance and potential application of these developments and activities
to the situation in Vietnam. In India, contact will be made with the National Bank for
Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) to study the institutional arrangements it
has developed to deal with environmental aspects of its lending operations, to assess the
issues facing NABARD and to assess the relevance of its strategies to the situation in
Vietnam. An allowance of one week each in China and India should be provided for.
Research and Development. The experience gained in implementing the
environmental management and control procedures being supported under the Rural
Finance Project should be supplemented by a general environmental review of recent
trends in industrial and development lending in Vietnam. The consultant will assist staff
of the EG to design and carry out this review, to combine the results with the findings and
conclusions of the visits and, in consultation with the National Environmental Agency, to
prepare a policy paper for senior management of the SBV regarding actions which should
be taken by the Bank to harmonize financial sector operations in Vietnam with the
Government's environmental protection and management laws and regulations and to
identify a role and responsibilities for the EG within the SBV hierarchy after closure of
the Rural Finance Project.
Consultant Time Commitment and Technical Background
A total of six person months of technical assistance will be required, to be
delivered by one person in two periods of three months. The first three month input will
be required during at the commencement of the project to organize the training and
monitoring and evaluation procedures. The second three month input will be required at
the end of the second project implementation year to organize and conduct the study tour
and assist in research and preparation of the environmental policy paper.
The consultant will be an environmental scientist or engineer with no less than 10
years post-graduate experience in related field(s) of work, at least five of which should
have been spent in or in work relating to developing country environmental problems and
at least some of which should be related to the environmental aspects of financial sector
activities.



-9 3-
Annex 11
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
1.    Government of Viet Nam Decree No. 525/Ttg on Establishment of the Bank for
the Poor, August 31,1995
2.    Government of Viet Nam Decree No.555 1/QHQTT on Establishment of a
Steering Committee for the Rural Finance Project and Nominating SBV as the Project
Apex Bank, October 2, 1995.
3.    Government of Viet Nam Decree No. 2729/QHQT on Assigning SBV as
Counterpart Agency to IDA in Preparation of Rural finance Project, May 20, 1995.
4.    State Bank of Viet Nam Decision No. 269/QD-NH9 on Establishment of the
Banking Projects Management Unit within the SBV, September 23, 1995.
5.    Policy Statements on Establishing the Bank for the Poor, December 12, 1995.
6.    Detailed Project Cost Tables






IMAGING
Report No:      15088 VN
Type: SAR



