Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24926
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-28550)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDRs 82.7 MILLION
TO THE
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
FOR A
RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
December 26, 2002
Rural Development & Natural Resources Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective )
Currency Unit = Vietnamese Dong (VND)
VNDI1,018 (as of March 26, 1996) = US$ 1
US$I = VND 15,250 (as of September 5, 2002)
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATE
1997= 11,543
1998= 13,234
1999= 13,941
2000= 14,263
2001= 14,750
FISCAL YEAR
Government/PFIs: January 1- December 31
IDA: July 1- June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACB           Asia Joint Stock Commercial Bank
ADB           Asian Development Bank
BIDV          Bank for Investment and Development of Vietnam
EAB           East Asia Joint Stock Commercial Bank
FRP           Fund for the Rural Poor
GOV           Govemment of Vietnam
MOF           Ministry of Finance
NAB           North Asia Joint Stock Commnercial Bank
PFI           Participating Financial Institution
PhNB          Southem Joint Stock Commercial Bank
RDF           Rural Development Fund
RKB           Rach Kien Rural Joint Stock Commercial Bank
SBV           State Bank of Vietnam
SOE           State Owned Enterprise
SOCB          State Owned Commnercial Banks
VBP           Vietnam Bank for the Poor
VBARD         Vietnam Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development
Vice President:  Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
Country Manager/Director:   Klaus Rohland, EACVP
Sector Manager/Director:  Mark Wilson, EASRD
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Arie Chupak, EASRD



VIETNAM
RURAL FINANCE
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     I
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                     1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry           1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                               9
6. Sustainability                                                                  11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   13
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 14
9. Partner Comments                                                                15
10. Additional Information                                                         24
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                               27
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               28
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               30
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               31
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               32
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  33
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              34






Project ID: P004847                                      Project Name: RURAL FINANCE
Team Leader: Arie Chupak                                 TL Unit: EASRD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: December 26, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: RURAL FINANCE                                 L/C/TF Number: IDA-28550
Country/Department: VIETNAM                                             Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: Micro- and SME finance (95%); Central government
administration (5%)
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD: 04/27/1995                               Effective: 10/19/1996        02/06/1997
Appraisal:  11/21/1995                               MTR:
Approval:  05/07/1996                             Closing: 06/30/2000          12/31/2001
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: Socialist Republic of Vietnam (SRV)/SBV
Other Partners: PFIs and Sub-borrowers
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jemal-ud-din Kassum                      Russell Cheetam
Country Manager:     Klaus Rohland                             Callisto Madavo
Sector Manager:      Mark D. Wilson                            Jeffirey Gutman
Team Leader at ICR:  Arie Chupak                               William L. Cuddihy
ICR Primary Author:  Arie Chupak
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=HMghly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H-High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: HL
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Perforniance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The objective of the project as stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) was to assist the Borrower
(Government of Vietnam) in its efforts to improvtfie living conditions in the rural areas through: (a)
encouraging private sector investments; (b) strengthening the banldng system's capacity to finance private



sector investments; and (c) increasing access of the rural poor to financial services. A targeted operation
was based on the premise that the Vietnam financial sector was too undeveloped and market conditions
were too imperfect to allow an adequate flow of credit to the rural sector. Because of its large size,
development of the rural sector has been crucial to achieving the social and economic goals of the country.
Given the state of economic and financial development of the country at the time of project inception,
the project's objectives were well established. Its intended and actual outcomes clearly supported the
Govemmenfs top priority given to rural development and promoting social equity. The objectives were also
consistent with IDA's 1995 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) which included three pillars: (i) assisting
the country in its transition to a market economy, (ii) strengthening the rural finance system and (iii)
reduction of poverty. The project directly supported CAS' pillars two and three, and indirectly pillar one.
The primary objective was, and continues to be important and valid. Although the banking system in
general, and the rural finance sector in particular, have made substantial progress in enhancing their
capacity to provide better financial services to their clients and significantly increase their outreach to farm
households and rural entrepreneurs, there are still needs to provide (i) term lending to finance medium and
long term rural investments; and (ii) increase further the number of countryside investors and rural poor
that have access to formal financial services.
The establishment, under the project, of the Rural Development Fund (RDF) to finance investments of
farm households and rural entrepreneurs improves the availability of term credit for rural private sector
investments. The Fund for the Rural Poor (FRP) was formulated to provide the rural poor with better
access to formal financial services. These two revolved lines of credit (the RDF and the FRP) have helped
and would continue to assist the Government in its efforts to reduce rural poverty both (i) through an
expansion and diversification of rural investments that would provide employment opportunities, and (ii) by
directly assisting individual poor people and micro-enterprises in financing their own viable initiatives.
Project Design
Based on the intended and the actual project's outcomes, its design and to a large extent its
components (except the FRP) were properly formulated. There are some clear advantages in designing the
project as a Wholesale Banking Operations (WBO). These are: (i) it allows more banks to participate in
the project, thus increasing banking competition in the rural areas to the benefit of the rural economy; (ii) it
allows the project to diversify project's beneficiaries as each of the Participating Financial Institution (PFI)
accommodates its own clientele; and (iii) it better fits the basic concept of a demand driven operation, as it
allows potential PFIs to join or to exit the project at their suitable timing; and (iv) it reduces the credit risk
and the operating costs at the Apex Bank level by diversifying them among all project's retailers, the PFIs.
At the project's preparation stage, two main issues regarding its design were thoroughly discussed,
both within the Bank, and between the Bank and the Vietnamese authorities. These were: (i) whether the
banking system in Vietnam, at that time (1994/95) was mature enough to carry out a Wholesale Banldng
Operation (WBO), the first of its type in Vietnam; and (ii) if positive, whether to place it at the SBV (the
Central Bank of Vietnam) or in another financial institution. It was rightly agreed to: (i) introduce the
WBO system as it would diversify the credit risk and project's beneficiaries, and would encourage banking
competition in the rmal areas; and (ii) initially place the WBO at the SBV, mainly because of the weak
state of many of the Vietnamese banks. The project was successfully implemented under the SBV and all
project objectives were met. As agreed with the Bank, the project's WBOs (the RDF and the FRP) were
successfully transferred, in July 2002, to the Bank for Investment and Development of Vietnam (BIDV),
one of the State Owned Commercial Banks (SOCBs).
-2 -



3.2 Revised Objective:
n.a.
3.3 Original Components:
At appraisal, the project was scheduled to be implemented over a period of four years and comprised
the following four components:
(a)    Rural Development Fund (RDF), a general line of credit to provide short, medium, and long term
credit available through competing Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs) to finance household
enterprise investments in agriculture and other viable rural operations, both fixed assets and working
capital.
(b)    Fund for the Rural Poor (FRP), a line of credit restricted to the use of the rural poor. Under this
component, credit for short, medium, and long term had to be provided through the Vietnam Bank for the
Poor (VBP) to individual poor households or to Joint Liability Groups (JLGs) of poor persons. This
directed credit was aimed to overcome imperfections in the rural credit market thereby opening market
access to groups previously excluded by reason of remote location, inadequate collateral, and limited
resources from formal financial institution funds.
(c)    Institution Building and Community Development. Technical Assistance (TA) and training to
support: (i) SBV staff in managing the RDF and the FRP, and supervising a wholesale banking operation
that was the first of its type in Vietnam, and particularly in evaluating and accreditation of PFIs; (ii) a
program to upgrade the PFIs in sub-project appraisal, accounting, portfolio management, and resource
mobilization; (iii) a program to assist the design and the operation of the VBP in a sustainable manner
including strengthening the outreach program to reach the ethnic poor in the country; and (iv) a program to
enhance the formation of village groups (Joint Liability Groups, Women Groups, etc.) and promotion of
financial literacy.
(d)    Project ManaRement. In addition to the TA and the training programs, project support was given
to staff and equip the Project Management Unit (PMU).
The components were well linked to the objectives of the project
Modus operandi
The RDF was implemented as a wholesale Banldng operation. It included three main participants: the
wholesaler (an Apex institution) which under the operation was the State Bank of Vietnam (SBV), the
Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs), and the sub-borrowers ( PFIs' clients), who borrowed project
funds to finance their own sub-project investments. Under the scheme, the SBV disbursed the proceeds of
the IDA credit to accredited PFIs (against their eligible expenditures) for approved sub-loans to
sub-borrowers. The PFIs then added their financing share of at least 10% of total sub-project cost, and the
final borrowers contributed at least 15% of total sub-project cost in cash or in kind including labor but
excluding land. IDA shares in financing sub-project was limited to 75% of the cost of any sub-project.
With regard to the associated risk: SBV bore the credit risk at the level of the PFIs; the PFIs undertook the
credit risk associated with their sub-loans; and the government assumed the foreign exchange risk
associated with SDR/dollars disbursements. The PFIs were free to: (i) select their eligible sub-borrowers;
and set out their lending rates along the lines of Government/SBV rules and regulations. Maturity of PFI
loans were conformed to the composite maturity of related sub-loans.
-3-



IDA funds were onlent by SBV to the PFIs at a variable interest rate, adjustable quarterly and equal to
the latest available quarterly weighted average cost of loanable funds in the banking system and equivalent
to the price that PFIs would pay if funds were mobilized in the market The weighted average interest rate
of time deposits was used as reference rate for setting the cost of funds to the PFIs. This reference rate was
adjusted to take account of the cost associated with the SBV's reserve requirements.
The FRP was operated on a similar basis. IDA funds were made available to the SBV for on-lending
to VBP which had to relend it to its sub-borrowers, whether directly to individual poor persons or through
JLGs. The financing mix of sub-projects, under this component, was the same as under the RDF,
sub-borrowers to provide at least 15% of sub-project cost in cash and/or in kind (including labor but
excluding land), VBP to finance from its own financial resources at least 10% of total sub-project cost, and
IDA financing not to exceed 75% of sub-project cost. SBV undertook the credit risk vis-a-vis the VBP,
VBP the credit risk with its own sub-borrowers, and the Government assumed the foreign exchange risk.
Selection of PFIs. To safeguard the apex bank and the Funds financial assets, and to ensure
successful implementation of the credit component, the interested banks had been accredited to participate
in the project on the basis of agreed accreditation criteria as detailed in the RDF and FRP Policy Manuals.
The selected criteria are credible, transparent, unequivocal, and compatible with sound financial principles
and with the Vietnamese banking regulations. The accreditation criteria included the following five
fundamental elements: (i) compliance with banking law and audit requirements; (ii) solvency; (iii) liquidity;
(iv) profitability; and (v) quality of management and staff. However, it was agreed and implemented, that a
bank can be accredited even if it does not meet all the accreditation criteria provided that an Institutional
Development Plan (IDP) along with adequate training program and detailed time table for achieving them
would be submitted to, and found to be acceptable by, SBV and IDA.
3.4 Revised Components:
None of the four components were revised in terms of their objectives and the basic concept of their
implementation. But changes and amendment in the DCA took place, particularly with regard to the FRP.
As the VBP was unable to meet the basic project conditions (agreement on the FRP's Policy Manual and
VBP's IDP) and, therefore, was unable to actively participate in the project, the use of the FRP was
opened, through an amendment to the DCA, to all accredited PFIs. This change made the FRP a wholesale
micro-finance operation, instead of a lending operation that was scheduled to be delivered through one
specific bank only, the VBP. All other features of this component remained unchanged.
The Institutional strengthening component was expanded, during project implementation, to include an
Institutional Development Plan (IDP) for each of the PFIs. This route was undertaken by the project
management unit, the International Credit Management Unit (ICPMU), to allow banks that were unable to
meet the entire set of project's accreditation criteria to participate in the project, while taking effective
actions to improve their financial performance. Each PFI prepared its own IDP. The IDP had to be
acceptable to IDA and the ICPMU before accreditation of the respective PFI took place.
Components' Rating:
RDF           HS
FRP           S
Inst. Bldg.   S
-4-



3.5 Quality at Entry:
There was no Quality at Entry Assessment or QAG analysis during the course of project implementation.
However, overall quality at entry is rated satisfactory. The design of a wholesale banking operation and its
successful implementation as well as the design and the performance of the RDF and the Institution
Building and Community Development components found to be satisfactory. The Fund for the Rural Poor
(FRP), however, had to be redesigned in order to be successfully implemented. Bank's senior management
agreed with Government officials to include the Vietnam Bank for the Poor (VBP) in the project as an
implementing agency of the FRP. This decision found to be a mistake as the VBP was neither suitable to
participate in the project at the very beginning of its operation nor later during project implementation.
This is mainly because VBP adopted during the five years of project implementation, an unsustainable
lending rate policy which was even below the prevailing saving rates.
The delay in Credit effectiveness was due to the initial difficulties of the implementing agency in drafting
the Policy Manuals for the RDF and FRP. As the concept of a wholesale banking operation was the first
of its type in Vietnam, the difficulties and the time needed for the preparation of the Policy Manuals were
reasonable.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
As reflected in its Key Performance Indicators (KPIs), the project has achieved all its objectives. The
project through its Rural Development Fund (RDF) and the Fund for the Rural Poor (FRP) has: (a)
encouraged private sector investments through the financing of about 600,000 sub-projects of about
260,000 sub-borrowers; (b) facilitated the strengthening of all PFIs through the implementation of theirs
respective IDP; and (c) enabled more poor households (about 375,000) to have access to formal financial
services, of which about 60,000 were accommodated directly by the FRP and about 315,000 received
financial services through 159 vehicles (financed under the project) of VBARD's mobile banking operation.
The project has accommodated more beneficiaries and generated larger volume of investments (about
US$445 million equivalent)than were originally estimated and planned (US$150 million equivalent). This
is the results of (i) a much larger sub-borrowers contributions that was actually about 35% of sub-project
cost compared to 15% that was estimated at appraisal;and (ii) the revolving of large part of the first
generation of IDA funds. Consequently, one dollar of IDA funds generated investments of almost 4 dollars
($3.97) by December 31, 2001.
A Socio-economic impact assessment that undertook in 2001 by the Micro-finance Resource Center of
the National Economic University of Hanoi, stated that the project was successful in: (i) its outreach to a
large number of household borrowers; (ii) supporting rural development throughout the country ; (iii)
enabling households to focus more on economic activities which yielded higher rate of return, resulting in
collection rates reported by PFIs of about 98%0o; (iv) increasing income of household borrowers; (v)
addressing women's needs given that 30% of sub-borrowers were women, and in another 35% of
sub-borrowers, women were actively participating in the decision to borrow and how the borrowed funds
were used; (vi) benefitting SMEs, allowing them to expand their business operations and create about
3,000 new jobs; and (vii) expanding PFIs lending operations, particularly for financing medium and long
term investments, improving the capacity of their staff through project's training program, and
strengthening their financial performance through the implementation of their IDP, initiated under the
project.
-5-



Based on the above, the project has substantially contributed to the welfare of its household
beneficiaries, to the strengthening of its PFIs performance, and to facilitate the accessibility of some
260,000 rural households to formal financial services.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Credit
The project has been successful both in terms of volume and outreach to small farmers and rural
entrepreneurs. By December 31, 2001, some 600,000 RDF and FRP loans had been made. Funds
delivered under the project, supported investments of about US$445 million equivalent. One US$ of IDA
funds generated about US$3.98 of rural investments. This is due to the high leverage used by the PFIs in
making their sub-loans, and effective use by ICPMU/SBV and PFIs of the RDF revolving funds.
The project has contributed to the expansion of credit funds to the rural areas and has improved access
of the rural poor to formal financial services. The question of additionality for the credit component, as for
all credit operations, is not a simple one. Under the project, commercial sub-project selection criteria were
applied, and as a result, the investments supported were sound as reflected by the high collection rate.
Because of this, many of the specific investments financed under the project would probably also have been
made 'without project' using alternative funding. The project additionality in this regard should be
assessed not on whether specific investments were induced, but rather on whether it resulted in an increase
in overall investments, and further that it did not "crowd out" deposits. Macro data for the Vietnamese
banking system as a whole indicates that over the project period, there was on aggregate a substantial
expansion of about 100% in intermediate lending, including lending for agriculture and rural sectors. This
aggregate lending increase was feasible through an increase in fund availability by SBV and by general
banks' deposit mobilization. On the resources side, PFIs financial statements indicated a substantial growth
in their deposit mobilization, i.e. RDF and FRP did not "crowd out" deposits.
Institutional Strengthening Programs
Seven PFIs actively participated under the first Rural Finance Project (Credit 2855-VN). Two of them
(VBARD and BIDV) are SOCBs and the other 5 are relatively small private banks'. All of them, as part
of their accreditation process, had to submit a detailed IDP. The implementation of these IDPs along with
their respective KPIs was closely monitored by the Project's Management Unit (ICPMU).
The most current review of the financial performance as well as the implementation of the respective
IDPs of the seven PFIs revealed that: (i) ACB and EAB financial performance in 1999, 2000, and 2001
were relatively strong in terms of solvency, liquidity, and profitability. The two banks enjoyed strong
management team and their respective IDPs progressed well. Perfornance (during the same period) of all
other five PFIs (VBARD, BIDV, PhNB, RKB, and NAB) are varied. However, all of them recorded
substantial improvement in the implementation of their agreed IDPs (data on PFIs financial ratios is
provided in table 7 of the Borrower (partner) section of this document).
The more general findings of the financial performance as well as the implementation of the respective
IDPs are:
Compared to 1997, the year which preceded RFP implementation, to the situation as
-6-



reported at the end of 2001, the financial performance of all these institutions was stronger
in terms of reducing overdue loans, improving solvency, and liquidity; and
* Their performance in profitability, similar to those of most other banks in the country, was
rather poor.
Overdue loans. All institutions made dramatic progress in reducing their net overdue ratio as a percent of
total loan outstanding, particularly during the period under review (1997 to end 2001). At the end of 2001,
three out of five banks achieved an overdue loan ratio of less than 1% (EAB, ACB, and RKB); the ratios
for the other, though much higher (4.3% for PhNB and 1.6% for NAB, 3.7% for VBARD, and about 3.2%
for BIDV), were still in line with the project's accreditation requirement of being less than 10%. It should
be noted, however, that under the Vietnamese Accounting System (VAS), only the overdue installments are
considered 'overdue loans' not the entire loan amount as under the IAS, which makes this overdue ratio
biased downward. The actual state of NPLs will be fully revealed by the end of 2002, once SBV's Decision
1627 regarding loan classification is fully implemented. The importance of the above ratios is therefore, not
so much about the volume of NPLs, but rather the positive trend.
Solvency. In spite of the fast growth in their lending activities, capital adequacy as measured by the ratio of
equity-to-risk assets remained either close to or reaching the 10% Project's benchmark (EAB and RKB, at
about 8% and 10%, respectively), or exceeding it (ACB, PhNB, and NAB, at about 13%, 12% and 23%,
respectively). However, the Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR) of VBARD and BIDV were reduced mainly
because of their substantial lending expansion that was not accompanied by similar increase in their equity.
This issue is being addressed under the Second Rural Finance Project (Credit 3648-VN) through several
conditionalities.
Profitability. The banks performed rather poorly during the period under review, compared to the results in
1997. As of the end of 2001, profitability of all five institutions as measured by the net profits-to-earning
assets ratio was less than 1%, far below the 5% project's benchmark. The reasons for the low profitability
are threefold:
*   The narrow spread constrained on them due to SBV's ceilings lending rate policy that was in
place until early 2002;
*   The banks began, under SBV's banking reforms, to charge their annual income for the
purpose of building up provision for possible loan losses; and
*   The slowing down of the economy.
A very important aspect of the Rural Finance Project was its Capacity Building component. The
project provided assistance to the PFIs in preparing and implementing their own Institutional Development
Plans (IDPs). The implementation of this component was however, affected by a number of factors: (i)
PFIs' unfamiliarity with the IDP concept, and therefore, its usefulness; (ii) their perception of IDP as
"conditionality" imposed by lender; (iii) their lack of up-to-date financial data; (iv) variance between
accounting standards of Vietnam (VAS) and that of IAS; (v) limited financial ability of the PFIs,
particularly the small ones, to have their accounts audited by intemational firms; (vi) because of (iii) and
(iv) above, those which have had their accounts audited by international firms would have the job done with
considerable delay.
-7-



In spite of all these shortcomings, the PFIs did prepare and implement their IDPs. They were able to
make steady progress in capacity building, particularly in reaching viability and sustainability as measured
by financial performance, improving management quality, governance, and training.
To evaluate PFIs performance, the ICPMU contracted out a comprehensive project impact assessment
which appraised the extent of the PFIs' IDP implementation as well as their impact on the performance of
the participating institutions. According to this assessment, all the PFIs have recorded steady progress, with
the degree of success varying from bank to bank, as follows: (a) all have undertaken external auditing; (b)
internal control systems are in place; (c) all have improved their accounting systems; (d) classification of
overdue loans in terms of aging was carried out; (e) most have strengthened credit appraisal and loan
management procedures; (f) all have built up equity and provision for loan losses; (g) most have benefited
from IDP in improving financial outreach (in saving and lending services) to the rural dwellers and
strengthening the financial system via institutional building; (h) most have improved collection; (i) the
awareness of reducing concentration and improving asset quality was enhanced; (j) all have implemented
their training program to a large extent, either on their own and/or participating in training program
organized by ICPMU; and (k) most PFIs have substantially improved their performance in saving
mobilization during the project implementation period.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
No specific estimate was made, at appraisal, of the project's likely economic rate of return or its
present value. The reason was that at that time it was unclear what types of demand-led investments would
be made by the project's sub-borrowers. The SAR stated that "for each short, medium and long-term
sub-loan above the equivalent of US$50,000, the PFI would prepare a financial plan including the
sub-project cash-flow. For sub-loan below this amount, the character and the standing of the borrower and
the willingness of community members to enter into joint liability would suffice".
The project made about 600,000 sub-loans, of which the weighted average of sub-loan and sub-project
size were about VND6.8 million (US$452) and VND10.7 million (US$71 1), respectively. The largest loan
and sub-project size were below the equivalent of US$28,000 and US$35,000, respectively. Therefore, no
FRR or ERR were calculated ex-ante for any one of the sub-projects. The fact that sub-loan collection
from sub-borrowers to their PFIs reported to be about 98% on average, is a clearer indication that these
sub-projects generated sufficient -income to enable that high repayment rate to be achieved.
The socio-economic impact assessment indicated that the economic impact on project's sub-borrowers
was positive and substantial in terms of: (i) higher and diversifying family income (about 90% of sampled
sub-borrowers indicated an increase in family income), (ii) lower rate when borrowing from informal credit
suppliers as their credit worthiness was improved (as a result of project financed investments), and (iii)
sub-loans made under the project encouraged sub-borrowers to convert their savings into investments that
earn higher rate of return.
The socio-economic impact assessment further confirmed the high demand for credit among project's
beneficiaries. This high demand together with the exceptional high on time credit repayment rate (about
98%) validate the statement that the credit under the project financed acceptable high return investments.
As a result, the credit funds are being relent, some of it for the second time and some of it for the tird time.
Since there is a little or no policy-induced price-distortion of crops in Vietnam, these results apply to both
financial and economic benefits.
-8-



4.4 Financial rate of return:
See discussions under 4.3, above.
4.S Institutional development impact:
Apart from the project impact on its PFIs as discussed in paragraph 4.2 above, the project has built a
strong cadre of staff and management for a wholesale banking operation. This objective as stated in para.
4.4 of the SAR was fully achieved. A cadre of 22 staff and management has been transferred in July 2002
to the Bank for Investment and Development of Vietnam (BIDV) to manage the operation of the RDF and
RFP revolving funds and the Second Rural Finance Project (Credit 3648-VN), also designed as a wholesale
banking operation.
1/     Sectoral and geographical distribution are as follows: agricultural cultivation (40% of total
lending), animal husbandry 31%; food processing and aquaculture 8%; and services and others about
21%. Upland and midland regions received about 27% of RDF and FRPfinancial resources; Mekong
Delta 19%; Red River Delta 16%; Central Highland 17%; and other regions 21%.
2/     While collection rate from sub-borrowers to their PFIs was reported to be 99%, the collection
rate of PFIs to the apex institution was 100%.
3/     These are Asia Commercial Bank (ACB); Eastern Asia Commercial Bank (EAB); Phung Nam
Bank (PhNB); Rach Kien Bank (RKB); North Asia Bank (NAB).
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control ofgovernment or implementing agency:
The major factors outside the control of the Government and the implementing agency (IA) that
affected project performance were the 1998/99 Asia financial crisis and the slow down of the economy.
This led to low level of investments, and therefore, to lower than expected demand for project funds,
particularly medium and long term financing.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Ceiling Interest Rate was set by the SBV until mid 2002. During most of project implementation
period, (1998 to mid 2001) there was only one ceiling rate for short-term and long-term lending. This
policy motivated banks to lend short as the spread on short term lending was higher than the one on longer
terms. This is because the mobilization cost of short-term was lower than that for medium and long term
deposits. Due to this factor, the medium and long term sub-loans accounted for only 34.5% of the
accumulative sub-loan disbursement (first and second generations funds) against the targeted KPI of 50%.
Only when this policy was changed and different ceiling rates were set for different maturity periods, the
project was able to make many more medium term loans than short-tern. By the Credit closing date
(December 31, 2001), the ratio of medium and long termn outstanding sub-loans accounted for 74%,
exceeding the KPI of 50% at completion (this includes second generation lending).
Delay in project implementation, particularly the participation of non-SOCBs, was due to SBV's
requirements that non-SOCBs had to secure (usually with liquid assets) their SBV's loans. As a result, the
non-SOCBs did not have any incentive to participate in the project. At the pressure of the Bank and the
-9-



efforts made by SBV's senior management, this obstacle was removed; and non-SOCBs PFIs were
exempted from this requirement
The Bank for the Poor (VBP) was unable to participate in the project, and the implementation of the
FRP was delayed due to disagreement on VBP's lending rates. While GOV's policy favored subsidized
lending rate under VBP, the project's basic concept emphasizes the need for the establishment of lending
rate policy that would encourage saving mobilization and ensure the sustainability (without Government
direct subsidy) of this operation. As a result, the DCA was amended to allow other PFIs to carzy out the
FRP.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The Credit closing dates was extended twice all together by about 21 months. The extensions of the
Credit closing date were mainly due to delay in project start-up of about 18 months and a delay in carrying
out the project's training program. The project Director that was actively involved in its preparation and
was familiar with its design and basic concepts was replaced by a new Director during the first year of
project implementation. In addition, several Deputy Govemors that were in charge of project
implementation were replaced during this critical period. These changes and the delay in the appointrnent
of the project senior advisor were the key reasons for this delay of about 18 months in project
implementation. Once project implementation started to pick-up, the ICPMU was focusing on maintaining
its momentum, particularly in RDF operation. As a result, the activities of the training program were
behind schedule. Consequently, the implementation of the project training program as well as the
strengthening of VBARD's mobile banking operation were moved to a later stage of project
implementation.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The SAR total project cost were estimated at about US$139.7 million equivalent. About 95% or
US$132.8 million was allocated to the Credit component (RDF and FRP), and the balance of about US$6.9
million was assigned to the Improving Financial Services to the Rural Areas (IFS). The SAR Credit
component cost did not include sub-borrowers' equity investments in their sub-projects, and assumed that
only a first generation of IDA funds would be applied to the credit component.
The actual cost of the credit component was US$125.9 million or about 95% of the SAR estimate of
US$132.8 million equivalent. The reasons for the difference of 5% are (i) the depreciation of the SDR
vis-a-vis the US$ from about $1.475 in 1996 to $1.248 in April 2002 (the date that the Credit account was
actually closed), a loss of about US$10.4 million; (ii) reallocation of about SDR2.1 million (about US$2.6
million) to the RDF and FRP; and (iii) the depreciation of the SDR was partly offset by larger PFIs
contribution (US$1.6 million). PFIs had actually contributed US$15.7 million compared to the SAR
formula of about US$14.1 million. The actual cost of the IFS component was US$4.9 million or about
78% of the SAR estimate.
- 10-



Project Cost and Financing at Appraisal and Actual in US$ milion
t Appraisal                                 Actual/Estimate
Govt.     PFIs     IDA      Total    Govt.     PFIs      IDA     Total     % of
SAR
Estimate
RDF            0.4      11.1      102    113.5       0.8     14.2     95.9     110.9     97.7
FRP             1.7              17.6     19.3       0.9      1.5     12.6       15      77.7
Ins,Stren      3.7                3.2      6.9       1.8               3.1       4.9       71
Total          5.8      11.1    122.8    139.7       3.5     15.7    111.6     130.8     93.6
SAR            6.7       11       122    139.7
Rounded
Figures
%______        4.8      7.9      87.3      100      2.7       12      85.3      100
Investment under the project was much larger than envisaged at the appraisal time. Total project
investments as of December 31, 2001 was about the equivalent of US$444.2 million. As can be seen from
the table below, the largest portion of about US$155 million equivalent was contributed by the project's
sub-borrowers as their equity investments in their own sub-projects. The revolving fund, mainly RDF,
which includes second and third generations of RDF lending, accounts for 28.5% or the equivalent of about
US$126.9 million. PFIs financial participating was 11% or the equivalent of about US$50 million. The
bottom line of this table is that an initial US$1 of IDA funds has generated about US$3.98 of rural
investments. This is a strong indication for project success and its sustainability.
Investment under the Project and Financing (US$ million)
Sub-borrowers   PFIs         EDA           ICPMU            Total
Revolving Fund
RDF                    154.6          47.4          94.5          126.9           423.4
FRP                     2.2            1.5           11.1          -               14.8
Training and TA                                      2.6                            2.6
Good & Equipment                                     3.4                            3.4
Total                  156.8          48.9          111.6         126.9            444.2
35.3           11.0           25.2         28.6             100.0
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
The project is sustainable at the levels of sub-borrower, PFI, Apex Institution and Government. About
95% of IDA Credit will be relent to sub-borrowers under the RDF and FRP revolving funds over the next
14 years". The mobile banking operation that was financed by the project will be maintained by VBARD
as it proves to be financially viable and important activity in the provision of financial services to poor
people who live in remote areas.
-1 1-



For the sub-borrowers, investrnents have been assessed as being profitable. The fact that loan
repayment record from sub-borrowers to their PFIs is about 98% to 99% substantially better than that of
the banking system as a whole, supports the thesis that loans under the project have financed, on average,
viable and sustainable investments.
The PFIs under the project have set interest rates and fees at levels which made project lending
profitable to them. This, together with the long maturity of project funds suggest that this type of lending,
is sustainable using project resources for another 14 years. Beyond that, other long term borrowing from
development or commercial institutions, increased capitalization or the issuance of bonds would allow the
levels of medium/long term investment lending initiated under the project to be sustained and expanded.
SBV's internal accounts show that the project was profitable and contributed about VND 134 billion
(about US$9.5 million) to SBV over a period of about four years. This was clearly sufficient to cover all
operating costs including full coverage of the foreign exchange risk and leave reasonable profit. It is quite
clear that under the operation of the Bank for Investment and Development (BIDV), the project FUNDs
(RDF and FRP) would add to BIDV's net income, and so it will be sustainable. Provided, however, that
BIDV will be prudent in its accreditation process and the need for loan loss provisions against its lending
under the project remains low (well below 1% per annum). However, if BIDV becomes constrained by its
risk assets to equity ratio, there is a possibility that wholesale lending could be crowded out by retail
lending with higher spreads.
Environmental sustainabilitv requires that the project continues to insist on conformity with
environmental laws in future lending operations. Most of project's sub-borrowers were rural poor people
with a weighted average loan size of about US$400 equivalent and as such they were exempted from
environmental assessment either because they are too small or because they are operating in areas or
sectors that under the Vietnamese law and regulations are exempted. BIDV and its Environmental Division
(ED) would ensure that only sub-projects with no adverse impact on the environment will be financed
under the RDF and the FRP (the FUNDS). Arrangements to these effects have been incorporated in
FUNDS's documents. Its sustainability would be ensured if (i) the 'playing field were leveled' and the
code of practice presently adopted under the project were required for all investment loans by the entire
banking sector, and (ii) the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources would be able to enforce
compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Without certainty that this will happen, there are
some doubts as to the long term sustainability of the environmental objectives of the project.
6 2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
A Second Rural Finance Project (SRFP) was approved by the Bank, the DCA was signed on
September 9, 2002, and it is expected to become effective in early 2003. The BIDV, a State Owned
Commercial Bank, who is the Apex Bank for the SRFP, has since July 2002 been implementing the RDF
and FRP, the two FUNDs under the first project. Continuity of these two FUNDs is, therefore, in place,
and its commercial operation is ensured through BIDV.
1/ The balance was used to cover the cost of training TA and equipment.
2/ The overall level of gross past dues for the banking sector as a whole is estimated at 10% to 15% of their 2001
loan portfolio. The collection rate, however, of household loan portfolio is currently recorded at 96%.
3/ No foreign exchange loans were made under the RDF and the FRP. All loans were in VND and the actual
foreign exchange of IDA Credit was left with the Government/SB V.
4/ To be established under the Second Rural Finance Project (Credit 3648-VN).
-12-



7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending
Bank's performance is assessed as satisfactory throughout the preparation, appraisal, and project start
up activities. Strength of Bank's performance included sound preparation, with detailed preparation of the
Wholesale Banking Operation (WBO) that was the first of its type in Vietnam, appropriate use of
skills-rnix during project appraisal process, a pro-active approach to problem solving during supervision,
and continuity in task management The Bank, however, did not pay sufficient attention to the need to
include the employmnent of a Project Senior Advisor as one of the condition of Credit effectiveness. This
was perhaps one of the factors that disbursement was delayed at the onset of the project.
7.2 Supervision:
Bank's performance in supervising the project is assessed as satisfactory. Supervision took place
regularly, at least twice a year. But in some cases more visits although short ones, were undertaken to
address urgent implementation and institutional issues. As the WBO was the first of its type in Vietnam,
and to ensure successful implementation of the project, the Bank had actually provided, through its Task
Team, training and mentoring support to the ICPMU on a regular basis. As the Vietnamese Accounting
System (VAS) substantially differ from the International Accounting Standard (IAS), the Bank had to
provide guidance and address operational issues almost on a daily basis, particularly with regard to
accreditation and evaluation of banks, the preparation of Institutional Development Plan (IDP) for each of
the PFIs, and supervision of sub-projects and PFIs. It should be noted that one of the reasons that no
project's PFI had encounter financial difficulties as a result of 1998 and 1999 financial crisis and economic
slow down was due to prudent accreditation review that was undertaken by the ICPMU with close
supervision of the Bank.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Overall bank performance is assessed as Satisfactory throughout preparation, appraisal, and during
implementation. The knowledge and the experience of the TTL played an important factor in ensuring
project's successful implementation.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower performance at the project's preparatory stage is assessed as satisfactory. The
Borrower was represented by the State Bank of Vietnam (SBV) who was actively involved in all project
preparation activities. Project preparation was substantially benefited from strong SBV ownership. SBV
was active in drafting the RDF Policy Manual, organizing the PMU (ICPMU), working out the project
training program, and the preparatory works with potential PFIs and sub-borrowers.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Overall, the performance of the project's borrower, is assessed as satisfactory. The Government was
for all practical purposes represented by SBV. SBV and its ICPMU played a major role in ensuring
project successful implementation. The Government and SBV are responsible for several policies that most
of them created positive environment for successful project implementation. Furthermore, some of the
- 13 -



policies that created some problems in project implementation, such as the one ceiling lending rate and the
need to collateralize SBV lending to non-state banks, were positively changed, allowing the project to fully
meet its objectives.
7.6 Implementing Agency.
The project Implementing Agency was the SBV and its ICPMU. As stated above, the ICPMU in
particular, and SBV including its various departments and senior management in general, were very
supportive and performed well to ensure project success. The performance of SBV/ICPMU is, therefore,
assessed as highly satisfactory.
The PFIs are being evaluated positively in two areas: (i) delivering the credit funds to the rural real
sector; and (ii) their performance in implementing their own IDPs. While the PFIs performance as credit
delivery is rated as satisfactory to highly satisfactory, particularly with regard to loan collection rate
(98%), their rating in terms of IDP implementation is overall satisfactory; although about two of them
implemented their IDP in a highly satisfactory manner.
7 7 Overall Bonrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance is satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
The broad lessons that emerge from the review of the previous first Rural Finance projects are: (i) there
is a need to undertake pre-accreditation activities with PFIs/NFIs, including listing of potential PFIs/MFIs,
and dissemination of the project concept (marketing) in order to generate timely credit demand from these
internediaries; (ii) a level playing field for all PFIs, whether they are SOCBs or non-state banks, is
required for successful project implementation; (iii) a professional tearn is necessary for accreditation and
supervision of PFIs performance, if not available, technical assistance is essential; (iv) a management unit,
independent of political influence, that is well equipped and staffed is essential for the effectiveness of the
wholesale banking operation; (v) variable interest rate must react quickly to market conditions - when
interest rates increased or declined fast, as happened in 1999, and ceiling rates were reduced four times, it
became necessary to shorten the period in which the RDF's lending rates were calculated and announced;
(vi) PFIs need more assistance in the preparation and implementation of their respective IDPs; and (vii) too
small spread to banks and a single ceiling lending rate for short, medium and long-term loans, as had been
the case in Vietnam between mid 1998 and August 2000, had motivated banks to: (a) lend to larger and less
risky borrowers, thus avoiding or minimizing lending to small and mediun scale investmnents, particularly
rural ones; and (b) favor short term lending rather than medium and long term investments. These
undesirable results ran contrary to Vietnam national goals of promoting economic growth and rural
development.
Other points to be learned from this Project are as follows: (i) PFIs accreditation criteria, particularly
the cut off points need to be periodically reviewed and adjusted to market conditions; (ii) more attention
should be given to diversification of the RDF lending, i.e. lending to non-farm and labor intensive
operations; (iii) IDP targets should be reviewed and updated more often to reflect better the new challenges
and issues that the PFIs need to cope with; and (iv) although this project is a demand driven operation, the
gender disaggregated data need to be collected and be integral part of the project's M&E process.
- 14 -



The experience under the project has also confirmed some of the basic experience and lessons from the
implementation of credit projects in other countries. These include: (i) directed credit by crop or type of
investments, at subsidized interest rates, have not sustained economic growth, improved credit delivery
mechanisms in rural areas, or increased access of rural borrowers to formal credit facilities; (ii) heavy
arrears and poor financial conditions within the apex financial institution or the selected PFIs has severely
constrained projects' sustainability; (iii) private financial resource mobilization is extremely important for
institutional sustainability; (iv) strong financial institutions along with qualified and experienced
management and staff at headquarters, branches and field offices, are crucial to project success; and (v)
when interest rates either fell significantly below or move well above prevailing market rates, serious
implementation problems have emerged; above market-rates have resulted in slow disbursement, while
below-market rates have led to concentration of credit to relatively wealthy, large, and well connected
clients.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
1.     The Development Credit Agreement for the Rural Finance Project was signed on July 19, 1996
between the Intemational Development Association (IDA) and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam and
became effective on February 6, 1997. Under this agreement, the equivalent sum of SDR 82,700,000 was
provided by IDA to Vietnam to assist the Government in its efforts to improve the living conditions in the
rural area through: (i) encouraging private sector investments; (ii) strengthening capacity of the banking
system to finance private sector investments; and (iii) increasing access of the rural poor to formal financial
services. The Project has been implemented successfully and completed on December 31, 2001. The IDA
project account was closed on April 30; 2002. One hundred percent (100%) of the Credit was disbursed for
implementation of Project's activities, as follow:
Rural Development Fund (lending)              US$94.69 mil. (VND 1,298 bil.)
Fund for Rural Poor (lending)                 US$11.06 mil (VND 163 bil.)
Capacity building activities (consultant, training,  US$7.5 mil (VND 12.07 bil.)
vehicle and equipment)
2.      Operations of the two Wholesale Credit Funds (RDF and FRP) have been implemented by 7
Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs), list of PFIs and their lines of credit is presented in table 1,
below. On-lending rate from these two Funds to PFIs reflects market rates, and it is equal to the weighted
average interest rate of deposits in the banking system, adjusted to the reserve requirements as set out by
SBV (see table 2, below). The Credit proceeds was lent to sub-borrowers through the PFIs for financing
their efficient rural investments and business activities.
Table 1: List of accredited PFIs and the use of their Lines of Credit
(as of December 31, 2001)
No   PFIS                       Credit Unes        Outstanding as of  Difference as of 31/12/01  Use of Lnes
as of3l/12/2001    31/12/2001                          of Credit
(in bill VND)     (in bill. VND)     (in bill VND)     %
i    ACB                              41,565             32,454             9,111         78%
2.    BIDV                            289,015            288,800            0,215         100%
3     EAB                              44,336            39,200              5,136         88%
4     NAB                              8,728               0                 8,728         0%
- 15-



5    P1NB                          24,939          22,765            2,174       91%
6.   RachK,en                     Z771             2,770            0,001      100%
7.   VBARD                         900,575         900,000           0,575      100%
B   FRP (VBARD)                   1i.00            151.000          0000         A
ToWd                         1.462,929        1.436,989         25,940      98%
Table 2: On-lending Interest Rates
(Unit: %/o/month)
Year        Ouarter I          OQurter II         Quatr m           Quarter IV
Short term M & Long Short tem M & Long Short term M & Long Short term M & Long
term               term               term               term
1998      0.6      0.89       0.6     0.89      0.62      0.88     0.62      0.88
0.62      0.88     0.62      0.88      0.5      0.75      0.4      0.55
2000      0.4       0.5      0.35      0.4      0.35      0.4      0.35      0.4
2001      0.35      0.4           0.4                 0.4                0.4
3.     During the time of project implementation, the Govermment initiated a comprehensive program to
restructure its commercial banks and some of the Joint Stock Conmmercial Banks (JSCBs). In this
framework, and as a result of the implementation of their IDPs, the PFIs have substantially improved their
performance. These IDP were integral part of the project's accreditation requirements. Monitoring,
evaluation of PFI's performance and supervising of the Project's funds uses have been conducted on
regular basis. Thanks to the proceeds of the Credit for capacity building, many training activities have been
carried out, VBARD's mobile banldng program has been expanded, and these activities have made positive
contributions to the beneficiary's performance.
Project results
4.     The project has successfully completed. One hundred percent (100%) of Credit funds were
disbursed for Project's eligible activities. Project's objectives as stated in the SAR and the DCA have
basically been accomplished. This is summarized below.
5.     Establishment of project management unit and the preparation of the legal framework for
project's implementation: A Wholesale Credit operation and the use of PFIs to channel funds to end
borrowers was a new credit operation in the banking sector of Vietnam. This requires that (i) a newly
established organization with qualified staff and management for managing the project's activities and
running the Funds would be in place; (ii) a detailed working procedures be developed; and (iii) a set of
legal framework for running the project be established. These particulars are described below.
-      Establishment and development of the International Credit Projects Management Unit (ICPMU)
with divisions responsible for operating the Wholesale Credit Funds and carrying out the project's
activities, including: accreditation and supervising the PFIs; calculation and announcement of wholesaling
interest rate; disbursement of project's funds to PFIs; appraisal of relatively large sub-projects; handling
training and TA activities; monitoring project implementation; book-keeping; and administration works
related to the project.
- 16 -



-      Establishment of the legal framework for wholesale lending operation by issuing the Funds' Policy
Manuals, regulations on accreditation, and determination of credit limits for PFIs, and regulations on
unsecured loans to PFIs, etc.
-      Calculation and introduction of the on-lending interest rate based on the Weighted Average Interest
Rate (adjusted to the prevailing reserve requirement as set out by the SBV) of deposits in the banking
system, ensuring the Project's on-lending interest rate to reflect the market loanable cost of funds, and
ensure the FUNDS (RDF and FRP) sustainable operation.
6.     The establishment of the ICPMU as well the necessary legal framework and regulations were
carried out synchronously, enabling project's implementation and Fund operations to be successfully
completed.
The Credit component
7.     By December 31, 2001, the Credit closing date, 7 PFIs have been accredited and borrowed from
the Project's Wholesale Credit Funds. PFIs lines of credit and RDF financing mix are presented in
Tables 4 and 5, below. Results of the credit component are as follows:
Table 3: The Credit Component
(a)    Rural Development Fund (as of 30/4/2002):    mill. USD     bn. VND
-      RDF's Resources (withdrawn from Credit              94.69       1,298.0
Account):
-      Subsidiary-Loan Outstanding                                     1,292.6
-      Balance on Revolving Fund Account                                  5.0
-      Total lending amount of RDF:                                   3,403.1
(b)    Fund for Rural Poor (as of 30/4/2002):
-      RFP's Resources (withdrawn from Credit Account):    11.06        163.4
-      Subsidiary-Loan Outstanding                                      163.4
-      Balance on Revolving Fund Account                                  0.0
-      Total lending amount of FRP:                                     163.4
-      Total Resources of 2 Funds:                        105.75       1,461.4
-      Total lending amount from 2 Funds                               3,566.5
8.    Implementation of the Project's credit component has created two (2) Wholesale Credit Funds (the
RDF and FRP) which would last for another 14 year. The Development Credit Agreement for the Rural
Finance Project was signed on July 19, 1996 between the International Development Association (IDA) and
the Socialist Republic of Vietnam and became effective on February 6, 1997. Under this agreement, the
equivalent sum of SDR 82,700,000 was provided by IDA to Vietnam to assist the Government in its efforts
to improve the living conditions in the rural area through: (i) encouraging private sector investments; (ii)
strengthening capacity of the banking system to finance private sector investments; and (iii) increasing
access of the rural poor to formal financial services. The Project has been implemented successfully and
- 17 -



completed on December 31, 2001. The IDA project account was closed on April 30,2002. One hundred
percent (100%) of the Credit was disbursed for implementation of Project's activities, as follow:
Table 4: RDF's Lines Of Credit and PFI's equity
Unit: VND billion
1998                1999                2000                2001
PFI     RDF  Equity  RDF/   RDF   Equity  RDF/  RDF  Equity  RDF/   RDF   Equity  RDF/
equity              equity              equity              equity
VBARD   173  2.494,97  6.9  681.8 2,439.45  27.9  918  2,275 3  40.3  994  2,306.4  43.1
BIDV    0    0       -      8.3  1,121.04 0.7   108   1,133.11 9 5  228  1,157.48  19.7
EAB     6.3  125.2   5      19.8  89.29  22.2   35.9  102    35.2   43 2  126 98  34
ACB     I    343.5   3.2    15 8  346    4 6    26   346     7.5    35.6  348.89  10.2
PhNB    0    0       -      3.1  81.1    3.8    18.2  81.1   22.4   22 7  82     27.7
NAB     0    0              3.1  20      15.5   6.7  47      14.3   5.25  50      10.5
RkB     0    0              I _   3      33.3   2.4  3.8     63.2   2.7  5.1     52.9
Table 5: RDF Financing Mix by PFIs as of December 31, 2001 (VND millions)
PFIs/       RDF        Borrowers'   PFIs       Total       No. of   Average     Average
Financing              Equity       Financing  Sub-        Sub-     Sub-loan    Sub-Loan
Projects   loans     Amount     In US$
Cost                 (RDF
__________                     _________           ~~~~ ~~~+PFIs)
ACB            111,967       27,383     16,682    109,531    9,874       10.55        703.3
BIDV          488,800      327,124     149,835    321,364    6,649       26.99      1,799.3
EAB            135,547       54,496     21,119    149,551    7,427       15.36      1,024.0
NAB             15,500        7,039      2,714     25,253      165       110.4      7,359.3
PhNB           62,069       34,790      10,762     67,680    1,309       33.35      2,223.3
RKB               47          2373       2,355     10234     1043         8.33        555.3
VBARD        2,500,300    1,865,668    507,636  4,006,390  460,072        5.51        367.3
Total        3,323,600    2,318,873    711 L103  6,354,532  595,349       6.78        452.0
Percentage       52.3          36.5       11.2      100.0           _
9.     During project implementation up to December 31, 2001, the Project generated a total income of
about VND1 34 billion (interest rate received from the PFIs for RDF and FRP subsidiary loans, and the
related fees on VBARD's capacity building activities that were financed under the project). These funds
were transferred to the State budget and was sufficient to cover the foreign exchange risk, operation costs
of ICPMU/SBV, and some profit.
Social-economic impact
10.    The project has succeeded in assisting Govemment's efforts to improve living standard in rural
areas, to generate employment, alleviate poverty, and enhance banks competition in providing financial
services to their clients in rural areas.
11.    By December 31, 2001, the Project financed over 600,000 sub-loans nationwide (in which the poor
household accounted for about 28,000 sub-loans) with total investment of VND 6,581 billion. Most of
- 18-



project's sub-loans were small, approximately VND 5.5 million/sub-loan, on average. The ratio of
accumulated medium- and long-term lending was 34.5%, but the ratio of outstanding medium and
long-term lending was 74%.
12.     All sectors and geographic areas have benefited from the project. Statistics show that lager parts of
project's funds was lent to animal husbandry (about 41%) and cultivation (30%) sectors.
13.     Compared to the agreed project's key performance indicators (KPIs), the number of project's
beneficiaries has by far exceeded the indicator (of 50,000 end-borrowers by project's completion). The
project provided significant stable funds to the rural areas, and partly improved the farmers' accessibility to
official financial services. By the closing date of the Credit Account, the ratio of medium- and long-term
outstanding was 74%, exceeding the Project's KPI of 50% at completion (this includes second generation
lending).
Table 6: Summarizing the project implementation by KPIs
Evaluation aspects                 Result       KPI                  Evaluation
Encouramnx tnvestment in mual area and PovertY alleviation:
-       Number of borrowers:                         600 O     50 000 Excess KPI
-       Classification of sub-loans by maturity (proportion  740/  50%  Medium and long term loans account for 24.5%
of medium and long term sub-loan)0 o/                                  of accumulative sub-loan disbursements (first
generation plus the Revolving Funds). However,
at completion 74% of sub-loans outstandmg was
medium- and long-term.
Improving the financial system in rural areas
-       Number of PFI selected and active                 7         9 Among the 7 PFIs include VBARD the bank
with widest network of the Vietnam banking
system that have branches down to distrcts and
________   ~      com unes.
-       [DP implementation                        Fair-Good             All the PFIs have made progress
Financial impact to PFIs
14.     The project has provided the participating credit institutions with a stable capital, especially for
medium and long term capital. Though compared to total resource of fund that are available to PFIs, the
amount borrowed under the project, was insignificantly. A recent review of 12 VBARD's provinces and 7
BIDV's provinces indicated that as of December 31, 2000, these amounts account for only 3.8% and 3.2%,
of VBARD's and BIDV's, total resources in these provinces, respectively. All PFIs, however, have highly
assessed this fund due to its stable availability and its adequate interest rate.
15.     Project implementation and the progress of its PFIs performance were adversely affected by the
Asia financial crisis and the slow down of the economy (98 to mid 2000). However, PFIs were able to
make progress and improve some of their basic financial indicators as stated in table 7, below.
-19 -



Table 7: PFIs' Key Financial Indicators Performance
from 1998 to 2001
PFI          Net overdue       Capital       Liquidity    Profitability  Return on
debt       adequac ratio      ratio         ratio         equity
VBAltD_       _   _   _     _ _   _   _     _ _   _   _  _      _   _
1998                  3.0             9.0          31.0           0.4          18.9
1999                  4.9             7.3          27.0           0.4           5.4
2000                   3.8            5.1          59.5           0.5          10.5
2001                   3.7            4.2            34           0.4          11.2
BIDV
1999      ]            1.4           .5.3           48            0.3           8.8
2000                   0.2            2.5          32.4           0.2           9.5
2001                   3.2            2.0          55.8           0.3          14.8
EAB
1998                   1.0           19.0          89.0             3          16.7
1999                  4.7            13.5           26.             3          14.5
2000                   0.4            5.9          18.1           1.5           18.9
2001                   0.6            9.0          30.7           2.6          30.2
ACB
1998                  2.9            29.3          56.0           3.5          11.1
1999                  2.9            24.3         159.8           2.5          15.0
2000                   0.5            11.2         97.0           1.0           16.2
2001                   0.1           10.0          98.1           1.1           20.9
PhNB
1999                  2.1            16.6          21.2           0.7           5.2
2000                   4.8            11.5         22.9            1.3          13.8
2001                   1.2            9.7          24.7            1.4          17.7
NAB
1999                  2.21           13.0          24.8 f         0.11           0.6
2000      1            3.61          25.11         90.41           0.11          1.0
2001      I            1.1            13.41        28.5           0.02           0.2
RachKien Bank
1999                   0.5            9.8          11.2           0.8           23.7
2000                   0.91           9.61          6.61           0.81         11.5
2001      1            0.7            10.61         5.9 j          1.4 J        12.7
** Note: VBARD, EAB, ACB 's equity in 1998 were higher than in 1999 due to the different calculation.
In 1998 the equity included welfare funds, until 1999 it only made of legal capital plus its supplemental
fund.
NAB Note: NAB's profitability was low in 2001 because this bank has made loan losses provisions of
VND 5.9 billion, so impacted on net overdue debt ratio.
16.    Analyzing of 7 PFI's performance status shown that:
(i)    Since PFls join the project their net overdue loan ratio was reduced compared to previous years.
Particularly with regard to Joint Stock Commercial Banks (JSBCs). For key banks such as VBARD, net
overdue loan ratio was reduced from 4.9% in 1999 to 3.7% in 2001; for JSBC such as ACB, this ratio
decreased from 2.9% to 0.1%, EAB from 4.7% to 0.6% at respective years.
(ii)   JSCB's Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR) has been maintained, and met the project requirements (at
least 10%). In 2002, however, the CAR of VBARD and BIDV was reduced due to the rapid increase in
loan outstanding while the Govemments capital infusion has not yet been made. As a result, this ratio was
- 20 -



getting worse over the time. The Government is now implementing the Banking Restructuring Plan, one
component under the framework of PRSC financed by the World Bank, which includes the recapitalizing
plan of SOCBs to meet by the end of 2004 the international CAR requirement (8%).
(iii)  Banks performance with regard to their profitability was low. One of the various objective reasons
to the low profitability of the banks was the continuous reduction of ceiling rates in the period 1999-2000
which narrowed the banks' lending spread. Also, PFIs contributed to this low profitability by the lack of
new income sources.
Institutional Capacity Building
Activities carried out by ICPMtJ/SBV
17.    A Senior Project Advisor (SPA) was recruited, under the Project, for a period of slightly over two
years (May 1998 to August 2000) to assist in its implementation activities. The SPA accomplished his task
in assisting project's implementing agencies and contributed to the success of the Project's implementation.
Beside the consultant services, during the project implementation, ICPMU/SBV carried out workshops and
training activities, including:
-      Project inception workshops to introduce the project's contents and implementation procedures to
potential PFIs and related agencies: 2 workshops for 322 participants.
-      Local workshops and short training courses on wholesaling credit operations and project
management: 12 courses/workshops for 310 participants.
-      Training abroad including training in banking operations, and management models: 11 courses for
86 participants.
18.   These training/workshop programs have attained certain positive achievements as follows: (i)
Introduced the project to potential PFIs and related government agencies at project's start-up stage. This
facilitated the cooperation of related Government agencies and the participating in the project of these
potential PFIs; (ii) The training and studying abroad exposed the ICPMU's as well as other related
agencies' staff (most of them at managerial positions) to the operations of foreign banks with different
types of management models. This training improved the ability of the ICPMU and other participants to
manage the day to day project operation and provide guidance for the preparation of the project's long term
development plans; and (iii) The local training/workshops (mainly for ICPMU's staff) enabled ICPMU to
develop and accumulate the needed knowledge and competence to professionally managed the project.
Below are the lists of training activities that were undertaken during project implementation. Detailed tables
of the training programs are presented under Additional Information Section.
Activities carried out by VBARD
19.    VBARD is now the biggest bank in Vietnam with the highest number of staff (23,000 staff) and
the largest network (1,406 branches). The bank serves about 5 million households in the rural area or about
40% of total rural households. Under the Project, VBARD plays an important role, as the key retailer bank.
The amount of project fund that was disbursed through VBARD was about USD88.49 million, equivalent
to 79.22% of total project funds (which includes credit fund from RDF of USD 73.06 million, FRP of USD
11.06 million, and from Institutional Building Component of USD 4.37 million). Together with its own
counter-fund and end-borrowers contributions, VBARD has financed about 570,000 sub-loans.
-21 -



20.    Under the Institutional Building Component, VBARD financed the procurement of 159
cash-transportation cars for its mobile banking program. These cars were distributed to VBARD's branches
which have been able to provide financial services to the people who live in remote, and mountainous areas.
These financial services include lending, disbursement, collection of loan repayment and mobilization of
small savings. The mobile banking operation found to be very effective, and has contributed remarkably to
the rural households' accessibility to formal financial services. By December 31, 2001, the statistics on
monthly average operation of each mobile car was as follows:
-      Mobilized 1,983 savings (of VND 19 billion);
-      Disbursed about 1,921 loans (of VND 15 billion);
-      Collected about 1,387 sub-loans (of VND 10 billion) and additionally,
-      Made 75 cash transports (in the amount of VND 105 billion) to 16 local points on average.
21.    Regarding training, VBARD has conducted 144 local training courses and 36 overseas study on
related contents and subjects for 11,564 participants.
Activities carrded out by Vietnam Bank for the Poor (VBP)
22.    To enhance the capacity of VBP in serving the poor, a part of the Credit was used to finance the
VBP's training of the Saving and Borrowing Groups and to improve capacity of their staff.
With the project fund, the VBP conducted 53 training courses for trainers for 2,980 participants,
who were mainly the credit officers in their local branches nationwide. These trainers then conducted 2,691
workshops on establishment and running of borrowing groups (joint Liability groups) for 138,635
participants in provinces all over the country. Additionally, the VBP has organized 4 studying courses
abroad to leam from regional countries' experiences in micro-finance for 70 seniors managers.
Project analysis
Project design and implementation arrangements
23.    The wholesale credit model has been received positively by the commercial banks, the
achievements have been recorded during the implementation period. The advantages of the model are as
follows:
-      Mobilize the system of commercial banks, this is the funding channel that could screen for lending
to the viable projects and has good loan collection rate.
-      On lending rate to PFIs is the rate reflecting market situation: This rate does not cause
deterioration of the PFIs' existing deposits and also provide preferable conditions for sustainable
development of wholesale operations.
-      The PFI accreditation procedures under the Project enable the selected PFIs to be ones with best
operations and status. In addition to that, the stipulation in the Policy Manual regarding provisional
accreditation enable the flexibility in accreditation, suitable to the context of banking restructuring
in Vietnam, therefore the project has received much attention from commercial banks.
24.    However, in the wholesale credit model, there are many (not one) actual project implementing
agencies. This create some difficulties in carrying out TA support, training activities, and collection of
management information data.
-22 -



WB's activity and lessons learned
25.    WB activities in project preparation and implementation have been satisfactorily and in line with
reasonable expectations. The regular missions with the helpful findings and recommendations, have ensured
the achievement of project targets. All obstacles and clarifications and "no objection" opinions regarding
various aspects of the project have all been timely satisfied by the Task Manager which enabled the
ICPMU to carry out the project smoothly.
26.    However, some of the WB's initial conditions and requirements did not take into account the
current situations in Vietnam, e.g. the requirements that only PFIs with audited accounts will be considered
for accreditation under the project (given very early in 1997 - 1998), the requirement that VBP's lending
rates would cover all its operational expenditures, relevant credit risks, and leave some profits for equity
build-up (given in 1999). These requirements created difficulties in project implementation.
ICPMU/SBV operations and lessons learned
27.    Through the successful implementation of the Rural Finance Project I, successful experiences as
well as operational matters to be improved could be drawn as follows:
(i)    Preparation and establishment of legal framework for project's Wholesale Credit Funds operations
took a significant period of time in project's implementation. Project was initially deternined to implement
in four years, starting from July 1, 1996 and ending on March 31, 2000 and the closing date on June 30,
2000. In practice, due to delays in meeting the agreed conditions of effectiveness, especially the preparation
of legal documents such as: the RDF Policy Manuals, regulation on collateral requirements, auditing
reports of potential PFIs, funds were disbursed to PFIs only after May 1998. Therefore the project's
closing date had to be extended to December 31, 2001.
(ii)   The decision to place the project in the SBV, because no commercial bank was at that time (1996)
financially and operationally suitable to play the role of Apex Bank, created certain advantages for project
activities. These include (i) an easy and convenient access to SBV's information and data base; (ii)
getting the support and assistance of various SBV's departments, particularly in collecting information and
data on potential PFIs, accreditation and monitoring of PFIs, etc. However, there were some disadvantages
in placing the project within the SBV: (i) The Funds were not fully operated on commercial basis, e.g. in
accreditation of PFIs sometimes ICPMU concentrated too much on PFIs compliance with rules and
regulations, rather than focusing on credit risk aspects and profitability of the Apex institution; (ii) the
ICPMU did not have enough financial autonomy to be flexible in carrying out TA activities and training;
and (iii) it failed to provide financial and physical stimulus to employees.
(iii)  The success of the project was due to the efforts made by the SBV/ICPMU, particularly in creating
more flexible operational environment, such as: (a) removing the collateral requirement of joint-stock
commercial banks when borrowing from project fund; (b) increasing the free limit of sub-projects to be
appraised by the banks; (c) increasing credit line for VBARD; (d) applying one pass-on rate to subsidiary
loans of different maturity to simplify lending operation and expedite disbursement; and (e) allowing banks
to provide unsecured loans under VNDIO million (about US$650), measure that greatly increased access of
rural dwellers to formal borrowing.
(iv)   Project scope: The two cities Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh and their suburbs do have great borrowing
demand for developing agricultural production and services. The excluding of these two cities from the
project has partly restricted the outreach of the project. The lending rates for the poor were not appropriate
-23 -



under Vietnam circumstances which has also restricted the outreach of the project to remote and
mountainous areas.
(v)    The MIS system of the ICPMU: The ICPMU had to contact with various departments on a regular
basis to collect data and information regarding the project implementation and management and had to
prepare progress reports to the WB as requested. The information relating the PFI performance and the
implementation of components by the PFIs have not been updated regularly. In this connection, establishing
an effective MIS as a management instrument in decision making process during the project implementation
became very essential.
(vi)   Environment issue: Though there was requirement that sub-projects had to comply with
environment protection regulations in Vietnam, under the Rural Finance Project I, most of the sub-loans
were small, mainly to households, it was not significant to appraise or review the environmental impacts of
those sub-projects. However, it's very likely in the following projects with the appearance of many bigger
sub-projects, the environmental impacts of sub-projects should be reviewed.
(vii)  Proiect advertisement: Many missions and field trips showed that many people were not aware of
the project despite of many favorable conditions. As such, certain resource should be spent on
communication and advertisement, introducing project on mass media more actively and regularly.
(viii)  The implementation of training program for PFIs needs to be done at the same time or prior to
disbursement so that these institutions would better understand regulations of the use and management of
Fund.
(ix)   The preparation of regulation and policy on accreditation, disbursement, and monitoring should be
done synchronously and prior to the effectiveness of the project.
(x)    It's very necessary to maintain and stabilize the position and staff of the unit that carry out the
credit wholesale operation function.
(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector).
PFIs comments have been incorporated under the main Partner Comments.
10. Additional Information
List of Training Courses Undertaken During Project Implementation Period
Table 1: Local Trainin!
No.   Training courses/content    Places/Impl. Unit  Date       No. of Participants
A     SBV/ICPMU
Project workshop           Hanoi            May 7 to 9,           222
1997
Project Workshop           HCMC             Sept. 9 to 11,        100
11997
Financial analysis and project  Banking Institute  July 13 to     50
- 24 -



appraisal                                       August 15,
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _19 9 8
Banks accreditation conducted  ICPMU            Sept. 21, 27 to         73
by project's senior advisor                     29, 1999
(PSA)
Appraisal of sub-projects     ICPMU             March 19,               73
conducted by PSA                                2000
Sub-projects appraisal (small  NEU              Jan 10 to 21,           50
and medium sized loans)                         2000
Set-up and appraise business  MPDF              July 11 to 13,          30
plan                                            2000
Financial accounting and      Banking Institute  November 28            35
analysis of commercial banks                    to December
23, 2000
Appraisal of Large sub-projects  Banking Institute  March 5 to 22,      33
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 2 0 0 0_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Training AITCV                Hanoi/AITCV                               39
Total                                                                   705
Table 2: Local Training
No.    Training courses/content      Places/Impl. Unit  Date      No. of Participants
B      VBARD
Project management and appraisal, Provinces     Various     144 classes with 11,206
monitoring and bookeeping,                       dates      participants
project's policy manual, legal
documents on VBARD's
institutional strengthening
C      VBP's training of trainers    Provinces         Various     53 classes with 2,980
dates      participants
Workshops for members of      Provinces                     138,635 beneficiaries
lending groups incl. JLGs
Total local training                                                153,453
(ICPMU/SBV, table 1, above)
I plus VBARD plus VBP                            I          I
List of Training Courses Undertaken During Project Implementation Period
Table 3: Overseas Trainlnr
No.    Training courses/content      Places/Impl. Unit     Date                  No. of
Participants
A      ICPMU/SBV
Study tour to LBP, Philippines  Philippines         March 31      4
to April 5,
1997
Commercial banks' financial   MalaysiawTT Master    October 1      12
analysis and project appraisal  Skills              to 15,
.2000
Agriculture Finance and credit  India               November       1
-25 -



policy - workshop                                   13 to 17,
____ ___ ___ ___ ___ 2000
English skills                Singapore            January       I
31 to
March 24,
2001
Micro-finance in Asia and     India                Feb. I to     2
Pacific Region - Conference                        5, 2001
Study tour on project transfer  Philippines        June 17 to    6
from Central Bank to a                             23, 2001
commercial bank
Legal framework for           Philippines/lndonesi  Sept. I to   9
micro-finance activities - Study  a                 14, 2001
tour
Commercial banks' operation   Philippines          Oct. 6 to      14
and supervision                                    18, 2001
Legal framework for           Bangladesh and       Sept. 8 to     10
micro-finance                 Nepal                22, 2001
Risk management and intemal   New Zeland/TTT       Dec. 5 to      14
_____  audit of commercial banks     Global               19, 2001
Environmental Impact          New Zealand          Dec. 14 to    13
Assessment                                         24, 2001
Total                                                            86
Table 4: Overseas Traling
No.   Training courses/content      Places/lmpl. Unit  Date       No. of Participants
B      VBARD                        Thailand,                     358 staff
Philippines,
Malaysia, and
Indonesia
C     VBP                           Malaysia, India,              70 staff
and Iran
Total                                                      428
-26-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
IndicatorlMatrix                    Projected In last PSR                 ActuallLatest Estimate
Number of direct beneficiaries         50,000                                260,000
Number of active PFIs                  9                                     7
Saving mobilization as a % of total lending by 60%                            Exceeding the target
PFIs
Impadt on Beneficiaries lMng stabdard  ,positve                              ,positive
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                    Projected In-last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
Distribution of RDF beneficiaries by sub-loan
size                                   75%                                    95%
small                                  24%                                    5%
Medium                                 1%
Large
RDF Distribution by sub-loan amount:
small                                  50%                                   92%
Medium and large                       50%                                   8%
RDF Distnbution by sub-loans term
Short term                             50%                                   65.5%
Medium and long term                   50%                                    34.5%
End of project
- 27 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate    .Estimate      Appraisal
Project Cost By Conp onent          US$, millinon
Rural Development Fund (RDF)                     113.50         108.70          95.8
Fund for the Rural Poor (FRP)                     19.30          16.60           86
Improving Financial Services to the Rural Poor     5.50          4.50           81.8
Total Baseline Cost                              138.30         129.80
Price Contingencies                               1.40
Total Project Costs           139.70        129.80
Total Financing Required           139.70         129.80
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category               Procurement Method          N.B.F.    Total Cost
iCB      ~~NCB       Otherl
1. Works                    0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                    2.58          1.77        0.39         0.00        4.74
(0.81)       (0.55)      (0.13)        (0.00)      (1.49)
3. Services                 0.00         0.00         6.47         0.00        6.47
Training and TA             (0.00)       (0.00)      (6.47)       (0.00)      (6.47)
4. RDF                      0.00         0.00        111.56        0.00        111.56
(0.00)       (0.00)      (100.00)      (0.00)     (100.00)
5. FRP                      0.00         0.00         16.60        0.00        16.60
(0.00)       (0.00)      (14.04)       (0.00)      (14.04)
6. Incremental Operating    0.00         0.00         0.00         0.30        0.30
Cost                        (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                     2.58         1.77        135.02        0.30       139.67
(0.81)       (0.55)      (120.64)      (0.00)     (122.00)
-28 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equival nt)
Procurement Sethiod
Expenditure Category         MB                                        H M.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                        0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                        4.10           0.00          0.00           0.00          4.10
(3.40)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)       (3.40)
3. Services                     0.00           0.00          5.20           0.00          5.20
Training and TA                 (0.00)        (0.00)         (2.60)        (0.00)        (2.60)
4. RDF                          0.00           0.00          108.70         0.00         108.70
(0.00)         (0.00)        (94.50)        (0.00)       (94.50)
5. FRP                          0.00           0.00          12.60          0.00          12.60
(0.00)         (0.00)        (11.10)        (0.00)       (11.10)
6. Incremental Operating        0.00           0.00          0.00           0.20          0.20
Cost                            (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                         4.10          0.00          126.50         0.20         130.80
(3.40)         (0.00)       (108.20)        (0.00)      (111.60)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (In US$ million equivalent)
; [BPercentage of Appraisal
Component              Appraisal Estimate     [    Actual/Latest Estimate
Bank      Govt.     CoF.      Bank       Govt.     CoF.    Bank   GovL    CoF.
RDF                     102.00     0.40      11.10     95.90      0.80     14.20    94.0   200.0  127.9
FRP                      17.60      1.70     0.00      12.10      0.90      1.50    68.8    52.9   0.0
IFS                      3.20      3.70                3.10       1.80              96.9    48.6
-29 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
The project made about 600,000 sub-loans, of which the weighted average of sub-loan and sub-project
size were about VND6.8 million (US$452) and VND 10.7 million (US$71 1), respectively. The largest loan
and sub-project size were below the equivalent of US$28,000 and US$35,000, respectively. Therefore, no
FRR or ERR were calculated for any one of the sub-projects. The fact that sub-loan collection from
sub-borrowers to their PFIs reported to be about 98% on average, is a clearer indication that these
sub-projects generated sufficient income to enable that high repayment rate to be achieved.
The socio-economic impact assessment indicated that the economic impact on project's sub-borrowers
was positive and substantial in terms of: (i) higher and diversifying family income (about 90% of sampled
sub-borrowers indicated a substantial increase in family income), (ii) more than 50% of project
beneficiaries indicated an increase in their assets; (iii) more than 15% of project beneficiaries stated that
with the project's financial support enable them to increase working and income earning time and reduce
underemployment and/or idle time; (iv) project's beneficiaries were able to get informal credit at a much
lower rate compared to non-project beneficiaries, their credit worthiness was improved (as a result of
project financed investments); and (v) sub-loans made under the project encouraged sub-borrowers to
convert their savings into investments that earn higher rate of return.
The socio-economic impact assessment further confirned the high demand for credit among project's
beneficiaries. This high demand together with the exceptional high on time credit repayment rate, about
98% validate the statement that the credit under the project financed acceptable high return investments. As
a result, the credit funds are being relent, some of it for the second time and some of it for the third time.
Since there is a little or no policy-induced price-distortion of crops in Vietnam, these results apply to both
financial and economic benefits.
The project, however, was unable to meet the demand for credit. Part of the sub-borrowers had to
borrow funds from the more expensive informal sector in order to meet the equity investment portion
required by the PFIs. The fact that they were able to repay the more expensive informal credit, the RDF
sub-loans, and improve their living conditions is another indication that investments under the project were
sound.
- 30-



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty          Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count          Specialty                     Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
02/1995                     6   A,B,C,E,H,I                       S             S
Appraisal/Negotiation
11/21/95                    6   A,B,C,H,I,G                       S            S
Supervision
02/1997                     2   B,I                               S             S
10/1997                     2   B,I                               S            S
02/1998                     1   B                                 S             S
05/1998                     1   B                                 S             S
11/1998                     1   B                                 S            S
04/1999                     1   B                                 S             S
11/1999                     1   B                                 S            S
03/2000                     1   B                                 S             S
05/2000                     1   B                                 S             s
09/2000                     1   B                                 S             S
01/2001                     4   B,D,F                             S             S
05/2001                     1   B,H,I                             S             S
ICR
09/2002                     I    B                                S             S
A: Agricultural Economist
B: Financial Analyst
C: Agricultural Credit
D: Financial Management Specialist
E: Economist
F: Environmental Specialist
G: Legal Counsel
H: Microfinance Specialist
I: Operation Officer
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                  Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation              29.9                       73.6
Appraisal/Negotiation                   49.7                      139.1
Supervision                             58.1                      161.1
ICR                                       4                          15
Total                                  168.0                      515.8
-31 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                       O H   OSUOM      O N   * NA
ZSector Policies                       O H  *SUOM      O N   O NA
li Physicai                             O H  *SUOM      O N   O NA
O Financial                             O H  *SUOM      O N   O NA
E Institutional Development             O H  0 SU 0 M   0 N   0 NA
El1 Environmental                       O H  O SU * M   O N   O NA
Social
D Poverty Reduction              O H   *SUOM      O N   O NA
OI Gender                        O H   OSU*M      O N   O NA
L Other (Please specify)         O H   OSUOM      O N   * NA
L Private sector development            0 H  0 SU O M   0 N   0 NA
LI Public sector management             0 H  O SU O M   0 N   0 NA
Ol Other (Please specify)               OH   OSUOM      O N   * NA
- 32 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
O Lending                                           OHS OS        OtU   OHU
El Supervision        -                             OHS OS       OU     O HU
El Overall                                          OHS OS        O U   O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
O Preparation                                       OHS OS        O U   O HU
O Government implementation performance             O HS OS       0  U  0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                 * HS O S      0  U  0 HU
OI Overall                                          OHS OS        0  U  O HU
- 33 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) No. 15088 VN
2. Development Credit Agreement (DCA) of July 19, 1996, Credit 2855-VN
3. Socio-economic Impact Assessment dated Februaiy 2002, undertaken by the Microfmance Research
Center of Hanoi National Economic University
4. RDF and FRP Policy Manuals
5. ICPMU's Progress Reports and Audited Accounts
6. BTOs, Aide-Memoires, Forms 590, and PSRs
7. Correspondence between the Bank and the ICPMU/SBV
-34 -






Report No.:        24926
Type:    ICR



