Page  1
January 24, 2001
H.E. Le Duc Thuy
Governor
State Bank of Vietnam
49 Ly Thai To
Hanoi, Vietnam
Re:
Rural Finance Project (CR 2855 – VN)
Amendment to the Development Credit Agreement
Dear Governor Thuy: 
I refer to the Development Credit Agreement dated July 19, 1996 between the 
Socialist Republic of Vietnam (the Borrower) and the International Development 
Association (the Association), as amended by a Letter of Amendment dated September 22, 
1999 (the Development Credit Agreement) for the above-referenced project (the 
Project).  I further refer to your communication dated December 11, 2000, on behalf of 
the Borrower, proposing the participation of other financial institutions in Part B of 
the Project and further modification of the Development Credit Agreement to facilitate 
the implementation of Part B of the Project.
I am pleased to inform you that, after due consideration, the Association 
concurs with your request and, to give effect to such request, agrees to amend the 
Development Credit Agreement as set forth below.
1.
Paragraphs (a), (e) and (i) of Section 1.02 are deleted and subsequent 
paragraphs of said Section are re-numbered accordingly.
2.
Paragraph (f), re-numbered as Paragraph (d), is amended to read as follows:
“(d)
‘FRP Additional financing’ means a loan in Dong made or proposed 
to be made by a Participating Financial 
Institution from its own resources to a 
Part B Beneficiary for a Sub-project;”
3.
Paragraph (j), re-numbered as Paragraph (g), is amended to read as follows:
“(g)
‘FRP Policy Manual’ means the Borrower’s Policy Manual for the 
FRP, adopted in accordance with Section 3.02 
(a) of this Agreement, as may be 
amended from time to time with the prior agreement of the Association;”
4.
Paragraph (k), re-numbered as Paragraph (h), is amended to read as follows:
“(h)
‘FRP Sub-loan’ means a loan in Dong made or proposed to be made by 
a Participating Financial Institution to  a Part B Beneficiary for a Sub-project 
funded out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to such Participating Financial 
Institution under the respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement;”
5.
Paragraph (o), re-numbered as Paragraph (l), is amended to read as follows:
“(l)
‘Participating Financial Institutions’ means the financial 
institutions established and operating in the 
Socialist Republic of Vietnam 
which are selected by the State Bank of Vietnam to participate in the Project in 
accordance 
with criteria set forth in the RDF Policy Manual or the FRP Policy 
Manual, as the case may be, and ‘Participating 
Financial Institution’ 
means any of the Participating Financial Institution;”
5.
Paragraph (z), re-numbered as Paragraph (w), is amended to read as follows”
“(w)
‘Subsidiary Loan Agreements’ means the agreements to be entered 
into between the Borrower, represented by 
SBV, and the Participating 
Financial Institutions pursuant to Paragraphs (b) or (c) of Section 3.02 of this 
Agreement, 
and ‘Subsidiary Loan Agreement’ means any of the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreements;”
Page  2
6.
Section 3.02 (c) is amended to read as follows:
“(c)
For purposes of carrying out Part B of the Project the Borrower, 
through SBV, shall relend to each of the  Participating Financial Institutions, 
out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to Category (2), an 
amount in Dong under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between SBV 
and such Participating Financial 
Institution, under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including those set forth in the FRP Policy 
Manual and in Section I of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, and the following 
principal onlending terms and conditions:
(i)
the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan shall be: (A) the 
equivalent of the aggregate amount of the 
principal of all FRP 
Sub-loans made by the Participating Financial Institution; (B) onlent 
in Dong, and 
shall be repaid by the Participating Financial 
Institution in Dong in an amount equivalent at the time of 
withdrawal to the amounts withdrawn from time to time from the Credit 
Account under Category (2) in respect 
of such FRP Sub-loans;
(ii)
interest on the principal amount withdrawn and outstanding of the 
Subsidiary Loan shall be payable at: (A) 
a variable rate of 
interest adjustable quarterly and equal to the latest available 
quarterly weighted 
average actual cost of loanable funds in 
the banking system in Viet Nam; or (B) at a per annum fixed rate 
of interest established in a manner satisfactory to the 
Association;
(iii)
commitment charges shall be payable on the amount so onlent and 
not yet withdrawn from time to time at the 
rate payable by the 
Borrower under Section 2.04 (a) of this Agreement; and
(iv)
the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan shall be repaid in 
accordance with an amortization schedule 
which corresponds to the 
composite of the amortization of the FRP Sub-loans.”
7.
Section 3.03 is amended by the deletion of: (i) the words “and the Bank for the 
Poor” on the second line and the words “and Financing Agreement” on the fourth line of 
Paragraph (a); and (ii) the words “and the Financing Agreement” on the second line of 
Paragraph (b).
8.
Section 5.01 is amended by: (i) the deletion of Paragraph (b) and the 
re-numbering of the subsequent paragraphs; and (ii) the deletion of the words “or to 
the Bank for the Poor” in Paragraph (c) which is re-numbered as (b).
Schedule 1
9.
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement, Withdrawal of the Proceeds of 
the Credit, is amended by: (i) the deletion of Paragraphs 3 (c) and 3 (d); and (ii) 
the amendment of Paragraph 3 (e), re-numbered as Paragraph 3 (c), to read as follows:
“(c)
in respect of a Sub-loan under Category (1) or (2) to be made by a 
Participating Financial Institution 
unless the Borrower, through SBV, shall 
have: (i) entered into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with said Participating 
Financial Institution in accordance Paragraphs (b) or (c), as the case 
may be, of Section 3.02 of this Agreement; and 
(ii) certified to the Association 
that said Participating Financial Institution is in compliance with the 
accreditation 
criteria set forth in the RDF Policy Manual or the FRP Policy 
Manual or with its institutional development plan , as the 
case may be.
Schedule 2
10.
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, Description of the Project, is 
amended by the deletion of: (i) the words “and Bank for the Poor” on the third line of 
Paragraph 1 of Part C; and (ii) the words “Bank for the Poor” on the second line of 
Paragraph 2 of Part C.
Page  3
Schedule 4
11.
Paragraph 1 of Part A of Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement, 
Implementation Program, is amended to read as follows:
“1.
In accordance with the eligibility criteria set forth in the RDF Policy 
Manual or the FRP Policy Manual, as the case may be, and the institutional 
development plans referred to in paragraph 2 (b) of Part A of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall, through SBV, select financial institutions established and 
operating in the Socialist Republic of Vietnam to carry out lending operations 
under Part A and Part B of the Project, and thereafter, furnish to the 
Association, for its review and approval, a list of the financial institutions so 
selected.”
12.
Paragraph 2 (a) of Part A is deleted so that Paragraph 2 reads as follows in its 
entirety:
“2.
The Borrower shall, through SBV, prepare and furnish to the Association 
for its approval institutional development plans with detailed time-tables and 
staff training programs for those financial institutions which are unable to meet 
the eligibility criteria set forth in the RDF Policy Manual or the FRP Policy 
Manual, as the case may be, for purposes of their accreditation as Participating 
Financial Institutions under the Project.”
13.
Paragraph 3 (a) of Part A is amended to read as follows:
“3.
The Borrower, through SBV, shall: (a) on June 30 and December 31 of each 
year, commencing on December 31, 1996, review and assess compliance by each of 
the Participating Financial Institutions with regard to its eligibility criteria 
as set forth in the RDF Policy Manual or the FRP Policy Manual, as the case may 
be, and compliance with its institutional development plan; and (b) […].”
14.
Paragraph 4 of Part A is amended by the addition of the words “or the FRP Policy 
Manual” so that the first sentence therein reads as follows:
“4.
If at the time of the reviews mentioned in Paragraph 3 of Part A of this 
Schedule the Borrower determines that a Participating Financial Institution is 
not in compliance with one or more eligibility criteria set forth in the RDF 
Policy Manual or the FRP Policy Manual, or with its institutional development 
plan, as the case may be, the Borrower, through SBV, shall instruct […]”
15.
Paragraph 5 of Part A is deleted and subsequent Paragraphs of Part A are 
re-numbered accordingly.
16.
Paragraph 6 of Part A, re-numbered as Paragraph 5, is amended by the deletion of 
the words “and the Bank for the Poor” on the second line therein.
17.
The first sentence in Paragraph 7 of Part A, re-numbered as Paragraph 6, is 
amended to read as follows:
“7.
The Borrower shall, with the proceeds accrued from the repayment of the 
principal of the respective Subsidiary Loans, establish and thereafter maintain 
a rural development fund and a fund for the rural poor for purposes of financing 
on a wholesale basis through the Participating Financial Institutions, rural 
investments by RDF Beneficiaries and FRP Beneficiaries, respectively, on the 
terms and conditions […].”
18.
The words “and the Bank for the Poor” are deleted from: (i) Paragraph 8 (b) of 
Part A, re-numbered as Paragraph 7 (b); (ii) Paragraph 2 (a) of Part B; and (iii) the 
fourth line in Paragraph 3 of Part B, immediately before the colon.
Schedule 5
19.
Section I, Terms and Conditions of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements and the 
Financing Agreement, of Schedule 5 to the Development Credit Agreement is amended as 
follows:
Page  4
(a)
the words “and the Financing Agreement” are deleted from the title of 
Section I;
(b)
in Part A, Subsidiary Loan Agreements, of Section I: (i) the words “or 
the FRP Policy Manual, as the case may be,” are added immediately after wherever the 
words “in the RDF Policy Manual” appear; (ii) the words “or Part B of the Project, as 
the case may be,” are added immediately after wherever the words “Part A of the 
Project” appear; and (iii) the words “or FRP Sub-loans, as the case may be” or “or an 
FRP Sub-loan, as the case may be” are added immediately after wherever, respectively, 
the words “RDF Sub-loans” or “an RDF Sub-loan” appear;
(c)
Paragraph 1 (c) (ii) of Part A of SectionI is amended to read as follows:
“(ii)
unless the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, 
make RDF Sub-loans or FRP Sub-loans, as the 
case may be, in 
accordance with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in 
Parts A, B and C of Section II of this Schedule and 
the RDF Policy Manual or FRP Policy Manual, as the case 
may 
be;”
(d)
Paragraph 1 (c) (viii) of Part A of Section I is amended to read as 
follows:
“(viii)
provide RDF Additional Financing, or FRP Additional financing, as 
the case may be, for Sub-projects under 
terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including:
(A)
appraisal of the Sub-project pursuant to Paragraph 1 (a) of 
Part B or Paragraph 1 (a) of Part C, as 
the case may be, of 
Section II of this Schedule;
(B)
an RDF Sub-loan or an FRP Sub-loan, as the case may be, 
shall have been made to finance a portion of 
the total 
estimated costs of the Sub-project;
(C)
the principal amount of the RDF Additional Financing shall 
be in Dong or in Dollars, and the 
principal amount of 
the FRP Additional Financing shall be in Dong, and in either case, 
such 
principal amount shall be in an amount 
not less than 10% of the total estimated Sub-project costs;
(D)
repayment of the principal amount of the RDF Additional 
Financing or FRP Additional Financing shall 
have the same 
maturity as that of the corresponding RDF Sub-loan or FRP Sub-loan, as 
the case may 
be; and
(E)
payment of interest on the principal amount of the RDF 
Additional Financing or the FRP Additional 
Financing, as the 
case may be, withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate 
equal to the 
rate applicable to the relevant RDF 
Sub-loan or FRP Sub-loan.”
(d)
Part B of Section I is deleted.
20.
The second sentence of Paragraph 1 (b) of Part A of Section II, Procedures for 
and Terms and Conditions of Sub loans, is amended to read as follows:
“(b)
[…] for the purposes of this Agreement, a free-limit Sub-loan 
shall be a sub-loan which shall not exceed 
the sum of $150,000 equivalent 
when added to any other outstanding amounts financed or proposed to be financed 
out of the 
proceeds of a Subsidiary Loan for such Sub-project, or such other 
sum as shall be established by the Association from 
time to time by notice to 
the Borrower.”
21.
Paragraph 2 (d) of Part A of Section II is amended to read as follows:
Page  5
“(b)
FRP Sub-loans shall not be made in excess of $400 equivalent; and”
22.
Paragraph 4 of Part A of Section II is amended by the deletion of the words “or 
the Bank for the Poor” on the second and fifth lines of the first paragraph.
23.
Part C of Section II is amended by:
(a)
substituting the words “Participating Financial Institutions” to the 
words “the Bank for the Poor” wherever the latter appear in Paragraph 1; and
(b)
modifying Paragraph 1 (b) (i) to read as follows:
“(i)
the principal amount of an FRP Sub-loan shall be in Dong and shall 
not exceed 75% of the total estimated 
Sub-project costs or $400 
equivalent whichever is smaller.  […]”
In addition, I am pleased to inform you that, in accordance with your request of 
December 11, 2000, the Association agrees to re-allocate the amount of SDR1,810,000 
from Category (5), Unallocated, to Category (1), RDF Sub-loans.  As a result, the 
amounts allocated to the different Categories in the Table in Paragraph 1 of Schedule 
1 to the Development Credit Agreement are as follows:
Amount of the Credit
   % of
Allocated (Expressed
Expenditures
Category
 in SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
RDF Sub-loans
   69,570,000
100% of amounts 
disbursed
(2)
FRP Sub-loans
    8,130,000
100% of amounts 
disbursed
(3)
Goods under Part C(1)
    1,270,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures,
and C(2) of the Project
100% of local 
expendiutres
(ex-factory cost) 
and 65%
of local 
expenditures for
other items procured 
locally
(4)
Consultants' Services
   3,730,000
100%
and Training under
Part C of the Project
(5)
Unallocated
TOTAL
 82,700,000
Except as specifically amended by the provisions of this letter of amendment, 
all terms and conditions of the Development Credit Agreement otherwise remain in full 
force and effect.
Please indicate your agreement with the terms of this letter of amendment by 
countersigning and dating the form of confirmation below and returning one signed 
original copy of this letter for our files.  This letter of amendment shall enter into 
effect as of the date hereof upon our receipt of a copy of this letter of amendment 
duly countersigned by an authorized representative of the Borrower.
Sincerely,
By /s/ Andrew Steer
Page  6
Country Director, Vietnam
East Asia and Pacific Region
CONFIRMED and AGREED
For SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
By /s/ Le Duc Thuy
Authorized Representative
Governor of the State Bank
Date:
February 15, 2001
