                              Documentof
                            The World Bank




                                                  ReportNo.: 48763




             PROJECTPERFORMANCEASSESSMENTREPORT

                VIETNAM RURAL FINANCE PROJECT(C 2855)

                              June 26,2009




Sector Evaluation Division
IndependentEvaluation Group

Currency Equivalents(annualaverages)
March 1996.US$1 =VNDll,Ol8; September2002. US$1=VND15,250

Abbreviationsand Acronyms

ACB            Asia Joint Stock CommercialBank
ADB            Asian ElementBank
BIDV           Bank for InvestmentandDevelopmentof Vietnam
CAR            CapitalAdequacy Ratio
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
DFID           Departmentfor InternationalDevelopment(UK)
EAB            East Asia Joint StockCommercialBank
ERR            EconomicRateofReturn
FRP            Fundfor the RuralPoor
FRR            FinancialRateofReturn
GOV            GovernmentofVietnam
GTZ            Gerpn TechnicalAssistanceAgency
IAS            InternationalAccounting System
ICR            ImplementationCompletionReport
IDA            InternationalDevelopmentAssociation
IEG            IndependentEvaluationGroup(earlier OED)
IEGWB          IndependentEvaluationGroup(WorldBank)
JICA           JapaneseInternationalCooperationAgency
M&E            MonitoringandEvaluation
MTR            MidtermReview
NAB            NorthAsia Joint StockCommercialBank
NPL            NonPerformingLoan
PAD            ProjectAppraisal Document
PCF            People's Credit Fund
PFI            ParticipatingFinancialInstitution
PhNB           SouthernJoint Stock CommercialBank
PPAR           ProjectPerformanceAssessment Report
RDF            RuralDevelopmentFund
RFI            FirstRuralFinanceProject
RFII           SecondRuralFinanceProject
RFIII          ThirdRuralFinanceProject
RKB            RachKienAuroral JointStock CommercialBank
SAR            StaffAppraisalReport
SBV            State Bank of Vietnam
SME            SmallandMediumEnterprise
SOE            State OwnedEnterprise
VBARD          Vietnam Bank for Agriculture andRuralDevelopment
VBPNBSP        Vietnam Bank for the Poor
VND            VietnameseDong


FiscalYear

Governmentof Vietnam:                    Jan 1to Dec 31



Director-General, Evaluation                           : Mr.Vinod Thomas
Director, IndependentEvaluationGroup (World Bank) : Ms.Cheryl Gray
Manager, IEGSE                                         : Ms.MonikaHuppi
Task Manager                                           : Ms.JohnR.Heath

      IEGWB Mission: Enhancing development effectiveness through excellence and independence inevaluation.


About this Report
     The Independent Evaluation Group assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two purposes: first, to
ensure the integrity of the Bank's self-evaluation process and to verify that the Bank's work is producing the expected
results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through the dissemination of lessons
drawn from experience. As part of this work, IEGWB annually assesses about 25 percent of the Banks lending operations
through field work. In selecting operations for assessment, preference is given to those that are innovative, large, or
complex; those that are relevant to upcoming studies or country evaluations; those for which Executive Directors or Bank
management have requested assessments; and those that are likely to generate important lessons.
     To prepare a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR), IEGWB staff examine project files and other
documents, interview operational staff, visit the borrowing country to discuss the operation with the government, and other
in-country stakeholders, and interview Bank staff and other donor agency staff both at headquarters and in local offices as
appropriate.
     Each PPAR is subject to internal IEGWB peer review, Panel review, and management approval. Once cleared
internally, the PPAR is commented on by the responsible Bank department. IEGWB incorporates the comments as relevant.
The completed PPAR is then sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are attached to the document that is
sent to the Bank's Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the
public.

About the IEGWB Rating System
     IEGWB's use of multiple evaluation methods offers both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending
instrument, project design, or sectoral approach. IEGWB evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project
ratings. Following is the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (additional information is available on
the IEGWB website: http://worldbank.org/ieg).
     Outcome: The extent to which the operation's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. The rating has three dimensions: relevance, efficacy, and efficiency. Relevance includes relevance of
objectives and relevance of design. Relevance of objectives is the extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with
the country's current development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate
goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers,
Operational Policies). Relevance of design is the extent to which the project's design is consistent with the stated objectives.
Efficacy is the extent to which the project's objectives were achieved, or are expected to be achieved, taking into account
their relative importance. Efficiency is the extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher
than the opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. The efficiency dimension generally is
not applied to adjustment operations. Possible ratings for Outcome: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately
Satisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Riskto Development Outcome: The risk, at the time of evaluation, that development outcomes (or expected
outcomes) will not be maintained (or realized). Possible ratings for Risk to Development Outcome: High Significant,
Moderate, Negligible to Low, Not Evaluable.
     Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry of the operation and
supported effective implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements
for regular operation of supported activities after loanlcredit closing, toward the achievement of development outcomes. The
rating has two dimensions: quality at entry and quality of supervision. Possible ratings for Bank Performance: Highly
Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower (including the government and implementing agency or
agencies) ensured quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and agreements, toward the
achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: government performance and implementing
agency(ies) performance. Possible ratings for Borrower Performance: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately
Satisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.


                                                                            iii


Contents

PRINCIPALRATINGS           ..................................................................................................................................             V


KEY STAFF RESPONSIBLE                 .......................................................................................................................            VI


PREFACE ...................................................................................................................................................              vi1


SUMMARY ...................................................................................................................................................               IX


1.    BACKGROUND              ...............................................................................................................................              1


2.    THE PROJECT            ................................................................................................................................              2

      Objectives      .......................................................................................................................................              2
      Project Design         ................................................................................................................................              2
      Quality at Entry         ...............................................................................................................................             3
      Implementation           ...............................................................................................................................             4


3.    PERFORMANCERATINGS                           ............................................................................................................            4

         Outcome...................................................................................................................................................
                                                                         ................................................................................................  4

         Efficacy.......................
         Relevance...................................                                                                                                                      4
                                                                         ................................................................................................  7
         Efficiency.....................................                 ..............................................................................................   12
         Risk To DevelopmentOutcome..............................................................................................................                         13
         Bank Performance.......................                         ..............................................................................................   16
         Borrower Performance...........................................................................................................................                  16
      Monitoring and Evaluation                    ..........................................................................................................            17


4.    FINDINGSAND LESSONS                         ...........................................................................................................            18


REFERENCES     ............................................................................................................................................              21


ANNEX A BASIC DATA SHEET
       .                                      ...............................................................................................................            23


ANNEX B BACKGROUNDAND ENABLINGENVIRONMENT
       .                                                                                           ...............................................................       25

                                                                   iv


ANNEX C PEOPLE MET
          .                .......................................................................................................................... 31


ANNEX D BORROWERCOMMENTS
          .                                     ..................................................................................................... 33




This report was preparedby RidleyNelson(Consultant). John HeathandNaliniKumar (Task TeamLeaders)                                                   .
RidleyNelsonassessedthe project inFebruary-March2009. Marie Charlesprovidedadministrative support.

                                                              V



PrincipalRatings

VIETNAM RURAL FINANCE PROJECT(VRFP)
                                                       ICR*                    ICR Review*                   PPAR
Outcome                                        Satisfactory               Satisfactory             Satisfactory
Institutional Development Impact       **      Substantial                Substantial
Riskto DevelopmentOutcome                                                                          Moderate
Sustainability   ***                           Highly Likely              Likely
Bank Performance                               Satisfactory               Satisfactory              Satisfactory
Borrower Performance                           Satisfactory               Satisfactory              Satisfactory
*The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluationby the responsible operationaldivision of the Bhk. The
Evaluation Summary (ES) is an intermediateIEGWBproduct that seeks to independentlyverify the findings of the ICR.
** As of
*** As ofJuly 1, 2006, InstitutionalDevelopment impact is assessed as part ofthe Outcome rating.
           July 1, 2006, Sustainability has beenreplacedby Risk to DevelopmentOutcome. As the scales are different, the ratings
are not directly comparable.

                                  vi


Key Staff Responsible

VIETNAM RURALFINANCE PROJECT(VRFP)

Project       TaskManagedLeader    Division Chief/    Country Director
                                   Sector Director
Appraisal       William Cuddihy    Jeffrey Gutman     Callisto Madavo
Completion       h i e Chupak       Mark Wilson       Klaus Rohland

                                               vii


Preface

       This report is the Project Performance Assessment Reports (PPAR) for the Vietnam
RuralFinance Project (VRFP) (Credit 2855) approved on May 7, 1996 and closed on December
31,2001.

       The report was preparedby the Independent Evaluation Group (IEG). The assessmentis
based on the project completion and appraisal reports, the Development Credit Agreements, a
review o f Bankfiles, and discussions with beneficiaries, Bank staff, government officials, non-
governmental organizations, institutions, donors, and private sector managers. The cooperation
andassistanceo f all stakeholders and government officials is gratefully acknowledged,
particularly the staff o f BIDV. Also acknowledged i s the support o f the World Bank Country
Office inVietnam.

       Following standard IEGprocedure, copies o fthe draft PPAR have been sent to the
government for their review and comments. Borrower comments have been included inAnnex
D.


                                                ix


Summary

        This report assessesthe performance o fthe VietnamRural Finance Project (RFI)
approved on May 7, 1996 and closed on December 31,2001. It also looks at the evolution o f
that first project into the follow-on Rural Finance I1andI11projects, the latter recently
effective.

        The enabling environment at the time was only fair. Rural sector lendingwas
dominated by a state-owned bank, the Vietnamese Bank for Agriculture and Rural
Development (VBARD), with a number o fweaknesses inperformance indicators. Shortly
before the project, the Vietnamese Bank for the Poor (now called the Vietnamese Bank for
Social Policy (VBSP)), hadbeenhived off from VBARD to cover subsidized lendingto the
poor. However, apart from this subsidized lending, there were a number o f other subsidized
programs andthe intermittent imposition on banks o f interest rate ceilings for borrowers. The
Bankchose to accept this environment andto be engaged inrural finance, to focus on
gradual reform from the inside. This assessment considers that to have been the right
decision at the time, but, with the persistence o fthese distortions, relevance i s more
questionable for the later projects.

         The objective o fRFIwas to assist the borrower inits efforts to improveliving
conditions inthe rural areas through: (a) encouraging private sector investments; (b)
strengthening the banking system's capacity to finance private sector investments; and (c)
increasing access o fthe rural poor to financial services.

         Total project costs were US$139.70 million with an IDA financing o f US$122.80
million equivalent. There were three components. (i) Rural Development Fund(RDF)
                                                       A
(planned total costs US$113.50 million; actual US$110.9 million). This was a line o f credit
to provide short, medium, and long-term credit channeled from the State Bank o fVietnam
(SBV) through competing Participating Financial Institutions(PFIs) to finance household
enterprise investmentsinagriculture and other rural operations, including fixed assets and
working capital. (ii) Fundfor the Rural Poor (FRP) (planned total costs US$19.30 million;
                       A
actual US$lS.OO million). This was to be a more directed line o f credit restrictedto the use o f
the rural poor. (iii) An InstitutionBuildingandCommunity Development component
(plannedtotal costs US$6.90 million; actual US $4.90 million). There were significant
startupdelays andthe project was extended twice to close 18 months later thanexpected.

         Outcomeis rated satisfactory basedon substantial relevance, efficacy, and efficiency
(although with some reservations about relevance o f design). This was a line o f credit
operation wholesaled through SBV under an enabling environment that, while liberalizing
steadily, still exhibited: a dominantstate-owned PFI inthe form of VBARD, a policy lending
state-owned bank, Vietnam Bank for the Poor (VBP) with subsidized lendingrates that was
to be a player inthe Fundfor the Rural Poor, and the intermittent application o f interest rate
ceilings. This assessment concludes that, notwithstanding the policy environment, engaging
with a cautiouslyreforming borrower with evidence of substantial growth potential was
better than disengagement, particularly giventhe impressive rural reach o f the mainplayer
VBARD andthe limitedcapacity and strengthofthe growing Joint Stock Banks.

                                                  X



        The Bank has persisted with the rural finance sector inVietnam, andthe thirdproject
recently became effective. The enabling environment has gradually improved with better
regulationo fbanks and other institutions, and most o fthe PFIs have grown and become
somewhat stronger. Moreover, the number o f PFIs increased substantially from RFIto RFII.
However, a number o f areas inthe enabling environment remainproblematic, inparticular,
ceilings on interest rates are still intermittentlyimposed, and subsidized directed credit
continues under various programs. This reduces the incentives for banksto reach out into the
more costly rural area, particularly against the long-standing advantage o fthe government
owned VBARD. This impacts on savings incentives and longer-term financial services
support for rural areas. While these interest rate ceilings are not always operative (currently
they are inplace), andwhile competitionis certainly growing, bank CEOs will inevitably
make decisions based on future expectations. The assessment finds a weakeningo frelevance
into the follow-on projects, notwithstanding design improvements, as these persistent more
fundamental issues remainunaddressed.

        Although the objectives o f the three projects remained largely the same, this
assessment documents the main adjustments inproject design over the series whichhas
included: increasing mediumand longer term lendingas opposed to short; greater spread o f
accredited PFIs along with enhanced skills thus reducing the relative dominance o f VBARD;
greater lendingto women; greater focus on microfinanceproducts; and some shift infocus in
capacity buildingfrom processes to institutional structures. Following the closing o f RFI, for
RFIIand 111,the Bank andborrower appropriately changed to the Bank for Investmentand
Development o f Vietnam (BIDV) as the apex wholesale bank, removingthe problem o fthe
regulator (SBV) being also a lender. (While there remain concerns about Capital Adequacy
Ratio with BIDV, there are now plans for "equitization" to raise additional capital and BIDV
has generally developed well from being simply one o f the PFIs under RFI.)

        Boththe Bank and the borrower were very slow to resolve the issue o fthe
involvemento fVBP inthe project. Giventhe history o fpolicy lendinginVietnam, the Bank
should have foreseen that the government would be unable to meet the criteria o f no
subsidized lendingsince it was to be channeled through an institutionthat was intentionally
set up precisely for that purpose. Towards the end of the project, when it became clear that
the criteria for VBP participationcouldnotbemet, the funds were belatedly channeled
through VBARD.

        Subsequent to the project, two o fthe conditions have been somewhat overtakenby
change and events. Loan size ceilings that were set at appraisal, and now apply to recycled
lending, have gradually become effectively smaller due to inflation and increased incomes.
Also, the boundaries o f Hanoi have been enormously extended into a wholly rural area
precluding many potential rural borrowers. These conditions warrant revisiting.

                                         xi




  The following lessonsemerge from this project:

  Trainingprograms should be designed with the objective of not only making delivery
  more eficient but of creating a national capacity infinancial services. This is a
  public good area warranting subsidy. Inthis project, while training at wholesale
  bank levels was givenhighpriority, training at lower levels for PFIs andpotential
  future PFIs, those that arguably most needtraining, could have beengiven more
  support. This was correctedto some extent inRFIIandRFIII.

  TheBank needs to revisit the impact of credit conditions inproject implementation
  through the life of the credit, not simply the life of theproject, and to design
  conditionality to adapt to change. Some conditionalities that remain ineffect
  through the life of a credit may be overtaken by events. Consideration should be
  given to indexing loan amount ceilings to allow for bothinflation andrisingper
  capita income through a nominal per capita, or ruralper capita, income index. And
  inthis case, the dramatic shift intheboundariesofHanoihasreducedthe potential
  beneficiary population.

0 TheBank should establish achievable PFIparticipation criteria at appraisal and
  ensure that at least a signijkant number of PFIs can meet themprior to appraisal.
  Inthis case, the accreditation was left for later agreement,andanescapemeans
  through an institutional developmentplanwas added. The needfor this, andthe fact
  that several PFIs still didnot meet some of the criteria, suggests that they were not
  realistic at the outset and, indeed, that the bar set by the original criteria was
  misleading.




                                                                        Vinod Thomas
                                                                      Director-General
                                                                          Evaluation


                                                     1


1.Background

1.1     There has been enormous progress inpoverty alleviation inVietnam since the early
1990s. Poverty incidence inrural areas fell from 66.4 in 1993 to 35.6 in2002. Butthere
remains a highincidence o f poverty inthe Central Highlands and inthe Northern Mountains.
At the time o fthe Rural Finance I(RFI) appraisal, the share o fagriculture intotal
employment was above 70 percent. It i s now, in2009, close to 50 percent.

1.2     Since RFI, the RFIIproject is close to completion (expected inSeptember 2009) and
the RFIIIProject has recently become effective. RFIwas therefore the start o f a series o f
Bankinterventions inrural finance. Infact, evenbefore that, the Agricultural Rehabilitation
Project (Credit 2561-VN) could be considered an earlier precursor although, inthis analysis,
we treat RFIas the first o fthe rural finance series.

1.3     Annex A gives greater background on the enabling environment. Briefly, Vietnam
undertook a series o f major reforms beginninginthe late 1980s (Llanto 1999). These
included: decollectivization o f agriculture; new landlaws for greater security o f landtenure;
the removal o fnearly all administered prices; a degree o finterest rate liberalization;
exchange-rate unification; liberalization o f foreign trade and investment; some progress
towards a legal framework encouraging private sector development; and initial opening up o f
the financial sector to domestic and foreign private banks. At the time o f appraisal in 1995              ',
commercial banking was dominatedby the State-Owned Commercial Banks (SOCBs). They
accounted for about 85% o f commercial bank operations in 1994. At that time, assessing
financial performance was difficult as accounting practices deviated from international
standards.Apart from the Vietnamese Bank for Agriculture andRural Development
(VBARD), none ofthe financial institutions hadbeen audited by external independent
auditors. By thenVBARD had started to shift away from financing State Owned Enterprises
towards private households and businesses. By 1994,62 percent o f its lendingwas to rural
households.

 1.4     A more aggressive financial sector reform process began about 2001aroundthe time
thisproject closed. The SOCBs were furtherrestructured andpolicy lendingto the poor was
formally fenced off into a specialized entity the Vietnamese Bank for the Poor (VBP now the
Vietnamese Bank for Social Policy (VBSP)). In2006, the Prime Minister approved a plan
for the development o f the banking industryto 2010. However, there remains an unhealthy
competitive environment, particularly for microfinance inrural areas due to interest rate caps
and subsidized lendingthroughVBSP and other programs. This is a disincentive for entry
and for savings. Under RFI, there were no financial policy reforms deemed immediately
essential for the implementation o fthe project or included as legal covenants. However, there
was a covenant inthe project calling for an annual exchange o f views with IDA on interest
rates focused particularly on whether "such rates are positive inreal terms". This appears to



 1At the time of appraisalthere were 4 SOCBs, 46 private shareholdingbanks, 3 joint venture banks, 9 foreign
banks, 69 credit cooperatives, 200 PeoplesCredit Funds, 2 finance companies, and one government owned
insurancecompany.

                                               2


suggest some acquiescenceininterest rates that do not fully cover costs, nonperforming
loans, and profit.

1.5     At the time of RFI, microfinance regulations were rudimentary and not conducive to
growth ofthat sector (Llanto 2004). There was a 2004 government decree on the
organization and operation of micro-finance institutions. However, the regulations for the
implementation ofthis are still evolving and being refined.

1.6     Bank support for agriculture (see Annex A for more detail) represents amix of
growth and equity interventions with a significant environmental focus. Agricultural
competitivenessi s seen as fundamental to sectoralgrowth includingagricultural
diversification, market development andtrade integration. While agriculture is seen as
important, according to staff, the current Bank strategy as of 2009 is not to divert resources
from other sectorstowards agriculture.



2. The Project

Objectives

2.1     The objective ofthe RFIproject as statedinthe StaffAppraisal Report (SAR) was to
assist the borrower inits efforts to improve living conditions inthe rural areas through: (a)
encouragingprivate sector investments; (b) strengtheningthe banking system's capacity to
finance private sector investments; (c) increasing access of the ruralpoor to financial
services.

2.2     These goals were inline with the key elements of the government policy at the time
and consistent withthe Bank strategy. IDA was already involvedinpolicy analysis, rural
development, and institutional strengtheninginthe rural sector and the proposedproject was
intendedto complementthose interventions. A useful ESWreport, the Financial Sector
Review, provided a context for the project.

Project Design

2.3     Total Project Costs were US$139.70 million with an IDA financing of US$122.8
millionequivalent. Ithadthree components.

    (a) RuralDevelopmentFund(RDF) (Planned Total Costs US$113SO million; actual
        US$l10.90 million). This was a line of credit to provide short, medium, and long-
        term credit channeledfrom the State Bank of Vietnam through competing
        Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs) to finance householdenterprise investments
        inagriculture andother ruraloperationsincluding fixed assetsandworking capital.

    (b)Fundfor the RuralPoor (FRP)(Planned Total CostsUS$19.30million; actual
        US$l5.00 million). Inthe appraisal design, this was to be amore directed line of

                                                 3


        credit restrictedto the use o fthe rural poor. It included short, medium, and long-term
        credit to be provided through the Vietnam Bank for the Poor (VBP) to individual poor
        households or to Joint Liability Groups (JLGs) o f poor persons. The intention was to
        increase market access to groups previously excluded by reason o f remoteness,
        inadequate collateral, and with limitedaccess to resources from formal financial
        institutions.

    (c) InstitutionBuildingand CommunityDevelopment( PlannedTotal Costs US$6.90
        million; actual US $4.90 million) Inthe ICR this i s referred to as Improving
        Financial Services to the Rural Poor due to a repackaging o f components but this did
        not obscure funds utilization, it simply shiftedlabels..

 2.4    While the ICR notes that none o fthe components were revised interms o ftheir
 objectives, there was, infact, one significant change inan intermediary. VBP that was to
 channel the funding to the poorest, was not able to meet IDA conditions due to its
 subsidized lending and therefore, inthe end, was unable to participate. The funds under the
 FRPcomponent were then channeled through VBARD instead.

2.5     Extensions.The project closed 18months behindthe original schedule due to a slow
startupincluding slow drafting o fthe two requiredPolicy Manuals.

Quality at Entry

2.6     Project design was not given any Quality at Entry reviewby the Quality Assurance
Group (QAG). The ICR argues that the design was largely satisfactory. However, it accepts
that the FRP was not adequately formulated, leadingto the abandonment o f the use o fthe
VBP. For this reason the PPAR rates Quality at Entry only Moderately Satisfactory. On this
issue, the Bank appears to have been clearly unrealistic about the depth o f ownership
includingthe Assembly's views on policy lending(the general term inVietnamfor lending
for social objectives). Inthis respect, regional management inthe Bank seem to have placed
more weight on country relations whereas staff were only too aware o fthe impendingpolicy
lending problem andthe need to adhere to the well-documented lessons o f experience. The
project conditionality seems to indicate tacit agreement at negotiations to put aside the issue
o f subsidized interest rates under the Fundfor the Rural Poor component for later resolution.

2.7     The analytical work onwhich the project was based came largely from the 1995
Financial Sector Review. This was adequately reflected inthe SAR. There i s further
discussion o f specific project designissues under the heading Relevance, but briefly, market
failures at the time o fproject design appear to have includedthe lack o f a level playing field,
the nonperformingdebt (but guaranteedby government) ofthe SOEs onthe bankbalance
sheets, poor access to financial services inrural areas, under emphasis on savings
mobilization, weaknesses ingroup formation due to lack o f skills, limitedlending to women
for social andknowledge asymmetry reasons, and lack o f market information and
communication. Some o f these issues were partly addressedthrough the training components
proposed under the project. However, while considerable progress was made inaccess to
services, non-performing loans and information, some o fthe other marketfailures remained
to be addressedby other means.

                                                         4


2.8      The project would have benefitedfrom at least a small pilot program testing
alternative approaches with non-bank institutions and enablingsome early comparative
performance data to be assembled.

Implementation

2.9      As described inthe ICR, the project was implementedby three sets o fplayers. SBV
was the apex institutionwholesale bank. Receivingthe proceeds o f the credit from SBV were
the PFIscontributing at least 10% oftheir ownfinancing to the total subproject cost. Below
the PFIs, were sub-borrower clientswho were expected to contribute at least 15% o fthe cost
either incash or kind, the latter generally as labor. The IDA share was limitedto 75% o f the
cost. SBV carriedthe credit risk at the level o f the PFIs. The PFIs carried the credit risk
associated with the sub-loans. The government assumed the foreign exchange risk.Maturity
o f PFI loans matchedthe composite maturity o f the related sub loans. The lendingrate from
SBC to the PFIs was variable, adjusted quarterly on the basis o fthe quarterlyweighted
average cost o f loanable funds inthe bankingsystem, equivalent to the price that PFIs would
pay iffunds were mobilized inthe market2. PFIs were free to select sub borrowers buttheir
lending rates followed government/SBV rules and regulations3. As indicated, these
regulations have, intermittently included ceilings on interest rates.



3. Performance Ratings

OUTCOME
3.1      Outcome i s rated satisfactory, based on sub-ratings o f substantial for relevance,
efficacy and efficiency. There were shortcomings insome areas such as the delay in
implementingthe FRP component butthese were balancedby householdlendingunder the
RDF component well beyondthe target. There are some questions about overall sector
sustainability relatedto the enabling environment for new bank entrants but nearly a decade
has passed since the project closed andthere have been slow but steady improvements inthe
performance o f PFIs and increasing competition developing mainly inurban areas but
gradually moving outwards to rural areas.

RELEVANCE
3.2      Relevance i s rated substantialbut there are some caveats. Assessment o f relevance in
this casetakes account ofthe fact that thiswas aproject ofthe 1990sina country that had

2 The reference rate usedwas the weighted average interest rate o ftime deposits adjusted to take into account
the costs associatedwith the SBV's reserve requirements.
3 Accreditation criteria for the PFIs had five elements: compliance with banking law and audit requirements;
solvency; liquidity; profitability; and quality o fmanagement and staff. The project component Policy Manuals
provided to PFIs gave the detail. Financial indicators were expected to achieve the following: Net Past Dues o f
less than lo%, Capital Adequacy Ratio greater than or equal to 8%, Liquidity greater than or equal to 30%,
Profitability greater than or equal to 1%. However, it was agreedthat a PFI could be accredited even if it didnot
meet all the accreditation criteria ifthere was an Institutional Development Plan(IDP) together with a training
program and timetable for achievingthe plan acceptable to IDA (and SBV).

                                                      5


only very recently embarked on the pathto financial liberalization emerging from a heavily
controlled economy. Engagement was very important at that time. While persistence is often
important inreform support, it has become more difficult to argue that Relevance has been
sustained into the third project, or eventhe second, as interest rate ceilings and subsidized
lending inrural areas through VBSP and, via cross-subsidy, through VBARD, persists.
Although counterfactuals are difficult to delineate, it could be argued that the continued
engagement into the later projects may now be partially to blame for the limited development
o f most forms o f private financial intermediation including the rate o f development o f
People's Credit Fundsandthe emergence o f private, initially NGO based, micro-finance
institutions giventhe de facto barrier that subsidized credit imposes.

3.3      Relevanceof Objectives. As noted above, the project objectives were to assist in
efforts to improve living conditions inthe rural areas through encouraging private sector
investments, strengtheningthe bankingsystem's capacity to finance private sector
investments and increasing access o fthe rural poor to financial services. These were
consistent with the country and Bank strategy at the time. The 1995 CAS stated, as one area
o f priority support, Assistingthe Transition to the Market.The RFIproject was listed as an
element o fthat priority aimed at: "supporting the development o f the rural financial system
on a market basis." Inthe following CAS, in 1998,shortly after project effectiveness, there
was an evolution o f Bank priorities towards rural development redirecting priorities
somewhat from the earlier predominant focus on infrastructure. The Rural Finance Project,
by then on-going, was mentioned as important for the "development o frural small and
medium firms, which inturn are essential ifrural incomes are to rise."

3.4      There was no Bank Rural Finance Strategy at the time o f appraisal. The March2003
elaborationo fthe rural finance elements o fthe Bank's "Reaching the Rural Poor" strategy
calls for diversity o f products and institutions that fillthe financial needs o f low-income
clients, the development o f efficient, viable financial institutions and products, and an
emphasis on building the capacity o f micro-finance institutions. The project was broadly
consistent with this but was constrained by the measured nature o fthe evolution o f
government and political thinkingto slow but steady progress inreforming the sector.

3.5      Relevanceof Design. We conclude that, on balance, design was relevant at that time.
However, it i s a rating that warrants exploration. This was a line o f credit operationwith
institutional strengthening for the key players. It was wholesaled through a state owned bank
under an enabling environment that, while liberalizing somewhat, still exhibited: (i)       a
dominant state-owned PFI inthe form o f VBARD; (ii)              a policy lending4state-owned bank
VBP (now VBSP) that initially was to be aplayer inthe microfinance element; and, (iii)          the
intermittent application o f either interest rate ceilings or subsidieson interest rates for
priority programs funded either from Central or Provincial level. Moreover, since it was
established, VBARD hadnot operated on a level playing field and so had a huge head-start.
With the benefit o f scale and cross-subsidy from the more profitable lending, and earlier
direct subsidies, VBARD was able to lendto lower income households inquite remote areas.
This was not a small achievement. The challenge inassessingthe relevance o f design



4 As notedearlier the term "policy lending" is usedfor lending for social objectives.

                                                 6


therefore lies inquestions o f the counterfactual inrelationto the stage o f rural finance sector
development.

3.6     At the time o f appraisal, the government was uninterested inremovingsubsidiesor in
any fundamental financial sector reforms, as has become apparent insubsequent years.
However, the Bank was anxious to lend to Vietnam, and to develop a strong presence in
agriculture as a mainpillar o fthat lending. So it provided a series o f agricultural credit
operations but with very little policy content. The Bank chose to turn a blind eye to the policy
issues inorder to be a major player inthe sector. This PPAR assesses that to be a realistic and
correct decision. While it agreed to lendto the VBP, the "policyt' bank o f the government
whose setup the Bank was not comfortable with, it was only prepared to do so only under
certain conditions. These were not, inthe event, met.

3.7     Inthe longer term, the objective of strengthening rural finance will bebestservedby
leveling the playing field, removing all interest rate ceilings, including the threat o fthem, and
enabling sufficient profitability for private players to enter the market for rural financial
services to compete with VBARD. That evolving scenario i s broadly accepted today by most
government and state-owned bank officials. Itwas unrealistic at the time o f RFIappraisal in
1995. One factor inmakingthis assessment, that pursuingincremental progress was better at
that time than a protractedstand-off, i s the fact that Vietnam's Agricultural GDP growth rate
has been exceptional since 1990 although this i s attributable to many factors, inparticular,
infrastructure.

3.8     While several alternative formulations o f designwere considered, at that time in
1995/96, there was no alternative to usingthe State Bank o f Vietnam (SBV). No other state-
controlled bank was suitable andprivate bankingwas ina very early stage o f development.
For RFII, SBV handed over to the Bank for Investment andDevelopment inVietnam. This
was an appropriate move since it separatedthe regulatory body from the wholesaling bank.

3.9     The Bank Guidelineon Lines o f Credit dated March 3,2008, o f course, didnot apply
to RFIat the time o f either appraisal or closing, but even at that time there was an earlier
OD8.30 o f 1992. It i s arguable that the procedures for setting PFI eligibility standards were
violated by leaving this largely unresolved at appraisal for resolutionduring supervision. The
light coverage o f PFIcapacity buildingwas also not inline with the intento f OD8.30. There
was buildingo f capacity but very little for non-state-owned PFIs. With respect to other
OD8.30 elements, there was operational autonomy, albeit with the influence o f government
ownership inthe case o f SOCBs. There was an increasing degree o f commercial orientation
still temperedwith strong social policy objectives and the use o f nontraditional collateral
underthe FRP, but interest rates at certainperiods were almost certainly insufficient for the
smaller loans inmore remote areas. However, the Bank did draw a line that, inthe end,
excluded low interest policy lendingthrough VBP (now VBSP). The RFIIIproject, effective
recently, goes considerably further inthese directions, particularly indeveloping capacity but
the interest rate ceiling remains, at least intermittently.

3.10    There are three other areas where design mighthave beenenhanced. First,the project
indicators show some weaknesses, inparticular, the use o f only cumulative figures for
lending,the lack o f indicators for institutional capacity development, and the lack o f some o f

                                                      7


the more basic indicators such as loan repayment rates. Second, PFI eligibility was treated
lightly indesign, pushingcriteria andselectionback onto project supervisionandthe design
o fthe manuals. Third, the project would have benefited from at least a small pilot program
testing alternative approaches with non-bank institutions and enabling some early
comparative performance data to be assembled.

EFFICACY
3.11     Efficacy i s rated substantial. Ratings for individual elements ofthe objectives are
explored below.

3.12     Project Indicators.The mainproject indicators at appraisal, with the actuals
achieved inparenthesis, were as follows: 50,000 beneficiaries (actual 260,000 butnote that
this is cumulativeincluding recycledfunds for short term loans inaproject with an 18 month
extension); PFIs 9 (actual 7); Savings mobilization 60 percent o ftotal lending by PFIs (actual
over 60 percent); inthe RDF component medium and large sub-loan numbers 25 percent
(actual 5 percent, remaindersmall) and medium and large sub-loans by amount lent 50
percent (actual 8 percent, remainder small); medium and long term sub-loans by amount 50
percent (actual 34 percent, remainder short-term)'.

3.13     The following four questions relate to the stated project objectives,

3.14     Did Living Conditionsin Rural Areas Improve?Achievement o fthis objective is
rated Substantial. The 600,000 loans made and the 260,000 sub- borrowers were well in
excess o fthe target. Repayment rates were excellent at over 98 percent. While repayment i s
indicative o f successful investment, it does not prove that living conditions were enhanced.
However, the Impact Study o f 2002, that the mission assessedto be o f generally adequate
quality6, found inits surveys that 93 percent of borrowing families stated that the borrowing
had increased household economic benefit. More importantly, the percentage o f households
inthe "fairly wealthy" category insurveyedhouseholds increasedfrom 39 percent to 61
percent however there were no non-borrowers surveyed and some of this must be attributed
to broadeconomic growth. The study found that enterprise diversification only increased to a
limitedextent. Italso found that, for manyborrowers, loan size was considered insufficient
for the intended investment so additional borrower contribution and additional borrowing
was often sought from other sources.

3.15     Was PrivateInvestmentEncouraged? Achievement ofthis objective is rated
Substantial. The output evidence o fthe number o f loans andthe fact that the sub-borrower
contribution was 35 percent, well above the percent planned, and that many borrowers sought
additional lendingsuggests that private investment was indeedencouraged. However, see the



5 Note that these lendingfigures are impactedbythe numbers andvolume of short term loans recycledoverthe
projectlife, givingapredominanceofshort-termloans incumulative figures. For this reason, the useof an
indicatorofcumulative loans without additional qualificationandindicatorsis of limitedvalue since, overtime,
the percentage of short-terminthe whole inevitably grows. Inthis case outstanding loans at the date ofclosing
for mediumand longterm lendingwas reportedby BIDV as 74 percent.
6 Enumeratorsusedseemto havebeenwell supervised,anddidnotwork for PFIsor the apexbank, so didnot
haveany vestedinterestinthe findings.

                                                       8


earlier qualification that the numbers o fborrowers was impacted by the greater initial short-
term lending and the extended project period7.

3.16     Lending was to households and SME enterprises and not to State-Owned Enterprises.
While the SAR hadprovided for some limited lending to SOEs, this was not implemented
due to the focus on householdand SME lending.The Impact Study reported zero lendingto
SOEs.

3.17     Table 1 below gives the breakdown o f enterprises supported by the main 5 PFIs. Over
80% o f loans were for cultivation or animal husbandry. The Impact Study was able to
estimate approximately that 15 percent o fthe RDF funds had gone to SMEs. It should be
noted that the larger share o f funds, about two thirds, was allocated to VBARD and VBARD
target households not SMEs. Table 2. InAnnex B gives the breakdown o f lending by PFI.

Table 1. PercentageLoanPortfolio by Five of the Seven RDF PFIs and Enterprise as of
June 30,2001 (Impact Study Survey)




3.18     Was Banking System Capacity Strengthened?For this objective, performance i s
rated, on balance, Substantial, but there were some areas o f weakness. There are three main
elements inthis rating. First, the broader question, raised from a different angle under the
heading Relevance, about whether Bank support to a system that i s still not a wholly level
playing field strengthened the bankingsystem. This assessment's conclusion i s influenced
partlyby the counterfactual, that, ifthe Bankhadset as a condition the abandonment o f
interest ceilings andVBP's subsidized lending, almost certainly there would have beenno
series o f RF projects. Second, the number o fparticipating banks, at 7, was modest and
therefore the scale o f impact on institutions inRFIwas inevitably modest. However, for a
first project with many PFIs borderline for some o fthe accreditation criteria, less may well
have beenbetter thanmore and, inany case, it sent signals to non-participants which, inthe
light o fthe increase inPFIsunder the following project, seemnot to have passedunnoticed.
Third, the quitetough accreditation criteria, albeit softened inpractice by allowing attainment


7 The large size ofborrower contribution is attributed by observers to severalfacts. First, for many borrowers,
the loan size cap was too small so own contributions were addedto increasethis (VBARD are concernedthat
the cap is too smallonthe newthird project.) or additional borrowing was undertaken. Second, depositincome
was less than loan interest so many found it worthwhile to apply at least some oftheir savings. Third, many
householdswere risk averse anddidnot want to be excessively indebt.

                                                     9


through approvedIDPs' andthe training and capacity support, did result insome gains in
performanceratios and a substantialincrease inPFI's equity andtherefore the scale of
financial service capacity (see Annex A, Table 1).

3.19      While data on private sector lending to the rural sector over the project period or
more recent1 is not available, lending to the private sector as a whole has been rising
significantly  B ,


3.20      However, the performance of PFIs has beenmixed (Annex ByTable 1) although
generally trending towards improvement, particularly more recently post project closing. The
weakest ratio evident was profitability and CAR of SOCBs and insome cases the level of
non-performing loans. The Impact Study concludedthat the project hadhelpedPFIs expand
capital sources mainly mediumand long term and had improved profitability especially at
branchlevel for VBARD. The appreciation ofthe longer term funds was confirmed during
the mission. Capacity had beenenhancedby training butthere were still limited skills inloan
appraisal of mediumto longterm investments.Annex B shows a steady but variable
improvement inPFIratios. However, BIDV and VBARD remain belowthe Base1Istandards
for capital adequacy". A review of PFIperformance was covered at a later date underthe
RFIIImpact Assessment (Arthur D Little consultants 2005). While this assessment is
capturing a different and larger set of 17 PFIs and 8 MFIs (most of the RFIPFIs were
participating), and a later time period, it does show continued improvement. It seems
probable that some of this can be attributed to a continuation ofthe gains of RFI.That Impact
Assessement finds that, "Generally speaking, PFIs have beenimprovingtheir financial
performanceyear-on-year. In2002, the majority of banks comply with all performance
targets but Returnon Assets." (However, the assessment argues that that indicator would
improve ifit was based on income-earning assets rather thantotal assets that would be more
appropriate for the assessment ofthe profitability of core banking business.) The assessment
also points to the continued decline inVBARD's market share as an indication of increased
banking competition inrural areas.

3.21      With respect to the training, this includedlocal training through the SBV-basedPMU
covering suchtopics as the project workshop, financial analysis, accreditation and sub-
project appraisal; local training through VBARD and VBP on arange of subjects including
training of about 140,000 membersof lending groups; overseas training visits arrangedby
the SBV PMU; and, overseas training arrangedbyVBARD and VBP for their own staff.
There was limitedfunding provisionfor training for PFIs and it was only for participating


8 The IDPs reviewed were generally of an adequate standard althoughVBARD's 1997to 2000 overall plan
(excluding backup material) was somewhatshallow indepth.
9 Data on borrowing for the economy as awhole (World Bank2009) inmore recent years shows that non-State-
Owned Enterprise credit rose over the period 2002 to 2007 as a share oftotal credit from about 60 percentto
about 70 percent in2007 with the share of SOE credit falling from about40 percentto about 30 percent. In
2002, Joint stockbanks outstandingloanswere only about VND3O trillion comparedto SOCBs of VND157
trillion. By 2007, SOCBs hadrisento VND574 trillion but Joint stockbanks were up to about VND400 trillion.
Private investment inVietnam rose from about 14percent ofGDP in2001 to about 18 percentin2006.
10 Some SBV andBIDV officials argue that the CAR i s less relevantto government ownedbanks due to the
implicitgovernmentguarantee.However, the intent is to reachthe standard as soonas possible.This has been
made more difficult by the delay indoing this which has pushedthis raising of capital ("equitization") into the
current global financial crisis.

                                                    10


PFIs not potential future FIs.The Impact Study found that most PFIs wanted more training
funds from the project particularly for skills that would enhance capacity to make decisions
on longer-term lending. Giventhe needto build capacity innew entrants to rural lending, the
focus seems to have been somewhat excessivelytowards the SOCBs. The project PFIs had
their own internal programs set out inthe IDPs sometimesusingoutsideTA butthis was
through their own funds. Some training was also being undertakeninthe same provinces by
other donors and MFIs andby VBARD officers inthe field as part oftheir normal
responsibility",

3.22    Was Access to RuralServices Improved?Onthis objective, the project is rated
High, although the extent of overall marketcoverage for Vietnamunder RFIis not clear due
to limited data onthe size ofthe ruralmarket as a whole, particularly back inthe 1990~'~.
The numberofthe direct beneficiaries reachedwas five times the original project target. The
reachof the project was significantly above expectation partly because ofthe muchgreater
share of contribution by borrowers. Sub-borrowers contributed about 39 percent of total
costs. Savings were one source ofthis contribution partly due to caution and borrowers
having savings that had a lower opportunity cost than additional borrowing.

3.23     One ofthe more successful aspects of increasing access was the mobile banking units
underVBARD which allowed banking services to reachremote areas where branch
establishment was unecon~mic'~.        UnderRFI, VBARD was the PFIwiththe smaller average
loan size of approximately VND5 million (about $450 at the time of appraisal) compared
with about VND11 to 90 million ($1,000 to $8,000) for other PFIs. VBARD's clients are
mainly rural households whereas others were mainly inthe smaller urban or peri-urbanareas,
although often even these were for loans with rural forward or backward linkages. It is
significant that, for household level lending, the PFIs other thanBIDV andVBARD lent
almost entirely short-term.

3.24     The selectionprocessfor borrowers seems to have varied by PFI. Insome cases,
VBARD borrowers were simplythose inapoor communethat hadnot been found eligible
for subsidizedVBP funds and who had, during that selectionprocess, expressedinterest ina
loan, inother words the above poverty line names. Inother cases, it was basedsimply on
individual loan officer contacts. For the SMEs, basedon mission discussionwith some
borrowers, the process from application to funds flow took betweena week andten days,
most beingvery satisfied with that. Loans through groups generally took longer owingto the
number ofhouseholds involvedandthe needto schedulemeetings.

3.25     The evidence is limitedonthe extentto which borrowers were the poorer or poorest.
Itis unfortunate that the Impact Study didnot do ananalysis ofthe wealth levels of
borrowers comparedto non-borrowers since it appears that at least some of the raw data for



11The mission met a VBARD officer doing goodpractical training work with ahandicraft village group,
12 Llanto (1999) estimatedthe total microfinance market at about 12 millionruralhouseholdsand that about
50% were being reached. However, the project lending was not all for microfinance, which, inany case, was
not clearly defined at that time.
13 The mission was ableto see amobile unitthat hadbeen fundedunder RFIand was still operating ina
mountainousarea.

                                                      11


such an analysis comparing borrowers and non-borrowers was a~ailable'~.However, the
small loan size cap (VBARDcomplains too small) i s likely to have resultedin self-selection
towards the poorer borrower. One would not expect the poorest to be borrowers since they
were handledby VBP under their separate subsidized lendingprogram. The predominance o f
householdlending through VBARD i s also likely to have selected towards the poorer since
VBARD has a wide network inunderserved and generally poor areas. The missionobserved
inthe field that lending seemedto reachthose who while obviously somewhat above the
poverty o fthose eligible for VBP loans, were not far above, what the Impact Study classified
as the "fairly poor". The provision o f 159 mobile bankingvehicles i s likely also to have
directed services towards the poor areas since it i s inthe more remote areas without bank
branches that these vehicles do their circuit^'^.

3.26     While, as noted inthe literaturefor manyyears, there is no reliable way to assess
whether a loan has been usedfor its intendedpurpose due to the fungibility problem, based
on the Impact Study survey and on mission observation and discussion, the majority o f loans
appear to have been applied to productive uses rather than consumption16.

3.27     As noted inthe Impact Study, the project didnot do anything of significanceto
develop new savings products and to encourage saving although a major constraint inrural
finance inVietnam i s the maturity mismatchwith a lack o f longer term deposits to support
longer-term lending. Deposit rates are not controlled but the impact o f ceilings on lending
rates inevitably carries through. However, the mobile banking services did contribute to
accessibility outreach for deposit taking. As noted inthe ICR, these units mobilized saving
on average from nearly 2,000 clients each per month at a total o f about US$1,300 per unit per
month and disbursed about the same number and volume o f loans per month.

3.28     Impacton Agricultureand Other Impacts" The projectwas not designed to
increase agricultural productivity so this was not monitored. This was a rural finance project
not an agricultural finance project. However, there i s some evidence that agriculture
benefited at least as measurable by inputsrather than outcomes. First, as noted, the Impact
Study found that lendingwas predominantly for cultivation and animal husbandry. Second,
mission observation inthe field found evidence o f bothcrop and animal husbandrylending,
some inpoor mountain areas. Third, the Impact Study found evidence at the farm level o f
shifts to higher return enterprises. Garden production and aquaculture increased while rice
production decreased. However, due to the predominance o f short-term small-scale lending,
manyfarmers didnot receive enough to fully restructure their enterprises. Productive areas of



14 Also unfortunately, the plannedmulti-year sample surveys(p77 SAR) were not implemented.It appears that
the Bank didnotpushfor this. Everyyear might havebeenoverkillbut at least a baselineanda mid-termwould
havebeenuseful.
15 The missioninspectedone suchvehicle fundedunderthe projectthat was still inquite goodcondition.They
carry a safe inthe backandan armed guardandcarry out basicbankingservicesat commune level, often in
mountainousareas. Itwas claimedinthat Provincethat therehadnever beena robbery.
16 Consumptionloans can be obtainedbut are at higher interestrates.
17 While it is entirely outsidethe arena ofthis assessment, the missionwould beremiss if it didnotrecordthat,
inthe mountainareas visited, where, at sometime inthe past, there has obviously beengovernmentsupportfor
housingofthe poor oftribalgroups, a majorityofthe roofs onhouseswere madeof asbestos,nowknownto be
a highly carcinogenicmaterial. The costs o f replacingit all would, of course, be enormous.

                                                   12


landandwater were found bythe study to have increased. The survey suggeststhat increased
land area came mainly from the renting o f abandoned land.

3.29     Looking at the larger picture, it i s not possible to link the project to overall national
agricultural growth since it only provided a small percentage o f total investment inthe sector,
however, Table 2 below shows that over the period from 1999 (the earliest point at which
any impact could reasonably be attributed to the project) onwards, agricultural growth
slowed somewhat from about 4.5 percent over the period 1993 to 1998 to about 4 percent
over the period 1998 to 2002 and down to about 3.8 percent 2003 to 2007. However, these
are highrates of growth by international standards and are particularly commendable against
the substantial price declines inmarketsover that period. The decline inthe later years canbe
partly explainedby: (a) the approach o f the sector to a bindinglandfrontier; (b) the
diminishingreturns as the initial recovery productivity gains were completed, and, (c) the by
now highuse of farm inputs.




Yr.:    `90  `97   `92 `93  `94   `95  `96     `97  98   `99   `00   `07  `02  `03  `04   `05  `06 `07
Ag-
Grth.                                                                                              3.4
%       1.0 2.2    6.9 3.3  3.4  4.8 4.4       4.3  3.5  5.2 4,6    3.0  4.2   3.6 4.4 4.0     3.7 est.

Source: GSO, Vietnam



 EFFICIENCY
 3.30    Based on the (limited) quantitative data available, efficiency is rated substantial.As
 innearly all cases withrural finance projects, the Impact Study and ICRdidnot estimate an
 ERR.No FRRswere calculated for individual loans (as they were inthe PhilippinesRFIII)
 becauseno loans reached the threshold size. However, the following evidence suggeststhat
 benefits probably significantly outweighed the costs:

      0   The Impact Study found highlevels o f satisfaction, household perceptions o f income
          gains, and evidence o f surveyedhouseholds shiftingto the next higher income
          levels. This has beenlargely confirmed by a later post-RFI survey under RFIIby
          differentconsultants (A. D.Little 2005).

      0   The very highrepayment rates suggest that benefits were generally sufficient to
          more thancover costs.

      0   Mission observations suggestedthat generally the projectedbenefits for the loans
          had beenrealized. These included livestock production, small andmedium rural
          industry,andhandicraft households.

                                                     13


          The profitability and other performance indicators o fthe 7 PFIswhile mixed showed
          that most improved somewhat over the project period and have improved further
          since.

          Mission rough estimates o f costs perjob created inthe small number o fborrowers
          visited suggested costs perjob that rangedfrom about US$700 to about US$lO,OOO,
          insome casesreducingunder-employment for anindividual. Buteven ifthis was a
          larger sample, there i s insufficient comparator data for Vietnam to rate the
          comparative efficiency. The fact that many loans were small may have encouraged
          some degree o f efficiency injob creation since small loans tend to create
          employment at costs below the cost o fjob creation by larger loans. However, there
          are investment efficiency aspects also since larger investments may gain in
          economic efficiency by actually reducing employment.

RISKTO DEVELOPMENTOUTCOME
3.3 1 Risk to Development i s rated moderate on balance. There have been a number o f
important changes over the three projects that are enumerated below, however there remain
concerns about the persistence o f issues such as interest rate ceilings and subsidized lending
that raise increasingquestions about relevance o f subsequent operations as time passes and
action has not been forthcoming.

        Therewas a gradual increase inthe share o fmediumto long term lending. InRFI
        only 34 percent by number was mediudlongbut even duringRFIthere was a shift
        away from short-term with more outstanding loans beingmedium to long. By RFII
        medium to long cumulatively has averaged 78 percent under the RDF component.
        This is expected to increase further inRFIII.This reduces the risk o f failure to
        achieve development objectives but somewhat raises risk to repayment.

    0   VBARD became a smaller proportion oftotal lending, at about 80 percent inRFI,
        falling below 50 percent inRFIIand expected to drop probably below 40 percent in
        RFIII(assuming VBARD meetsthe accreditation criteria). This spreadsrisk.

    0   There was a significant increase inattentionto environment over the series o f
        projects.

    0    Over the series the focus shifted towards SMEs and poverty reductionthrough
        employment and to the development o f improved products. This i s consistent with the
        recent literature (e.g. Beck and Demirguc-Kunt, 2008, GineandTownsend 2004and
        Beck, Levine, and Levkov, 2007) that find that it was not by broadening access to
        credit or by advancing entrepreneurship that financial liberalization reducedincome
        inequality but by boosting output and demandfor labor, especially unskilled,
        resultinginwage increases. This laces the current Bank and borrower SME strategy
        well up at the knowledge frontier .   Ps




18 Later inthis assessmentthe limiteduse of cost perjob createdevidenceavailable fiom bothImpact Studies
andloanapplicationandfollow-updocuments is commentedon as a missedopportunity.

                                                           14


     a   The objectives remainedlargely the same across the three projects butwith more
         attention inthe last project to lending product development, a factor for sustainability.

     a   RFIIIrequired a larger PFIminimumcontribution although actuals have beenhigher
         thanthe minima,againreducingrisk to the wholesale bank.

     a   RFIonly had7 PFIs, RFII24, spreading risk and outreach further. UnderRFIIIit
         remains to be seen how many will qualify.

     a   Mobile bankingincreased from RFIto RFII increasing outreach.

     a   The MIS systemdeveloped over the three projects giving stronger feedback.

     a   Employment data was collected under WII and will be under RFIIIbut inless detail
         under RFI. (Under RFIIplannedemployment creationwas about 50,000 jobs, actual
         to date i s 255,000'9.

     a   Lending to women increased from about 30 percent inthe first project to about 45
         percent under RFII.Generally, globally, lending to women has beenless risky.

     a   On capacity building, early focus was on process later focus was more on institutional
         structure an important element insustainability.

     a   At the time of RFISBV was not requiring audits, now all banks mustbe audited.

     a   PFIperformance indicators improved over the period although some ratios, such as
         profitability improvement were mixed.

     a   RFIIIincludes a component to support the People's Credit Fund.Giventhe rapid
         emergence o fthese funds, this should have beenpicked up earlier. Also, RFIII
         includes support for non-bank supervisionunder SBV to back the new microfinance
         law, important for sustainability.

3.32     InterestRateCeilingandRiskto Development.While these manychanges are
positive for the broad objectives, some elements have not changed significantly. As noted,
the most important o fthese for the health of the sector i s the ceiling on interest rates. (Llanto
1999). Interestrate ceilings imposed on regulatedfinancial entities result inrelatively higher
interest rates inthe non-regulated sector. Ceilings contribute to misallocationo f resources
and weakened financial institutions. Ina developing economy such as Vietnam the strategy
should be aimed at closing the savingdinvestment gap which calls for the appropriate pricing
o f savings as well as credit. Imposingan interest rate ceiling creates an unlevelplaying field
for commercial banks trying to establish viable footholds inrural areas. (It should be noted,
however, that ceilings are imposed by the Assembly. SBV i s well aware o f the otential
impact and have presented a case to the Assembly on more than one occasion. ) Some             8
observers and banks argue that the ceiling i s not really a significantproblem andthat banks

19 Although it should be notedthat estimating truly incremental employment inan SME is very difficult.
20 Visits for Assembly representatives to other countries with alternative policies may be usehlto demonstrate
that access and institutional sustainability is usually far more important inmicrofmance than interest rate.

                                                    15


can make sufficient margin. But this i s not the full story for several reasons. First, many of
these banks, unable to compete with the still dominant place that VBARD holds inthe rural
areas are not attemptingto compete at present, they are taking the still "easier pickings" in
urbanareas. This will change. Second, evenwhen ceilings are removedonce again, the
expectations ofpossible re-imposition remain for some years, action will have a lag. Third,
for the more remote rural lending, banks are competing with the VBARD history of public
support and the consequent VBARD entrenched dominant position. Competitors will need
even countervailing incentives to get a toe-hoid against such entrenched competition. Fourth,
the very fact that nearly all banks are lendingboth short and longterm at the same ceiling
rate i s evidence that banks are forced by the low ceiling to pushbothrates, lower risk and
higher, up against the ceiling to try to make sufficient profit. Fifth, VBARD itself,
notwithstanding the huge advantage o f its existing network, acknowledges that it has to
cross-subsidize the more remote rural lendingand mobile units with the profits o f their easier
lending. While other banks, with new products such as e-banking can be expected to slowly
makeinroads, with interest rate ceilings the cards remain stacked against them.21The fact
that the People's Cooperative Fund(PCF) has been substantially increasing its lendingto
farmers, currently at 3.5% above the interest rate ceiling set for banks, i s evidence that higher
interest rates are not a constraint inlendingto poorer borrowers. As has been found globally
inmicrofinance, accessis more importantthanprice.

3.33      Beyondthe interest rate issue, it will be particularly important that competingjoint
stock banks and non-bank microfinance entities are enabled by the political linkages at
commune, District andProvince level, to gain the same level o f access and cooperation inthe
formation and servicing o fjoint liability groups as VBARD andVBSP. It was not entirely
clear to the missionthat this i s yet the case.

3.34      Respondingto the current global financial crisis, subsidized interest rates appear to be
seen once more as one tool inthe government response.22The recent Decision 131by the
Prime Minister on subsidizing interest rates for institutions and individuals to help them carry
out production and business plans states that banking institutions may now seek subsidies.
The eligibility list so far includes state-owned banks, joint stock banks, joint venture banks,
foreign bank branches, and wholly foreign owned banks.(The People's Credit Fundprogram
has recently been asking to be included inthe list). There i s to be a 4% discount fundedby
government. While the current global crisis is arguably unprecedented, the global experience
has beenthat such subsidies become difficult to reverse. Increased spending on rural
infrastructure i s an alternative since a main reason for lack of financial services i s access.

3.35      With respect to the sustainability o f PFIs, Annex ByTable 1 gives the financial
indicators over time up to 2007. The Impact Assessment for RFII(A.D. Little 2005)


21The Borrower has commentedthat inrecent yearsjoint stock commercialbanks havebeenexpandingin
rural areas andthat the predominanceo fVBARD has declined (see Annex D).
22 Both long and short-termlendingceilings were set at a spreadover SBV's base ratethat gives aborrower
interest rateof 9% for short-termloans, 10.5% for medium-term loans, and 12% for consumptionloans.
Deposit rates are not controlled but currently VBARD deposits are 7% for 24 months, 6% for 6 to 12months
and5.5% for 3 to 6 months. In2002 the ceiling was removed [by DecisionNo. 546/2002/QD-NHNN, dated
May 301butVBARD's dominant role, government ownershipand social objectivesseem to have played arole
inholding rates down. The ceiling reappearedagainin2008.

                                                16


concludes that PFI's, while still facing difficulties achieving CAR and profitability targets,
have beenimproving financial performance andthe expectationin2005 was that, with their
strategic andrestructuring plans, this was likely to continue. However, this PFIperformance
and sustainability issue i s also connected to the relevance question raised earlier about the
impact o f continued Bank support on the levelness o fthe playing field and the continuation
inVietnam rural finance ofinterestrate ceilings and subsidies.

3.36    Finally, the shift for RFIIto BIDV as the apex bank from SBV made sense for future
development. It moved the apex responsibility from the central bank with regulatory and
lendingconflicts of interest to a commercial bank, albeit state owned. There were, and still
are, some performance ratio concerns with BIDV, particularly CAR, but BIDV have been
developing strong skills andremain under RFIII.

BANKPERFORMANCE
3.37    BankPerformance is ratedsatisfactory overall. However, there were some
weaknesses inproject design.

3.38    Quality at Entry.Quality at Entry i s rated Moderately Satisfactory. While overall,
the design was thorough andbalanced, the inclusionofVBP as the conduit for the Fundfor
the Rural Poor (FRP) was unrealistic from the start. The Bank did not want to get involved
insubsidized lendingbutthere is evidence ofdifferences o fposition onthis withinregional
staff. There was pressure from the borrower to include lending to the poor through VBP and
the Bank made the mistake o f agreeing to this at negotiations inspite o f the fact that VBP
was expressly set up to "fence off' subsidized lending.It was never likely that common
ground would be found. Also, what seems to be a not uncommon failing insuch projects, the
Bankcould have somewhat betteranalyzedthe place ofthe proposed project inthe sector as
a whole, including relative scale and also, for VBARD levels o f implicit and explicit subsidy.

3.39    Quality of Supervision. Project supervision i s rated Satisfactory. The mission heard
praise from borrower representatives for the skills o fthe Bank staff inbothproject design
and implementation. However, whenthe criteria for VBP participation set by the Bank could
not be met, it took most o fthe project periodto reachagreement to redirect the FRP
component towards VBARD as the lending intermediary. The resolution process was very
slow on bothsides.

3.40    Donor coordinationwas given generally satisfactory marks by most o f those
involved, including government. The twice a year Consultative Group meetings were found
useful, as were some lower level sector or thematic meetings. However, there was some
suggestion o f lack o f coordination on pass on rates.

3.41    Finally, the ICR was generally o f good quality although, as noted inthe IEGICR
Reviewthere were some gaps. This assessmentfinds also that it could have usedmore ofthe
Impact Study evidence.

BORROWERPERFORMANCE
3.42    Borrower performance i s rated, on balance, satisfactory.

                                                17


3.43    Government. SBV was the apex institution and, inmanyrespects, the government
representative and, for the purposes of this analysis are placed inthe government category.
The Department o f Finance was also involved on the policy and donor relationship side but
more at arms length. Government performance i s rated Moderately Satisfactory, as opposed
to fully Satisfactory, mainly due to the interest rate ceiling issue. SBV played a very active
role inthe preparation o f the project andnegotiatedtheir difficult role as regulator and apex
bankresponsibly. SBV were found by the missionto have retainedextensive knowledge o f
this project even though it closed more than eight years ago andthere was strong interest in
SBV inthe designand outcome o fthe subsequent project series. However, this assessment
has raised questions about the intermittent interest-rate ceilings promulgated by the
Assembly. This was not ineither DOF's or SBV's hands.While policy lending i s not
inappropriate inthe achievement o fpoverty goals, the government has still not clearly and
consistently fenced this off from commercial lending. This strategy needs to be reassessed
and coordinated by government with respect to all savings and loan or grant providing
players including those at the Provincial level.

3.44    ImplementingInstitutions. Performance ofthe implementinginstitutions is rated
Satisfactory. At the PFIlevel, lending decisions were generally sound as i s evidenced by the
very highrepayment rates and predominantly adequate and improving performance ratios.
However, there were weaknesses inthe performance o fthe two SOCBs with respect to
overdue debt and CAR and for three o fthe five other banks insome areas, including overdue
debt andprofitability. Butat all levels repayment rates were very high.

3.45    The borrower seems to be as equally to blame as the Bank for the extremely slow
resolution of the issue over the FFV component that should have been resolvedat
negotiations but, inthe end, it was resolved.

Monitoring and Evaluation

3.46    M&Eis ratedsubstantial.Monitoring andevaluationinfinance projects takes a
somewhat different form to traditional investment projects since mucho f the required
accounting data andperformance ratios covers a substantial part o f what normally would be
required for M&E ina more traditional investment project. Nevertheless, M&Equality was
insufficiently covered by the ICR.

3.47    Design M&Edesign(see StaffAppraisal Report) was left to SBV but it was to be
satisfactory to IDA. The project manuals were a part o fthe M&Eplanning process.
Surprisingly, the PFI accreditation criteria were not agreed by appraisalor by negotiations.
The SAR simply stated that, "The PFIs would be approved on the basis of agreed
accreditation criteria to be detailed inthe policy manual o fthe RDF. SBV would inform IDA
accordingly." The reason for this hands-off approach by IDA appears to have been because
 SBV had banking regulation criteria covering many o fthe criteria and it would have been
difficult to have imposed different ones for an individual project. However, there i s no
indication inthe SAR section on accreditation that the current criteria at the time represented
a minimumacceptable to IDA. As noted earlier, the project indicators show some
weaknesses, inparticular, the use o f only cumulative figures for lending, the lack o f
 indicators for institutional capacity development, and the lack o f some o fthe more basic

                                                   18


indicators such as loan repayment rates, as suggested inthe OP8.30 Guideline. As also noted
earlier, this assessment finds the use of cumulative lending data to be o f somewhat limited
value without additional information.

3-48    Implementation Implementationappears to have been carried out satisfactorily by
SBV. However, the quality o f reporting by PFIs was variable and, due to different accounting
practices, not always uniform.

3.49     Utilization The utilization o f the available data was quite strong. The data were
usedfor a numbero f adjustments andto target support for PFIs. Over the period of the
project the International Credit Project Management Unit (ICPMU) gained inexperience and
capacity and, as a result, a number o f the staff shiftedto BIDV23,the new apex institution,
prior to RFII.The skills inthe unit are impressive.



4. Findingsand Lessons

4.1      While the RFIwas a traditional targeted line o f credit project through a government-
owned wholesale bank within a financial environment that was heavily regulated, it
performedwell inachieving its immediate objectives. It contributed to strengthening o fthe
rural financial systemand expanding rural outreach. Vietnam has taken a gradual approach
(CAE 2001) to transitioning to a market economy within a stable political structure and a
continued adherence to socialist principles, Yet it has experienced very rapid growth in
contrast to former Soviet Union countries that followed more radical transitions andhave not
fared as well. Duringthe early 1990s there was a strong supply response from agriculture
and strong poverty impact. The burden o fprooftherefore lies with those who would argue
that a disengagement counterfactual inrural finance would have resulted ingreater progress.
The assessmentwas not able to arguethat for the first project. Nevertheless, there are a
numbero fweaknesses inthe policy environment that needto be addressed, particularly the
interest rate cap and subsidies (outside the projects) and there are increasingrelevance
questions about the follow-on projects as these constraints to competition persist.

4.2      There was a need at the time o fRFI, andthere is still a need now, for a study to better
understandall the implicit subsidies throughout the system not only with respect to VBARD
andVBSP butprograms at Provincial level also. Bank staff indicatedthat a study of VBARD
from this perspective i s under consideration. This may be too narrow.

4.3      The Bankneedsto consider a more proactive approach to closed projects with loan
funds that are being relent withinthe same fundparticularly with respect to loan size caps but
perhaps other criteria also. Inthe case o f RFI, VBARD findthe cap of US$400 too low. An
 absolute loan size cap will inevitably shrink inreal terms with inflation andwith growing per
 capita,income (substantial inthe case o f Vietnam). Inaddition, other circumstances can
 change, not always predictably. For example, the area o f Hanoi city was recently enormously

 23 BIDV, a PFIunder RFI, took over all the RFIresponsibility and portfolio fiom SBV and are the apex bank
 for RFIIand 111.

                                                19


increased by legislation as the city engulfeda whole rural province. The project agreement
on excluded lendingareas, as it still stands today, now legally excludes a large rural area o f
over 5 million predominantly rural potential beneficiaries. Some flexibility on lending
parameters would seem warranted and some form o f indexing o f ceilings ifthey are likely to
stand for many years as they are with credit reflows.

4.4     Boththe Bank and the borrower were very slow to resolve the issue o f the
involvement o f VBP inthe project. Giventhe history o fpolicy lending, the Bank should have
foreseen that the government would be unable to meet the Bank's criteria o f no subsidized
lendingthrough an institutionthat was hivedoffby designfrom VBARD precisely for that
purpose.

4.5      Better analytical use could have been made, by boththe Bank and the borrower, o f
the already available data on costs perjob created. Supported by wider calculation o f
Financial Rates o f Return on a sample basis for both smaller loans and larger, such data
could have been useful for understandinggrowth andpoverty and employment impact.

4.6      Visits inthe field didnot revealmuchconnectionbetweenthe processeso f making
and supervising loans andthe agriculture technology specialists inthe extension service and
the farmer field school program. The latter was found by IEGinthe Agricultural
RehabilitationProject PPAR o f June 11,2002 to be quite an effective program albeit high
cost. While this issue would warrant wider assessment for valid conclusions, and while there
i s somewhat mixedevidence on the benefits o f technical linkages inthe literature
(Ledgerwood 1998), apriori it would seem efficient to attempt to pursue complementarity by
connecting the smaller, less technically skilled, sub-borrower with sources of such skills
either public or private. This limited linkage seems to be reflected inthe Bank strategy also.
The latest 2006 Bank strategic overview document with a predominantly agriculture focus,
Accelerating Vietnam's Rural Development: Growth, Equity and Diversification,has quite
limitedreference to rural finance. However alternatively, this may suggest that rural finance
i s no longer seen as one o f the major constraints.

4.7      The competitive edge o f VBARD inrural areas was substantial under RFIand is still
substantial although competitors are now making significant headway. Although e-banking
may change costs considerably, there may be a case to counteract this competitive edge with
incentives to private banks andnon-bank institutions for initial branch establishment inrural
areas.

4.8      The main lessons are the following:

          Trainingprograms should be designedwith the objective of not only making
          delivery more efficient but of creating a national capacity infinancial services. This
          i s a public good area warranting subsidy. Inthis project, while training at wholesale
          bank levels was given highpriority, training at lower levels for PFIs and potential
          future PFIs, those that arguably most need training, could have been given more
          support. This was corrected to some extent inRFIIand RFIII.

      e   TheBank needs to revisit the impact of conditionality onproject implementation
          through the life of the credit not simply the life of theproject and to design

                                       20


conditionality to adapt to change. Some conditionalities that remainineffect
through the life of a credit may be overtaken by events. Consideration should be
givento indexingloan amount ceilings to allow for bothinflation and risingper
capita income through a nominalper capita, or rural per capita, income index. And
inthiscase, the dramatic shift intheboundariesofHanoihasreducedthepotential
beneficiary population.

TheBank should establishachievable PFIparticipation criteria at appraisal and
ensurethat at least a significant number of PFIs can meet themprior to appraisal.
Inthis case, the accreditationwas left for later agreementand anescapemeans
through an institutional development planwas added. The needfor this and the fact
that several PFIs still didnot meet some of the criteria suggests that they were not
realistic at the outset and, indeed, that the bar set by the original criteria was
misleading.

                                               21


References

Accelerating Vietnam's Rural Development, Overview, World Bank, February 2006
Agribank Annual Reports, 2007,2008
Assessment Report RFPI and Implementation Report RFIIand RFIIIFeb 18,2009, BIDV
Beck, T., and Demirguc-Kunt, A.Access to Finance: An Unfinished Agenda. World bank
Economic Review,Vo122.2008
Beck, T., Levine, R., and Levkov, A. Big Bad Banks? TheImpact of US. Branch
Deregulation in Income Distribution. Policy Research Working PaperNo. 4330, World Bank
Capital Matters, Vietnam Development Report World Bank, 2009.
Decision ofthe Prime Minister, N0.112~2006on Plan for Development of Vietnamese
Banking Industry,May, 2006
Decree on Microfinance Institutions, Government, March 9,2004
Gine, X., and Townsend, R., Evaluation of of Financial Liberalization: A General
Equilibrium Model with Constrained Occupation Choice. Journal of Development
Economics. No. 74,2004
Government DecreeNo. 28. Organization and Operation of Microfinance Institutions, March
2004
Impact Assessment SecondRural Finance Project, Arthur D Little, December 2005
Implementation Progress Report for First Rural Finance Project, 12/31/08, BIDV
Jarvis, D. S., Vietnams Financial ServicesSector: Prospectsfor Reform. 2002 (?)
Llanto, G. Microfinance in Vietnam. 1999(?)
List CharteredCapital Financial Institutions, 2006
Ledgerwood, J. Microfinance Handbook, World Bank, 1998
Microfinance Bulletin, Issue 12, Jan 2009
Microfinance Gateway dataVietnam 2009, CGAP
Plan for Development of Banking Industry, Prime Minister's Office, 24 May, 2006
Socio-Economic Impact Assessment,RFI, HanoiNational Economics University, February
2002
Thanh, V. T., Development of Vietnam's Financial Sector: TheKey Policy Issues, Central
Institutefor Economic Management, Hanoi, November, 2008
Tuan, D.A,, Vietnam's New Law on Microfinance: On the Way to an EnablingEnvironment,
Save the Children, USA, December, 2005
Warner, B., Economic and Financial Management, Working Paper 1,CIE for AusAid,
Vietnam, April 2000
World Bank Guidance Note on Lines of Credit, World Bank, March2008


Note: This reference list does not include all the World Bank CASs, PADS,ICRs, and PPARs
referred to for the lendingprograms and agriculture projects.


                                        23                                    Annex A



Annex A. Basic Data Sheet

VIETNAM: RuralFinanceProject (IDA-28550)

Key ProjectData (amounts in US$million)
                                     Appraisal        Actual or        Actual as % of
                                      estimate     current estimate  appraisalestimate
LoanICredit amount                     122.80          111.10                 94
Borrower                                5.80              3.50                60
Cofinancing                             11.10            15.70                141
Total project costs                    139.70          129.80                 93



ProiectDates
                                            Original                    Actual
Concept Review                             04/27/1995                 04/27/1995
Begin Appraisal                            11/21/1995                 12101/ I995
Board approval                             05/07/1996                 05/07/1996
Signing                                    07/19/1996                 07/19/1996
Effectiveness                              10/19/1996                 02/06/1997
Closing date                               06/3012000                 12/3112001


StaffInputs(staff weeks)
  Stage of ProjectCycle                     ActuallLatest Estimate
                              No. StaffWeeks            USD Thousands(includingtravel
                                                              and consultantcosts)
Identification/Preparation         29.9                             73.6
AppraisaVNegotiation               49.7                            139.1
Supervision                        58.1                            161.1
ICR                                   4                                5
Total                             168.0                            515.8

 Annex A                                     24


 Mission Data

 Mission

                             No. of Personsand Specialty
                             (e.g. 2 Economists, 1FMS,       Perfonnance Rating
   Stage of Project Cycle                etc.)
                                                         Implementation Development
                                                                       1
         MontWYear            Count           Specialty    Progress      Objective
 IdentificationPreparation




                    11/1998      1              B             S              S
                    04/1999      1              B             S              S
                    11/1999      1              B             S              S
                    03/2000      1              B             S              S
                    05/2000      1              B             S              S
                    09/2000      1              B             S              S
                    01/2001      4             BYW            S              S
                    05/2001      1             BYHJ           S              S
IICR                09/2002 I    1      I       B             S        I      s     I
 A: Agricultural Economist
 B: Financial Analyst
 C: Agricultural Credit
 D: Financial ManagementSpecialist
 E: Economist
 F: Environmental Specialist
 G: Legal Counsel
 H: Microfinance Specialist
 I:OperationOfficer

                                                      25                                              Annex B


Annex B. Backgroundand EnablingEnvironment

1.      There has been enormous progress inpoverty alleviation inVietnam since the early
1990s. Poverty incidence inrural areas fell from 66.4 in 1993 to 35.6 in2002. Butthere remains
a highincidence o fpoverty inthe Central Highlandsand inthe Northern Mountains. Share o f
agriculture intotal employment has beendeclining rapidly and is now approaching 50 percent.
At the time ofthe Rural Finance I(RFI) appraisal, the share o fagriculture intotal employment
was above 70 percent.

2.      Since RFI, the RFIIproject is close to completion (expected inSeptember 2009) and the
RFIIIProject has recently become effective. RFIwas therefore the start ofa series o fBank
interventions inrural finance. Infact, even before that, the Agricultural RehabilitationProject
(Credit 2561-VN) could be considered an earlier precursor although, inthis analysis, we treat
RFIas the first ofthe rural finance series. While this IEGassessment is o fthe RFIproject, it
also looks at the evolution o f RFIinto RFIIand RFIIIas a way o f understanding the
sustainability o f the process started with RFIand as an input into the on-going IEGagriculture
study. Over these three projects there has been substantial liberalization inthe financial sector
but starting from a very low base.

3.      As discussed inthe ICR, at the time o f RFI appraisal, Vietnam had already taken a
number o factions to shift towards a market-based economy. The mono-bank systemhadbeen
replaced by a two-tier banking structure. The government hadreorganized the State Bank o f
Vietnam (SBV) to function exclusively as the centralbank andhad established the Vietnam
Bankfor Agriculture (VBA), now VBARD, andthe Industrial and Commercial Bankto take
over its commercial bankingactivities together with two specialized banks, the Bank for
Investment and Development, BID, now BIDV (the wholesale bank for RFIIand 111) and the
Bank o f Foreign Trade. These State Owned Commercial Banks (SOCBs) hadbeen restructured
as independent entities. The government had also pavedthe way for the establishment o f private
banks, branches o f foreign banks, joint venture banks and rural credit unions. The interest rate
structure had beenbrought closer to reflecting market prices although there were still controls.

4.      At the time o fappraisal24,commercial bankingwas dominatedbythe SOCBs. They
accounted for about 85% o f commercial bank operations in 1994. At that time, assessing
financial performance was difficult as accounting practices deviated from international
standards. Apart from VBA, none o fthe financial institutions had been audited at that time by
external independent auditors. By then VBA had started to shift away from financing State
Owned Enterprises towards private households and businesses. By 1994,62 percent o f its
lendingwas to rural households.

5.      EnablingEnvironment.Vietnam undertook a series ofmajor reforms beginninginthe
late 1980s (Llanto 1999). These included: decollectivization o f agriculture; new land laws for
greater security o f landtenure; the removal o fnearly all administered prices; a degree o f interest
rate liberalization; exchange-rate unification; liberalization of foreign trade and investment; some

24 At the time of appraisalthere were 4 SOCBs, 46 private shareholdingbanks, 3 joint venture banks, 9 foreign
banks, 69 credit cooperatives,200 Peoples Credit Funds, 2 finance companies, and one government owned
insurancecompany.

Annex B                                                      26



progress towards a legal framework encouraging private sector development; and initial opening
up ofthe financial sector to domestic and foreign private banks.

6.        A more aggressive financial sector reformprocess beganabout 2001, The SOCBs were
further restructured andpolicy lendingto the poor was formally fenced offinto a specialized
entity the Vietnamese Bank for the Poor (VBP now the Vietnamese Bank for Social Policy
(VBSP)). Bank support for adjustment and financial sector reform came through two main
channels: Structural Adjustment Credit Projects that contributed to strong macroeconomic
performance and helped further the transition to a market economy and, also, more focused on
financial sector specifics, a series o f five Poverty Reduction Support Operations (ICR 2007 on
these projects). These have been followed approximately annually by further P R S C S ~ ~ .
Outcomes o f each o fthe first five PRSCs was rated Satisfactory by the ICR.

7.        The result o f these accelerating reforms has been greater financial depth. In2007, (Thanh
2008) CredWGDP was 82 percent, M2/GDP was 110 percent. In2005, Vietnam bank
deposit/GDP was 65 percent. However, there remains some lack o f transparency and weak
financial supervision and the financial system i s still bank-based andrelatively underdeveloped.
Still about 50 percent of household savings are not deposited inbanks. Less than 10% o fthe
population has personal bank accounts, SOCBs accounted for 59 percent o ftotal deposits in
2007. There remains a mismatchbetween short-Term deposits and long-term lending. There i s a
needfor further development of risk rating and other information generating agencies.

8.        In2006, the PrimeMinister approved aplanfor the development ofthebanking industry
to 2010. This includes laws related to SBV, credit institutions, deposit insurance, banking
oversight, plans for enhancing capability o f commercial banks, improvement of the effectiveness
o f non-bank credit institutions, modernization of payment systems andMIS (these two with
further World Bank support), a roadmap for improving the convertibility o f the Vietnamese
Dong, development of small-scale financial activities, and improvedinformation for national
monetary policy.


25 Briefly, the PRSCs supported the following: restructuring plans for four state-owned commercial banks
(including VBARD and BIDV); the closing o f ninejoint stock banks and ensuring compliance with SBV regulations
for the remaining ones; bringing criteria for loan classification to the standards o f internationalpractice, andrevised
criteria for non-performing loans and provisioning; completion o f international auditing by international auditors for
four SOCBs; a timetable for SOCBs to preparecredit manuals; completion o f audits for VBARD and BIDV to
international standards; a shift fiom cash-basedaccounting to accrual-based accounting; action plans for BIDV and
VBARD to strengthenMIS; re-evaluationo funsecured non-performing loans to State-Owned Enterprises (SOEs);
revised circular to strengthencreditors rights inthe re-evaluation o f SOE NPLs; inpreparation for WTO, a plan to
strengthenSBV supervision andto levelthe playingfield for banks; adoption ofanew chart ofaccountsto improve
transparency; instructions to SOCBs on the new credit manuals to improve risk management; a 60 day time limit for
SOCBs to submit audits; a directive to equitize two SOCBs (including BIDV); regulations restricting the
mechanisms for policy lending o f the DevelopomentAssistance Fund; mher development o f the securities market
through easing listingrequirements and a legal fiamework for securities investment funds; separation, inprinciple,
o f SBV's SOCB management functions fiom supervisory functions; regulations requiring SOCBs to classify loans
on the basis o f international accounting standards; and adoption o f a roadmap for the reform o f the banking sector.
While there is a degree o f slippage evident inthe list o f interventions from the first PRSC to the last, and some
reversiontowards plans and roadmaps rather than completed actions, this list represents a significant series o f
actions over the period 2001to 2006.

                                                  27                                         Annex B


9.      Under RFI,there were no financial policy reforms deemed immediately essential for the
implementationof the project or included as legal covenants but there was a broader ongoing
process of financial sector policy reform outside the project supported by the Bank.However,
there was a covenant inthe project calling for an annual exchange o f views with IDA on interest
rates focused particularly on whether "such rates are positive inreal terms". This appears to
suggest some acquiescence ininterest rates that do not fully cover operating costs, provisions for
nonperforming loans, and a profit sufficient to enable expansion. There was also a condition
related to the VBP Fundfor the Rural Poor component which was requiredto meet the criteria
set out inthe FRP Policy Manual still to be drafted but to be agreed to by IDA. The lack o f an
agreed formulation at negotiations for interest rate underthis Fundfor the Rural Poor component
seems to have been a device to avoid facing this contested issue head-on inthe hope that,
somehow, it could be resolvedlater. Itnever was, and VBP lending did not take place under the
project.

10.     Microfinance. At the time o f RFI, microfinance regulations were rudimentary and not
strongly conducive to growth o f that sector (Llanto 2004). But relevant to RFII and 111, in2004,
there was a government decree on the organization and operation o f micro-finance institutions
covering the scope o f regulation, legal levels of capital, terms o f operation, areas o f operation,
state policies, conditions and documentationfor obtaining licenses, procedures, rules for
mergers, splits, dissolution, and bankruptcy, required structures functions and responsibilitiesor
boards, regulations on operation, capital mobilization, credit activities, limits on credit and
mobilization o f savings and financial and accounting requirements. The regulations for the
implementation o fthis are still being finalized.

11. As outlinedinthe ICR, the financialreforms sincethe early 1990sonwardsconstitute
significant progress. Earlier the financial sector was largely a government "window" to fund
SOEs. Over the period 2002 to 2007 the equity inthe 22 private commercial banks participating
inRFIIincreasedby almosttentimes. Today, approximately 70 to 80% o fthe poor haveaccess
to some form o f financial services. However, muchremains to be done. Service quality i s often
weak, the market is fragmented, andfrequently services do not meet client's needs. Access to
finance, particularly medium and longterm, i s still limited for small and medium-sized
enterprises. SOEs have greater access to financing than private firms. Eventoday, private firms
finance about 75% oftheir investmentsthrough non-market means includingfamily and friends
andretained earnings. A major problem is the lack o fmediumand long-term funds available to
banks. This is partlybecause only one third o fdeposits raised inVietnam are longer than 12
months. There i s also a substantial focus by banks on the urbanareas perceived as offering less
risky and less costly lending.

12.     BankSupport to Agriculture. As notedearlier, prior to the series o fRFs, the Bankhad
supported an Agricultural RehabilitationProject. This had supported the rehabilitation o f
agricultural support services, the provision o f credit to about 50,000 smallholders farmers
through the Vietnamese Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (VBARD) for on-farm
development and working capital, rehabilitation o f about 160,000 ha o f established rubber, and
training and TA for policy analysis and follow-on project preparation. Currently, the main
priority areas inagriculture, both ongoing or under preparation, include: the Coastal Wetlands
Project, Forestry, RuralInfrastructure (CDD), Irrigation, Natural Disaster Management, Northern
Mountains Poverty, Avian Flu, IT for Rural Development and a proposed Livestock Project

Annex B                                          28



underpreparation. These represent amix of growthand equity interventions witha significant
environmental focus. Agricultural competitiveness is seen as fundamental to sectoral growth.
The diversity of householdincome sources is anincreasing areaof attention. Bank staff report
that as gains are beingrealized from policy shifts inlandallocation, titling and the general
liberalization of markets, agricultural technology for productivity increase i s emerging as a
priority. Also, agricultural diversification, market development and trade integration are key
areas. While agriculture i s seen as important, the current Bank strategy is not proposing the
diversion of resourcesfrom other sectorstowards agriculture.


Annex B. Table 1.FinancialIndicatorsfor RFIPFIs

  Financial indicators         1998    1999   2000    2001   2002    2003    2004   2005    2006  2007
  BIDV
  Net past dues                          1'.4   0.2     3.2   1.42    0.83 30.08
  Non Performing
  LoandLoan Portfolio                                                                31.3    9.59 3.98
  Capital Adequacy Ratio                 5.3    2.5      2   2.34      4.4     4.6   3.36    5.87 6.65
  Liquidity                               48   32.4    55.8 55.96     52.9 30.08 39.68 43.84      52.4
  Profitability                          0.3    0.2     0.3  0.04     0.03    0.09   0.11    0.44 0.89
  Return on Equity                       8.8    9.5    14.8      9    1.63     0.6   3.77 16.03 25.01
  VBARD
  Net past dues                   3      4.9    3.8     3.7  4.56      2.5    1.23
  Non Performing
  LoandLoan Portfolio                                                               NA       1.81  1.9
  Capital Adequacy Ratio          9      7.3    5.1     4.2   5.46    5.56    4.79   4.56    5.86 6.83
  Liquidity                      31       27   59.5     34 23.52 23.59 17.81 26.65 33.18          33.2
  ProfitabiIity                 0.4      0.4    0.5     0.4   0.24     0.2    0.38    0.5    0.57 0.55
  Return on Equity             18.9      5.4   10.5    11.2   5.55    4.34    8.32 11.86     12.1 9.32
  ACB
  Net past dues                 2.9      2.9    0.5     0.1   0.93    0.59    0.47
  Non Performing
  LoandLoan Portfolio                                                               NA        0.2 0.08
  Capital Adequacy Ratio       29.3    24.3    11.2    8.71   7.01    7.46    7.63   6.81 10.81 14.36
  Liquidity                      56 159.8        97 94.83 70.55       46.6    46.2 71.02 57.32 59.96
  Profitability                 3.5      2.5      1    1.13   1.41    1.34    1.78   1.62    1.58 3.05
  Return on Equity              11.1      15   16.2 20.87 30.07 28.16 36.67 33.78 31.63 42.62
  EAB
  Net past dues                    1     4.7    0.4    0.58   0.81    0.55    0.33
  Non Performing
  LoandLoan Portfolio                                                               NA      NA    0.44
  Capital Adequacy Ratio          19    13.5    5.9    7.53   7.94    8.95    9.26   7.47 14.38 13.65
  Liquidity                      89       26   18.1    30.7   9.64 32.43 28.46       23.1 20.74 21.14
  Profitability.                  3        3     1.5   2.61   2.56       2    1.46   1.49    1.67 1.51
  Return on Equity              16.7    14.5   18.9 29.89 29.53 25.08 19.39 19.37 15.24 11.84
  PNB
  Net past dues                          2.1    4.8    1.24   1.43    0.53     1.3
  Non Performing
  LoandLoan Portfolio                                                               NA       2.89  2.9

                                          29                              Annex B


Capital Adequacy Ratio           16.6   11.5   9.7  9.4  8.08 10.32  9.64 22.95 16.76
Liquidity                        21.2   22.9  24.7 24.4 27.25 30.86 23.21  52.9 71.13
Profitability                     0.7    1.3  1.53  1.22  1.38   1.7  1.41  2.1   1.74
Return on Equity                  5.2   13.8 17.17 14.81 17.74 21.35  14.7 13.45 10.83
NAB/BAB
Net past dues                     2.2    3.6  0.99 -0.01 0.07   0.69
Non Performing
LoansILoan Portfolio                                                 NA    0.69   0.46
Capital Adequacy Ratio             13   25.1 11.37   8.9 7.18   6.29  9.62 19.66 21.11
Liquidity                        24.8   90.4 28.07 30.36 15.55 63.56 58.15 52.81 63.54
Profitability                     0.1    0.2  0.03  0.02 0.32   0.56  0.97  1.37  1.34
Return on Equity                  0.6      1  0.17  0.22 3.83 11.42 18.92   18.5 15.26
RKB
Net past dues                     0.5    0.9  0.76  0.42 0.34    0.4
Non Performing
Loans/Loan Portfolio                                                  0.54  0.56  0.14
Capital Adequacy Ratio            9.8    9.6 10.49  8.22  8.22 11.26 44.32 61.84 82.97
Liquidity                        11.42   6.6   5.9 18.69 24.4 55.53 82.08 93.72 41.95
ProfitabiIity                     0.8    0.8   1.4  0.99  0.93  1.24  1.79  1.23  3.03
Return on Equity                 2.37   11.5  12.7 11.56 12.46 13.94  6.51  4.45  5.43




PFIby           Credit Line  Outstanding Use of Credit
Component       at 31/12/2001 at 31/12/2001 Line YO
                VND bill     VND bill
RDF:            1,3 11,929    1,285,989     98%
ACB             41.565       32,454         76%

EAB             44,336       39,200         88%
NAB             8,728        0              0%
PhNB            24,939       22,765         91%
RachKien        2,771        2,770          100%
VBARD           900,575      900,000        100%
FRP:
VABARD          151,000       151,000       100%
Total           1.462.929     1.436.989     98%
Source: ICR
Note:VBARD andBIDV are state-owned


                                            31                                Annex C


Annex C. People M e t

Banks:
Vinh, Le Hong, M&EDivision, VBARD
Duong Quoc Anh, Director, banks andNonbank Credit Institutions Dept. State Bank of Vietnam
L e PhuongAnh, Expert, Project ManagementDept. VBARD
Nguyen Hai Long, Director Project ManagementDept.VBARD
Nguyen ManhHung, Manager M&EDiv., BIDV
Nguyen Hai Long, Deputy Director, Techcom Bank branch
Cao Cu Tri, Executive Vice President, BIDV
Doan HoaiAnh, DeputyDirector General, International Coop. Dept. State Bank of Vietnam
Nguyen Van Binh, Deputy Governor, State Bank of Vietnam
QuachHung Hiep, Executive Vice-president, Transaction Center 111, BIDV
Dao Thu Thuy, Manager, Environment ManagementDivision, BIDV
Ngo Quy Cuong, Manager, Appraisal Division, BIDV
Ms.Vien, Deputy Director, Agribank, HoaBinhProvince
MsThuy, Dep.Man. DivisionalPlanning, Agribank, HoaBinhProvince
Mr.Hai, Manager, HoaBinhDistrict, Agribank
Mr.Duc, Director, Mai ChauDistrict,Agribank
Mr.NguyenHongTruong, DepDir.MaiChauDistrict, Agribank
MrsLanAgribank Coordinator BanLac Handicraft Community
Ms.Thuy, TechcomJoint StockBank, HQ
Trinh MinhDuc, Accreditation Division, BIDV
Dao Thi Hai Yen, Deputy Manager, BIDV
Nguyen Thi Huong Mai, PFIAccreditation and Training Division

Borrowers or Potential Borrowers:
Mr.Hieu,BrickFactoryEnterprise,HoaBinh
Mr.Quang, Piggery Enterprise, HoaBinh
Mr.Hoa, TeaProducer(&Fruit andForestry Seed) FamilyEnterprise, HoaBinh
Mr.Khoi, dairy cows client, BanLac
Mr.Tam, handicraftclient, BanLac
Ms.Thao, handicraft client, BanLac
Ms.Phan, handicraft client, BanLac
Hang Thang Co. Ltd, Bamboo Processor, HoaBinhProvince
Mr SungA Lu,cattle enterprise client (mountain area) HoaBinh
Mr.HamA. Si, buffaloloan, HoaBinh(mountain area)


Researchers:
Prof. Dao Van Hung, Vice-president, Academy of Policy and Development

Annex C                                        32


NGOs:
Mr.Tam, Chairperson, BanLac HandicraftsAssociation
Mr.TanA.Xa, FarmerAssociation Chairman, HoaBinhProvince (many membersVBSP
clients)
Action Aid

Donors:
Junichi, Imai, Senior Project Formulation Officer, JICA
Ms.ThiHongMinhChu, Financial Sector Officer, AsianDevelopment Bank

World Bank:
Arie Chupak, ex TTL
Iain Shuker,
NguyenThe Dzung,
Xiaolan Wang, TTL
Trieu Quoc
Severin K
Alain Barbu
HoonaeKim

                                                   33                                     Annex D


Annex D. Borrower Comments

[from the Bank for Investment and Development o f Vietnam]

Thank youvery muchfor your letter o fJune 03,2009 onDraftProjectPerformance Assessment of
Rural Finance I(Credit No.2855). RegardingIEG concern on the imposed lending interest rate
ceilings inVietnam, BIDV,the agency responsiblefor the management andimplementationo fRural
Finance Funds, would like to have following comments:

1. The Government o fVietnam(GOV) and State Banko fVietnam(SBV) determine the removalo f
interest rate ceilings would create better competition among financial institutions in providing
financial services inrural areas, andare consistent inthe pursuito finterest rate liberalizationpolicy.
Regarding the regulations, this policy has been prescribed in Law on Credit Institutions, in
particular, namely DecisionNo.546/2002/QD-NHNN dated May 30,2002 by SBV. Under which,
the Decision stipulates that credit institutionsare allowedto lendinaccordance withmarket interest
rate basedon agreement between them andtheir clients. As such, infact, the lendinginterest rate
ceilings have been removed since 2002 in Vietnam. The prime rate has been used as a tool for
reference and determination o f market interest rate by SBV.

2.2008 was averytough andunusual year to the economy andthe bankingindustryo fVietnamwith
the inflationpeakingat 28% and global economic crisis. The deteriorated conditions forced SBVto
adopt drastic monetary policy. Some credit institutions faced with liquidity problems and interest
rates climbed up dramatically inthe first 3 quarters. As for the stabilization package with focus on
inflationfighting andinterest rate reducing, the GOV mustthenre-use lending interest rate ceilings
and consider it a temporary solution for urgent requirements. At the moment, SBV is actively
working withGOV andNational Assembly agenciesto findout appropriateadjustmentstowards the
liberalizationo finterest rate. Inthe short term, lendinginterest rateceilingfor consumption hasbeen
removed.

3. According to the data o f May 2009 o f VBARD, the Bank has been lending at 9% p.a for short
term loans, 10.5% p.a for mediumand long term loans and 12% p.a for consumption.

4. As for banking activities inrural areas: inrecent years, joint stock commercial banks have been
expanding to ruralareasandmanybankshaverealizedbigpotential development ofbankservicesin
rural areas. In reality, all 24 PFIs in RF Iand I1have increased their number of branches and
transaction points in rural areas. Some PFIs including Dai A, My Xuyen, Kien Long, Dai Tin,
Western Bankhave beenestablished inrural areasregardless o flongterm appearance of VBARD.
The competitioninproviding bankservices to ruralpopulation, accordingly, hasbecome moreand
more drastic andthe mainbeneficiaries are the ruralpeople. The dependence onVBARD therefore
has been significantly reduced, which can be seen through the increased number of financial
institutions participatinginfunddisbursementandthe amount disbursedbyVBARD inW IandRF
11.InRFI,there have beenonly 7 PFIsparticipating inthe disbursement ofproject fund, ofwhich
VBARD's disbursement accounted for 73% oftotal outstanding loans; however, inRF11,therehave
been25 PFIs andVBARD outstanding loanshave reducedto 37% inend2008 andexpectedly even
lower inRF III./.

Annex D                                     34



The above are our some comments on the Draft RF IPerformance Assessment Reportby EIGthat
we would liketo make.

With regards,

Quach HungHiep
 Director o f TC3BIDV



