Report No. 23254
Report No: I071014 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 11/19/2001
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: TANZANIA        Project ID: P071014
Project: Multi-Sectoral AIDS Project     Task Team Leader: Philip R. Gowers
Appraisal Date: January 21, 2002         IBRD Amount ($m):
Board Date: March 26, 2002       IDA Amount ($m): 60.00
Managing Unit: AFTH1     Sector: HA - HIV/AIDS
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)        Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The project will support the goal of the Government of Tanzania which is
to reduce the spread of HIV in the general population of Tanzania through
multisectoral action involving Government, Non-Government, Civil Society
and community organizations. While the project development objective is
the reduction of the spread of HIV in the general population of Tanzania,
the mitigation of the health and socio-economic impact of HIV/AIDS at
individual, household and community levels and the strengthening of
national capacity to respond to the epidemic will also be supported as
activities of the project.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The project, under the Multi-Country AIDS Program (MAP) for Africa, will
finance HIV/AIDS activities for a period of four years between 2002 and
2006. It will have the following three components:
1. Civil Society Fund
2. Public Multi-Sector Fund
3. Tanzania AIDS Commission Institutional Support
Activities to be supported by the project will be coordinated by the
Tanzania Commission for AIDS (TACAIDS). The purpose of the project would
be to scale up and accelerate the national response to the HIV/AIDS
epidemic taking into account the priorities identified in the draft
HIV/AIDS policy and draft HIV/AIDS strategic plan being prepared for the
prevention and control of HIV/AIDS. The project would support activities
in the priority areas of prevention, care, support and mitigation of the
socio-economic impact of HIV/AIDS, and institutional capacity building for
TACAIDS. The project will be coordinated by TACAIDS and implemented by
civil society groups and public and private service agencies.
Component 1. Civil Society Fund. A fund will be set up to expand and
strengthen HIV/AIDS activities being carried out by Non Governmental
Organizations (NGOs) including Employers and Workers' organizations,
Community Based Organizations (CBOs), private sector, religious sector,



persons living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHAs) and communities. Activities to be
funded will include the full spectrum of HIV/AIDS activities within the
broad groups of prevention, care & support and mitigation of
socio-economic impact. This component will focus on social mobilization
and community level response to HIV/AIDS. The groups funded under this
component will be encouraged to focus, but not necessary limit, their
activities to the most vulnerable groups which include: people living with
HIV/AIDS (PLWHA), hospital workers, orphans, youths, commercial sex
workers and truck drivers.
Component 2. Public Multi-Sector Fund. This component will comprise a fund
to scale up and strengthen prevention, care, support and mitigation of the
social economic impact of HIV/AIDS through programs/activities of the
public sector (ministries, local authorities and parastatals).
Sub-contracting by ministries, local authorities and parastatals will be
encouraged in order to make the best use of the implementation capacity
that may be available outside the public sector. Each public sector agency
will define a work program which, as a minimum, will address issues
regarding HIV/AIDS among its employees. Public agencies will also be
expected to extend HIV/AIDS services to their clients and neighboring
communities.
Component 3. Tanzania AIDS Commission Institutional Support. The project
will support Tanzania Commission for AIDS (TACAIDS) to fulfill its
national HIV/AIDS coordination mandate. Support, in particular, will be
given to TACAIDS to create an effective secretariat and identify networks
at the regional and district levels. Support will be provided for: (i)
establishment of the Secretariat and networks to the regions and districts
(ii) establishment of financial management and procurement systems; (iii)
resource mobilization; and (iv) monitoring & evaluation systems.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The project will be implemented country-wide. The project is not expected
to generate any adverse environmental effects. However, inappropriate
handling and disposal of medical waste and inadequate management of the
respective disposal sites in urban or peri-urban areas is a threat. The
project will finance training of health care professionals, traditional
birth attendants/traditional healers, and community workers delivering
care to HIV/AIDS patients. This training will include instruction on
appropriate separation, transport and disposal of hazardous medical waste.
The project will finance the revision of existing health sector guidelines
on appropriate management of medical waste at medical facilities and at
disposal sites to include the relevant sections regarding HIV/AIDS.
The project is expected to have a positive social impact by assisting and
empowering people and institutions to deal more effectively with the HIV
epidemic. People living with HIV/AIDS and their families will have an
opportunity to receive better social support from their communities, civil
society organizations and the Government. Families of people living with
HIV/AIDS are vulnerable to economic and human rights abuses in the absence
of legislation and social norms that can protect them. The project will
- 2-



support and enhance the development of community norms that will protect
people living with HIV/AIDS. The project will involve key stakeholders,
including civil society organizations and people living with HIV/AIDS in
the development of such social protective measures.
B. Check Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments: The Government, through the Ministry of Health, is currently
working on a Medical Waste Management Plan. After consultation between the
team and ESD, it was agreed that the project would be processed as a
Category B without a separate Environmental Assessment. The
recommendations from the Medical Waste Management Plan will be articulated
in the environmental section of the PAD, which will also detail expected
costs of implementation and the institutional arrangements for the
execution of the plan.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)         Yes
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)    No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)      No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)        No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)       No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)      No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*         No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)       No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
The project complies with all Bank's safeguard policies, including those
described above. A Medical Waste Plan has been outlined by the Government.
The team is currently reconciling this Plan with the TOR that has been
developed by ESD to determine if it meets the Bank's requirements.
Guidance will be sought from ESD on whether further Environmental
Assessment work will be necessary.
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
N/A
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
N/A
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
N/A
-3-



II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
The Government is preparing a Medical Waste Management Plan, the
implementation of which the Bank will be prepared to support through this
Credit.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
Key stakeholders include all sectors of Government, development partners,
NGOs/CBOs, People living with HIV/AIDS and their families, medical
personnel, and the general population.
During project preparation, consensus-building exercises to involve major
stakeholders to gain consensus around the project concept document,
project design and implementation arrangements will be held. During
project implementation, communities will be able to express their needs
through Community HIV/AIDS projects and to participate as active partners
in project implementation, adding ownership, transparency and
accountability to the project.
Consultations with civil society organizations on the concept of the
project has already began and further consultations during project
preparation, implementation, monitoring and evaluation will continue. NGOs
and other civil society organizations will implement a significant part of
the project, supporting government agencies and communities in the
implementation of project activities. Civil society organizations will
also be consulted in the annual project reviews, in the mid-term reviews
and during the summative evaluation of the project.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
[XI S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
I S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
- 4 -



Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:        Philip R. Gowers         11/14/2001
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         Serigne Omar Fye         11/15/2001
Sector Manager/Director:         Dzingai B. Mutumbuka     11/14/2001
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
- 5 -



