The United Republic of Tanzania              The World Bankf
E734
March 2003
National Health-Care
Waste Management Plan
- Final Report -
,Aarch 2003
1 US = 980 TSL
.ser\fices                      Emergence
fol a sustail uable accoss to  Vol,  off,,   I  g3 I0, dt" /,I   "- r . v I r o i,  1 0 L ox O t   - 4,,   91 90  32
Orinrc;  ruo~ d(js  s  1bI,n2  2  CUI  200,  N.',,cnJIl Ii  -  lei  J1 1 32  ,24  53 0i
water. sandtation and finance  ,. , 2:: . ; 9 ,. , r /n'ln  (egO14  ' l -t.ao 1 Ittp / U ww. eorgonro c
twl¢fiFl



h. Ize Rgtu/vb of Il .,                                             he World Bank 1'.1r.no
Acronyms
AIDS                 Acquired Imunune Deficiency Syndrome
ALAT                 Association of Local Authorities in Tanzania
APHTA                Association of Private Hospitals in Tanzania
CEDHA                Centre for Educational Development in Health
CSSC                 Christian Social Service Councils
DED                  Deutscher Entwicklungsdienst
DHMT                 District Health Management Teams
EHSS                 Environmental Health and Sanitation Services
EPI                  Expanded Programmes of Immunization
GNP                  Growth National Product
GOT                  Government of Tanzania
HCF                  Health-Care Facility
HCW                  Health-Care Waste
HCWM                 Health-Care Waste Management
HCWMO                Health-Care Waste Management Officer
HDPE                 High Density Polyethylene
HIV                  Human Immune Deficiency Virus
HO                   Health Officer
HSDP                 Health Sector Development Project
IDA                  International Development Association
MAP                  Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Programme
MAT                  Medical Association of Tanzania
MCH                  Maternal and Child Health
MOC                  Medical Officer in Charge
MOF                  Ministry of Finance
MOH                  Ministry of Health
MSD                  Medical Stores Department
MSF                  Medecins Sans Frontieres
MUCHS                Muhimbili University College of Health Science
NAP                  National Action Plan
NEMC                 National Environmental Management Cotncil
NGO                  Non Governmental Organisation
NMC                  Nurses and Midwives Council
RHOP:                Regional Health Officer
TACAIDS              Tanzanian Commission for AIDS
TARENA               Tanzania Registered Nurse Association
TUGHE                Tanzania Union of Governmnent and Health Employees
UNEP                 United Nation Environmental Programme
UNICEF               United Nation Children's Fund
WHO                  World Health Organization
PC                   Project Co-ordinator
NSCHCWM              National Steering Committee on Health-Care Waste Management
NCHHIC               National Commilttee for Hospital Hygiene and Infection Control
WGRL          :      Working Group on Regulations and Laws
WGP                  Working Group on Health-Care Waste Management Procedures
WGE                  Working Group for the Equipment of the Medical Institutions
WGT                  Working Group on Awareness and Training
wa,laet/ I I.al,h-<jr; [I' I,7,, l'L,,'  / Plat,' 24 0 3,200 1                 Age 2 of 296



T7 A t ~n, '~ d<p,Ia                                                'Ikte Wohl'-/d t 3:' Ira;
Contents
I GENERAL BACKGROUND... .......................................8
2. OBJECTIVES........................                                                 9
3. METHODOL-OGY               .     .............I. ..:"................... .......I....9
4. DEFINITIONS ..     ........ .....    ...   ..  .I........10......       ....    ...t
PART ONE ANALYSIS OF THE SITUATION...............................................13
SECTION 1. ORGANISATION OF THE HEALTH SERVICES .................................14
1. THFEPUBLIc HEALTH SERVICES.        .... .....I....         .       ........       14
a)  District-level Primar-y Health Services ...........................................14
b)  Regional Level: Secondlary Health Servi ces....................                1 5
c)  National-Level- Tertiar-y Health Services...iS .....1
2. THE VOL-UNTARY AND PRIVATE HEALTH SERVICES.        ...........................15
a)  The Voluntary Health Services .I......S .....  .  ........... .   ......     ..1
b)  The Private Health Services ..... ..............     .....     .............15
SECTION 2. LEGAL AND REGULATORY FRAMEWORKS ..................................16
I. REVIEW OF THE ExISTI~NG LEGISLATION.             ......16
a)  Legal Provisions for Environmental Protection and Solid Waste Managenient... ...  ..  16
b)  Legal Provisions Applicable to the Health Sector................   ..17
2 APPRAISAL OFTHE HosPITAL REGULATIONS   ..                .                          17
a)  Ruiles in Hospitals  ......     ...         ....       ..   ..............     1 7
b)  Dutiies and Responsibilities of the Medical Staiff .... ......... .  1... .......18
3  CONCLUSION.......                                                   .     .....18
SECTION 3. CHARACTERISATION OF THE HCW PRODUCTION............................19
1 TYPEOFHCWGENERATED .... ..                                          ......   .....19
2. ESTIMATIION OF THE QUANTITIEs GENERATED                       .........          .20
a)  Estimuztio,i Methodiology..     .........                      .........   ... .20
b)  Resuilts..   I.....I.........              ..........      ..I...............20
SECTION 4. CH~ARACTERISATION OF THE HCWM PRACTICES............................21
I SEGREGATION, PACKAGING AND LABELLING    ....       .....22
a)  In the Large Health-Care Facilities.......... .2 2
b)   In the Smiall Health-Care  Facilities ...... ..   . .....       ...... ....... 22
2 COLLECTION, ON-S ITE TRANSPORTATION AND STORAGE  .....                      ... .  . . 23
a)  Collectionz and On-Site Transportaition ......................... .... ........23
b)  Storaige in the Lairge Health-Care Facilities ..................................... 23
3. TREATMENT AND DISPOSAL...................                                         .24
a)  In Large Health-Care Faicilities ......... ..................   ....  .25
b)   In  Smtall Health  Facilities..   .   ......   ...... I   ...   .....  ....  ... 26
c)  Specific cases ...... . ........     ...      ......  .....    . ...  ........26
4 RISKs AssOCIATED WITH THE CURRENT PRACTFICES  .    .. ........      .....I          29
SECTION 5. AP1IRAISAL OF THE PLANNING CAPACITIES OF THE HEALTH SERVICES.......29
1. MONITORING CAPACITlIES OF THE HEALTH AUTHORITIES... .............          .  ....29
a)  At Centnal Level .. ...    ......                                  . ........30
b)   At Local Level  ... .....    .   ..    ....  .     ..              ....       30
2 INSTITUT'IONAL CAPACITIES OF THE HEALT-H SERVICES...........I....    . ..30
a)  Mantagemient and Admiinistration  .. .     ................ ..........         30
b)  Financiail Resouirces and Planninig  .............            ..     ..   .....31
c)  Monitorilig and Control..... ......................... ...31
d)  Traitiiing and Awareniess of Staiff .......               .......     ..   ... .  .32
SECTION 6. EXTFERNAL SUPPORT CAPACITIES ..........................................33
I. REVIEW OF THE I-ICWM PROJECTS CARRIED OUT IN TANZANIA             ...   .....       .33
Noa/ian  i1, -c/t  ..,  I rU a" ( A" It   I. ,;;" 1"' ,'i/)   2 4.0C)3.2003Pae3       oQ49



I he I   z <,h'/,c {1f i'91  ...i,t                                ' hb   11'or'%F,I1 ?k  ,' t
2 MOBILISATION OF THE CIVIL SOCIETY..                                    ........ 34
SECTION 7. SYNTHESIS OF THE FINDINGS .34
PART TWO RECOMMENDATIONS .39
SECTION 1. CONSOLIDATING THE LEGAL AND REGULATORY FRAMEWORKS .40
I NATIONAL LEGISLATION AND REGULATIONS                                             40
a)  The Legislation.....   ....... .................. ...... .40
b)  The Regulations .                    .                  .        ......  .   41
2. CODE OF HYGIENE AND RULES IN MEDICAL INSTITUTIONS .......... . .  . ...........  ........ ...41
a)  Code of Hygiene...       . . ........ .................................... ..  .. ...   .... 41
b)  Assignment of Responsibilities.  .. . . . . . ..        .      .  . .........  . 41
SECTION 2. STANDARDISING HCWM PRACTICES .............................................................  43
1. MINIMISING THE QUANTITY OF HCW GENERATED IN MEDICAL INSTI ITUTIONS ... . ......................... . 43
2 SEGREGATION, PACKAGING AND LABELLING           ..                                43
a)  Segregation . ..... ........ .........                             .... ........ .43
b)  Packaging ............. . . ......... ......          .. .           ...... ...... 44
c)  Colour Coding .......                                                        44
d) Labelling. . . . .                           .... ... ....... ..... 45
3. COLLECTION, ON-SITE TRANSPORTATION AND STORAGE .. .. . ..  .      ........  ,   45
a)  Collection and On-site Transportarion  .. ..                 .               45
b) Central Storage ... .... ..                                                   46
c)  Off-Site Transportation...                          ....  .                 _46
4 TREATMENT AND DISPOSAL .....                           ....... ....     .....    46
a)  Disposal of General Clinical Wasie GeneratJed in Health-Centres and Dispensaries  47
b)  Disposal of Genera! Clinical Waste Generated in Major Health-Care Facilities . . .  47
c)  Disposal of Highly Infectiorus and Hazardous Pharmaceutical Waste. .   .     48
SECTION 3. STRENGTHENING THE INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITIES FOR HCWM .........        ............... 49
1 IMPROVING MANAGEMENT BY ESTABLISHING HCWM PLANS AT ALL LEVELS                 ... 50
a)  Implenient?itg a routine for HCWM In the Medical Insittiettons...  .   .    .50
b)  .. And at all Levels of the Health Services . . ..,      ......  ... ......... .  50
2  IMPROVING THE MONITORING  FRAMEWORK  ...  .........  ..... .      ..... .. . I.   ....... ..  51
a)  Comrnpleting the Health Management Information Systemn ................. ......  51
b)  Setting-up Commtittees for Hospital Hygiene and lnfection Control ..  ..   . 51
c)  Enforcing Safe Practices      .                        ...  . ...   .  ..     .51
3. IMPROVING THE ACCOUNTANCY AND FINANCIAL RESOURCES .5. ....  ... ..              51
4 LAUNCHING CAPACITY BUILDING AND TRAINING MEASURES .52
a)  Reinforcing the Capacities of the Health Service  ...... .         .          52
b)   Traininig  Requirements       ................................      .       52
SECTION 4. ENCOURAGING THE INVOLVEMENT OF THE CIVIL SOCIETY ...........      ..................... 53
1. IN THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE NATIONAL HCWM PLAN..                     . ...... . ...... 53
2 IN THE DAILY OPERATIONS.1 ... ..                             ....     ... .. ......... _ 53
SECTION 5. CONCLUSION ................................... 54
PART THREE NATIONAL ACTION PLAN ................................... 55
SECTION 1. NATIONAL STRATEGY FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION OF PLAN ............................... 56
I. FIRST STEP: ORGANISE A NATIONAL WORKSHOP      . . ........  ....  ...... . .......6.... ...  56
2. SECOND STEP SET-UP THE INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK TO IMPLEMENT THE PLAN .          56
3. THIRD STEP LAUNCH THE NATIONAL ACTION PLAN             ..                       57
SECTION 2. THE NATIONAL ACTION PLAN ...                                              59
PREAMBLE DEFINE A GENERAL FRAMEWORK FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE NATIONAL ACTION PLAN 59
I DEVEL.OP THE LEGAL AND REGULATORY FRAMEWORK ........        ..... .   .     .......60
2 STANDARDISE 1 HE HCWM PRACI ICES AND IMPROVE MANAGEMENT AND MONITORING PROCEDURES ... 61
3 EQUIPTHE MEDICAL INSTITUTIONS                                               ......  .62
4 LAUNCH TRAINING AND AWARENESS MEASURES ..... .                              ...63
.N,a ;/ I -li,//I/         (0..nv , .'i.  ll-.a"J'z; /)/S . ./  ,' 200         age '1 Oi94



7 h. ( ni /ed.pe/bloJ I a4.-;,ya,bh                               J he lt oh!i Bank i men,rzeo,r
5 DEVELOP A PLAN TO REDUCE HOSPITAL WASTE AND POLLUTION  ......................... .... ...... ....... .64
6. TIMEFRAME ........................... . ............................ .5..........  .. ......................... ......... .....  ... 65
SECTION 3. COST ESTIMATIONS .65
Figures and Tables
Figure 1: The Planning Progression .1.. ................................................................................. 10
Figure 2: Synopsis of the HCW stream .2....................... ....          . .    21
Figure 3: Recommendations for the Consolidation of the Legal and Regulatory Frameworks.... 40
Figure 4: The first steps for rationalising HCWM .43
Figure 5: Disposal technology Options .49
Figure 6 Recommendations to increase Institutional Capacities .50
Figure 7: Institutional Framework for the Implementation of the HCWM Plan .58
Table I Opinions on the HCWM system in selected HCFs .32
Table 2: Fundamental provisions to be included in the Decree .42
Table 3: Practical segregation examples .................... ............................................... ............ 45
Table 4: Estimation of the capital and annual cost of the National HCWM Plan .67
Annexes
Annexe I      :     Terms of Reference
Annexe 2      :     Agenda of the mission
Annexe 3      :     Contact list
Annexe 4      :     Data collection
Annexe 5      :     Estimation of HCW production
Annexe 6      :     Fundamentals on the management of sharps
Annexe 7      :     Existing treatment technologies
Annexe 8      :     Management of highly health-care waste
Annexe 9      :     Cost estimation of equipment
Annexe 10     :     Documentation reviewed
1'o./  l ea//I( ., r 13i;, Wa/i AL'ya'rc"'l; a I/a,i 24.03 200(3             i



I  1 (h/Ac  kR%"1'//'/C Of 1";~I                                Ih  Voh  a l.~
Executive Summary
Although several isolated attempts have been made to improve the situation in some of the medical
institutions, the management of health-care waste in Tanzania remains below minimum international
standards, resulting in significant risks to health-care workers. The hygiene conditions linked to the
handling and disposal of HCW cannot guarantee a satisfactory control on the transmission of
nosocomial infections within the HCFs.
The backstopping and monitoring capacities of the Central, Regional and District Authorities to
supporti the medical institutions remain limited Fur-thermore the legal framework is not sufficiently
developed. Direct and indirect costs resulting from this situation are difficult to estimate but are
certainly significant.
A standardised health-care waste management system must be developed for the country The health-
care facilities must be provided with appropriate equipment to implement safer procedures The
differentiation of the health-care waste streams within the medical institutions of Tanzania must be
progressively upgraded taking into consideration the Tanzanian context
The GOT must formulate a clear National Policy for the management of health-care waste and more
broadly to control infections and improve hygiene in the hospitals. It is of the utmost importance that
this policy be completed with National Gutidelines to support the Health Authorities in im-plementing
adequate standards for the management of health-care waste.
Developing an integrated strategy for infection control that would include the-.safe management of
health-care waste is strongly recommended to ensure a coherent and sustainable implementation of the
system. The mission also recommends to set up Committees for Hospital Hygiene and Infection
Control at all relevant levels of the Health Services.
The following priority objectives should be pursued-
1. The consolidation of the legal framework and the reinforcement of the existing rules and regulatory
documents As a minimumi:
A Decree should be issued, containing the general and specific provisions to determine the
authorities of enforcement, the obligations of health-care waste Producers and Operators, the
authorised management, treatment and disposal procedures, the range of penalties to be applied;
Guidelines for the medical staff to ensure hygiene and control nosocomial infections should be
consigned in a comprehensive Code of Hygiene
2. The standardisation of the current health-care waste management practices with the application of
on-going management and m-onitoring procedures. The miinimumn recommendations comprise.
The establishment of annual health-care waste management plans to progressively lead the
medical institutions and the administrative authorities to consider health-care waste
managemnent as a routine issue and reinforce progressively their organisational capacities;
The designation of a Health-Care Waste Management Officer in large health facilities who
should be given the responsibility to operate and monitor the health-care waste management
system on a daily basis,
Standardised segregation procedures should be set-up in all Tanzanian H-CFs by implementing a
three bins system that should be systematically associated with a colour coding and labelling
procedure,
The application of a strict procedure for the most hazardous waste generated in medical
institutions such as chemical pre-treatment of the highly infectious waste in a solution of
sodium hypochlorite in concentrated form and a centralised disposal of the Cytotoxic and
Hazardous Pharmnaceutical Waste supervised by the Medical Store Department;
~N~h'~ ciI lh~/)-(/', Vac~, 1 Ii;,c' ," 'I  I''c  2'/ 03 2003         Pqt 6 o 914 



V /Y' (   /',k I/'1,'h / U '|   1                                'azIh,I/;r;  /f  11t V or/ri3 B 4  Ih   liz, lme
The development of specific treatment/disposal methods according to the type and the location
of the health-care facility where the waste is generated. This includes:
v  The use of "waste burning pits" in Dispensaries and Health Centres located in rural
areas;
v  The on-site burning of sharps and the safe burying of the ash in Health-Centres and
Dispensaries located in urban areas and the use of pits, specifically designed, for
pathological waste as a first step. Off-site disposal may be planned when the
collection services are sufficiently developed;
v  The incineration of clinical waste in District and Regional Hospitals, as well as some
Referral Hospitals located in small municipalities in appropriate low-cost incinerators
and the use of placenta pits for some categories of pathological waste that cannot be
incinerated in such incinerators;
v  In the absence of sanitary landfills, which would be the cheapest option for urban
settlements, incineration of heath-care waste, without any treatment of the stack
emissions, remains the disposal option that is proposed for the Hospitals located in
large municipalities The other alternatives would be either too complicated to
implement (autoclaving and shredding, chemical disinfection) or too expensive
(treatment using microwaves).
3. The development of on-going awareness and training programmes as well as the review of the
curricula of medical and paramedical staff.
The private sector may be associated in the management of health-care waste in large hospitals.
However, managing heath-care waste is above all a public health issue for which the duty of care and
the polluter pays international principles should be applied. The Health Authorities have currently
limited capacities to monitor and control the transportation of the waste and their disposal as well as to
deal with the private sector. Their capacities should be reinforced through the recruitment of
additional Health Officers and specific technical trainings
A National Action Plan should be implemented over a five-year period to progressively upgrade the
current health-care waste management practices and target objectives at all levels of the Health
Services for an approximate initial cost of 1,3 billion TSH (1,3 million USD). The annual costs
associated with the establishment of new management and disposal procedures ranges between 400
and 500 millions TSH (450'000 USD). The Government of Tanzania should also establish a National
Steering Committee on Health-Care Waste Management to ensure the co-ordination and the
supervision of the Health-Care Waste Management Plan at country level
N//h/md!-I /li/rh  . iI | a/P Al ,lla"/' , ;./  2| 4 0 -I (3.200()3       1   - /  o96



'1,, (    :,i,id  R<,I )h I[b  ,  ;                                  I l   V or/l, B3:n  l I rvergenr,
Introduction
In October 2002, The World Bank mandated Emergence to complete initial surveys' 2 and to support
the Ministry of Health (MOH) to develop an integrated Health-Care Waste Management (HCWM)
system for Tanzania. The tasks to be achieved by Emergence include3: 1) an initial one-week mission
carried out in December 2002 followed by a two-week mission that took place in January 2003, 2) the
redaction of a National HCWM plan and National Guidelines4 and 3) the facilitation of a National
Workshop held by the MOH, during which the draft documents should be reviewed and validated for
further implementation. This overall consultancy ultimately aims at upgrading the HCWM system in
the medical institutions of the country.
This report presents the findings of the three-weeks assessment5 carried out in Tanzania:
In the first section, are successively assessed: 1) the existing legal and regulatory frameworks
for HCWM in Tanzania; 2) the current HCWM practices prevailing in the health facilities of the
country and the potential risks associated with those practices, and 3) the institutional capacities
of the national institutions involved in HCWM Are also reviewed the different programmes of
the Co-operation Agencies already carried out in this field of activity;
The second section provides recommendations that could be applied by the Government of
Tanzania (GOT) to improve the HCWM within the health-care facilities;
Finally, the third section of this document contains a possible National HCWM plan that could
be implemented by the MOH in the next five years The costs linked to this plan have been
rapidly estimated. It is divided into five objectives with the primary aim at rationalising and
securing the HCWM practices in Tanzania. A step-by-step strategy to implement the plan is
proposed
1. General Background
Although the GNP has increased by some 4% per year for the last twenty years, Tanzania remains one
of the poorest countries in the world, with an estimated GNP per capita of about 210 USD in 19986.
Tanzania's with its' 35 million inhabitants and 2 8% annual growth rate is rapidly urbanising despite
the fact that more than 70 percent of Tanzanians still live in rural settings.
Since the independence, the GOT has recognized the importance of health and given it a high priority.
In the 1970s and 1980s, the Governmcnt adopted a Primary Health-Care Approach, and expanded
rapidly the number of Health-Care Facilities (HCFs) and staff under an extensive referral pyramid.
Universal and free access to public health facilities had been maintained until the early 1990s when
financial pressures, expanded demand for services, and declining service quality obliged the
government to change towards a cost-sharing policy
Study Report on Assessment of Health-Care Waste Management in Tanzania, August 2001 Environmental Health
Section The United Republic of Tanzania, Ministry of -lealth and WHIO, August 2001 (cf Annexe 10)
2   A report for the Health Care Waste Management Plan Development of the Ministry of Health (MOI-I) - Tanzanian
Govemment Gabriel Mwaluko, 2002
3 See the Terms of Reference in Annexe I
4   The redaction of the National Guidelines was not planed in the initial contract, but added following the first mission in
Tanzania as a major output expected from the consultancy The contract between the World Bank and Emergence was
reviewed consequently The National Guidelines have been written separately
s The Agenda of the mission is provided in Annexe 2, the list of people contacted/met can be found in Annexe 3
6   World Development Report 1999/2000, World Bank
,      Ia. 'ai',' i,I,. .i//,r 11' ' .1 ,;),i,n 1   21 ) 2S()(Ia                       r ofQ6



I h;  l t:,1edI R[i)vblc of Jn;.,,;'.7                           'I he Wo`,I K1in,   ' I :.,'no.
Social indicators are somewhat better than the average for Sub-Saharan Africa with an infant mortality
rate of 86 per l'000 live births (average is 91) and a child mortality rate of 144 per 1'000 live births
(average is 147). The average life expectancy is estimated at 52 years only.
In addition, Tanzania has been severely hit by the AIDS epidemic since the first cases were recorded
in the country in 1983. UNAIDS estimates that some 10% of the adult population is infected with
HIV/AIDS and that about 1.1 million orphans are due to this epidemic, 700'000 of whom are
estimated to be alive today. HIV has become the first cause of mortality in urban centres for adults
aged between 15 and 49 and has a direct impact on the occurrence of opportunist diseases such as
tuberculosis, which is having a significant resurgence with an unusual emergence of multi-drug
resistance strains
Since 1985, The GOT has fonnulated three National Plans to cope with the HIV/AIDS epidemic. In
December 2000, The President of Tanzania established the Tanzanian Commission for AIDS
(TACAIDS) In February 2001, a request was formulated to get access to IDA funds, under the
umbrella of Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Programme (MAP) for Africa Region, to develop a five years
multi-sectorial strategy (2002 - 2007) involving the Government, Non-Governmental Organisations,
the civil society and community organisations for a total cost of USD 106 millions
The GOT and the World Bank estimate that some aspects of the project's implementation could lead
to an increase in the environmental and health risks Inappropriate handling of HIV/AIDS infected
materials does not only constitute a risk for HCF staff but also for municipal workers involved in
waste handling as well as for families and street children who scavenge on dump sites.
Consequently, the project must include a component focusing on the improvement of the existing
HCWM procedures within the medical institutions as well as finding appropri&te treatment/disposal
technologies through the development of an integrated National HCWM plan, appropriately budgeted
with clear institutional arrangements for its execution. The development of the National HCWM plan
should also be compatible with the Health Sector Development Project (HSDP), which is currently
supported by the World Bank, and includes modules that aim at reinforcing the capacity of the MOH
in its central support role and strengthening the District Health Services.
2. Objectives
The mission intends to:
Support the MOH in setting-up a National HCWM Plan to improve the current management
and disposal practices,
Find an adequate strategy for the implementation of the plan at country level in the coming
years,
Develop National Guidelines (written in a separate document) that should attempt to set-up
standardised procedures, which are protective for both the human health and the environment,
taking into consideration the financial possibilities of each institution.
3. Methodology
Preparing and implementing a HCWM plan requires developing sequential steps that are presented in
figure 1. The satisfactory execution of each of these steps is strongly dependent on the completion of
the other ones, none can be omitted but they can be tackled in varying sequences A special attention
in this report has been paid to the analysis of the situation and theformuilalion of adequlate
recommendations as well as to the elaboration of the implementation strategy
N' I/i'd. /I Ira /h/ (.ar, I U ;- 2 i0 .                                     P. Ik,J * _1 03  20() I  /  9 rfS 9



TJY  I r. ied 1 eh.hr,h/lc of I                                            ' I De It, or/,i R3u'k / I .wrr,ence
Figure 1: The Planning Progression
To carry out the national sector assessment, the rapid assessment tool jointly developed by the WHO7,
UNEP and Emergence has been used. The assessment phase, limited to a three-weeks time, consisted
in:
Discussions with officials of the health and environmental sectors, representatives of private
industries as well as Public Agencies or Bilateral and Multilateral Agencies, International
NGOs working in the Tanzanian health sector,
Review of the existing documents provided by the MOH and the World Bank office in Dar-Es-
Salaam before and during the mission as well as existing policy documents already developed
in other countries of the region,
Visits paid in randomly selected hospitals in- and outside Dar-Es-Salaam with systematic
discussions initiated with the medical and administrative staff members.
4. Definitionts
No standardized official definitions for IHealth-Care WYaste exist in Tanzania, with clear indication on
what waste should be considered as hazardous or un-hazardous This constitutes a major gap since the
establishment of any sectorial policy at country level requires the recording of unambiguous and
precise definitions in a legal document.
Definitions vary somewhat from one country to another and at international level, two major leading
agencies in this sector, the World Health Organization (WHO) and the United Nation Environmental
Programme (UNEP), under the Secretary of the Basel Convention, do not apply the same definitions
and characterise HCW differently8.
7   This tool can be requested at the WI-IO hcadquarters in Geneva hcwaste@who mt or can be directly downloaded from
the website www health-carewaste org at the bottom of the on-luite docwnents section
For further details, refer to the following documents Safe Management of Waste from Health-Care Activities Edited by
Pruss, Giroult and Rushbrook, WI-1O 1999, Technical Guidelries on the Environmentally Sound Management of
Biomedical and Health-Care Waste, Conference of the Parties to the Basel Convention on the Control of Transboundary
Movements of Hazardous Wastes and their Disposal, UNEP, 2002
Na"I,a/4ld/ | I'r/!-&.in ||   Al.'' ':, 'i ,'.," P/-,a,i' 2 '4.0 3 2 0(3              Paot /0 of 96



I h. l t,;i,/l <hs>v',,  ol 1I,;,;Z.                                   1 h  1 Or!,! l'I;   /  I :mrrhc,-,'
The definitions contained in this report are in accordance with the ones proposed in the National
Guidelines for Health-Care Waste Management that the mission drafted for Tanzania They take into
consideration: 1) the necessity to provide a precise characterisation of the hazards associated with the
type of HCW produced in Tanzanian medical institutions and, 2) the financial and institutional
capacities of these institutions to set-up an overall HCWM scheme as well as to develop an
environmentally sound, affordable and safe treatment/disposal system.
In this report
Health-Care Waste (HCW) includes all the waste, hazardous or not, generated during medical
activities. It embraces activities of diagnosis as well as preventive, curative and palliative
treatments in the field of human and veterinary medicine In other words, are considered as
health-care waste all the waste produced by a medical institution (public or private), a medical
research facility or a laboratory;
Non-risk Health-Care Waste comprises all the waste that has not been infected. They are
similar to normal household or municipal waste and can be managed by the municipal waste
services They represent the biggest part of the HCW generated by a medical institution
(between 75% and 90%). It includes paper, cardboard, non-contaminated plastic or metal, cans
or glass, left over food. etc... Can also be included in this category of waste all items (such as
gloves, gauze, dressings, swabs .) that have been used for medical care but are 'visually not
contaminated with blood or body fluids of the patient, this only being applicable if the patient is
not confined in an isolation ward. Sanitary napkins from maternity wards even if contaminated
with blood, can be included in this category of waste as they are normally;
Pathological WVaste groups all organs (including placentas), tissues as well as blood and body
fluids. Following the precautionary principle stipulated by WHO9, this category of waste should
be considered as infectious whether they may be infected or not. They should be disposed of
consequently;
Anatomical waste comprises recognizable body parts. It is primarily for ethical reasons that
special requirement must be placed on the management of human body parts. They can be
considered as a subcategory of Pathological Waste
Infectious vaste comprises all biomedical and health-care waste known or clinically assessed
by a medical practitioner to have the potential of transmitting infectious agents to humans or
animals. Waste of this kind is typically generated in the following places: isolation wards of
hospitals; dialysis wards or centres caring for patients infected with hepatitis viruses (yellow
dialysis), pathology departments, operating theatres and laboratories Infectiousness is one of
the hazard characteristic listed in annex II of the Basel Convention and defined under class
H6.2;
Highly infectiouts waste includes all viable biological and pathological agents artificially
cultivated in significant elevated numbers. Cultures and stocks, dishes and devices used to
transfer, inoculate and mix cultures of infectious agents belong to this category of waste They
are generated mainly in hospital medical laboratories;
Sharps are all objects and materials that pose a potential risk of injury and infection due to their
puncture or cutting properties (e.g. syringes with needles, blades, broken glass ..) For this
reason, sharps are considered as one of the most hazardous category of waste generated during
medical activities and must be managed with the utmost care;
Pharmaceutical WVaste embraces a multitude of active ingredients and types of preparations
The spectrum ranges from teas through heavy metal containing disinfectants to highly specific
medicines. This category of waste comprises expired pharmaceuticals or pharmaceuticals that
are unusable for other reasons (e.g. call-back campaign) Not all the pharmaceutical wastes are
9   The precautionary principle stipulates that the magnitude of a particular risk, when it is uncertain, should be assumed
significant and measures to protect healih and safety should be designed accordingly
.,N~/i,,,,/ I Ilr,'l,h-( ..u......>,,'H a.'e I,','  ';.8'! tM -I.')'r03 200(3  PA:; II f  o96



1      d hi p :ne.hJ c  7f'f  ;,r,;                              7he blfor/hl 13,m( / I:rs gc,;o
hazardous. They can thus be classified into two categories: Non-Hazardous Pharmaceutical
Waste and Hazardous Pharmaceutical Waste;
Cytotoxic Pharmaceutical Waste may be considered as a sub-group of Hazardous
Pharmaceutical Waste, but this category of waste must be managed and disposed of specifically
due to its' high degree of toxicity. The potential health risks for people who handle cytotoxic
pharmaceuticals results above all from the mutagenic, carcinogenic and teratogenic properties
of these substances, which can be split into six main groups: alkylated substances,
antimetabolites, antibiotics, plant alkaloids, hormones and others. Cytotoxic waste are still
generated in a limited number of medical institutions in Tanzania;
Radioactive Waste includes liquids, gas and solids contaminated with radionuclides whose
ionizing radiations have genotoxic effects. The ionizing radiations of interest in medicine
include X- and y-rays as well as a- and 3- particles. An important difference between these
types of radiations is that X-rays are emitted from X-ray tubes only when generating equipment
is switched on whereas y-rays, a- and 3- particles emit radiations continuously. The type of
radioactive material used in HCFs results in low level radioactive waste and concerns mainly
therapeutic and imaging investigation activities where Cobalt 60Co, Technetium 99'Tc, iodine
1311 and iridium 192Ir are most commonly used,
Special Hazardous Waste includes gaseous, liquid and solid chemicals, waste With a high
contents of heavy metals such as batteries, pressurized containers, out of order thermometers,
blood-pressure gauges, photographic fixing and developing solutions in X-ray departments,
halogenated or non-halogenated solvents... This category of waste is not exclusive to the
health-care sector. They can have toxic, corrosive, flammable, reactive, explosive, shock
sensitive, cyto- or genotoxic properties,
Effluents, and more particularly, effluents from isolation wards and medical analysis
laboratories should be considered as hazardous liquid waste that should receive specific
treatment before being discharged into the sewerage / drainage system, if such a system exists.
Na/./raid!t iarl// (I,tpa   ll,  ,   Ila,,'r/h'z;  I,, / -ru   24I 03.2003  I'd-ct /2 of 96



7  e t :n,led Rcpabhc of Ian; ll.?                             'Ih 7he lP or/,l B,k /  L
PART ONE
Analysis of the situation
Na.Z.ZzI'-   I  I'a F//-( aI./ ,' A II,t;èwl//,/c/ | /lan  24 03 200(3   I/a"V / ; of 96



TI   t ( ;,Ited  v'i2/Jhc (if  i                                   I hk 1tt o   :r  / I  e-,e
This chapter presents the findings of the mission. Are successively analysed 1) the organisation of the
Health Services; 2) the legal and regulatory frameworks; 3) the health-care waste production in the
medical institutions, 4) the health-care waste management practices; 5) the risks associated with these
practices; 5) the institutional and monitoring frameworks, and finally 6) the HCWM projects already
carried out in Tanzania. All the findings are synthesised in the last section.
Section 1. Organisation of the Health Services
It is assumed that the reader already has a comprehensive knowledge of the organisation of the
Tanzanian Health Sector. However, the information essential to understand the context in which the
future National HCWM plan will be established and implemented is synthesised in this section.
Although Tanzania is experiencing one of the highest rates of urbanisation among the Sub-Saharan
countries with an urban population growth rate between 8 and 10%, more than 70% of the Tanzanian
population still lives in rural communities where the Village Health Posts continue to play an
important role providing preventive health through education. Hence, the Health Services and the
distribution of the HCFs throughout the country still have a strong rural emphasis.
1. The Public Health Services
Tanzania has created an extensive network of Health-Care Facilities that provides 90% of the
population with at least one HCF in a radius of 10 km NGOs and private institutions play a major role
in the sustainabilhty of the Tanzanian Health Sector.
a) District-level. Primary Health Services
At District level, basic clinical and public health services are provided through three layers of HCFs
the Dispensaries, the Health Centres and the District Hospitals.
The Dispensary is the smallest curative unit. Usually located at the ward level, it serves 3 to 5
villages and provides health services for 6'000 to 10'000 inhabitants It has an outpatient
Department, a Mother and Child Health Unit (MCH) and a maternity room with at least two
beds, latrines and rooms for the medical staff. It is administered by a Medical Assistant, a Nurse
or a Midwife It provides health education, treatment of diseases, MCH and delivery services,
treatment and immunization It can be located in urban or rural areas;
The Health Centre is expected to cater for between 50'000 and 80'000 people, which is
approximately the population of one administrative division. The services provided in Health
Centres are similar to the ones provided in Dispensaries but short hospitalisations are possible
and basic medical analysis can be carried out. A Health Centre groups health-workers trained in
different professions such as a Medical Assistant, a rural Medical Aid, a Senior Nurse, a
Midwife, a Public Health Nurse, an Assistant Health Officer, an Assistant Laboratory
Technician and a Pharmaceutical Assistant. The Health Centre ensures both the supervision and
serves as a referral centre for Dispensaries. However, in effect, it often fails to serve as a
referral centre and operates like a dispensary but at a higher cost;
The District Hospital is the referent health unit at District level. It normally has between 60 and
150 beds and provides OPD and MCH, a store for drugs and equipment, laboratory and blood
banks, X-ray, OT, kitchen, laundry, technical carpenter and tailoring workshop, mortuary and
dispensing room. The staff includes graduate and Assistant Medical Officers, Nurses of
different qualifications, Pharmacists, Laboratory Technicians, Radiologists and a Health
Officer The GOT attempts to get one District Hospital per District.
,\.a'i//ll.// 1-1.g1a/ti' C/;'lIt .S  . 6.  41/   03 20(' IPa lle1 N                  f96



7Ih  l  'fl/f 1 I<cr,!'/U  9J la'I;  I                              I he Il or.l Ba-l   ' i'i mr'
b) Regional Level: Secondary Health Services
The Regional Hospital is the secondary referral facility to the districts and serves a population of
about 1 million people. There are currently 17 Regional Hospitals in the mainland of Tanzania each
one having between 200 and 400 beds. The services are similar to the ones provided in the District
Hospitals but in addition, various special medical services are provided such as surgery,
gynaecology/obstetrics and paediatrics The pharmacy and laboratory services are more developed
than in a District Hospital.
c) National-Level: Tertiary Health Services
Only four Referral or Consultant Hospitals (the tertiary referral hospitals) and two specialized in
psychiatry and tuberculosis exist throughout the country. With more than 400 beds per hospital, they
provide highly specialised services. The four Hospitals are considered as Teaching Hospitals10
2. The Voluntary and Private Health Services
The voluntary organisations are increasingly involved in the rural Health Sector, while the role of the
private providers remains limited but has been growing rapidly, particularly in urban areas, since the
re-legalization of private practices in 1991.
a) The Voluintary Health Services
Voluntary organisatlons, NGOs and religious organisations are important auxiliaries of the Public
Health Services in Tanzania They own as many hospitals as the Government and serve especially the
rural population. The quality of the services provided by these organizations attracted many patients,
even if more expensive Special agreements have been developed between the GOT and the
missionary organisations For instance, in the Districts where there are no Government hospitals, the
Government negotiates with religious organizations to designate voluntary hospitals as District
Hospitals and provides staff and essential supplies such as pharmaceuticals Parastatal Organisations
are supposed to offer services free of charge or in accordance with the cost sharing policy of the GOT.
b) The Private Health Services
Since the Private Hospitals Act was amended in 1991, the number of private HCFs in Tanzania has
been constantly increasing, mostly in urban areas Despite its importance, the private sectors hasn't
really been involved in the National Health Policy formulation and there has been little co-operation or
co-ordination of planning regarding the delivery of health services between public and private actors.
Inspection mechanisms exist for private practitioners to measure/ensure the quality of services".
However a few inspections seem to have taken place since 1991, which could become problematic.
The GOT should therefore put in place a number of regulatory mechanisms so as to ensure this
important actor develops in a sound manner and integrates well with the public services in a
complementary way.
0 They include Mumhibili National Hospital, which is the largest HCF of the country with 1'400 beds (Eastern Zone),
Kilimanjaro Christian Medical Centre (Northern Zone), the Bugando Hospital (Western Zone) and Mbeya Ilospital
(Southern Zone)
The mission however believes that these inspections are not set-up sufficiently developped
j.'',n/ I 1l'u;I)-( - ',  1 1 , .-ruN/ an.';/ l   24,,  *   0 3 200(  3'. 1      )O f 96



1 i,, ( :n/d! [<, 'Puhi. o/ I  P .   I                                Ik2 lh'o't Ban,k / I t:,rieqno,
Section 2. Legal and Regutlatory Frameworks
The legislative provisions constitute the backbone for improving the management of HCW in any
country since it enables to establish legal control and define clearly the duties and responsibilities of
each actor involved in the management of HCW. This section rapidly reviews the current legal
provisions for HCWM in Tanzania as well as the current rules that are applied within the medical
institutions.
1. Review of the Existing Legislation
The different legal documents that have been made available to the mission by the Ministry of Health
and other partners have been analysed12. Are presented the most important outcomes that should be
taken into consideration to implement the National HCWM Plan.
a) Legal Provisions for Environmental Protection and Solid Waste Management
At National level
The environmental management has predominantly been sectoral, a situation which has facilitated the
growth of disparate regulatory institutions which has let the envirornmental legislation to be contained
in many Acts and Policies, most of which are sector specific and outmoded. As a response to this
fragmented approach to legislation and policy management, an Act of Parliament established the
National Environmental Management Council (NEMC) in 1983. However, the. NEMC only has an
advisory function and lacks regulatory powers, meaning that presently pollution produced by industry
or by human settlements is virtually not controlled.
The National Environmental Action Plan addresses Urban Environmental Pollution and solid waste
management by setting-up standards and defining permitting requirements as well as promoting
environmentally sound waste collection, transportation and disposal systems for urban and protected
areas or by establishing emergency sites for solid waste disposal, until permanent ones can be found...
Despite these efforts, the current legislation on solid waste management remains incomplete, and
above all impossible to be applied as such for enforcement
Recently, the Vice President's Office drafted air emission standards and the MOH prepared Waste
Management Guiidelines There are clear attempts to provide comprehensive management guiding
principles in these two documents but they remain a compilation of various guidelines and finally fail
to be specifically adapted for the Tanzanian context Furthermore, the provisions contained for the
management of hazardous waste, including HCW, are incomplete and not directly applicable for the
municipal authorities and the HCFs.
At international level, Tanzania has ratified'the Basel Convention on the Control of Transboundary
Movements of Hazardous Waste and their Disposal (1992)'3. It is not party to the Stockholm
Convention on the Persistent Organic Pollutants (2002)14 Despite this, these two conventions have not
yet had a major impact on the Tanzanian legislation.
12 They include The National Health Policy, Feb 1990, The Policy for the development of human resources for health,
June 1995, The nurses and midwives registration Act, 1997, The Public Health Act, 2001 (draft), The Health Sector
Reform, Programme of work, July 1999 - June 2002, The draft Waste Management Guidelines, September 2002, The
Proposed Environmental Standards
3  Infectiousness is one of the hazard characteristics listed in annex Ill to the Basel Convention and defined under class H
62
4  Persistent Organic Pollutants (POPs) stich as dioxins or furans are produced during incineration of waste At
intemational lcvel there is a strong debate at present between environmentalists and public health specialists on the
pertinence to operate low-cost incinerators and releasing the fumes without prior treatment
\.'/,i,:a I ,etali/h(.,js, 11' a,: A I  P,;i"U"'u/ i/ J}!  -  ()94 ( 0   2      la06 of 96



I h1, I *p,ted Rdvlu/n  of l'r; , ;7.i                                 hIe lt'v  8,I   I me,ven;.
At District and Municipal Level
The Municipal and District Authorities are responsible for the collection and transportation of the
solid waste generated in their area of jurisdiction'5. With the current decentralisation process, this
responsibility is constantly increasing. The Local Government (District and Urban Authorities) Act of
16
1982, details the responsibilities of districts and urban councils, including solid waste management' .
However, this Act does not contain any particular provision for the management of specific categories
of waste such as HCW. Furthermore, enforcement of the existing legislation pertaining to waste
management remains ineffective and the refuse collection capacity of the Collection Services in the
municipalities is clearly insufficient to cope with the amounts of waste generated in the urban centres.
Due to the weaknesses of the public sector, formal and informal waste collection services are
flourishing, but without any regulation, co-ordination, monitoring by/with/from the Public Authorities
b) Legal Provisions Applicable to the Health Sector
The Putblic Health Act (2001), which is still a draft document, represents a major step forward to
regulate and consolidate the promotion, the prevention and the maintenance of public health in
Tanzania. This Act broaches the public health services and related topics in a comprehensive and
functional manner. The provisions related to solid waste management or occupational, health and
safety reflect the current situation encountered in the country but no specifications are consigned in
this document to enforce hygiene and infection control in the Tanzanian HCFs.
Amongst the official documents that the mission analysed, only the Guildeline Standards for Health
Facilities edited by the MOH in 1996 contains specific provisions related to wastes generated in
medical institutions: "a functioning incinerator for waste management is required" for Dispensaries
and Health Centres but neither further details are provided regarding the type of incinerator nor for the
equipment that is needed for segregation, handling and transport According to the questionnaire
annexed to these Guidelines (Registration / Re-registration of Health Facility), hospitals, in order to
get the necessary clearance to be allowed to exercise, have to keep the Health Authorities informed
each year about their infrastructures and equipments devoted to the collection and disposal of HCW"7
2. Appraisal of the Hospital Regulations
The proper management of HCW    depends to a large extent on good administration and organisation
but also requires that adequate instructions be consigned in a formal document (e.g. a HCWM plan)
and that the medical and paramedical staff be fully aware of their duties and responsibilities.
a) Rules inWHospitals
In all the medical institutions visited, HCWM is organised according to specific schemes but there are
no explicit rules consigned in a single document providing adequate instructions regarding the
management of the HCW within the establishments Nobody is formally nominated to supervise the
whole HCWM system or co-ordinate the efforts between all actors within the hospitals This
engenders an obvious lack of efficiency and harmonisation in the HCWM procedures
5   The Health and Social Welfare Department, the Urban Planning Departments and the Works Departments co-ordinate to
ensure the collection services
6  Section 55 G stipulates that the Local Govemment is responsible for the removal of "refuse and filth from any public or
privatc place"
17  The HCFs must indicate if I) the "surroundings are clear or dirty", 2) they have "waste basket / dustbin", 3) they use
"a dumping ste or not" and 4) they have an "incinerator that is functioning or not"
1X'mmI/                                2 la-'/h-C  U' Il   A I,wa.t "w;/t 17/a:' '1.( 3.20(03  I'.qc I   96



',4  I 'tWi/kd Ra/wb//b/   of laI,ll                                Ihe lvI  "/, 113m'n  ' I :1.r4n, a,-
b) Duties and Responsibilities of the Medical Staff
Well-defined duties and responsibilities are essential to operate an integrated HCWM system The
responsibility of the different components of the HCWM system is shared between'
The director, who is with the administrative officer directly in charge of the overall
implementation of a safe HCWM system inside the hospital;
The medical doctors and nurses in charge of the segregation under the supervision of the head
nurses and the matron of the hospital,
The ancillary staff (ward attendants) in charge of the packaging, waste collection and on-site
disposal under the direct supervision of the nurses;
The Health Officers who have an important role to monitor the hygiene conditions in the
hospitals;
Actually, the Nurses and Midwives Registration Act, 1997 gathers provisions for education, training,
registration, enrolment and practice of nurses and midwives in their expanded role and scope of their
practice This Act regulates the profession. It is completed by the Professional Code of Ethics for
Nurses and midwives in Tanzania, 2002 that governs proper conduct in the profession and in which
the responsibilities and the accountabilities of the nurses are defined (section seven). According to
these documents, "the nurse is personally legally liable and also can make employer liable for her
faults or incompetence". However the scope of these documents remains very general and they fail to
impose a constricting framework directly applicable to enforce the medical staff- in this case, nurses
and health officers - to comply with specific standardised procedures.
In theirjob descriptions' , nurses or nursing-assistants (respectively ward attendants) are responsible
for the "cleanliness of patient and his environment" (respectively "absolute cleanliness of ward unit
and its surroundings by sweeping, moping dusting, polishing and scrubbings floors and walls"). No
provisions are contained in the job description related to disinfection of contaminated material or
procedures for the safe management of HCW within the wards.
The existing legal framework fails to regulate the professional life in medical institutions and does not
provide a strong formal mechanism that enforces hygiene and infection control in hospitals'9
3. Conclusion
There is currently a significant gap in the Tanzanian legislation regarding the regulation of HCWM
issues as well as for an efficient control of nosocomial infections in HCFs. There are no specific
definitions or characterisation of HCW and no legal indications on authorised HCWM practices
(segregation, colour coding system, packaging, on-site transportation, contingency plans, etc.). There
are not either any specification regarding HCW treatment and disposal technologies that might be
considered acceptable in the Tanzanian context.
The legal provisions fail to enforce the private and public medical institutions, the District Health
Management Teams (DMHTs) and the Municipal Authorities to reduce the risks associated with the
management of HCW through the establishment of HCWM plans at the HCF, Municipal or District
levels This also makes it difficult for medical institutions to set up integrated HCWM plans without
having the possibility to refer themselves to a precise legal framework that should anyway provide
definitions and characteristics of HCW. In other words, at country, regional or district levels, the
minimum requirements are not established to ensuire homogeneous, efficient and safe HCWM
practices Consequently, neither the managers of HCFs nor the District and Municipal Health Services
are urged to develop proper HCWM plans
"8 The job descriptions analysed are those of ward attendanits and nurses at Muhimbilt Hospital
9 Apparently, an Infection Control Training Unit has been recently created at the MOH An Infection Control Policy
should be established
\ - ioz.i,  I . :bb (.w1 [I a1', .\ I,,,,,  ' . ;,/ /a,- */ 2 03 2700) .    l, / t 'l 96



w 1h ( fl/.:ed RLC/)//6!h'(C of [Im,l                                          II.' o;, i l'v i I,'n'  Mt rgicn
Section 3. Characterisation of the HCWProduction
The MOH should be fully aware of the current levels of waste production. This information is
essential for the development of the future HCWM plan A comprehensive survey is thus essential for
planning an effective HCWM programme. Recently, the MOH and other actors involved in the
management of HCW tried to characterise the HCW production in Tanzania20. However, providing
reliable estimations is a difficult task essentially due to the fact that important data are missing in the
National Health Statistic Abstracts2' such as the bed occupancy rates for each HCF. Another problem
is linked to the absence of standardised definitions, which leads to results that can differ significantly
from one survey to another.
1. Type of HCW Generated
Among all the categories of HCW produced in the medical institutions, the large hospitals (Referral,
Regional and District), in which almost all the ranges of medical activities are practised, produce the
following categories of HCW:
Non-risk HCW or domestic waste made of all wastes that are not contaminated with infectious
or pathogen agents (food residues, paper, cardboard and plastic wrapping);
Pathological waste, infectious waste as well as items that have been used for medical care and
also not necessarily contaminated 22 that have been collected together Some interlocutors call
these categories of waste "soft waste" or "clinical waste"23. This category of waste includes also
highly infectious waste that is discarded without prior treatment;
Anatomical waste and placenta that are managed separately from the clinical waste;
Sharps, mainly, but not exclusively, auto-disable or disposal syringes with needles that are
collected in general in separate cardboard boxes;
Pharmaceutical waste that consists in outdated drugs. They are specifically managed by the
Medical Stores Department (MSD);
Specific hazardous HCW (radioactive, cytotoxic) that are produced in a limited number of
specialised medical institutions
The production of HCW in the Health Centres and in the Dispensaries remains limited to non-risk
HCW, clinical waste, placentas and sharps, generally in small quantities. This is due to their specific
level of services (no major surgery, preventive health-care).
20 * Study Report on Assessment of Health-Care Waste Management in Tanzania, August 2001 Environmental Health
Section The Unted Republic of Tanzania, Ministry of Flealth and WHO, August 2001
* A report for the Health Care Waste Managemnent Plan Development of the Ministry of Flealth (MOFI) - Tanzania
Government Gabriel Mwaluko, 2002
* Proposal for the containment, removal and disposal of hazardous medical waste from medical institutions, City of Dar-
Es-Salaam Dispositek Africa LTD
2t See the Health Statistics Abstract 2002 Vol I Burden of Disease and Health Facility Utilization Statistics Ministry of
1-lealtib The United Republic of Tanzania June 2002 and the Health Statistics Abstract 2002 Vol 2 Inventory Statistics
Ministry of Health The United Republic of Tanzania June 2002.
22 See definitions provided in the introduction of this document
23  This terminology will be used in the continuation of this report to define the Pathological waste, infectious Ivaste and
other items considered as contaminated and hazardous by the Tanzanian interlocutors
l\a//l/1at 1 I-a f/h  11 ll1.' A I ':a'o--',/  * 1-/2.(3 20()03                         Pa1L I/ 9 ofi9G



w/ ( :umd RIp/;c of Fa,1,7,., JR bl' l./tO orh                                   l   t ,ot' I :';'r3cw
2. Estimation of the Quantities Generated
a) Estimation Methodology
The production of hazardous HCW was calculated in each medical institution by estimating the
number of containers (bags, rubbish bins) used for medical waste collection during a defined period of
time. The discussions with the medical and paramedical staff (nurses, nursing-assistants and technical
services) enabled to adjust the total volume of waste collected by using a filling rate for each category
of container. Finally, a volumetric mass ratio was applied (0,30 kg/l) according to the type of waste
thrown into the container in order to estimate the total weight of clinical waste generated. The figure
obtained is then divided by the total number of beds and the occupancy rate to estimate the quantity of
medical waste generated per occupied bed per day in each hospital category In Health Centres and
Dispensaries, the estimation of the clinical waste production is based on the daily number of patients
b) Resuilts
At Health-Care Facility Level
Annexe 4 presents the detailed calculations of the quantities of HCW produced in large health-care
facilities, as well as an example of how the information was collected in each HCF. Since the level of
care and services provided in one type of facility cannot be distinguished from those provided in a
facility at a lower level (cf. section 6), no differentiation has been made between Referral, Regional
and District Hospitals to estimate the daily production of clinical waste in these establishments.
Around 0.41 kg/occupied bed/day of clinical waste are generated in these Tanzanian Health
Institutions 24 In Health-Care Centres and Dispensaries, around 0.03 kg/patient/day of clinical waste
are generated 25
At National Level
Annexe 5 presents the detailed calculations of the quantities of HCW produced at National Level. The
overall production of clinical waste is estimated between 12 and 14 tons per day 26 About 50% of the
HCW is generated in the regions of Dar-Es-Salaam, Kagera, Iringa, Kilimanjaro, Arusha, Pwani and
Mwanza. These regions should therefore be considered in priority for the application of the HCWM
plan. The other regions and districts produce comparable quantities of HCW
Production of Sharps
In 2002, MSD supplied all the auto-disable syringes (about 2,8 millions) used in the BCG vaccinations
programmes in the country as well as all the disposable syringes for the public health facilities and a
substantial part of the private hospitals (about 12,7 millions). Assuming than the average weight of a
syringe plus needle is 10 g, this means that approximately 400 to 450 kg of syringes and needles are
used and must be disposed of every day in Tanzania. The quantities produced remains thus marginal in
comparison with the total amount of HCW to be disposed of (3 to 4 %)27
24  For detailed estimations, see Annexe 4 This result is in accordance with the studies carned out in similar countries by
the Commission of the European Union in 1994 and the International Health-Care Network in 1995
25 This result is similar to the one obtained by J Christen in 1996 Dar-Es-Salaam Urban H-lealth Project Health-Care
Waste Management in District Health Facilities Situational Analysis and System Development, SKAT
26  Dispositek Africa LTD estimated the total production at II tons a day (cf Proposal for the containment, removal and
disposal of hazardous medical waste from medical institutions, City of Dar-Es-Salaam Dispositek Africa LTD)
27  This means for instance that an incinerator of an average capacity of 200 kg per hour would be able to treat all the
needles and syringes used in Tanzania each day in 2 to 3 hours
,Na/,,,:,j/l I/ 1 at b/  (  ' I I  ' ale I  Iao"i,',';. /)/tj 21 0 3 2003             I'teoc 2) olf 96



'I/h I h   .Ied Rp,ilpcbb of F1 .,,                                 1k  Ior/Il Baw' / h:r7nr-nce
Section 4. Characterisation of the HCWM Practices
The HCW that are generated within a HCF should always follow an appropriate and well-identified
stream from their point of generation until their final disposal. This stream is composed of several
steps that include generation, segregation collection and on-site transportation, on-site storage, off-
site transportation (if needed) and finally on or off-site treatment and disposal (see figure 2). All these
steps require a rigorous organisation that should be translated into HCWM plans at health-care facility
level.
VSgeps   Locat ton,     t"Health-care waste   ' rea:in
Step 1   ,    .    |4 Generationo
Stcp 2    2        |  Sregation aF,
souc
Step 3               C site       i
Step 4              *O,'hsite stoagt2
Step Sn   *-       | - - - ,s  ! .  On,site,l
treatment/disposal I
Step 5b     ,                         trnspot
Step 6                               treatiment/idsposal 
Figure 2: Synopsis of the HCW stream
In addition, management of HCW should always be considered as an integral part of hospital hygiene
and infection control. Infectious HCW contributes to nosocomial infections, putting the health of
medical staff and patients at risk. Proper HCWM practices should therefore be strictly followed as part
of a comprehensive and systematic approach to hospital hygiene and infection control. A set of
protective measures should also be developed in relation with the handling and the treatment/disposal
of HCW.
Implementing adequate procedures to minimise the overall risks associated with HCWM should
remain one of the priority objectives of the MOH Waste management and treatment options should
first protect the health-care workers and the patients and minimise indirect impacts from
environmental exposures to HCW. A special emphasis has therefore been put by the mission on the
level of risk associated with the management of HCW in the Tanzanian HCFs. Due to the current lack
of clear protocols for the management of HCW, a wide variety of inadequate practices are found in the
medical institutions The practices which should be urgently improved are underlined below.
For practical reasons, in the following section, the Referral, Regional and District Hospitals where
HCWM practices do not differ significantly are regrouped into Large Health-Care Facilities while
Dispensaries and Health Centres are gathered as Small Health-Care Facilities.
?\'a"1,0au/ 1      ', ,             2///, I.                                 A l, *g  X 2'/..?('t, - v  / 21f96



7I       Rilt tlf.t! c K L/ ; ; Z/  1                              JCh  lto,I Or.'l 8 /J
1. Segregation, Packaging and Labelling
Segregation is one of the most important steps to successfully manage HCW. Given the fact that only
about 10-25% of the HCW is hazardous, treatment and disposal costs could be greatly reduced if a
proper segregation were performed. Segregating hazardous from non-hazardous waste reduces also
significantly the risks of infecting workers handling HCW. Actually, the part of the HCW that is
hazardous and requires special treatment could be reduced to some 2-5% if the hazardous part were
immediately separated from the other waste
The segregation consists in separating the different waste streams based on the hazardous properties of
the waste, the type of treatment and disposal methods that are applied. A recommended way of
identifying HCW categories is by sorting the waste into colour-coded, well packed and labelled
containers. Segregation must always be applied at sozurce.
a) In the Large Health-Care Facilities
In the Large Health-Care Facilities visited, segregation is practised at the source (i e. in the wards
themselves), which is a positive aspect. However, in the absence of clear definitions and protocols,
segregation is not carried out according to international standards and the medical staff is not fully
aware of what type of waste should be considered as infectious or hazardous. Another problem
identified is that due to inadequate management practices or simply because of the absence of
adequate treatment/disposal facilities, segregation is not systematically maintained all along the waste
stream.
The wastes produced within hospitals are generally segregated as follows.
Non-risk HCW, similar to domestic waste, is collected into plastic or metallic rubbish bins of
different sizes (50, 80 litres. ) and colours These bins are not lined with PE bags;
Clinical waste or "soft waste" as named by some interlocutors is collected together into a
variety of containers like plastic bins that may be covered with a lid or not. These containers,
located at strategic points inside the wards, are not lined with adequate leakage proof bags.
They can be mixed at the storage points and disposed of with the domestic waste, Anatomical
waste and placentas are generally collected and disposed of separately;
Sharps are collected in plastic bottles or cardboard boxes recycled after being used (photos I
and 2). These bottles and boxes are not hermetically sealed. Specific UNICEF / WHO safety
boxes, generally used for Expanded Programmes of Immunization (EPI) can also be used when
the HCFs have extra stocks. Once full the cardboard boxes are either disposed of or emptied to
be reused. Sharps have been found with clinical wastes indicating failure in the segregation
practices Following the new indications provided by the MOH in relation with the EPI
campaigns, syringes are discarded immediately after being used but the mission can not exclude
that some two-hands recapping practices still exist in some HCFs;
Highly infectious waste generated in Medical Laboratories is not segregated separately and pre-
treated before being disposed of with the clinical waste (photo 3). Nevertheless, a solution of
Lysol 10% is added into the waste generated at the Cholera Treatment Centres 28 before
disposal but no guarantee can be given regarding the efficiency of the disinfection process The
waste joins the general domestic waste stream afterwards. a practice that should be strictly
prohibited.
b) In the Smnall Health-Care Facilities
In Health Centres and Dispensaries two different practices have been observed-
28 This is for instance the case in Amnana I-lospital in liala District
\'Th.1d',/ 1 I        1/i,, P1w/ 2'? 0 2003                                  P ioa 22 (fQ690



With the exception of placentas, segregation is not practiced (as seen in several rural
dispensaries visited) and all the waste generated, including sharps, are collected and disposed of
together;
The waste is segregated and handled in the same way as in large HCFs. The management of
sharps however can vary significantly depending on the guidelines locally available 29. In some
facilities the needle is separated from the syringe, which is then disposed of separately.
2. Collection, On-Site Transportation and Storage
In order to avoid an accumulation of the waste, it must be collected on a regular basis and transported
to a central storage area within the HCF before being treated or removed. The collection must follow
specific routes through the HCF to reduce the passage of loaded carts through wards and other clean
areas. The carts should be 1) easy to load and unload, 2) have no sharp edges that could damage waste
bags or containers and 3) easy to clean.
Great care should be taken when handling HCW The most important risks are linked with the injuries
that sharps can produce. When handling HCW, sanitary staff and cleaners should always wear
protective clothing including, as a minimum, overalls or industrial aprons, boots and heavy duty
gloves.
In the large health-care facilities HCW is temporarily stored before being treated / disposed of on-site
or transported off-site. Non-risk HCW should always be stored in a separate location from the
infectious / hazardous HCW in order to avoid cross-contamination.
a) Collection and On-Site Transportation
The organisation of collection and on-site transportation depends on the type of HCF and the human
resources available Two collections per day are normally scheduled (one in the mornig and one in
the afternoon). In some Hospitals, sanitary labourers do not come directly from the on-site disposal
facility/location to collect the HCW in the wards/departments by themselves, which is a positive
aspect to minimize potential spread of infections In these cases, it is usually the nursing-assistants
who transport and drop off the waste directly to the storage or disposal points
The following failures have also been noticed in almost all the facilities surveyed
Collection of waste is not done on a regular basis nor along well defined routes within the
HCFs,
There are often no specifically designed teams to carry out this task
General medical waste or syringes and needles sometimes drop from the overfilled bins / sharp
boxes and can be found scattered on the ground inside the hospital compound;
The trailers used to collect the bins are not well equipped to prevent spillages in the wards in
case of an accident (see photo 4);
In some of the hospitals visited, sanitary labourers or nursing-assistants are not properly
protected during waste handling. Personal protective equipment such as heavy duty-gloves,
aprons or overall and boots is not always available.
b) Storage in the Large Health-Care Facilities
In large health-care facilities 30, the clinical waste can be stored in specific locations or directly inside
the burning chamber of the "incinerators" while non-risk HCW can be stored in separate dumps.
29  For instance, Medecins Sans Fronnires, working in renlote areas, recommends to recycle empty drugs containers to use
themn as sharp recipients by practicing a slot through which the needle is inserted and removed from the synnge
30  Storage facilities are not useful in small HCFs where the amounts of l-ICW generated remain limited
N\.'ma, ,/i I.-d,//A (",r II'm , I  N/. on I/ .2'.0 3.200/                       P     2 (  09)( 3  la 2 of



kIe( >'AI  Iep,'b/.   I                                               V he 81,'/,I la i',
When there is no on-site disposal facility and when no special collection services are organised,
clinical waste and domestic waste are stored in the same location, although segregation has been
previously ensured. The "incinerators" are also regularly used as storage points before the waste is
bumed.
Access is rarely restricted and the waste is not protected from the effects of the weather (sun, rain...)
and scavenging by animals (dogs, birds, flies, etc ) Only at Muhimbili hospital have lockable 31
storage rooms with a concrete floor for some of them, a roof and a wire netting stopping animals
(including birds but not flies!) from entering been seen No adequate support facility like washing and
disinfecting material has been observed close to the storage areas (photo 5).
This situation associated with inadequate behaviours (no regular hand-washing practices, free access
to wards.. ) results in insufficient standards of hygiene. Although a maximum storage time should not
exceed 24 hours, the storage may last up to 4-5 days before the waste is disposed of, which leads to
leakages of body fluids from the storage facilities and strong putrefaction odours.
3. Treatment and Disposal
Hazardous / infectious HCW can be treated on-site (i e. in the HCF itself) or off-site (i.e. in an other
HCF or in a dedicated treatment plant). On-site treatment is often the only one possible in rural HCFs
but on-site treatment can be also carried out for HCW generated in large HCFs. On-site treatment
systems are particularly appropriate in areas where hospitals are situated far from each other and the
road system is poor. The advantages of providing each health-care establishment with an on-site
treatment facility includes convenience and minimization of risks to public health and the environment
by confinement of hazardous / infectious HCW to the health-care premises. However, extra technical
staff may be required to operate and maintain the systems and it may be difficult for the relevant
authorities to monitor the performance of many small facilities. This may result in poor compliance
with operating standards, depending on the type of systems, and increased environmental pollution.
The HCW generated in a HCF can also be treated off-site, when centralized facilities exist, in urban
areas for instance. Greater cost-effectiveness may be achieved for larger units, through economies of
scale 32, unless the running costs for waste collection and transportation remain too expensive.
Although off-site treatment increases dependency of the HCF on an external actor and requires a fine-
tuned transportation system, it provides the following advantages.
Hospitals will not have to devote time and personnel to manage their own installations;
Efficient operation can be more easily ensured in one centralized facility than in several plants
where skilled workers may not be readily available,
Future modifications or expansions (relating to flue-gas cleaning systems of incinerators, for
example) are likely to be less expensive,
Where privatization of facilities is seen as a desirable option, this can be achieved more easily
on a regional basis than for numerous small units,
Air pollution may be more easily kept to a minimum at a centralized plant, if specific flue-gas
cleaning procedures and incineration temperatures are respected.
Incineration is the only disposal technology known in the Tanzanian medical institutions. The GOT
must be aware that altemative technologies exist to treat hazardous / infectious HCW and reach a level
of hazard / infectiousness that is considered as acceptable, enabling the disposal of such categories of
waste with the general solid waste. Detailed information on the advantages and disadvantages of each
treatment / disposal technology are provided in Annexe 7.
31  But not locked'
32 This statement must be taken with precaution especially in developing countries where the Ficalth Authorities do not
always have sufFicient technical and financial expertise to negotiate in good position with the private sector
,\';.'i,,,,,,/ I Aa;h-C  ........... I   1,., s.\ iau,a' ,;/,, ,* 21(/ 03  '   I2'.0 3  241  f96



Th. { 'nj/ed l(1ps'/'b  0/ J ;t : i Ij,'/ l                               h? [EorA,1 6  -4  1:rneriJm-e
a) In Large Health-Care Facilities
Different ways of disposing of HCW have been observed by the mission, but none of them are fully
satisfactory The current disposal of HCW in the absence of adequate financial means and specific
budget iines is problematic and will certainly remain so in the coming years. In addition, the lack of
specific and affordable transportation services in municipalities and towns as well as the low
monitoring capacities of the Municipal Authorities reduces drastically the waste treatment and
disposal options, which could be envisaged
Due to the lack of protocols, there are disparities between the institutions visited in the way HCW is
disposed of. The following practices have been observed:
In some hospitals, clinical wastes and sharps are burnt in masonry single-chamber
"incinerators" built by local private manufacturers (photo 6). The burning is carried out on a
periodic basis (from daily to weekly depending on the resources of the HCF) The combustion
is initiated by adding fuel, usually kerosene or charcoal The air inflow is based on natural
ventilation. Most of these "incinerators" are in bad shape and temperatures of only 300∞C to
400 ∞C are reached in these "incinerators". In many HCFs, more than one incinerator has been
built, but they are usually all in a dismal state (photo 7). The conclusion is that these
rudimentary single-chamber "incinerators" are not able to sustain combustion o,f waste in a
reliable manner and do not demonstrate any significant advantage/improvement compared to
open burning;
General medical and domestic wastes, although they have been segregated at source can also be
collected by the municipal services and disposed of together in dumpsites. In this kind of
situation, sharps are burnt separately or dropped into pits without any -specific precautions.
However, it has been observed that they may also be collected by mistake together with the
municipal waste. In this kind of situation, the segregation benefice failed to be maintained all
along the waste stream;
Anatomical wastes generated in Operation Theatres are disposed of separately. When a
"satisfactory" incinerator exists in the medical institution (such as Muhimbili Hospital), body
parts are incinerated. Otherwise, anatomical wastes are buried inside the hospital compound
Placentas and major human tissues are either burnt in a single-chamber incinerator or dropped
inside a "placenta-pit" with concrete lining (photo 9).
Finally, General medical waste but also sharps (photo 8) can be dumped, without any
segregation, into an open pit. The pit can be lined or not and sometimes delimited by a fence
(photo 10) The waste is then periodically burnt or covered with earth when it is full; a new pit
is then built next to it.
Effluents 3 of medical institutions are treated in general through separate septic tanks
WHO (at central level, photo    1) and DFID (in Mbeya Region, photo 12) have supported the
installation of low-cost, high-temperature incinerators that have been specifically developed and
designed for the treatment of HCW  in low-income countries by the De Montfort University  . Mark II
and III models of the De Montfort incinerator have been already installed in various Tanzanian HCFs
and they are "recommended for district hospitals, health centres, dispensaries and regional and
33 It has not been possible to address thts point in a comprehensive way during the mission. Only some highlights are
provided in the report showing ihat the currcnt situation may be considered as unsatisfactory The review of the current
system for discharge of eftluents from hospitals should be addressed in a second phase after having first successfully
ipiemcented a solid waste management system
34 The Mtfark III is designed for hospitals up to l'OO0 beds, and burns at about 4 times the rate of the Mark! I & 11 (50 kg/h
approx ) The AMat V incinerator is thermodynamically the same as the Mark Ill, but modified to carry the weight of a
much higher chimney for use where a high chimney is a legal rcquirement or wvhere the proximity of other buildings
makes a high chimney necessary to dispcrse smoke and fumes
,\'e 'i,  /  / Cur I'[I'I?i'I .1,i c'w',.,/ Phi), * 21 03 2003                      I P'c' 2 tlf 96



7 /St 1  ,wAerl   1c/)//h 1,                                        ')h ei.\,  1;1 o,/1 B a;i';
consultancy hospitals respectively."35, If properly operated, a De Montfort incinerator has the
following advantages
It reaches temperatures above 900∞C 36;
The operating costs of the De Montfort incinerator remain extremely low (less than 5 USD/ton)
as well as the capital cost (about 1'000 USD for a Mark II and 2'000 USD for a Mark III);
Operation and maintenance are simple (coconut shells can be used for instance to initiate the
combustion instead of kerosene);
Products of Incomplete Combustion (PCI) are obviously generated during the whole process.
Nevertheless in areas that are not densely populated, incineration enables to reduce the immediate
hazards linked to medical waste and sharps. With respect to the financial resources available in the
hospitals, this type of incinerator, if upgraded (for instance Mark V incinerators can be used), can
constitute an acceptable intermediate solution to dispose of clinical wastes and sharps. The remaining
ashes must be buried. In densely populated areas, incineration shouldn't be seen as a long term
satisfactory solution but the reality of the current situation prevailing in Tanzania must be taken in
consideration when alternative solutions are proposed.
In any case, Operation and Maintenance of these incinerators must be well planned to ensure their
sustainability and they should be replaced or repaired every 3 to 5 years when they are continuously
operated. In that respect, the MOH should propose adequate financial, management and institutional
mechanisms.
b) In Small Health Facilities
There is no significant difference in the way that clinical waste and sharps are disposed of. In the
absence of adequate infrastructures and equipment, they are dropped into a pit, without segregation,
and burnt periodically. Placentas are dropped directly in latrines or pits after delivery. DED and MSF
have developed two different programmes to improve the situation in the Health Centres and in the
Dispensaries located in remote rural areas 3.
Following pilot projects that have been conducted in Tanzania by international and bilateral agencies
(cf. section 6), the MOH has developed and is implementing a plan to install 63 Mark II De Mortfort
incinerators in District Hospitals, Health Centres and Dispensaries. Low-cost De Montfort incinerators
should actually become a standard disposal facility for the Dispensaries and the Rural Health Centres.
The mission believes that it will be probably hard to implement such a policy for at least two reasons:
Sustainable maintenance and adequate operation of such facilities cannot be guaranteed in rural
HCFs due to their limited institutional capacities (cf. section 5);
The implementation of such a solution remains relatively expensive 38;
c) Specific cases
The Mrunicipality ofDar-Es-Salaamn
Disposal of HCW in the municipalities of Dar-Es-Salaam 39 or Mwanza remains problematic for the
following reasons'
35  Source Waste Management GuLidelines, draft document Ministry of Flealth. September 2002
36 Results of a campaign of measures carried out at De Montfort University Personal communication of Professor D J
Picken
37 See section 6
38 Considering the price of a Mark 11 De Montfort (1'000 USD), the number of Dispensaries (4'380), and the number of
Ilcalth Centres (402) the total cost would approximately be 5'000'000 USD.
Na/i;,:i,,I M/ healf (..,i' U1', w ' .  2 4liO C,//,;W I'/.n2* l.0 .2002        l Pi. 26 W/96



Ty,k ( :ued R[,,pib/h, -  ;                                                    Ii': l.,e   IJOr!'. 8w, ,/ I rergero
The number of HCFs scattered in this municipality is important and the amount of HCW
produced in such a densely populated area is significant. The utilisation of De Montfort
incinerators, although some are already in use 40, cannot be seen as a sustainable long-term
solution. On the other hand the use of on-site pyrolytic incinerators would be too expensive and
would not significantly reduce the air pollution from that of a De Montfort,
Although the introduction of alternative technologies such as autoclaving or hydroclaving)4t
could be seen as valuable on-site treatment technologies, the success of their implementation is
uncertain as long as pilot projects won't have been carried out and evaluated;
The implementation of a centralised solution (off-site treatment), although interesting poses
another set of problems relating amongst others to the verification of the transport of HCW.
Currently the Municipal Council does not have the capacity to perform such controls. In
addition, the public hospitals would have difficulties to pay for such a service and the public
sector is, for the time being, not sufficiently developed to ensure that both transportation and
treatment will be performed in the most cost effective, environmentally friendly way,
There is no proper sanitary landfill where the general medical HCW could be safely buried.
For the time being, there is only one 42 private company, Dispositek Africa Ltd 43 that would be able to
propose a centralised incineration of the HCW. The City Council of Dar-Es-Salaam signed a
Memorandum of Understanding with Dispositek Africa in 1997, reviewed in 2001. A double chamber
pyrolytic incinerator 44 has been installed in a compound provided by the Ilala District Authorities 45
thanks to a loan of the American foundation PATH 46 According to the information provided to the
mission by the MOH 47, Dispositek plans to provide a comprehensive service for the HCFs of DES
including
The delivery of preconditioned cardboard boxes lined with PE red bags and HDPE sharp boxes
to the medical institutions of Dar-Es-Salaam;
The collection of the clinical waste with three enclosed trucks to prevent any spillage in the
hospital premises or on the road during transportation;
The disposal of the clinical waste that includes: 1) a sterilisation '8 pre-treatment before; 2) a
"separation of polymeric material from organic" with a magnetic removal of "steel
components" so that it may "undergo a solid state shear pulverization (S3P) processing; 3) a
pyrolytic incineration of the remaining waste 49, and finally, 4) land-filling of the residues 50.
39 According the MOH, this situation is also representative of the situation prevailing in the municipality Mwanza
40 For instance at Muhimbili Hopsital
41  The mission strongly recommends not introducing any other altemative technologies in Tanzania such as microwave or
chemical disinfections the operation costs of such technologies remain extremely high while the maintenance requires
very skilled personnel
42 The Tanzania Health Authorities should be aware that negotiations can be biased when there are monopolistic situations
43  Commercial company registcred in Tanzania, but whose main office is located in South Africa
44 Classic pyrolytic incinerator with two chambers designed to reached respectively 800∞C and I '200∞C
45 For the time being, the site is located in the futLre industrial zone of DES at Buyini Village (25 km) it Is not supplied
with electricity or water, which will be problematic when the incineration will start
46 The mission visited the site where the HCW should be incinerated, met Dispositek Country Representative and
contacted PATH However both interlocutors were reluctant to provide detailed information related to the financial
sustainability of the overall HCWM system that Dispositek attempts to implement in Dar-Es-Salaam.
47 See "Proposal for the containment, removal and disposal of hazardous medical waste from medical institutions, City of
Dar-Es-Salaam Dispositek Africa LTlD.
48 Apparently a nicrowave system is planned Surveys carried otit on autoclave and microwave systems show that, in
practice, a disinfection of the clinical waste can only be guaranteed with thcse processes
49  Double-chamber incinerator (the first chamber should reach 800∞C, the second 1'200∞C)
/ I,//;I,; r  ,, a.,', Al ,n'i,,w, l2 1),//I! '21 03 200(i3                        Pt-2 - of 96



'I hei  eel Rcpp/./,4 0/I ,,1  1  ;                                               It' or/  : I' I : 
To date, only the incinerator is under construction (photo 13) The nominal costs of the overall process
were initially estimated in the proposal at 2'500 USD/tonnes (1'500 USD/tonnes if the depreciation
costs would not be taken into consideration). Compared to prices found in other countries5", the cost of
the technology proposed would have remained expensive and not really affordable for Tanzanian
HCFs. However, after having negotiated major points such as the donation of the land, Dispositek has
reviewed the nominal costs down to 420 USD/tonnes52. If the Private Hospital might cope with these
costs, they would remain problematic and high for the Public Sector, which will have difficulties to
afford them
The Disposal of Pharmaceutizcal Waste
Drugs are state property. Therefore HCFs are not allowed to destroy expired drugs by themselves.
These drugs are returned to the District or Regional Health Authorities that must get a clearance from
the Government Auditors of the Ministry of Finance (MOF). Once the MOF certified that the drugs
are effectively expired, District and Regional Authorities contact the pharmaceutical board to get the
necessary recommendation for disposal (incineration or burming).
MSD, which supplies nearly all the HCFs of the country through the Regional and the District MSD
stores, disposes of its pharmaceutical waste at central level. Drugs are sent back to the Central MSD at
Dar-Es-Salaam that must request the authorisation from the MOF to dispose off the drugs. This
procedure prevents MSD from disposing the expired drugs regularly and stocks of pharmaceutical
waste can increase significantly until they are destroyed. MSD incinerates the pharmaceutical waste in
a pyrolitic incinerator 53 (photo 14).
MSD has also developed in the past a co-operation with the Twiga Cement Factory to incinerate the
pharmaceutical waste in the rotary kiln used to produce clinker. Actually the temperatures reached in
this kiln as well as the current incineration capacity of the cement factory 54 would be sufficient to
treat all the HCW generated in Dar-Es-Salaam. This option, as recommended by the WHO 55, would
represent the best solution on both a technical and financial 56 point of view if the GOT could find an
agreement with Twiga Cement Factory.
Sharps
The MOH, in agreement with UNICEF, has developed a new policy for disposable syringes and
needles that is in accordance with WHO and UNICEF international recommendations- syringes and
needles must be discarded of immediately following use. Needles shouldn't be recapped or removed
from the syringe and the whole combination must be inserted into the safety box directly after use.
UNICEF provides safety boxes specially designed for safe collections and open-air burning. The
boxes provided are used only for EPI programmes
50  This treatment processing should aim at avoiding release of PCI in the atmosphere If implemented as such, this
treatnient plant would be one of the most modem that the mission would have ever seen since it would combine two
technologies that are generally, mainly due to their high cost, used separately
St As an example, the Health-Care IVaste Managemtent Guidance NVote of the WVorld Bank (May 2000) gives indication of
nominal costs that includes treatment (microwave or incineration with a flue gas control or autoclave) transport and
disposal They range (in USD/ton) from 280 to 420 in USA, 410 to 750 in Mexico, 630 to I '670 (for a comprehensive
treatment of thc stack emissions) in Argentina, 200 to 500 in UK, 186 to I '530 (for a mobile treatment unit) in Brazil,
500 to 1'500 in Germany, 150 to 500 in France, 150 in Egypt
52  Personal Communication from Allan Reynolds dunng the workshop held on March the 13th and 14tb, 2003
53 This incinerator has been installed by Balton CP Ltd, reaches I '200 ∞C for a capacity of 200 kg / hour
54 Three rotary kilns of 3,80 m diameter and 58 m long are capable to produce 3 x 220'000 tonnes of clinker a year The
temperature reaches 1'400 to I'600∞C in the rotary kiln
55 See Safe management of wastes from health-care activities, Pruss, Giroult, RLIshbrook, WHO, 1999
56 Needles can only be vaporized in rotary kilns In all the otlier categories of incinerators (low-cost or pyrolytic), they
remain in the ashes that muist be safely buried Approximately 100 USD/ton are charged by Twiga Cement Factory.
^\(/w.'p,>/ I l,/aIJ-( .,i',' l,'le A I ,ra"  rt  , 1 21.03 2003                            c 28 rf96



I Y, ( imwed R t p/,iX1   of 1 ';,/,.;,/                              Ite11' or/,f Kto"  7   meqenre
There are no provisions for the handling and disposal of syringes and needles used for curative care. In
order to follow the new policy of the MOH, the medical and paramedical staff has to develop
alternative solutions 57 and reuse recycled plastic bottles or cardboard boxes. In some health facilities,
others practices exist, sometimes in parallel of the new MOH policy for EPI campaigns creating
confusion among the medical and paramedical staff (cf. section 6).
4. Risks Associated with the Current Practices
There is no standardized segregation procedure applied in the Tanzanian medical institutions - in this
regard, the Guidelines 58 provided by the MOH are not adapted - the labelling system is deficient and
there is no systematic colour coding system. The ancillary staff that is uncertain about the definition of
medical wastes uses therefore identical and unmarked bins. Potential mistakes in segregation can
easily occur and the risk of a person accidentally coming into contact with hazardous waste is
important. In addition the incorporation of highly infectious waste to clinical waste without prior
treatment should be prohibited. The WHO precautionary principle should be more rigorously
respected.
The nurses or the nursing-assistants fail to apply the aseptic measures when they handle and transport
the bins within the wards or outside. The waste containers are not lined with adequate bags or even not
regularly disinfected. The lids are manipulated with no specific precaution- fundamental hygienic
measures are not applied. This obviously results in an increase of the risk of transmitting nosocomial
infections
The risk of spillage of medical waste and sharps during the transportation due to the use of
inappropriate containers and the loss of syringes and needles from overfilled cardboard boxes (that are
sometimes re-collected by the sanitary labourers without specific precautions), the failure in restricting
access to the storage points, the lack of protection from scavenging animals or the disposal of HCW in
dump sites without prior treatment increases the risks that HCW may be dispersed in the HCF
compound and enter in contact with the general public.
The inappropriate off-site transportation (at least for DES), the disposal of clinical waste with the
domestic waste in dumpsites and the absence of control procedures increase the risk for scavengers to
be contaminated The use of incineration, whatever temperatures may be reached, release air pollutants
(PCI, heavy metals, etc...) that constitute an environmental health threat.
Section 5. Appraisal of the Planning Capacities of the Health
Services
Most of the interlocutors met by the mission tend to develop a purely technical approach of the
HCWM issue: numerous aspects that should be taken into consideration for the implementation of a
sustainable HCWM programme - such as the capacity of the Administrative Authorities, the Health
Services as well as the mobilisation of the civil society, etc - are rarely mentioned
1. Monitoring Capacities of the Health Authorities
The capacities of the Health Authorities remain limited. There is no sufficient local or national
expertise available in Tanzania for the management of HCW. Scientific knowledge on HCWM
remains limited at central level and the Health Authorities have difficulties to provide adequate
backstopping for the medical institutions under their jurisdiction.
57 The Annexe 6 provides more information on alternative solutions for the disposal of sharps
5R  Waste Management Guidelines, draft document Milistry of FHealth September 2002
'\ar.), .h/ I-1,-a/1z  (.,Ipi Wn at, -' i ,;'> t 11,/1,, * 2' [)J 20!) 3      a/le2.   -if 96



a) At Central Level
Despite the decentralisation management process that Tanzania has been experiencing since the mid
1980s, the MOH continues to play a major role in the day-to-day management of the Public Health
Services but progressively shifts its role from a direct provider to a facilitator in order to centre most
efficiently its tasks towards: 1) the policy formulation through appropriate legislation and regulations;
2) the development of guidelines and standards to facilitate the implementation of the National Health
Policy; 3) the monitoring and evaluation of the Health Services to improve their quality; 4) the
training, the deployment and transfers of all cadres of health workers
The recent capacity building effort increased the number of staff trained in specialized areas and
strengthened some sections of the MOH. However, the MOH's capacity remains limited and over-
stretched, due to the shortage of staff with relevant skills and experience as well as the workloads from
fragmented tasks 59. In addition, the past project approach and the implementation of vertical
programmes (HIV/AIDS control, TB/Leprosy, EPI, etc.) have led to complex, fragmented planning
and implementation arrangements with many parallel systems co-existing to serve multiple projects
and programs 60 as well as a serious lack of co-ordination  This has failed to strengthen the
institutional capacity of the Tanzanian Health Administration. The MOH currently intends to move
away from such fragmentation, and coordinate all activities in the sector under one common program
and harmonize planning and implementation arrangements, using the Government systems as much as
possible.
b) At Local Level
Authorities and budgets of the Public Health Services are more and more decentralised to the district
level However, Local Authorities have so far not been able to exercise sufficiently their authority in
the management of these services due to lack of critical decision making power and inadequate
resources available Despite the decentralisation process, the present staffing level of the DHMTs and
their capacities are severely limited, as the ones of the Regional Health Authorities that are in charge
of the interpretation of the national policies and the supervision of their implementation by the
DHMTs. It is however expected that each of the 113 districts develop a Health Plan using guldelines 61
provided by the MOH. These District Health Plans could be used to initiate monitoring and control
procedures of the production of HCW in the medical institutions
2. Institutional Capacities of the Health Services
The financial and institutional capacities remain extremely limited in the Tanzanian HCFs and the
situation will not improve rapidly. The hospital administrations face drastic budget reductions while
the medical needs are increasing continuously In this context, the safe management of the HCW is not
- and cannot be - seen as a priority by the executive and managerial teams.
a) Management and Administration
Several sections of the referral system are not functioning as intended, largely because of consistent
under-funding, weak management support systems and poor communications (roads and
59 This is particularly the case for the Environmental Health and Sanitation Services (EHSS), which will be in charge of
co-ordinatng the National FICWM Plan
60 See for instance the dispersed and non co-ordinated approaches of the different co-operation agencies that have
developed projects on HCWM throughout the country (section 6)
61 See for instance the National District Health Planning Guidelines Part I District Flealth Planning, Plan Preparation Part
11 Techniques and other Information for Planning Vcrsion I 0 Second Edition and Printing Ministry of l-lealth The
United Republic of Tanzania April 1998 See also the Format of a prototype comprehensive council health plan issued
by the Health Sector Reform secretariat of the MOI I in March 2001
Ya/icm.J/ I 1-a/,h-(mr, II' ale 1   L/}1  Pkn,;',  * 1Ω   03 '003                 P'at, M) rf 96



Tlr, ( r,.Awd R,idl,ba O/                                                   J h I hW I orld Kwkr , I :.'-rweas
telecommunications). Consequently it is difficult to distinguish the level of care and services provided
in one type of facility from those provided in a facility at a lower level. For instance most of the
Regional (respectively Consultant) Hospitals perform like District (respectively. Regional) Hospitals
but at a higher cost. They frequently lack essential medical equipment, drugs and supplies and suffer
from deteriorating infrastructures and provide a substantial amount of primary health-care services,
which could be dealt with by lower-level facilities. This often leads to overcrowding, as well as
inefficient use of resources
Hospital reforms are intended to change the current status by enabling the Regional and Consultant
Hospitals to have devolved and decentralized management authority, broadened financing options, and
strengthened management in resource utilization (financial, human, and infrastructure). Hospital
Management Committees have been created to set up strategic and business planning. Commercial-
style financial management and independent external auditing should be progressively introduced so
that hospitals may know the real cost of their services to allow management decisions based on cost-
effectiveness.
b) Financial Resources and Planning
Tanzania allocates a relatively high proportion of its budget to the Health Sector compared to the
neighbouring countries 62, However, shortages of funds and weak management have meant that many
public HCFs lack essential drugs and supplies and has also led to deteriorating infrastructures 63,
The GOT budget for health is largely used to cover staff salaries (about 60% of the recurrent budget),
leaving very little to cover day-to-day operation costs. If drugs and medical supplies are excluded,
since managed directly by MSD, resources made available to Districts and HCFs are very limited 64. In
addition, its release from the Treasury is unreliable and inadequate, and its use is highly restricted by
itemized budget lines. Recently the Government with IDA has developed a cost-sharing program that
aims at increasing the incomes of the HCFs and progressively changes the current unsustainable
system 65, At HCF level, the move to cost-sharing practices in the Health System does not generate for
the moment the resources, which would be necessary to allocate financial means specifically for
HCWM.
Therefore the HCWM plan will have to balance optimal but costly and unaffordable solutions with
realistic but not always fully satisfactory technical options for the disposal of HCW. In order to cope
with this constraint, a clear difference between short term and long term solutions will have to be
provided in the plan.
c) Monitoring and Control
In practice, there is a lack of monitoring of the management of HCW due to: 1) scarce knowledge on
HCWM in the country, 2) limited financial resources; 3) incomplete legal and regulatory provisions
and 4) the understaffed Health Authorities 66 The finite resources of the Government strongly limit its
62  Approximately 1 5% of the GDP.
63  Tanzania Country Assistance Strategy The World Bank Group FY 2001-2003
64 The situation is worsened by the weak execution of the budget In 1996/97 for instance, only 60% of the MOH's non-
salary recurrent budget was released as opposed to over 100% of personnel emolument (World Bank Report)
65  Approximately less than 4% of the budget of medical facilities is dedicated to the supply of goods necessary for
cleaning and disinfecting
66 For instance, the Health Officer (110) plays a central role in the monitoring and control of the application of
environmental health standards at HCF, district, regional and central level but his/her professional responsibilities
include. I) the control of communicable diseases, 2) health education, 3) sanitary inspections, 4) food quality control, 5)
enactment, revision and eiforcement of the relevant laws, 6) control of waste collection, transport and disposal,
improvement of housing conditions, 9) improvcment of school health, IO) improvement of occupational health, 11)
vector and vermin control, 12) contintiing education, 13) immunisation, 14) port health control The multiplicity of the
N,;I/,gj/ I-; i/ I/I .(o, C.n  ,i' .11, 4 /il  i 1' () 20() 31 03 2003                        of9



Ih.( 't.  Re,p';h A.   f                                            J ke l orld 13an 1' / f:e"i c,,c,
possibilities to set-up a monitoring system to control HCW streams inside and outside the public and
private HCFs of the country. In addition, the general low salaries of health-care staff are not
motivating and explain to a large extent the turnover observed by MSF in the Health Centres and
Dispensaries. The monitoring of new HCWM practices and the control of new procedures in the
medical institutions will thus be problematic.
d) Training andAwareness of Staff
Following the expansion of the HCF network in the 1970s, several training schools were established
were a large number of health workers were instructed "However, performance of these health
workers and quality of services offered are considered as generally poor. Weak management of health
personnel has led to inadequate deployment of workforce, creating serious imbalances and mal-
distribution of skilled staff with heavy bias toward urban areas and large referral hospitals. The levels
of education of many health workers are low (e.g., the largest cadres such as Nurse B, Rural Medical
Assistants, MCH Aides and Medical Attendants recruited at the standard seven level), and the
inadequate curricula and the limited opportunities for skills development hinder development or
upgrading of necessary skills for career development"67.
What is your appraisal of the current situation regarding the HCWM within your institution?
|Verybad  Bad [    Fair   | Good      VeryGood
MUHIMBILI HOSPITAL
* direction                x
* hospital head nurse                                  x
* attendant                x
* mission                  x
MBEYA REFERRAL HOSPITAL
* direction                        x
* chief nursing                             x
* mission                  x
IRINGA REGIONAL HOSPITAL
* direction                                            x
* matron                                    x
* health officer                            x
* mission                  x
MTWARA REGIONAL HOSPITAL
*regional health officer                               x
*direction                                  x
* medical staff                    x
e mission                          x
Table 1: Opinions on the HCWM system in selected HCFs
A vareness
The level of awareness is a key element to change and improvement. To compare the needs identified
by the mission with those expressed by the administrative and medical staff of the hospitals, a number
tasks to be performed by the 1-lOs is such that it is obviously impossible to ensure that a proper monitoring is applied in
all these fields of activities
67 Source Tanzania-Muilti-Sectoral AIDS Project, World Bank Report N∞PID10683, Afnca Regional Office 2002
,\,.'i/on-/ I 1haid (_r., IF h7','j hn'nr,/ ,';1/ //,, 2* 03 02003               I'>c v_' s2f 96



l, h.  '/cI [Rt.V,,/'/h. uf  Vwh,;,,                              7ke [Vo-,41r ia-k / tU1r qence
of qualitative questions were systematically asked during the field visits 68 This information is
essential in helping to select the most appropriate strategy for the implementation of thc new policy.
Table I illustrates both the differences in appreciation of a situation, which can prevail within a HCF
depending on the actor's function/knowledge and how the situation is assessed by the mission.
Actually, the discussions with the staff directly involved in the management of HCW (nurses, nursing
assistants, attendants) reveal that most of them are quite aware that the current practices are unsafe and
the minimum standards are not reached. It should be thus relatively easy to raise awareness in the
"nurse community" and to get the support of the national nurse associations to implement the HCWM
plan However, at executive level (nurses trainers, managers or some medical doctors), the situation is
slightly different and the awareness less obvious.
Training
Several in-service trainings have been organised by different stakeholders, including WHO and DFID
in Mbeya. Obviously, more regular in-service training should be developed but it will be necessary to
review or complete the academic curricula of nurses and medical doctors with specific lectures
dedicated to hospital hygiene and infection control as well as safe management of HCW. In addition
motivation will be a major issue to implement adequate HCWVvM practices in the HCFs of the country.
A participative approach could be developed for in-service training (see part two, recommendations).
Section 6. External Support Capacities
1. Review of tle HCWMProjects Carried out in Tanzania
Among the international co-operation agencies involved in the Tanzanian Health Sector, WHO,
UNICEF, SDC, DFID, DED and MSF have developed HCWM projects in relation with their specific
programmes unfortunately without coordination Each agency has therefore proposed several solutions
for the management and the disposal of HCW, not all of them having the same standards, which are
sometimes hardly compatible with each other. In addition, the management practices fail to be
improved in a sustainable way since theses projects have not been integrated in a global and national
strategy For instance:
DFID, through it's Tanzania Family health Project 1994- 2001, installed several De Montfort
incinerators in the region of Mbeya and produced a little brochure providing indications for the
management of HCW that does not fully comply with the international recommendations of the
WHO,
Based on DFID experience, WHO has recently financed the installation of 12 De Montfort
incinerators in large hospitals and the training of the nurses for the management of the HCW
based on the recommendations developed in Geneva headquarters;
DED (German cooperation) is currently working in Mtwara Region. For Health Centres and
Dispensaries located in rural areas, DED has built "waste burning pits" (photo 15) and
recommends throwing all the waste produced in the HCFs without segregation and burning
them In the same region, MSF has developed its own specific guidelines for HCWM. The
organisation recommends the segregation of the waste into three categories, the use of sharp
pits (photo 16) as presented in annexe 6 and, "waste burning pits" but with a different design
(photo 17). UNICEF recommends the use of safety boxes (in which the entire combination
syringe plus needle are dropped) and then burning these containers The medical and
paramedical staff may be confused with so many varying approaches.
6H Analysis of the needs identified by the mission vs the demand expressed by the ilterlocutors
N\a/io,bu. I 1 Iyi//h-r  .... Al. ' di,'h''n,\  1,  ") * 24 0 3 2"003      PA..ge 3 ; of 96



2. Mobilisation of the CivilSociety
National NGOs and religious institutions play a major role in the provision of health-care services in
Tanzania by managing half of the HCFs is the country. Their mobilisation capacity and the possibility
to train medical and paramedical staff through their institutions are important They should be part of
the national workshop that the MOH intends to organise.
Some Tanzanian NGOs dealing with environmental protection have already stigmatised Twiga
Cement Factory when the pharmaceutical waste was incinerated in the rotary kilns, arguing that
atmospheric pollutants were emitted Such actions that do not take into consideration the necessary
holistic approach that must be developed when dealing with the HCWW issue are regrettable69. Twiga
is now reluctant to repeat the experience unless it could rely on a strong commitment of the COT.
Another set of private actors are currently setting up plans and are clearly interested in taking part in
the HCWM issue. However, the mechanisms to control transportation of solid waste in the
municipalities as well as the negotiation capacities of the Local and National Authorities must be
strengthened before hand
The GOT could certainly stimulate the involvement of small and private enterprises in the
construction and in the long-term maintenance of the De Montfort incinerators that are currently built
in District and Regional Hospitals by proposing adequate subvention mechanisms.
Section 7. Synthtesis of the Findings
In the absence of disposal or treatment facilities within the hospitals, clinical and domestic wastes are
disposed of together. All the efforts currently carried out in the wards/departments to segregate the
wastes are consequently ruined When clinical wastes are disposed of separately, most often they are
burnt in single-chamber incinerators or dumped into open-air pits. In general, treatment and disposal
of clinical and highly infectious waste remains an urgent problem to be addressed. There is also an
urgent need to develop an integrated and homogenous HCWM system for the country as well as to
provide the hospitals with adequate equipment and to implement proper managerial procedures
(colour coding system, collection procedures, etc...).
Although the medical and paramedical staff has a relatively good perception of the degree of hazard
associated with HCW, the current practices in the hospitals visited by the mission result in significant
risks to public health. The hygiene conditions linked to HCW handling and disposal cannot giarantee
a satisfactory control on the transmission of nosocommal infections throughout the HCFs. Although
direct and indirect costs of this situation are difficult to establish, they remain certainly significantly
high
The backstopping and monitoring capacities of the Central, Regional and District Authorities to
support the medical institutions remain limited Furthermore the legal framework is not sufficiently
developed. Additional decrees, code of hygiene and internal rules for hospitals will have to be
established and put at the disposition of the local authorities as well as the hospital administrations so
as to clarify roles, duties and responsibilities of all the actors involved. Finally, the implementation of
an efficient monitoring framework and the involvement of the executives remain key issues to
improve the situation within the hospitals.
The adminnistrations of the medical facilities have difficulties to estimate the costs related to the
management of HCW The structure of their accounting system does not enable them to differentiate
the expenses associated with the management of the HCW from the ones linked to other activities.
61 To avoid this kind of problem, these NGOs should not be left aside and should be inviled at the national workshop to be
fully part of the decisional process
'\'a'tfg  / I al 1' C ri a .Y ,\  I, w!," "  1('lj  l  /)  3 _QO  I            Ia  X  of 96



IThe U nited Rp#hbic of f                                           he lI or/l 13ank / I :mereqget-e
Consequently it is extremely difficult for the medical institutions to estimate the financial costs for the
development of an integrated HCWM plan.
Some suggestions to improve the management of HCW within the medical institutions of Tanzania are
proposed and their economical implications roughly analysed in the following part of this report. A
strategy to upgrade the current HCWM practices is also developed taking into consideration that the
improvement of the prevailing situation requires a long-term involvement from the MOH to monitor
and implement adequate managerial procedures. A potential "National Action Plan" with measures
that could be carried out by the MOH within the next five years to implement the recommendations is
contained in the third part of this report.
i\'\a/,gjjI I I eaIh-Ciart [I"a,'A \l au2q ,u/ I'laiiz 1 2'.03.2003        l     'aC: "  of 96



96J~4 P 6 I 'OO Q9~ 0 f:j ,         W/!I,/(/  ~ UP~'  /P I/VA
SUOilWtPUMU1UOZO1
GAXI llIVd
-.- _ /                                / jp/O .1  otq 1,'l i  JO 10"qN j   I/' ]  .



7 'I l !//.-I            /11h""/'" of I ';'; a/i,                            7   I I or/,/ 13a'I?,  ,wergeni
The differentiation of the HCW streams within the medical institutions of Tanzania must be
progressively improved taking into consideration the current situation prevailing in the country. The
clear identification of the priority areas of improvement and the enunciation of adequate
recommendations constitute the basis for the definition of the National HCWM Plan. The mission
recommends targeting in priority the following objectives:
Consolidating the legal and regulatory frameworks;
Standardising HCWM practices,
Strengthening the institutional capacities for HCWM;
Encouraging the involvement of the Civil Society.
Section 1. Consolidating the Legal and Regulatory Frameworks
The legal and regulatory frameworks must be complete to provide the necessary basis for an efficient
HCWM plan at national level. Legal procedures should aim at obliging the medical and non-medical
staff in being responsible at their own level and securing the HCW disposal process70.
central                         Regional Disctrict              Health-Care Facility
Add an addendum for Hazardous
Edit a    Decree for the Safe   waste Management in the Local  * Assign adequate responsibilities
Management and Disposal of HCW  Government Act, 1982  -                                    l
* Edit National Guidelines                                        Review Job Descriptions
* Edit a National Policy for HCWM
Complete the Professionnal Code o
Ethics for Nurses and Midwives in
Tanzania
Edit a National Policy for Injection
Edit a Policy for Hospital Hygiene
and Infection Control
Consolidate the Public Health Act,
2002 
Edit a separate Code of Hygiene for
Hospitals
Figure 3: Recomniiendations for the Consolidation of the Legal and Regulatory Frameworks
1. National Legislation and Regulations
A number of legal documents should be reviewed or edited by the MOH to reinforce the duties and
responsibilities of key staff / institutions. Any policy should outline the rationale for HCWM in
Tanzania, the short-term and long-term objectives to improve HCWM and the key steps essential to
achieve these objectives
a) The Legislation
The current legislation must be consolidated by completing the Puiblic Health Act, 2002 and by editing
a specific decree related to the management and the disposal of HCW. The decree should contain
general and specific provisions to determine the authorities of enforcement, the obligations of HCW
Producers and Operators, the authorised management, Treatment and Disposal procedures as well as
the range of penalties to be applied. Some details are provided in table 2.
70 In this respect, the inteinational "polluter pays" principle that implies that all producers of waste are legally and
financially responsible for the safe and environmentally sound disposal of the waste they produce, should be applied
However, the set-up and the application of this principle for Tanzania exceeds the scope of this report
Xa,'up,,/ I ICa.' f, ',I a.' I, 'i,i"r't I'/as *-I ()3 2003                              4d7L' '/0 ot 96



/ hr ( n;,fr,I ze tj,,!!/, I2z  v,.:;j,,,,,,                     J ke IE o'h/,l WO .,tt  / I :o',-v" ne,
An annexe specifying the different elements contained in the decree for the management of HCW
should be added to the Local Government Act, 1982. Actually the GOT would have an advantage in
elaborating an addendum that includes provisions for the safe management of hazardous waste in
general
b) The Regutlations
In addition to the legislation, the mission recommends that the MOH urgently prepare for publication
a paper presenting the National Policy on HCWM. It should be completed with practical, informative
and incentive National Guidelines - jointly drafted with this report - to precise the national
regulations for Tanzania. In absolute, the Professional Code of Ethics for Nurses and Midwives in
Tanzania, 2002 should precise that "all nurses and midwives are personally responsible for the waste
they may generate during their professional activities".
It could be worthwhile that the GOT elaborate a specific Policy on injections safety - the current
poster available at the MOH cannot be considered as National Guidelines. The MOH should also
consider the development of an integrated Policy on Hospital Hygiene and Infection Control as a
priority.
2. Code of Hygiene and Rules in Medical Institutions
a) Code of Hygiene
The Management of HCW must be considered as an integral part of hygiene and infection control in
HCFs. The legal framework must therefore be reinforced with the application of strict internal rules
that should be regularly monitored. Guidelines for the medical staff to ensure hygiene and control of
nosocomial infections should be consigned in a comprehensive Code of Hygiene providing:
Ongoing monitoring and managerial activities to be carried out in hospitals to reinforce hygiene
and infection control;
Rules setting duties and responsibilities of the medical and para-medical staff regarding the
hygiene and infection control measures that should be applied in hospitals and during their
medical practices,
Recommended practices to maintain a high level of hygiene, particularly with regards to
HCWM.
b) Assignment of Responsibilities
Personal responsibility is a key issue to ensure that the medical and paramedical staff actively
participate in the general HCWM effort. The Medical Officers in Charge should formally
appoint each category of staff, in writing, informing them of their duties and responsibilities
concerning the management of HCW. A Health-Care Waste Management Officer (HCWMO)
in major health-care facilities should be designated and left with the responsibility for the day-
to-day operation and monitoring of the HCWM system (cf. section 4). Nurses and attendant job
descriptions should be reviewed so as to reinforce the duties and responsibilities of this
category of staff in the daily management of HCW.
i\'.w.'t t I/l,I, (.rti,''.. ; .Iq.,;:i1'e';. - 'It )] W)(                Pa.. 'II 1/1,f96



I-'h;, (  R,,t"ubb ofl  / .;;;Z.,,u                                         Ikeo',he lt' -3/,k tBewe,-k
General Provisions of the Decree
The rationale and the purpose of the Decree should be explained in the General Provisions of the Decree as well as basic
but important definitions allowing to specify the appliance area of the Decree
The main object is to regulate the generation, handling, segregation, collection, transportation, treatment and final
disposal of all the HCW generated by health activities of preventive, curative and palliative treatments; activities of
research as well as industrial production in relation with biomedical products;
The objectives are that every producer and operator of HCW comply with the management, treatment and disposal
procedures stipulated in the Decree and abide by the registration and tracking provisions contained in the Decree;
As a minimum a glossary with the following information should be provided in the Decree definitions and a
classification of HCW, generation, handling, segregation, collection, transportation, treatment and final disposal, HCW
producers and operators.
Authorities of Enforcement
The Decree should: 1) specify which institution is responsible for the enforcement and the coordination of the policy on
HCWM, 2) explain what should be the different competencies of the Central, Regional and District / Municipal Authorities
regarding HCWM, 3) describe the enforcement power of each of these authorities.
Provisions Related to HCW Producers and Operators
Should be listed in the Decree.
The type of institution that should be considered as a producer in the framework of the Decree 71, the type of
institutions / societies that should be considered as operators; The obligations that each HCW producer and operator
should comply with to be allowed to operate. registration procedures to enforcement authorities, list of environmental
mitigation measures taken,
The compulsory measures that should be taken by the HCW producers and HCW operators to reduce health risks for
the staff and reduce the environmental impact of HCWM,
The training courses on the risks and the safety measures that should be taken during the handling, transportation and
treatment of HCW, medical check-up to be carried out in case of an accident, compulsory immunisation vaccines that
staff being in contact with HCW should receive, equipment that the staff dealing with HCW should have, the security
instructions and guidance manual that should be available for the staff in any establishment generating HCW.
Provisions Related to Management, Treatment and Disposal Procedures
The mission recommends to include the following provisions
List all the management procedures that the producers should comply with: segregation, handling, on-site
transportation, storage, off-site transportation, on/off-site treatment and final disposal,
Describe the standard treatment and disposal norms that should be respected by HCW producers and operators to get
an operating certificate issued by the Ministries to allow them to run their activities,
Give the duration of validity of the certificate and provide specific provisions in case of an accident; Describe and
inventory compulsory labelling and tracking measures and provide standardised labelling and registration forms in the
annexe of the Decree.
Penalties
The major mismanagements that would lead the enforcement authority to withdraw the certificate and to apply penalties
should be inventoried.
Table 2: Fundamental provisions to be included in the Decree
71  Are considered as a producer of health-care waste all the physical or legal bodics, public or private, whose daily
activities generate i-ICW in the sense of the definition given by the Decree
.\Y';p:i/ I I,.'Ith-&rr Ii' ,-(,A' ..........ii.   2-1.0 3 2003                             2/  f 96



Ihe l ;n1t ned I puil off' b.                                           I h.e ll   Knl3k / i:rn.i-yncr
Section 2. Standardising HCWM Practices
The recommendations that are presented hereafter should be implemented in all the medical
institutions of the country The financial constraints that the medical institutions face are taken into
consideration to propose pragmatic and affordable HCWM plans and disposal technologies. A step-
by-step strategy has to be implemented to progressively improve the HCWM practices.
1. Mininising the Quantity of HCW Genierated in Medical Institutions
The MOH should encourage the reduction of hazardous HCW generated in HCFs by coordinating, in
co-operation with MSD, the establishment and the implementation of an adequate mznzmisation policy
aiming at:
Improving the purchasing practises to reduce the source of potentially hazardous HCW 72;
Rationalising the stock management (use of the oldest batch of a product first, regular checking
of expiry date )
Enforcing a rigorous and careful segregation of the HCW, at source (see below).
* Improve purchasing practices
* Rationalise stock management
* Set-up a three-bins system and a colour coding systemr
*Non-Risk HCW
Clinical Waste              .
Sharps                     *    
e Consider special categories of waste:,
* Highly Infectious Waste  .
* Cytotoxic and Hazardous'Pharmaceutical Waste
* Placentas and other pathological waste
Figure 4: The flrst steps for rationalising HCWivl
2. Segregation, Packaginig anid Labelling
The recommendations provided in this chapter are mainly valid for major health-care facilities (i.e.
District, Regional, Referral Hospitals) and in Health-Centres located in urban areas.
a) Segregation
The segregation ofHCW is of the utmost importance for three different reasons: 1) proper segregation
is the basis for safe manipulation and appropriate disposal of medical waste; 2) the treatment and
disposal procedures can be optimized for each category of waste; 3) it is the best way to reduce the
costs linked to the treatment and the disposal of HCW
72  For instance, the replacement of mercury based thermomietrs Nvitih siiplc galLium (indium + stain) based thermometers
would advaniagCously replace the mercury ones, avoiding that a hcavy, toxic and volatile metal be disposed of when
thernometers arc broken or out of order.
Nation,a/rllU//h-( ir,' i1,, I *, ,- ." r'',: *11 O                              Pn J'a(e '; 4of96



'l'Ar  ~t  ;   IUvReibh/bc of I ,/;;                                7h' Uo'-i,  / "
The mission recommends to set-up standardised segregation procedures in all the HCFs of
Tanzania 73 by implementing a three bin system that should be systematically associated with a colour
coding and labelling procedure. The following categories of HCW should be considered:
Non-Risk HCW or domestic waste;
Clinical Waste (hazardous HCW) that includes all the pathological and infectious wastes as
described in the introduction of this report as well as some particular waste generated in
isolation wards,
Sharps that include all items that can cause cuts or puncture wounds They should always be
collected in rigid safety boxes. In particular, all disposable syringes and needles should be
discarded immediately after being used without recapping the needle or removing it from the
syringe: the whole combination should be inserted into the safety box.
In addition to this three bins system, in the different services where they are generated:
Anatomical Waste, generated in Operation Theatres and Placentas should be collected
separately to be specifically disposed of,
Highly Infectious Wastes generated in Medical Laboratories have to be pre-treated before being
disposed of with clinical waste (cf. Draft National Guidelines and annexe 8),
Pharmaceutical Waste generated in Pharmacies should be separated into two categories. Non-
Hazardous Pharmaceutical Waste could be disposed of with Non-Risk HCW while Hazardous
Pharmaceutical Waste and Cytotoxic Waste should be specifically packed to be sent back to
MSD (cf. chapter 4). The MOH, in co-ordination with MSD should thus establish a
comprehensive list with adequate instructions of Hazardous Pharmaceutical Waste and
Cytotoxic Waste and ensure a proper distribution within the country
b) Packaging
Packaging is a problem in Tanzania. The mission proposes to take into consideration the reality of the
country by implementing different solutions for packaging:
In all the HCFs outside cities, where on-site treatment is planned, 60 litre plastic bins can
continue to be used if they are regularly disinfected. To enable the monitoring process, the use
of other sizes should never be allowed by the MOH !
In the major HCFs located in cities, when off-site treatment is planned, bins for medical waste
should be replaced with bag-holders using 80 litre yellow PE bags (200-300pm gauge). Black
plastic bins could continue to be used for non-risk HCW;
In all HCFs, cardboard safety boxes  , similar to the one used for EPI programmes should be
used for sharps.
c) Cololr Coding
A standardised colour coding system aims at ensuring an immediate and non-equivocal identification
of the hazards associated with the type of HCW that is handled or treated. In that respect, the colour
coding system should remain simple and be applied uniformly throughout the country The
internationally recognised colours that should be applied in the medical institutions of Tanzania should
be.
Black. for all bins, bags containers filled with non-risk HCW;
Yellow for all bags, sharp boxes and containers filled with hazardous HCW.
73 It is actually essential to Implement homogenous procedures throughout the country to reduce the risks of mistakes by
the medical staff
74  Or at least to use recycled cardboard boxes in minor l-ICFs adequately conditioned, as shown in the poster edited for the
EPI by the MOH
N a  ./i a/i I IllI/A-.arr 11   A In;a,;','e ;jf P/ *', 2-  OY.2(' 3          J)rog 41 o,f P196



I /. l ;:gd.'ed 1Rtpflhh4 Of II.,;;                                        I he lt ;,r/,d B,:"k / I :r_v ,weac
d) Labelling
In the major HCFs located in cities, when off-site treatment is planned, the mission would recommend
to set-up an adequate tracking system of clinical waste and sharps. The labelling should be written in
Swahili and English and mention: 1) the type of wvaste in the container with the formulation
<< Domestic waste ª> or << Danger Hazardous biomedical waste >; 2) the name of the hospital; 3) the
date of collection.
| -  -    2 Clinical Waste      ; ,.        Sharps         - -     Non-risk w
Gloves, gowns, masks gauze, dressings, swabs,  Needles, Needle and  Gloves, gowns, masks, gauze,
spatulas that are visually contaminated with blood  Syringe assemblies,  dressings, swabs, spatulas that are
or body fluids                               Lancets, scalpels, blades,  contaminated neither with blood
Urine, blood bags, sump tubes, Suction canisters,  Scissors         nor body fluids
disposable bowls and containers used for medical  Broken glass, ampoules  Sanitary napkins, Incontinence pads
purposes, Haemodialysis tubing, Intravenous (IV) lines, Intravenous catheter  (except in isolation wards)
bags Foley catheters                                                Packages, boxes, Wrappings
Pre-treated highly infectious waste from medical  Glass slides, cover slips  Newspapers, Magazines Disposable
laboratories, isolation wards                                       plates, cups, food utensils, left over
Are considered as potentially infectious waste but                  food and packaging, canisters
are managed separately for technical reasons:                       Tissues, paper towels, intravenous
Human tissue placentas, body parts                                  bottles, packs.
Table 3: Practical segregation examples
3. Collection, On-Site Transportation and Storage
The recommendations provided in this chapter are mainly valid for major HCFs, i.e. District, Regional
and Referral Hospitals For their formulation, the mission assumed that a medium-term objective that
the MOH should target is the safe off-site transportation and disposal of the clinical waste generated
by the major institutions located in the cities (i.e. Mwanza and Dar Es Salaam).
a) Collection and On-site Transportation
The mission would recommend:
StDre temporarily filled up yellow bins or waste bags and black bins in separate locations so as
to avoid mistakes, away from patient areas, preferably close to the nurses room,
In the major HCFs located in cities, two-wheeled 240 litre bins (with a lid) should be used, for
temporary storage of clinical wastes and sharps inside the HCFs and off-site transportation.
Once again, to enable the monitoring process, the use of other sizes should never be allowed by
the MOH!
Precise the schedule for the collection of waste and containers from each Medical Department
in order to ensure the regular removal of waste from each location and to avoid
misunderstandings between medical and non medical staff,
Remove the waste from the different units within the HCF at least once a day,
Set-up separate schedules and separate collection times for black bins and yellow bags/bins;
Ensure that the cleaners and waste collectors wear protective clothes when they handle waste, at
least, heavy duty gloves, industrial boots and an overall.
N   ,,. Ic1,:.,I' (...,, tI -   ;, A  1.l'/,i * I '/ ( 3 2 0(13                       P1cw (I / of[9



IAl. let.t.9.<t[tt;,bii/~d R~pPL'/1tr4  } a!  ,' he Iret               o.'id /ta.k  ' l.,' qn re
b) Central Storage
The mission would recommend to improve the central storage point(s) in hospitals for the two types of
waste. They should be geographically separate within the hospital ground in order to: 1) avoid
contamination of Non-Risk HCW waste from Clinical Waste; 2) facilitate the collection of both
wastes that will go to different treatment/disposal facilities. The wastes should be stored in a way that
they are protected from the effects of the weather and from the scavenging of animals and insects. All
waste should be disposed of within a maximum of 48 hours
c) Off-Site Transportation
For large municipalities, the mission recommends to target at medium-term the treatment of clinical
waste in central disposal facilities (cf. chapter 4). It is thus necessary to consider off-site
transportation A question remains open: how effectively can off-site transportation for HCFs located
in cities be monitored in Tanzania ? Whilst the mission has currently no satisfactory solution, the
following recommendation can be made.
Delivery forms specifying the number of 240 litres wheeled bins conveyed for each trip should
be prepared by the MOH to ensure an adequate monitoring of off-site transportation. The
hospital, the conveyor, and the waste regulator should have the duty to fill-in and sign the form,
plus keep a copy when loading (respectively unloading) the clinical waste. Local Health
Authorities should always receive a copy on a weekly or monthly basis,
The vehicles used for the transport of yellow bags should not be used for any other purpose.
They should be free of sharp edges, easy to load and unload by hand, easy to clean/disinfect,
and fully enclosed to prevent any spillage in the hospital premises or on the road during
transportation. They should carry a consignment note from the point of collection to the central
treatment facility They should be cleaned and disinfected after use.
While Local and National Authorities are developing an efficient control system for clinical waste
transportation, MSD, even if it is not in its mandate, could assist the GOT to transport the clinical
waste in the large municipalities - of course, dedicated trucks, specially purchased for that purpose
should be used Actually this intermediate solution would present the following advantages:
MSD is currently the only actor in Tanzania capable to schedule daily and reliable shuttles,
MSD logistics is well developed and the MOH could take advantage of MSD's experience to
develop technical specifications for the collection and transportation of clinical waste in some
municipalities;
This solution would certainly be the least expensive and the fastest to be implemented
4. Treatlnent and Disposal
Environmental-friendly, safe and affordable options may not be available for every situation in
Tanzania. The health risks from environmental exposure should always be weighed against the risk of
accidental infection due to an inadequate disposal system.
To date, incineration has been the treatment technology chosen in Tanzania, even in urban areas.
Other technologies internationally recognised and accepted for treating hazardous HCW exist (cf
annexe 7) Currently, at international level, two major concepts for the treatment/ disposal of HCW are
applied.
In most European countries (England, France, Germany, Switzerland...), where public health
and environmental standards are quite strict, land expensive, etc.. expensive modern
incinerators are frequently used to dispose of the waste.
,,,, a/hI' (.,, r , U ,a1,'. l ".,'i,;, IP/a! - 21.03 2  003         P    ,-16 ,fJ96



I1h' [  1,./ed R, abkc d  I;DzBl -i ,l,i                              1''If lr'V 1J  e  i :mrenr,l
In other countries (USA, Canada, Mexico, Argentina), where land is easily found for dumpsites
or where modern incineration cannot be afforded, alternative solutions are often proposed such
as autoclaving or controlled land-filling. These solutions remain anyway quite expensive.
With the recent Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants (POPs), ratified by most of
the international community, pressure for the use of alternative technologies to incineration when
strict air emission control cannot be ensured is increasing. However, in urban areas of low-income
countries, because of the lack of funding on the one hand and the increase of the urban population on
the other, finding affordable, environmentally sound and sustainable technologies that remain
sufficiently simple to be durably operated is often impossible. For these countries, burying HCW in
sanitary landfills, using adequate techniques remains the most affordable acceptable option also not
fully satisfactory.
a) Disposal of General Clinical Waste Generated in Health-Centres and Dispensaries
Unfortunately, such a solution cannot be envisaged currently for most cities of Tanzania since
municipal waste collection services are not in a position to carry out the work in appropriate
conditions and there are no sanitary landfills operated in the country. Aware of the reality of the
country, the mission proposes to adopt a pragmatic step-by-step approach.
In Rural Area
Clinical waste, sharp safety boxes and domestic waste should be burnt daily together in "burning pits"
as already recommended and implemented by DED. The MOH should adopt the design proposed by
MSF. Placentas and other pathological waste that may not burn well should be buried (the use of pit
latrines is possible).
In Urban Area
In Health-Centres and Dispensaries located in urban areas the first improvement would consist in
ensuring the on-site burnig of sharps and the safe burying of the ash; the safe burying of placentas in
pits, specifically designed, as already done in several medical institutions. The other category of waste
may be disposed of together with the municipal waste. In a second step, these HCFs may be included
in a general HCW collection scheme, when the collection services are sufficiently developed.
b) Disposal of General Clinical Waste 75 Generated in Major Health-Care Facilities
In Smnall Municipalities
District and Regional Hospitals 76, should be progressively equipped with Mark III or Mark V De
Montfort incinerators to deal with sharps and clinical waste, depending on the location of the hospitals
inside the municipality 77. In District Hospitals located in rzral area, Mark II De Montfort should be
sufficient The mission believes that this option is the most realistic one at short-term and represents a
significant improvement comparatively to the present situation for the following reasons:
75 The expression General Clinical Waste has been used only for this title and the previous one It comprises clinical
waste, sharps, placentas and pathological or anatomical waste that are difficult to bum
76 Some of the four Referral Hospitals, for instance Mbeya Referral Hlospital, should be included in this list
77 The Mark III is designed for hospitals up to 1'000 beds, and burns at about 4 times the rate of the Marks I & It (50 kg/h
approx ) The Mark Vincinerator is themiodynamically the same as the Mark Ill, but modified to carry the weight of a
much higher chiimney for use where a high chimney is a legal requiremcent or where the proximity of other buildings
makes a high chimney necessary to disperse smoke and fumes
u,j/ 1I/-i   ('' V11w l,;, 1'/wi * 2IPlan 74.03 20)( 3                            . Ile - ofQ696



77, ( [nied! Rtpae'/ll of ∞ l-!117j                                  'I he 11'or/l 13an ' 1,memgenre
This double chamber incinerator, designed at the De Montfort University (England) has been
tested and reaches temperatures above 900 ∞C if it is properly operated 78;
The operating costs of the De Montfort incinerator remain extremely low (less than 5
USD/tonne) as well as the capital cost (about 1'000, 2'000 and 2'500 USD for respectively a
Mark II, a Mark III and a Mark V),
Operation and maintenance is relatively simple (coconut shells can be used for instance to
improve the combustion), but the MOH must be aware that without a proper national
maintenance strategy and a proper training of the operating staff, this incinerator will
breakdown as any other system,
The medical institutions cannot afford alternative solutions and/or are difficult to apply;
A lot of these incinerators have already been built and they are already included in the general
strategy developed by the MOH.
Placentas and anatomical wastes cannot be treated in this kind of incinerator since they would
drastically reduce the efficiency of the combustion. Therefore, the mission would recommend also to
equip the Hospitals with a specific pits for the safe burying of this category of waste.
In Large Municipalities
For Large Municipalities (the City of Dar-Es-Salaam and Mwanza are included) a decentralised
solution, using low-cost De Montfort incinerators cannot be considered as an acceptable medium-tern
solution. In the Tanzanian context two alternatives are possible, both of them requires to set-up a
reliable and safe transportation system of the clinical waste, which may be critical in Tanzania
The safe burying of HCW in a specific site dedicated to this purpose with a restricted access.
This solution requires that the Municipal Authorities select a specific site for this purpose,
having adequate hydro-geological characteristics;
The use of a central incinerator without any stack emission control 79. The MOH must be aware
that any incinerator that is not equipped with air-pollution control devices will generate, when
operated, products of incomplete combustion such as dioxins or furans, whatever the
temperatures may be reached.
The mission would recommend to select the first option However, this option cannot be implemented
in Tanzania since there is no sanitary landfill in Tanzania. The second option must be considered The
MOH and the NEMC should jointly deternine the adequate technical specifications for equipment
required for this option These specifications should be used by the City Councils or the Hospital
Mutual Benefit Groups for the preparation of international tender documents 80
c) Disposal of Highly Infectiours and Hazardous Pharmacelutical WVaste
Highly Infectioius Waste
Highly infectious waste from the Medical Analysis Laboratories such as sputum cups, media and
culture plates, etc should be autoclaved before being disposed of with clinical waste. However, such a
solution can hardly be applied in Tanzania. The mission recommends thus to ensure a chemical pre-
treatment in a solution of sodium hypochlorite in concentrated form. Ideally, waste from Isolation
78 Results of a campaign of measures carried out at Dc Montfort University, Professor D J Picken, personal
communication
79 Air pollution control devices are very costly and complex to operate/maintain
so For Dar-Es-Salaam, at present and technically, the use of the rotary kiln of Twiga Cement Factory would be the best
solution to dispose of the clinical waste of Dar-Es-Salaam In any case, the mission would recommend the Authorities to
pay a great attention to the terms of the contracts that they may have with private companies
\N,/lirn._ I r/al/; (C.ji.e 1r, l'A,, J. .; rp,,e,i/ I)/lIaI * "1 037Q.. I2003n 4' WfY6



Wards should also be pre-treated before being disposed of, and, in Permanent Cholera Treatment
centres, waste from isolation wards should be locally incinerated.
Cytotoxic anid Hazardous Pharmaceutical Waste
While Non-Risk Pharmaceutical Waste can be disposed of locally, the safe on-site disposal of
Cytotoxic and Hazardous Pharmaceutical Waste cannot be ensured Each facility is regularly supplied
with drugs through the District Health Services and MSD, MSD trucks return empty from regional
MSD stores to the Central MSD in Dar-Es-Salaam Sending back little quantities of expired hazardous
drugs (waste) if well and distinctly packed, should be possible to organise without major difficulties.
MSD could then incinerate on a regular basis these wastes or treat them with specific and cheap
chemical procedures (for cytotoxic waste) The mission recommends that the MOH consider this
option and previously:
Set-up a list of Cytotoxic and Hazardous Pharmaceutical Waste and specify for Tanzania the
adequate protocols for the destruction of these wastes,
Liaise with the MOF to organise quarterly audits from the MOF and facilitate the destruction by
MSD of Cytotoxic and Hazardous Pharmaceutical Waste - that are considered as public
properties and thus cannot be disposed of without the clearance of the MOF.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z                                  71___ 7 
* Non-Risk HCW                                  * Non-Risk HCW         With Municipal W3sre
11 * Clinical waste    Burning in pits           Clinical Waste       - On-sitencineration  .
- * Sharps  * Sharps      and burrying of    -
__________________________                            ~~~~ ~~~ashes
Preatreatment and                                Preatreatment and
-   Highly Infectious Waste  disposal with clinical  Highly Infectious Waste  disposal with clinical
11                 ~~~~~~~waste                                     waste       
* cytotoxic and Hazardous  Return to District    * cytotoxic and Hazardous  Return to District  .
Pharmaceutical Waste    Authorities and MSD      Pharmaceutical Waste   Authorities and MSDO
|  Placentas and other  B                         Placentas and other    s_
f * Non-Risk HCW       Wlth Municipal waste     * Non-Risk HCW         With Municipal Waste
Clinical Waste         With MunicipalWaste       Clinical Waste
Centralised treatment
o * Sharps             Burning and Burrying  *   Sharps                plant
E  Preatreatment and                             Preatreatment and  J
-  * Highly Infectious Waste  disposal with clinical  Highly Infectious Waste  disposal with clinical
D                 ~~~~~~~~waste                                     waste
*  Cytotoxic and Hazardous  Return to District      Cytotoxic and Hazardous  Return to District
Pharmaceutical Waste    Authorities and MSD      Pharmaceutical Waste   Authorities and MSD
Placentas and other                             * Placentas and other  Centralised treatment
I pathological waste                              oatholooical waste     olant
-Long-term solutlon'.  '  3-f:-                                -       *   ;, - -.-
Dffsit diposl f al ctegris of waste                                           ,        1
Figure 5: Disposal technology Options
Section 3. Strengthening the Instituitional Capacities for HCWM
In order to be able to manage efficiently the HCW produced during their activities, medical
institutions must develop their own strategy The elaboration of HCWM Plans at HCF level is a major
issue. To facilitate their implementation, this requires that the MOH set-up
An adequate management information system        to estimate the quantities of HCW    generated in
medical institutions,
\./"i/I Ic,'C'I        ~ ;"' ,IIV,'21 U 3 20(0,                                          I'0'19 96



li./, ( ;/ R'P5l/Iibhc 0/ if                                               'IUu.a.;  be IV obe'41 13,.nk / i Hmcna
Strategies for the implementation of the HCWM plans;
Monitoring systems to control the HCW streams within and outside the medical institutions.
_ Central                    l   Regional Disctrict            fHealth-Care Facili
Provide Guidelines for the    Compile annual HCWM Plans   l    Set-upannuFaclityWMPlan
establishement of HCWM Plans   Cmieana      CMPasStu                 nulHW      ln
Standardize job descriptions addin                             Nominate a HCWMO
provisions for HCWM
Complete Job descriptions
Complete the Health Management  [ Complete the District Health Plan  Complete the Health Management
Information System           IInformation System
Set-up a Committee for Hospital  Set-up a Committee for Hospital  Set-up a Committee for Hospital
Hygiene and Infection Control  Hygiene and Infection Control   Hygiene and Infection Control
. Complete the National Health                                  Set-up adequate financial
Accountancy System                                            ressources
Reinforce the Capacities of the  Reinforce the Capacities of the  Implement In-Service training and
Health Services                Health Services                review curricula
Figure 6: Recommendations to increase Institutional Capacities
1. Imnproving Management by Establishing HCWMPlans at all Levels
The establishment of periodic HCWM plans on an annual basis should progressively lead the medical
institutions and the administrative authorities to consider HCWM as a routine issue to cope with and
reinforce progressively their organisational capacities. A national HCWM system should be co-
ordinated at central level to ensure that HCWM plans are annually set-up in all the major HCFs of the
country.
a) Implementing a roiutine for HCWM in the Medical Institutions ...
The mission would recommend to consolidate the on-going management and administration by
undertaking the following steps:
The MOH should oblige the major hospitals to formally nominate a Health-Care Waste
Management Officer (HCWMO) who should co-ordinate and supervise the whole HCWM
system 81. He/she should have sufficient authority to ensure that all hospital staff comply with
the HCWM plans;
In each medical institution, roles, responsibilities and duties of the medical and non-medical
staff regarding HCWM should be well defined in standardised and personal job descriptions;
Stock positions for the supply of equipment (bags, sharp boxes, containers) should be up-dated
on a regular basis to avoid any shortages, while disposal facilities should be regularly operated
and maintained.
b) ...And at all Levels of the Health Services
District Health Services should gather and synthesise all the HCWM plans of the hospitals under their
jurisdiction and set-up their own annual HCWM plans that should contain at least 1) an inventory on
existing treatment and disposal facilities in each HCF; 2) a compilation of the needs for each HCF and
recommendations; 3) an estimation of the budget to be allocated for the management of HCWM in the
coming year; 4) a provisional agenda for the monitoring of the disposal facilities in HCFs. Such plans
could be included in the Annual District Council Health Plan
81 More details on the duties and responsibilities of the HCWM Officer are provided in the National Guidelines
é\/fl;,.-l,,/I I I-ai,-(.,n so ll r;, e A I ;/. l~/r.'z - 2-103.2003                   PWe )( ,Jf96



Thr L 'n/ed I<r/h///ZS of /',"W01              I                       he W-orhl 13dank / FIM rlye,-;
2. Improving the Monitoring Framework
The introduction of a protocol for the monitoring and the auditing of the HCWM plans, implemented
at all levels, should lead the Regional and District Health Authorities to regularly follow-up the
HCWM practices in their institution.
a) Completing the Health Management Information System
The mission recommends to complete the District Health Plans and the National Health Management
Information System. These documents should contain provisions to allow the Administrative
Authorities to have a better knowledge of the status of the HCWM practices in the medical institutions
and modify the National HCWM Policy and Strategy if required 8
b) Setting-up Committees for Hospital Hygiene and Infection Control
If HCW is inadequately managed, it can contribute to the risk of nosocomial infections, putting the
health of hospital staff and patients at risks. The MOH should develop an integrated strategy to control
infection in hospitals and include the safe management of HCW as a part of it. The mission strongly
recommends to set up Committees for Hospital Hygiene and Infection Control at all levels of the
Health Services:
A National Committee could develop a country policy;
Regional and District Committees could have the task to monitor their implementation in the
HCFs of their jurisdiction,
Hospital Committees83 could be in charge of their direct implementation. Should participate in
these committees: the HCWMO and infection control nurses that should receive specific job
descriptions.
c) Enforcing Safe Practices
The Regional and District Health Authorities should verify that segregation procedures are respected
as well as safety measures applied. At central and regional levels, the application of this protocol
could be enforced by regular inspections (in application of the specific directives mentioned above).
The use of dissuasive penalties (mentioned in the Law/Decree), at least for the institutions that dispose
of clinical waste with municipal waste (ineffective segregation) could force them to respect
standardised HCWM procedures.
3. Improving the Accountancy and Financial Resources
Without specific financial resources, it is impossible to get sustainable improvements in the
management of HCW. Since HCWM is an integral part of health-care it needs to be budgeted for and
each HCF should be aware of the costs that are linked with the safe management and disposal of the
waste it generates.
An adequate accountancy system, with a specific budget line dedicated to the management of the
HCW within the medical institutions should be set-up This measure, which could at least be taken for
82 For instance the knowledge of the occupancy rate in hospitals and the daily recording of the volumes of waste produced
would enable to estimate more accurately the production of HICW and establish easily crosschecking procedures in order
to evaluate the equipment needs of each IICF for the management of HCW
83 At hospital level, an alternative to the formation of these committees would be to precise the tasks of the Hospital
Management Committees so that they may have the task to develop strong policies on Ilospital Hygiene and Infection
Control
I I.I  a/.l.-(.1P,W I a'. .l na,cr:l I/rin 2 I ()) 3 2003                l')c. 5I of96



T'I,  ( 'ni ,be!e   ol' I ,b  f  7A- he I                               t"orAI B1p.w '/ , ' rgcn,-e
a temporary period: would force the actors involved at all levels of the Health Facilities to take into
consideration and estimate the expenses linked to the management of HCW.
The implementation of a cost recovery mechanism will be difficult with regards to the current
priorities in the Health Sector However, a minimum amount generated by the incomes of the cost-
sharing programme should be dedicated to the safe management of HCW, considering the high
indirect costs associated with any mismanagement of HCW.
4. Launching Capacity Building and Training Measures
A National Awareness Programme will have to be prepared early on in the process and launched
rapidly once appropriate means (budgetary and human resources) are made available. The following
target groups should receive training: regulators and decision makers, regional and municipal
authorities (when necessary), HCF managers, health-care workers and waste collectors. To date,
periodic training of nurses and attendants regarding HCWM are organised but there are neither regular
sessions nor well-established criteria for the selection of the staff that should participate in these
training courses. Despite these efforts, the level of knowledge on HCW remains relatively low in
Tanzania.
a) Reinforcing the Capacities of the Health Services
At Regional and District Levels the capacities of the Health Authorities remain limited. Reinforcement
of the capacities of the MOH are necessary to backstop the decentralised Health Services in their
planning, monitoring and negotiation 84 abilities through:
The establishment of a National Steering Committee on Health-Care Waste Management that
will be in charge of implementing the National HCWM Plan,
The strengthening of the human resources at the Environmental Health and Sanitation Services
through the recruitment of additional Health Officers with specific technical knowledge;
The training of the Officers in charge of initial and in-service training of the health workers as
well as the supervision of the Hospitals (cf. "train trainers of trainers" hereafter).
The mission recommends that the MOH improve the co-ordination between the Health Planning
Services, the Environmental Health and Sanitation Services, the Training Services and the Services in
charge of the supervision of the Hospitals.
b) Training Requirements
The following priorities have been identified:
Specific in-service training programmes on HCWM should be organized for hospital staff
including administration services, nurses, medical doctors and technical services;
Academic programmes in all the Faculties of Medicine and the Nursing Schools should be
reviewed to ensure that adequate training on HCWM is provided;
Initial briefing should be systematically organised for each of the new nurses recruited in a
hospital;
Comprehensive training packages in Swahili should be prepared under the responsibility of a
National Health Institution
84 The private sector should be encouraged to get involved in the i-tCWM sector Flowever, the emergence of private
operators must be accompanied imperatlively with the reinforcemenit of the Public FHealth Services in their control and
negotiation capacities
.\',i.I,,6,/ I/ /i, W< Il ate ,,, I.  ,,.'i 'ant *24.03 200_3                 Pate52 0f96



71,, l ;:te,I RIp/Ill/h  t  I .   , u.d                            i&. Ikbbr  , B 'I he
Potential Strategy for the Implementation of the Training Programmes
The mission believes that the PHAST approach that has been developed by the WHO and the World
Bank in the water and sanitation sector could adapted to organise in-service training and raise
awareness to the medical and non-medical staff regarding hospital hygiene and control of nosocomial
infections. The following steps could be then implemented by the MOHf
Step 1 Develop PHAST Tools focusing on hospital hygiene and control of nosocomial
infection;
Step 2: Conduct advocacy sessions to hospital and Council Health Management teams using
the specially developed PHAST Tools. These teams are responsible for the day-to-day
management of hospitals and other HCFs in the peripheral areas;
Step 3: Train Trainers of Trainers in the use of these Tools. In turn these trainers will train
facility staff in the participatory methods on hospital hygiene and control of nosocomial
infections. The HCF staff will thereafter, develop action plans and monitoring protocols for the
management of health care waste generated in their respective facilities.
The review of the curricula of nurses and medical doctors could be performed by the appropriate
services of the MOH. Compulsory modules specifically dedicated to HCWM could be set-up They
should pinpoint: 1) the health risks associated with HCWM; 2) the adequate management systems that
should be applied in all the HCFs of the country, and 3) duties and responsibilities of health-care
workers.
Section 4. Encouraging the Involvement of the Civil Society
The involvement of the Civil Society in the implementation of the HCWM Plan and in the day-to-day
management of the HCW would certainly quicken the overall process. The Civil Society could
certainly play an important role in the implementation and in the monitoring of new HCWM Practices.
1. In the Implementation of tle National HCWMPlan
In addition to the Local Authorities and MSD, Trade Unions, Professional Organisation and the
representatives of the Voluntary and para-official Health Services, which are managing half of the
HCFs and have the capacities to mobilise the medical and paramedical staff, should be part of the
overall decision process by being invited to the National Workshop 85.. International Agencies such as
the WHO, UNEP, UNICEF, MSF or DED or the Bilateral Agency having a co-ordination role for all
the ones involved in the health sector should be invited or at least be informed of any change in the
HCWM policy prevailing in Tanzania.
2. In the Daily Operations
The GOT would have a great advantage in encouraging some local masonry enterprises in the
construction of De Montfort incinerator by preparing technical specifications for these inciherators
and standard contracts including a clause for the maintenance of the incinerators and the training of
the operators. The local manufacturing of standardized cardboard safety boxes for sharps should also
be encouraged The GOT should study the possibility to set-up a public-private joint venture.
The option of involving the Private Sector in the day-to-day management, by granting concessions for
the collection or the treatment of HCW can be recomnmended under the following conditions-
85 They include the Association of Local Authorities in Tanzania (ALAT), the Association of Private Hospitals in
Tanzania (APHTA), the Tanzania Registered Nurse Association (TARENA), the Medical Association of Tanzania
(MAT) and the Tanzania Union of Government and Health Employees (TUGHE), the Christian Social Services Cotincil
(CSSC)
.\'tfl/: fl./AI   (.wr l   ,\ l   ,;'gfp;/,;,/ /)', * t- 24.03 20( 3         ]a,e g i of 96



l    ("ni/el RJ piibb  of                                         'Ie;Z.   e  / he lIV or/,l,i  b / i:rn,rgen
The capacities of the Central and Local Health Authorities to control the quality and audit the
practices of the Private Sector are ensured;
The Health Authorities is in a position to prepare adequate technical specifications and bidding
documents for international and transparent requests for Proposals.
Section 5. Conclusion
Improving durably the HCWM practices in Tanzania through the implementation of all the
recommendations formulated in the second part of this report remains a difficult exercise. In the
absence of an integrated solid waste management system for the country, tackling specifically with the
management of HCW has led the mission to formulate recommendations that would not have been
made if such a system had existed.
The mission recommends that the GOT strongly encourage Local Authorities - at least the Councils of
the Large Municipalities - to develop integrated solid waste management systems and build sanitary
landfills
The numerous aspects that must be taken into consideration to improve the HCWM in the Tanzanian
medical institutions must be articulated into a coherent National HCWMPlan, with the development
of a precise Strategy for its implementation. This is the object of the third part.
.:\,ºmjl IIra//h C.,rr. [I W1.'/ .Al , vC;:/} I/)t U' a   ()1 B0303          I'age 54 ,f 96



eI hi L ntled Re,ehbi ogf I1;,i,7/.,                                  'I he Wlor/,l Bak / l :'pergenc
PART THREE
National Action Plan
Na,Thmoal I eal/h-Car. lI ar/e,1 Iaaa,"e'n/ P/,, - 24.03.2003                    Pqafct 5 of 9 6



7Th  I 'tl,.!ed R,/wbA  Of I ',                                     1 h17,.S I  k  ohI ,lt'   Kw, / Irnr7eqenrt
The GOT must develop a step-by-step strategy to improve the management of HCW in the HCFs of
the country and reduce significantly the occupational risks associated with the current practices. The
strategy should show clearly the medium and the long-term objectives to be achieved and reflect the
integrated effort that is necessary to set-up safe and environmentally sound HCWM practices.
Whenever possible, it should underline the institutional and individual responsibilities as well as
define the monitoring and administrative procedures.
Section 1. National Strategy for the Implementation of Plan
It is of the utmost importance that the GOT implement new HCWM procedures in close co-operation
with all the stakeholders of the country and induce them to develop their own HCWM plan. New
standards should be appliedfirst in the fotur Referral Hospitals. A three-steps approach is proposed:
Step 1: organise a National Workshop;
Step 2: establish the institutional framework to initiate the HCWM plan,
Step 3: launch a National Action Plan.
1. First Step: Organise a National Workshop
The national workshop should focus on amending and validating the National HCWMPlan as well as
the National Guidelines 86. The implementation of the HCWM plan will require a regular commitment
and monitoring. Thus participative decisions should be taken during the workshop to ensure a good
co-operation between all the stakeholders for the future implementation of the- plan. The following
institutions should participate to the workshop
National and local institutions: MOH 87, Vice President Office, NEMC, MOF, MSD, CEDHA,
Nurses and Midwives Council (NMC); Muhimbili University College of Health Science
(MUCHS), representatives of the District / Regional Health Management Teams;
Civil Societies: CSSC, ALAT, APHTA, TARENA, MAT, TUGHE, environmental NGOs,
representatives of the private sector,
International Agencies WHO, UNEP, MSF, DED, Representatives of the Bilateral Agencies;
The mission strongly recommends to set up a National Steering Committee for HCWIM and designate
the members of the Committee during the workshop. In addition, specific work groups should also be
established.
2. Second Step: Set-up the Institutional Framnework to Implement the Plan
The National Steering Conimittee for HCWM should supervise the overall implementation of the
HCWM plan 88. The members should meet on a regular basis (every three months minimum) Some
key institutions should be involved in this Committee in order to obtain a broad consensus The tasks
of the National Steering Committee should be the following:
Nominate a project co-ordinator and compose the task groups;
Establish the criteria for the evaluation of the HCWM plan during its implementation;
Designate the administrative authorities in charge of the implementation of the HCWM plan at
Regional and District levels,
S6 Drafted separately
87 And most particularly the following services Policy and Planning, Preventive Health Services, Curatives Health
Services, llcalth l-luman Resources Development
88 The institutional scheme proposed by the mission to implement the National HCWM Plan is shown in the figure 7
.\ah,gljI iY/aI/11-Q,.r,; II'  f k I  - , it 2'1 03 20() 2i                   PAg'c 56 W96



T eI ,.t 'ited R,v e ;,,bc  I an;,ao,                            '  1 h  Wor/l 13wz"i e   hmr1 eiwe
Select institutions and Regions to test the HCWM plan already established;
Set-up intermediary and final evaluations of the implementation of the HCWM plan.
A project co-ordinator should be assigned a full time post during the overall duration of the
implementation of the plan (i e. five years minimum). He/she should have excellent organising,
managing and communication skills and should receive external support if necessary He/she should
co-ordinate the work of specific work groups that will be established by the Steering Committee.
Four multidisciplinary work groups should be set-up to deal with the numerous aspects linked to the
implementation of the HCWM plan and achieve, in their respective field of competences, the five
objectives contained in the National HCWM plan, that is.
Objective 1: develop the legal and regulatory frameworks for HCWM;
Objective 2- standardise HCWM practices, improve management and monitoring procedures;
Objective 3: equip the medical institutions;
Objective 4: launch training and awareness measures,
Objective 5: reduce hospital waste and pollution.
The mission recommends to clearly identify at all levels - for the implementation of the specific
actions - supervision and co-ordination bodies with well defined duties:
At National level, a task force is responsible for the overall implementation of the HCWM plan.
It includes the National Steering Committee in charge of the supervision of the HCWM plan,
the project co-ordinator and the leaders of the work groups;
At Regional and District levels, the Regional and the Council Health Management Teams are
responsible to supervise HCWM practices within the Regions / Districts. The Regional and
District Health Officers are in charge of the implementation of the plan;
At hospital level, each Medical Officers in Charge is administratively responsible for the
HCWM within his/her institution. He/she watches over the application of the rules and
nominates the HCWMO and an Infection Control Committee.
3. Third Step: Launch the NationalAction Plan
The implementation of the five objectives contained in the National HCWM Plan requires the
development of specific actions. They are included in the National Action Plan (NAP) presented
hereafter The Plan should be periodically monitored and reviewed As mentioned previously, a
typical timefraine for a NAP is around five years. The NAP is structured as follows:
For each objective, a table surmmarises the actions that must be taken to achieve this objective
The actions are classified by order of priority,
For each action, the institution responsible for its implementation and its co-ordination are
designated. Indicators of achievement that should help in the regular monitoring of the Plan are
indicated The initial and the annual costs in relation with this action are presented
\ I-a.zz/Zg.g/1/"'-.,//'26gr I1I,gst,> ,,/r ................ loi,J,l,l"l)/, Er.  .,X,()3 2003  of ........, ;,96



7lb     d 1,rR'pli"'h1rc Of 7 i UllZnL                                    ]'I be For/ld Bak f o3annkI
-   Members of Task ForceI 
Supervision   Project Co -ordinator
i|| TeamLLeader 1          jj ||| Team Leader3
Working Group 1            Working Group 3
Legislation & Regulations         Equipment
J1 Team Leader 2 |||   1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I Team Leader41 
Working Group 2            Working Group 4
HCWM Procedures        Capacity Building & Training
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Regional Health Officer in Charge
Regional Health Management Team
a aI D000 
e.eO*Oa.oe,...o..  -             a***a****c    00 .. .F. .oo..e..e. .*.s.......e.
District Health Officer in Charge
District Health Management Team
* 0 e a * 0 a 0 e * 0 o e * 00 e  1***-*  e              o * o o o a 0  e a  * - a o o  - a 
-----------------  -  IMedical Officer in Charge]
HCWMO
Figure 7: Institutional Framework for the Implementation of the HCWM Plan
Xt',"ona/I fbI-a/hC-ir, [I a                 20 Al "', cirtI 'i;'I (  'Y8)3          Parc 58 of 96



Section 2. The National Action Plan
This section presents the National Action Plan in five tables The first table summarises the recommendations already formulated in the first section while the
five other tables present in details, the actions to be launched to implement the objectives
Preamble: Define a General Framtework for the Implententation of the NatiolnalAction Plan
Actions                                                                              C-riain         Sprson             Indicators of        Cost (uSD)
Actions  Co-ordi nati on  S upervIsIon  achievement    Initial  Annual
0 1  Organisation of a national workshop to modify and validate the proposed NAP and  MOH    Chief Med Off   Minutes of the Workshop  5 000   none
set-up specific work groups                                                               Of Health
0 2  Establish a National Steering Committee on Health-Care Waste Management      MOH        Chief Med Off   A list of the members is  20 000
Of Health    established, the objechves
are stipulated and regular
E_                                                                                                                meehngs are scheduled
i:   0 3   Designation of a project co-ordinator (PC) for the implementabon of the NAP  NSCHCWM   Chief Med Off   Job descnpbon with clear  120 000
0
Of Health       definition of tasks
0 4  Establishment of the cntena for the evaluabon of the NAP dunng its implementation  PC     NSCHCWM        Indicators of evaluabon
0 5  Designation of the administrahve authorities in charge of the implementation of the  MOH  Chief MOH           available
NAP at Regional and District levels, selechon of the Regions to test the NAP                             Directive of the MOH
0 6  Set-up of 1) titernediary and 2) final evaluations of the implementabon of the NAP  PC    NSCHCWM      Progress and final reports  10 000
Recommendation
The involvement of bilateral or multilateral Agencies should be sought to obtain a financial support for the implementation of the NAP
l.,.,'--.. ('rm If  e   i,' ;Sz. -Zi; j'/l - 2-4 ! 20f i3                                                                                     Rl"r,9 *9 -`)G



j    J R . p-,h .f: /t-::..                                                                                                          T. PU 1i S  xf  } 'k
1. Develop tine Legal and Reglulatory Framtiework
Actions                                                                              Co-ordination    Supervision        Indicators of        Cnit    AUaD
1.1  Prepare National Guidelines for HCWM                                        WGLR & PC       NSCHCHM      Guilelines are avaida6te at        none
all health service levels
12   Prepare Nalonal Policies for 1) Hospital Hygiene and Infecton Control 2) Safe  MUCHS           PC        Two documents are         9000
Management or the Health-Care Waste                                                                     available
1 3  Complete the Public Health Act ard edit a specific Decree                   NSCHCHM           MOH        Decree published in the   15,000
Tanzanian Gazette
1 4  Establish a Code of Hygiene for Hosptals                                     NCHHIC           MOH        Code of Hygiene available  10 000
1 5  Elaborate a Specific Policy for Inlecton Safety                                 2              MOH       Document available at tbe  1500
MOH
.    1.6   Elaborate an Addendum to the Local Government Act                            AMOH             GOT       Addendum available         500
o    1.7  Complete the Professional Code of Ethics for Nurses and Midwives in Tanzania   NMC             MOH       Code of Ethics available   500
and taught in the nursing
schools
Recommendations
To implement these actions, the MOH should set-up a Working Group on Legislation and Regulations {WGLR) Should partcipate to this Group Lawyers, Environmental and Public
Health Specialists from the MOH and MOE
Ideally, the HNabonal Guidelines', the list of acceptable technologies and a catalogue of equipments should be annexed to the Decree The regulatory documents should cleady define
roles, responsibilities, dubes and penalbes for the mismanagement of HCW (cf part 2 of this report)
On-going controls carned out in the field by the MOH and the PHS should be reinforced to ensure an adequate implementation of the HCWM plans They should be accompanied with
activites of advice and follow-up
The cntena for enforcement and incitng measures to ensure that the medical staff complies with the management procedures defined in the lawldecree and descnbed in the *Nabonal
Guidelines shoutd be set up together with the Trade Unions



2. Standardise the HCWMPractices and Improve Management and Monitoring Procedures
Actions                                                                               Co-ordinaton   Supervision         Indicators of         Cost (USO)
achievement          Initial  Annual
2.1  Set-up Committees for Hospital Hygiene and Infection Control at all levels of the  MOH   Chief MOH   Member list is established,  0      2000
Health Services                                                                                     regular meebngs scheduled
2 2   Define acceptable procedures of HCWM and requirements for HCW disposal    WGP & PC      NSCHCHM     Amended NaL Guidelines &    1500     0
E           technologies                                                                                        list of accepted technologies
2.3   Designate 1) HCWMO in Referral, Regional and District Hospitals, 2) Officers in  WGP & PC  NSCHCHM  Job descnpbons               0      5'000
charge in Health centres and Dispensaries
2.4  Define a plan to reduce hospital waste and pollubon                        WGP & PC      NSCHCHM     The plan is set-up          2000     0
2.5  Complete medical and paramedical lob descriptions                          WGP & PC      NSCHCHM     Job descripbons             500      0
2,6  Establish of the HCWM plans in the medical insbtubons                         MOC          DHMT      Hospitals HCWM Plans        7'500  15'400
2 7  Prepare official forms for the establishment of Regional, District and Hospital HCWM  WGP & PC  NSCHCHM  Form available in medical  15'000  0
plans                                                                                               institubons
E
E     2.8   Establish Regional and Distnct HCWM plans                                   DHMT          DMOH      District Council HCWM Plans  0     12'000
2 9   Prepare a Plan to reduce HCW and pollution                                  RMMT          RMOH      The plan is available       2000     0
210   Elaborate a cost recovery system                                             WGP        MOH & MOF HCWM included in the          4'500     0
accountancy books
Recommendations
The action 2 2 should include 1) the inventory by MSD of Hazardous Pharmaceubcal Waste & Cytotoxics and the set-up of standardised procedures for their safe disposal
The action 2 4 should include 1) the inventory by MSD of the matenals susceptible to generate pollubon when treated, 2) a feasibility study for the replacement of hazardous materials
with less hazardous ones, 3) a feasibility study for the implementation of a national waste recyding programme, 4) the set-up of a waste minimisation programme
The forms for the HCWM plans should provide the necessary indicabons to estmate the quanbbes of HCW generated in their institubons / Districts, report incidents, inventory the
available equipment and matenals and assess the on-going needs for HCMW The Regional and Distnct HCWM plans should be gathered and analysed at central level to penodically
adiust the 'Natonal Guidelines' and the 'National Policy'
,' p  ,,,   ( ,,i lL'-; r  1) tr    24 U3 21'fi3                                                                                             M     r I,096



3. Equip the Medical Institutions
Actions                                                                              Co-ordination  Supervision          ators of            Cost  Aual
achievement          Initial  Annual
3.1 Elaborate of a National Catalogue of Equipment for segregation, packaging, collection  WGE & PC  NSCHCHM  A catalogue of Equipment  4'500  0
and disposal of the HCW in the Medical Insbtubons matenals                                           is available
3 2 Wnle Technical Specifications and Bids for the installation of centralised treatment  City Councils,  NSCHCHM  Documents available  4'500  0
plants in Mwanza and Dar-Es-Salaam                                          WGE & PC
v    3.3 Impulse the creation of Mutual Benefit Groups in Mwanza and Dar-Es-Salaam  City Councils  NSCHCHM     The Groups are constituted  18 000   0
o
X    3 4 Negotiate with the Pnvate Sector for the construction of De Montfort incinerators in the Referral Authority  MSD  Agreement and Memorandum  1000  0
o        Large HCFs outside Mwanza and Dar-Es-Salaam                                                           of understanding signed
3 5 Launch international bids for Dar-Es-Salaam and Mwanza Municipalities Evaluate the Referral Authority  MOH  Documents available   1000
0        possibility to use sanitary landfills
36 Equip all large HCFs with segregation, packaging, collection matenal (including  City Councils  NSCHCHM  Offers, contracts       600600 359'300
protecbve clothes), transportabon (if necessary) and disposal equipments                  WGE & PC
3 7 Equip all small HCFs                                                     Referral Authority  SCHCHM   Delivery forms & field visits  150000  45000
WGE&PC
Recommendations
An Achon Plan for the equipment of the HCFs should be set-up The mission recommends to start in one or two regions first and always with large HCFs
The Catalogue of Equipment should specify the technical charactensbcs of all the matenal (incuding protective clothes) that is accepted for segregating, handling, packaging,
collecting and transporting HCW inside and outside Medical Insbtutions Ideally, the equipment should be listed
The pnvate sector should be encouraged to participate and comply with the technical requirements issued by the MOH for HCWM handling and disposal Subventions could be
foreseen for the private Tanzanian enterprises ready to commit themselves in producing disposal materialequipment at a reasonable pnce (e g WHO/UNICEF cardboard boxes or De
Montfort incinerators)
AQ       1.  l,~  ' (r., r  IL 2 ,~ It .7+ " .1Lwl,.ts,r  '' 1'fr"i * 24/ iA S?iJ(iJ                                                               Pfln *~2 P,'. 6



4. Launch Training and A wareness Measures
Actions                                                                              Co-ordination  Supervision       Indicators of         Cost (ual
achievement         IiilAna
4 1 Set-up an awareness campaign for the medical and paramedical staff in health-care  WGT & PC  NSCHCCWM  Posters are displayed in           0
facilibes                                                                                           Hospitals
4 2  Review the Academic programmes in Faculbes of Medicine and Nursing Schools  WGT & PC       MOH      New curricula available    1'000    0
E    4 3  Provide Technical Training for the Health Officers of the MOH, NESC, Health Officers of  WGT & PC  NSCHCWM  Training packages available  50'000  0
Nabonal Insttubons (CEDHA, MUCHS), Regional and Distnct Authonbes (Train 'trainers                  and sessions organised
0 c       of trainers')
4 4  Set-up a Group of Trainers and elaborate a specific and detailed iraining package in  WGT &PC  NSCHCWM  Registration of the groups  11000  0
Swahili for them (train the trainers)
4.5  Set-up in-service training programmes in Regional Centres for medical, paramedical and  WGT & PC  NSCHCWM  Reports of the different  15'000  6'000
technical staff                                                                                     groups of trainers
n    4 6  Recruit new staff members at the MOH                                         MOH           GOT      Job descripbons and new
positions at the MON
,    4 7  Organise systematic initial briefing in medical inshtutions                WGT & PC     NSCHCWM     Briefing procedures available
. Recommendations
Academic curricula should be reviewed as soon as possible
The mission recommends that the groups of trainers organise the on-going sessions directly in the hospitals Several steps implemented every sixth week for instance The sessions
should be organised in a partcipative way and could be based on some elements already developed by the WHO and the WB through the PHAST programmes



I,,,/ I"            '16-,  ..'..                                                                                                      ',n,,,
5. Develop a Plan to Reduce Hospital Waste and Pollution
Actions                                                                                C-riain        Sprson             Indicators of         Cost 1USD)
Actlon  Co-ordination  Supervision  achievement        Inibal  Annual
5 1  Inventory the materials suscepbble to generate pollution when incinerated   WGE & PC      NSCHCWM     List available             10'000
5 2  Contact suppliers to assess the feasibility to replace hazardous materials with less  WGE & PC  NSCHCWM  List of matenal to be replaced  5'000
hazardous ones                                                                                        available
5.3 Inventory inadequate practces associated with incineration                   WGE & PC      NSCHCWM     Synthesis report           25000
vl    5.4  Assess the feasibility to implement a national waste recycling programme    WGE & PC      NSCHCWM     Synthesis report           10'000
5.5  Set-up a of waste minimisation programme                                    WGE & PC      NSCHCWM     Action Plan                40'000
Recommendations
The waste minimisation programme should focus on the cleaning methods, stock management, etc  but above all on the segregaton practices that are set-up in the medical insttutions
and at nabonal level,
Establish waste minimization and waste management objectves for each facility, propose and adopt modificabons in current practices and policies aimed at achieving obtectves,
. Monitor and review progress, provide ongoing support and assistance to ensure objectives are being met, revise approaches as needed,
Establish a countrywide or regtonal training program, with access to the facility, to train and certify experts who can then implement similar best practices at other health facilibes in the
country and/or region
Note special attention should be paid to the nsks linked to the Introduction of unsafe practices (for instance linked to the recycling programme) or to introduce at least more hazardous or
costly material as the ones in use For instance the replacement of mercury-base thermometers by simple gallium (indium +stain) based thermometers would represent a huge
improvement to reduce the release of hazardous pollutants in the atmosphere



6. Tinmeframne
The mission proposes to develop a five-year action plan The MOH should establish an adequate timeframe according to its institutional and financial
possibilities A regular monitoring of the implementation of the HCWM plan should be set-up - every quarter - and the strategy reviewed accordingly if
necessary The Project Coordinator will play a major role in this matter
Section 3. Cost Estimations
Disposal of HCW remains costly The direct management costs should however always be weighted against the indirect costs associated with
mismanagement practices The overall initial and annual costs for the implementation of the plan and the standardisation of the HCWM practices are
presented in the table 4 and based on the calculation provided in the annexe 9 The initial costs cover the imiplenientation period of five years of the plan
It has been assumed that
The National Action Plan is imlplemented over a period of five years,
Dar-Es-Salaam City Council will be able to negotiate an adequate price for the collection and the treatment of the HCW and will use the incinerator
currently in construction,
Not all the Dispensaries and the Health-Centres of the country will be Immediately equipped during the implementation of the HCWM Plan,
Only the initial costs associated with the equipment of the Govemmental Hospitals have been taken into consideration, assuming that the other health-
facilities will be equipped by themselves
The total implementation costs of the plan ranges between I'300'000 USD and 1'400'000 USD while the annual costs associated with the new HCWM
procedures would range between 450'000 and 500'000 USD, but could be crossed subsidised and significantly reduced through the development of Mutual
Benefit Groups among Private and Public HCFs in Dar-Es-Salaam and Mwanza



S..~d. .V,,t   .Ie dl'#ChiAk                                                        Th..  a";'. '9 :g 61  ;.--t N.   r1'f --  -; ' r
~~~                    5j- *-~~~~~~~~~~~4m  5w           a                                 a"
*                                                 --~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,f-.   - dy  D,E W
_      OQipraipsalen oil no renol noinsOop 0 inoddy and vandals die piopoeid  49000Ct  SOO  a       0f1 7br,oosabrDoilo di Macen enfilrslp reqeres o e p-senano olficans
_       _  NA? and nenono-Doof5Droint ootniopup,                                                         M fon. Iataiodays., OardsSlaan,a
MsDs   aos5ger9cmibro Hleith-Q, W.C..
2 0 2 E'~nua Nacend ~  Cenoosan en HeAP-CWas,         150600030     20000            O           0 ReguDor merson9, ofdie NPC fouoa0eoffpeR3 NSCHCWWM  d 10 p r 3 ininoh)
5       d Oestgnoon of.M pmefe                        11o-on2nat (PC) bor die nennaoen oldie  e000  e-ge ly ofd2M 000 USo I Ion th. piorenIl Odkaf,I -nl* ,g
-   N   EAP and fIe eonhg pinups.      gm__-WhN_ tups of 2 persns on 3                                                 mgr pei yea,
_  -Eslaimnnt fd onlb,   foo hr eoatoaenn of die NAP durrg alh      O                        o
-v -rnssgnooen of ae ooneneooia. e udionemsne cai aoe of die
_ 05 opeNaPsenpieINAPaiRegenal odOsunlvels, seleeon ofde      O           0             |          0
O oin of Ij 9  1raneedeny ord 2) rAi erralaios of in anyomneDOq  9EaOOOOO  inooo   a           C on. enatoabon psorqo'alen
TOTAL -                          15l900000  -- s155e00   .        O  .   . -
If Piepona Natial Gudednee to HCW4                          0          0             0           0Qpieed r mamson
-  2Pios M nel1 P1 oloe toil) ftaN Hfene- and lefufe Crlonrol 2)  8320000  9000                   3 persons NAN mona,
late lanaenee of 0* ffealu-Ca Waste                                                             .-    6-h
1 3Colplole te Pub Herdrh Al d ed dda lpe De-nie4 r 470W             1000            2           0 3 Pe-ns fb mIon-s
-  4EslaoAolaCodeolHngeneteflepdal                      96l000C0     1013.0           0           SgrDsieootoaiondis
1f Elabnae a Spekoid Poy fr, n1eon Sa-eyr             1f4700         lC)             O           02 3 pe-nn WA I no
-    10 Elaborrola antddenduinronelenoLDraGoveinmintAeo     90000 000                     0          0P pfe Is -n moodi
~, Coineloc  die Paofetsoional Cud. of Ed.etont ffr uisos an d Glodones nS9000io  _            0 _  persanfoolr mcndhe
..    -     -    --  TOTAL         .      ..          ........   . 22540000.- 2 n00,  - -- 6fl
21 Pe la2                                                                                         h Co-ooiiutsNAHYsp/-fhHyona[ and cIn-e Conrrol ola lo  h 0 S-M w 2n3 d  nf  nine'  easny seeospasoeenonndat
w   2 2 dsposs ~tecnoe 10-                                                SO                          1 prIc b 3 -U.b
22 -1nW. 1) HCWMO   o ROf- Rg-   Ma Hospt. 2)                                                    1 HCi ond  rhrudre-e- Mi  2  b1C  a pf od .o -bti
0 nre, on uta9e in Heofdi senSes and . 0Dtpe d  *s                              o     r    oo 5wpese  hm  th CIM= L-1 (ph-pgsof d-1=in  W
2 40ehe a pln oi oduoo nospual eas, and po.uien        ldOP          2`C Z                       02 persrisn N 2 monins
2 5CPinpifs medIal ed paiainedea job des .poone         490500        bOO            0           a I peenel- . orn -h
2 0  s Ia b h  dhe  H C W M  plan ei   i nh s nd ail  s as non e  7  350 D0 D 500  25039 000  1540o   =   Cade les ru t  b e  pe ed  arda  d. etocod  .the  - p ,tH CFoC s and
_~ 22 e7Oce ol *r dola HC                                 14 72000 ee   15 OOrn 2 P- sVb 3                       iths rddl doof Wtt bm
2 f Ell.bl ahd Regsm-] kn D,l btHCWM pi..                                         EOC         Z3btsOwgdHt9 bbrg
-. 26El0ooRgooauilolodffkn                                                0        ff760500     l?CCDOaksoppngoH.ftha0Auenue,
20Pn2  e PI-P-'. ir dueHPi. dd HCW rd pobu-n            00           ZOOO            0           O2 p.---s t 2 -ons
*  210  Elab-toa a mr  os iy syeit                       44100         4 S             2           02 Pe-  3   tmndhs
. .   - - .-:TOTAL        - *                30'1700          000    z 337112000 - -  '  i
--i ! ;iiy  I /0  1/4 ri./ til. L) f/JcplJ  I~o, 6 _ _ .6



01W,r.w  of  A Nbuora  Ca.aqgo  of ESqp.el foe ooqeu00n
31 paognqM ollecU.oWr d.posaf of Ihe HCW,n he Medsal lmobne  4'410000  4050   0         0 3 pe-,os fo3 -U.nta
WdUl. TeFd al S"oecabo,s 0   and  ol, fo the -lblior of l   4410000  4300  0         0 3 pe n fe 3 -ot
2  -(ealenl pIanO In , me Mth ono al-  Oil Es-Sala3                                         b
3 3 e IesI lne 0,0e410  of Mutua  enehft G0oupo bWe,mn mhe HCF, n
M -010 00 001 EssO.Soan                        fIT64010    IMO            0          01 p.-150 S 36 -eolh
_ NegoUale 0h 01. Prolt Seoo fr tle C.6shl- of 0. M000p0
_     ,f rnrlnoMworHCFsu dM.W.a WW rDa-E'ZWbW.
3  Loneh rr-lematle M6ds J1I ts Dil Et S-bam and waM-E  E-luaan  ___6______TOGO_a_                                   _,_2
3eOl 0510n1a  rlde fOe 010 trr 00Slao umbr 50.000  toIo.   ' 90'd00  2 s    0          0 OC2 p es0ne foe 20000106
_Eqnu WI albg. HCF, w, h gqrqgr   pazign w1.C ecrrnmai6
36  inLdudn  pootecte M0Oe0) Iloranpeldon (1f rnassary) and dsposel  b5226000  665l00  35211400  359'3 D oede.a- -0.IoboU ,
3 7  1Equ1p small HCFs                            14me0W0000  150'DO    4410000       4510
46 SegOrsee SyOletallo ~e50lElle.-;g =n.1 ,O6=         ' neS         HEO.
R.- th. Adm. _rOTAL h F-rme,00 ofMdk00. rd N-n0g      .    0              0  0
_P.nl T chnl T-mr q. brth HeaIUt Offa- of Uw MOH NESC
h f4 2noealO CMne ofNnl Inssluborr (CEDHA0 MUCHS)0 R0 l ard  49TJn00sn0o'00W  5
52 _   nlsbd AuUp Uels 01ea ooed m  fad Erly 01.10 ) alOSmll
3Sf4,  rGe '1n SWdh3.111d. 0d d01211404000 0000 t0 5                                       P.- 0  2 mondnn
2'   61 emc UFt   pog  wrl RSg01  Cee h000, me al0  36000Ie000                a         a
4e   R .. A -eu  WtIr bf membe,, .1 Uw MOH               O         0       5 6B0vW      g'00
r, I6,1 Orgam-s sysemU.1o bn,fiq n medal nsL uwor      0         0            0 
_ _,r -~                    'Ff T 41 , TA8- 15680000 1, a160O  A380'000        A 444700
5St Imr-ntwy thb m4 Estso oPUbliob hOe capital and anmnual ost of She SS00W0  H0             a
('511 2 mp- 0 -.# Ih. f,lb * y h'p'c- h-drofuf mso (ls 490lM
5   .trn0y narXroua praccr  -ssoc  1 V,  -.1-rHalr  24 sooooo  25'00
5*Ass-s the f.sbWlh to,.Mprrri naupr.1 tasl wydmrg pg.- m m 950W8001DO  low....
55SWlep . of wasle nr-mfilc pmqrWmm             39 200`WC     MOO0
t  ' _q-,>'-'T-"'- -' 9  ' '''2'w ''>.':l  ,, TSH,'r,, "  USD  J5o ;SHI-^4>UD -
1 ii' ; ''7>'E XANoD TOTt> - ls ,,  1 t, 1, 278'0 18'000 ;1 305'6001-435'866 000 E ' 4"70
Table 4 .Estimation of the capital and annual cost of the National HCW,M, Plan
.~~~~~~~~I 3 2.0                                                                                             P..... 0. 1 



T7, I    R:ed itp!la/bbc of lI ;I. h, .ke W or'll Bz.ik                        1_'Wrfen,'r
Conclusion
With a few exceptions, the current HCWM practices observed in Tanzania are not safe and have
harmful environmental effects due to a lack of knowledge of management procedures and the disposal
technologies available as well as the low financial resources of the Health Sector. Although they are
difficult to estimate, the direct and indirect costs associated with this situation are certainly high.
The development of appropriate financial means for the regular implementation of the National
Health-Care Waste Management Plan will remain a key issue for its application with regards to the
relatively high costs associated with such plans. The Government of Tanzania may therefore develop a
specific strategy aiming at improving the health-care waste management practices in the large medical
institutions of the country first or implementing measures for specific categories of health-care waste,
such as sharps.
However, the experiences carried out by several actors in the Tanzanian Health Sector have little
chances to remain sustainable as long as a holistic approach is not developed. Actually, the sustainable
implementation of safe procedures to manage health-care waste requires a lasting commitment starting
at the government level and prolonged all the way down to the hospital staff The implementation of
the five objectives targeted by the National Health-Care Waste Management Plan should contribute to
durably improve the situation if they are progressively implemented.
The legislative and regulatory provisions will need to be completed so as to define both which
practices and technical solutions are admissible or not as well as who is competent/ responsible
for what,
The standardisation of the health-care waste management practices, though the establishment of
clear protocols as well as managerial and monitoring measures will be a key issue so as to
secure the whole health-care waste stream. The procedures will have to be in accordance with
the prescriptions contained in the national legislation and in the internal hospital rules,
The equipment of the health-care facilities will provide to the administration and medical staff
the necessary tools to apply the standardised procedures in their establishments and medical
services;
In-service training programme and adequate curricula will have to be set up followed by the on-
going training of all people involved so as to ensure that hospital staff know the importance and
the best practices linked to the management of health-care waste.
f"l,01' f ka/rLa'  c  , .! A ;,   .wm , ,,,' . )I / 24; ?0) 2) 6 ol 96g



s(, lo 8,9  ',Y,'                               ' (() ' J(J /P   .1rI7( /1fa/ll,1 r)/"7J  : d/')J   1  di' )-q/1/P2dil/l'l/(/l \:
saxauuv
.v.7u11.-- - / ßYuvfl  ,qi0l a4L                                         ,Il~IU    lz,',,j  qqlv1g7>] i `9/ 1."



7 I, ( f 'i{,] RQp,'hl/u '3/ 1,w/lU,11711  Ik                     e lLWoi B4.. "'  I hr, l:re
Annexe 1: Terms of Reference
-- , '-'^S;]-HEALTH CARE ,WASTE MANAGEMENT PLAN n       -, -    --
GENERIC TERMS OF'REFERENCE          .
M uti sectnoriaI2RlV/AEDS-programs for the African'Region c
,(Senegal, central African Repubic, IBenin; Madagascar, Cape Verde,Lagos Abidjan CrridrTanzania)
The introduction and project justification is taken from the CAR HIV/AIDS project and changes from project to
project
1. Background and Introduction
The proposed project is part of the World Bank's Multi Sectoral HIV/AIDS program for the Africa
Region (MAP). In accordance with the main goal of the MAP, the development objectives of the
project in the Central African Republic (CAR) will be (a) to contribute to reducing HIV/AIDS
prevalence; (b) to reduce the impact of HIV/AIDS on persons infected with or affected by HIV/AIDS.
The objectives will be attained through a multi-sectoral approach, facilitating effective activities
undertaken in various sectors by public and private organizations , and by communities in the fight
against HIV/AIDS . Project-supported activities will complement government, donor, and private sector
initiatives. The activities will vary by community and sector but be consistent with the draft national
strategy against HIV/AIDS, and proposed by the actors themselves. Nevertheless, the overall focus of
these activities is likely to be massive behavioral changes, access to voluntary testing, counseling and
treatment, and support to people infected or affected by HIV/AIDS.
2. Project Justification
A social assessment and a series of consultative workshops held in early 2001 emphasized the lack of
support to many public and private initiatives against HIV/AIDS, and requested that the proposed
project focus on supporting and scaling -up of large numbers of such initiatives, in a massive, cost -
efficient and coherent way, in order to facilitate a rapid nation-wide expansion of responses against
HIV/AIDS. The project will support responses in agreement with (Comit6 National de Lutte contre le
SIDA) CNLS strategic priorities, which are in line with the Government's overall policy to fight
HIV/AIDS. Project supported activities will complement the activities of existing programs financed by
various donors and NGOs which are already engaged in the fight against HIV/AIDS in CAR. The
project will channel resources through large public and private organizations already providing basic
health and other HIV/AIDS -related services at the national level. In addition, the project will develop
Comites Prefectoraux de Lutte Contre le SIDA (CPLS) at the prefecture level to directly channel
resources to local organizations and communities.
3. Detailed Project Description
a. Objectives
The proposed project will reach its objectives through activities financed under three components.
These are: (a) strengthening of the public -sector responses , (b) strengthening of civil society
responses, and (c) coordination, financial management, monitoring and evaluation. The project will
invest in cost-effective activities with potential to reach large segments of the population To
strengthen local capacities and ensure continuous and timely flow of information on HIV/AIDS and its
prevention, all project components will include substantial emphasis on training and behavioral change
communications activities.
\`i:'w'I../ I 1],,/I, h (   7i tI', I  f! .¢>fl'; .' 1P/  *21 B2 2   ;    1'.4  G" ,/ R93



'I X,' (  Ac! lI pub.  0f 'I 7a'  fiil,i                        'JcSe Worlrd B,ak / 7:mrrgence
The handling, collection, disposal and management of HIV/AIDS infected materials is the most
significant environmental issue in this program. In light of its importance to contributing to the spread
of the disease, the project will prepare a Medical Waste Management Plan, which will be appropriately
costed with clear institutional arrangements for its execution. In many of our client countries, the
inappropriate handling of HIV/AIDS infected materials constitute a risk not only for the staff in hospitals
and in municipalities who are involved in waste handling, but also for families and street children who
scavenge on dump sites. Some aspects of project implementation for example the establishment of
testing' clinics, the purchasing of equipment by communities for home care of the sick etc... could
constitute an increase in the environmental and health risk with regard to the handling of HIV/AIDS
infected waste.
b. Development Objective
The objective of the study is to identify the level of Health Care Waste Management that will be
relevant to help implement and enforce proper health and environmentally sound, technically feasible,
economically viable, and socially acceptable systems for management of health care waste in CAR.
The examination of the of the current practices with regard to the handling of hospital waste will verify
both the management of waste within the hospitals, clinics and other health centers as well as the
management by municipal authorities once the waste has left the source It will also look into the level
of knowledge among staff (hospital orderlies, nurses, patients, municipal workers etc...) about the
practices to be adopted, and into the availability of equipment such as incinerators to deal with this
type of waste.
4. Scope of the Study
Task I analysis of the current situation related to HCWM
V  Assess the Policy, Legal and Administrative Framework as well as the Regulatory Framework
on health care waste management and treatment /destruction facility in the country including
air emission standards which are currently required by law and which would likely be required
in the next say ten years
/  Identify permit requirements, including environmental building, and other permits and
procedures that health care waste treatment/destruction facilities would need to address
V  Outline any public participation or public hearing requirements and procedures. For each
requirement, list the lead agency to be contacted.
ï  Assess the typical time demands for proposed facilities to obtain permits and address
environmental impact requirements and public participation requirements
V  Identify all healthcare facilities in the country and include basic information for each facility,
such as number of beds, bed occupancy rate, specialists, divided into categories. university
Hospitals (if any), Regional Hospitals, general hospitals, Municipal Hospitals, and other health
care establishments.
/  Assess the health care waste generation at (i) one major hospital (ii) one major regional
hospital (iii) one general hospital, and (iv) one private clinic. The details should include the
minimum weigh of total generated at each health care facility per week. Composition of the
waste should be determined through segregation at the waste end point, extrapolate the
results to cover the entire country
V  Assess the level of scavenging, if any, or recycling taking place inside health care facilities;
along transportation routes, and at final disposal sites. Determine social issues in relation to
scavenging taking place.
V  Review and analyze existing health care waste storage, collection and disposal systems with
due regard for level of separation, the frequency of collection; and environmental and health
impacts for existing treatment
Task 11: determination of technology and facilities for the treatment of HCWM
V Assess alternative technologies and facility sizes for treatment and destruction. The
assessment shall compare the alternatives on the basis of capital cost, operating cost, ease of
operation , local availability of spare parts, local availability of operational skills, demonstrated
reliability, durability and environmental impact.
I\ S //{)}/, ./ 1 l { {//, I2 -( { .1 l t t ;/ {.  l  So, s l," &  N z,  _ 24 F 02  {)0) ;  l ,, 70 t/ 93



, h. (f 'nied Rcp, , '/w , of I  .'n..;                          I he 1l1 orAl Kwa . / I :m,n nCJ'
/ The technologies to be considered include. safe land-filling, incineration, sterilization
(autoclave and microwave) and chemical disinfection.
ï On the basis of this assessment: recommend a process flow for economic and
environmentally sound treatment and final disposal of health care waste leading to selection of
appropriate technology The Government and/or facility should make the final decision on
choice.
Special provisions for the determination of disposal sites
/ If site for disposal exists, collect all existing plans of suitable sites to be considered for the
locations of the treatment facility(ies) and review general transport and traffic systems relative
to appropriate sites. Consider (a) accessibility to the site, (b) distance from health care
facilities to the site, (c) distance to sensitive areas, (d) future development plans of the area,
(e) possibility to acquire the area (f) cultural and historical sites, (g) public opinion, (h) noise
and dust impact to nearby areas. Public consultation/hearing must be held as part of the final
assessment for sitting of the treatment facility.
V Analyze of the site: analyze the above information to determine whether there is sufficient
appropriate material on site for daily and final cover, whether the site soil, hydrological and
geo-hydrological conditions would ensure adequate protection of any ground and surface
water used for drinking and/or irrigation. If the sites prove to be unsuitable, inform the client
stating the reasons
Financing
The National/Local Governments, potentially in conjunction with other municipal solid waste treatment
and disposal activities, may finance a regional facility. An alternative approach is for the private sector
to provide the health-care waste treatment and disposal activities or waste transport for the entire
region.
/ Assess private sector participation as service provider.
/ Assess public-private partnerships and cost recovery at the regional, municipal level, based
on the polluter pays principle, where each health care facility pays according to the volume of
waste generated.
Task Ill: awareness and training
/ Review existing training and public awareness programs on health care waste management at
hospitals and other health care establishments and prepare a training needs assessment.
V Working in conjunction with the relevant government institutions and Municipal councils,
prepare a costed training program and a well targeted Awareness Building Campaign
Program including the general public, and more specifically health-care workers , municipal
workers , dump site managers, incinerator operators (if that is the choice of technology),
nurses , scavengers/pickers families and street children. The design of the material required
for the awareness building programs should be discussed with the relevant authorities and the
general public to ensure that their concerns that are deemed appropriate are incorporated in
the design of the program, siting layouts, mitigation measures and community communication
programs.
V The Training and Awareness Building Program aw well as the Management Program shall be
appropriately costed and the Plan shall be presented in a National Workshop.
Task IV final report
Output and Reporting
Present and discuss a full draft report with the project authorities and the proponent, and focus on the
significant environmental and human health issues in a format similar to the following
V Executive Summary
/ Policy, Legal and Administrative Framework
V Project Description
V Baseline Data
V Assessment of Healthcare waste
V Healthcare waste Training Needs Assessment
,1\t,a')/o.// I-I '~I,/I,,-( , .. 1. IL2 , .fauaL 'no! 4 J)/, / 02 20(j1       71 7/ o/3



'ITh. ( lni!ed R ef/ul6/c of I;,wla                               'I 7he ll'orl.d BUJ, n 1  ergee
V Determination of Technology
/ Determination of Disposal Sites
i Management and Training for Institutions and Agencies
V  Monitoring Plan
/  Appendices (list people consulted; references, record of Inter-agency I forum/ consultation meetings)
Final reporl
Revise the draft report in accordance with the comments of the World Bank, the Government and
other interested parties and submit the Final Report incorporating all changes and modifications
required to the Project Task Team.
5. Study supervision and time schedule
The work of the consultant would be supervised by the relevant government institution(s) responsible
for the project. The Agency will coordinate with all other governmental agencies, ministries and other
donors working in the sector. The Consultant:
$ shall begin work no later than one month after the date of the effectiveness of the contract. It
is anticipated that the Consultant would complete the outputs of the work over a maximum
duration of 6 weeks with four weeks in the field for data collection and two weeks for report
writing and finalization of the document after the review has been carried out;
/ should propose a clear schedule with critical milestones, and makes all possible efforts to
complete the work at the appointed time;
/ should have the technical competence in scientific, health, environmental and engineering
fields in particular sanitary engineering He/She may also have competence in the private
sector participation field and skills in training and institutional strengthening;
$ is expected to provide 6-8 well binded reports with pictures and maps where necessary to the
Government and the Bank
N'\atl,m,/ I It,al/!1'-(, lle It dwI( A  /i,,  * 2/ (1_' 200;                M,,P ,  -2 ol 93



I1  0     7 ' 0                                                                                  l   ie  - ,   o ,  1 IL  . 0, .,1
Annexe 2: Agenda of the mission and contact list
Agenda_* rnissions December 2002 and January 2003                  Health-Care Waste Managemeiit-Tanzania
a.)   da       ,'0                         ."   ..d.          .  .
0,_     _ ., .n.      .    00r 0.1. '                 ...   _.          '     ,__   '  '  _   _ 
.a                       D. E_ ..  ____, ;
09s30 21330  Z.., Oq0700.330000  Co. R--0 000.0mI0033000000.03000OoOy0.00090
1000 100  0,0o000MlhC       r  -    -O  W   M.,00000.O.o00000010  _________________,___    ~ Ww          D
0030 1230  Dgrok,0m      .o..0l0rn0 lTn0 nar00oaL5n  R00Td3WO.0.00Oe
1230  1330  TN. Wot  .0R  ,.g  .Oooo  ...  yT.000  .o0p0.0  0 Unl0ooSo.S0e
s W  I'm     tn an cWJm d            4W lb ne.t TO  ofe   Cnb
0r M.brg00   The W.0 B. D, 0 0 ,d300 W.0003000h   WAWo r a .0 3 0 k, . 000
10 300 04 30  Inb nuSOnOO  CO00oon R 00000000153 d:000DTh  o0 0n0J.100oz      a eD  hnIs  f l
.00230 0945  CO0o.n 00.  .00,10m00 0003  ogr dam m F T 000000noo 001031coo0 *n v- 0..00000  000000,,0310000000
mm mm                         .0H Stan~nnmrn
OB                                                      Dr. C.-pa STh WoA- C -k GDr M~g  CDdna bO Ila l  tI6sAn/clef  dIUnmez
4 rrd1 3 rq 17r  a 1r T.        K..
_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00 07000o 0d Od00 d  0Hdd3000.031nn00 H000000030000000
oa3Od oa3d  Vn.00  Boo.s  Plk000 won . 0003003 000000000AnosEH
13                              30  14 3C rh WOKd BMK r ArFAKwVA ba4s 9 UC1:  0330.00o05u03000.0r.03_000  10d0003 30-0000100
0000d 0330  '0005.000 04.0000  C000IAOev_mf d000900ao00  0. Sdd WaSO. 000.9.0.0000 n T00.0304 U00MnngOO Sro Eoo.noo
Eonooooo.o    Teono ro 0d Ooo.-o  0.0rn0 b0A d00000100A0.30l009dA0l 00.300o. O303g.50 001.0
-  ..003.000300000003.50000                                            93000,  0 0 0000  0 31K*000,-0 .
W 00 930  00  -  .0030-0000000,r,1,0tSdWW.0 03000000,00000000  0000E000,0 1
'0' 14~  1100,'-,,0  E0,   Il  0    00 ItoOood" 00  00/,;.  .  I?:  o  0W                             3  j
NM "Wro Bmh.nd uoxtlSFc S.W.                   19y npAmom              odnnMw[d  Cda   s  7Ah9   A   dl d
a, 1300 I'md  WiydHeo hOVmgaT  8pelhmfed1-mANAdtWHObn,CWhhm -ay Rlw.Afft! VMwAb7(lO u -Y
1500  ?M3  MumAK-fmf     ionHApa                       rnd  xIwOK
I 'M3  2- nRwwdxrnrnr
5  KY. Ob Ih
\-  /1 ,  r  ;  1;; twe >weZß' 'S Mp  02 {R2"/Or                                                       -3 lig  J  9;w



I,-  L  f  ~~~~~  ,i  I 13~~~~~                                                          0~~.. IL  .        - 
Agenda missions Decemnber 2002 and January 2003                                          Health-Care Waste Management'Tanzania
_ -    -  |  -    .    0, -                                               .-!  ,  ,  _-                       - :'.21'
day     dale     I      - Placeo              Porpome I lopics dilupbsea     -    n- Ierh3.loculors  .emarks                     - -      --,
03 0-1000    M"I   I             or-
10 30 12 30  M .UnrnloO,0M0e0ooren  005 oft 010 Oleol p d .000.1        Mr0     C.efrN-   Oler
13 00 1330  ISso 0.00 GMe,0 00.ol.Mopdy Coros  ra.I.9 f,lLro KSen   M fe bff0 Wdb  D (MO.) K.08- 0a-MOn0g0
I  1 00  1600   Ari   f0I64P.1      V4 f A-0. H.l ,p.so(Ibb D(18 ,K)                            0,0.. ff00.18  .10. P. -  ho.O rnefCnlr, 0t000,01 Cooos
16 30 -17 30  Md-. aS ii Fno&    Sryn VLs W2ociTi lrn b-t , got dMt-Irn bvmoh off rrr  M,sVn  MS.w ll ncbrr.ozl Y
. 05 00 10 00  M.oW, ofr/an HaM PI-. by PM. 2 Mr)oWWo.-                 M, A-t1 c0 rf  ,nCff
. o 0oro   1500  Th. Wold B.Oo         0l
01500  1030  Mr t0eof090             0 of f'1,et o                      M,fM110  M,rAtrvecL- 00;  ,M0
1630-20 00   NW.y,00,00 K        off.
0a0-1dY D00  21 SI
: 010         O O- X                      ToR y ol rearh  10eotso,kon Y  tde TORf 0 IM OoA-luo arooCeo rm 01  be0rlonc0IY  6rAm00           _
10 00  6s00  Hoh8a, 1,H0000       001
9S0    000D Oveem_e220 h  1f1 W10 0GOVA
AO0u0t.m  J7n 11J 1 I 00000          GVA DES
I SoSvrb  Ja, 12h
.  0 D          T.-                 A-0  001 E. 00
.  1100 10630   Mr0d-   ..           10001 cbtWr ff111. d00000                                  ____M_____Y _ __4Cw_ _ __o_ _o_ _  _    _   _ Wrocr
i   17 00  2100 13 0W h
1 2Wronody J.m 13h
;  08 0 09 00   Th. WY0d Bok       0D.0000m 0000        .- rr01 M.         D,6 0o0Mtfw.
* 0900 10X00    M-, offH.0         D.-ro n0o rPnog-sefo r    W000t o1w0lKnd h0ml5o l.   10M00g1- 0vA-000
1000 1200      VdforbryG00000 coDooooOEG D00  0 nH000eB1 C..L,s Pbooba0f 1060 0P0 10 M.-  W1T-W05,001  M 101v101001000po aotu-b  nd.u,0r oP*.W-  0
1600 16.03   UNICEF              EP No000000g0 of UNCEF .0pd0y of UNICEF W 011 dl.poLOl  M. Sk0 0  o0n0, M,F-w SI.- P0 0   AD yo0og 01001,0010 hnr.leoty p 0n"M W.. 0101Mpl0
1630 1 30    Mn010yof 00000      Sr.0oo of S  pi o" M01of! f k- JICA    M. T*n3Mr00000
1f30 2030    S-00A0 0 0o,0000m000M0d1C0 SC-. 500010005 1 08001 008 0P-0001  M, DQey OPIY CO.Y10t
13  T00A0  Jn 10 I'll
03 X 12X     0000 00u 00000.1.1b D10  V110 of dD.00ok 0 10              W0A101015(MOH) Mr KMof(t  A dbotb ff00h01t0040100I.l 0 10td 1  0 ,t 00000001 otf hmM-e vr-. 0d OES0Yn -
.D104), M, SO.h (D0po015k)  rm gv. by PATH I010tw.- 0 0o00t0k t, rpd 0 2 00 m1g0 0 M *r 01 0   Sy-v 00d0000 0
12 30 14X0   Th. WoM Bok         C...toe b  -.k trlunAM- iKhne          V,rKre-I^e7d5mldvLaE
14 X         T X rh WYM dBaJ,    C P4vr op of d a_ bw P                 D,;TVr rmO Mwv1W M, AM-W.u (MDH)
IsX 13 I     Medr;a S-a Oewrmrt  fthcy ol MSD fY U. dUWotr of ..PM eoW  M, K.PS,, S-a LgormP Ad-Ur
_  00 22 30    Th. Wrid wnk        Odko. dPA rr                           JonAl L- fond        pATH lto,d WtobDropsrk L= f. t -  of O2DcdM HCW !M.-[ pt) MnDES
14 Wd,ncW.y bn~ 15r
074548C330   Thc. WgTd Bftn      S4.1-/ d1 LM AghHt hr Pf.--anw wof W-  WK...
0830 1010    Th. wodd rbn        MDobogt; M Osporl=k Re.c-.M,M,,MSDanMrO M  M R.yno s(OrotMM,k)M, K-vod.
.  13X~~~~Tf W.-I r,,v           rpofr-  a
21 X0 23 X   IrRnoa IsSG         Off5                                                            
0s  0T000Y br 160
M 30 1300    0 00000 M"0y0       00 0 0My
'0300 000   M1000 0f     Ohfc    M M00010R0g.,M M0l Ofr                 M,60,,WM M,M1bb M-
I 1 XW 12X    r#L Wby.Rv2rawlrop   IV., Mt,HoopIw                         M, WMWJPd Wre M.rI AW..t  Th. .-1 hM4PW .uecnne MWM  Mt OPO fY LwLrthVryrr
-  0100  000  1.60901Sf   fOfooeooo



('rl(i 'r'ßRrn' a  it.lma:.                                                                                                               1 ar I t1Pz'd !}.liq'1  ....It W s l, ,,,
Ag        3nda missions Deceimber 2002 a'nd January 2003                                '         ,Health-Car6 Waste'.Mana,g3emerntltinzan.ia
da,       d.tla             Dlrca                .PUrpOS;rI lopl d.SCUBSaD       - -ntocuios                                        reark-
1200 0I                                                                          MMe 4"r ,;t;  r,i'  *r ..aar.  ;1. .A-
400  50       MxataRe.,endocOLtt Maletny  V, ofa  Materrory .ar.c                iceyr M   SMarmso    Th.e a talr ryalrada.ulyl n al  S Ir o M  lb, l t lratibl
*.: 1S50 15 2      rso On a Sra          Macorg orlr ic Oan Mda tdDTr rof Hlltal  DI Muga. M, Mebb M, Ar-ti
15 30 16-30   UrtaDOoarOlMtbUyd HIfeal Cenrr V  l RlHaflMr C1on, De Moal-rnMaUe
_    6 30 - 20 00  T. to Marnf
75  Frump J30. 1l
07 ' 0 083 0  Ma.fga Ilrge            InpTIcluNga
0 530 09 30   Iromp Re9gricd.Mdial Ofr.  Macrgr ,,h  Regol Mdal Offer          Mpr.ya. Mr Lykrgagi (Ncar
09 30 1100    IingReg-srW H."       Vd rcleMeHr La                             D,racon MeTttgo-omx MiA-.c
MY ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mr Merrik 11.900 Oricay
_   110 323       Iongs Ma.a            Tm trMafrfp ol)
1230.C400     Ma.Sga Duo MrePva     V0 rlrr trolaFL                            Mr,c-tn MNgra MrsGoa       d 8 y rrnttarFun eta niadorc  r  Col anaraca ICCa  F Srlr
*    DO4 lS-X    Irene ano - e Dopary  n nor. of tre Drea-y                       M,rA,re a rNiur-kb Mr T.MO.  D.tMpntary yery mFrUpt.r of001 dritr O.Pbrtgraa (T lanai-s araDrdtg mOr,
500 2000 W      arlirga Morronr     rT. cbarloreaa D.,                                                         __ S_b-______________
17T S.oamy Jttn rAn
08 30 13 D  W   rmgan DES           Tncrt t t Dh El SaboWo                     MrWAsctu
_   4 X 19 00  OfrI WMoric         ODrK WorM
AS  St8rby Jar 19Im
12 30 180     DES - M.- tMlr T, IC M- rMA"r
15 00  30     MSF ofrfra Mrre-       rem B rlna Ibe HCF oft- reDr _,r N.adSac!,-                       _
*0730- 0830   da d (Oerra Carn-rbor)  Elmrarr ofMaala G-r Ca.aba-o orHCWM Sr 0  ne   1ftne   Mr,eli Mr rcASe, MBr MoB. M.
.                             nKrtr~~~~~~~~~100                          Clrirrar
*  030-09 30  M.- RMgcrrolMadrcarD Trr  Mrdngo CT.  tt M Rag-orI alOrol Ofr    M, Mbma Mi Mddaue
1 09 30- 30      SOarg-1agR HoMospolal (liu)  V0010M flooatnl                     O Mrarr DrM- r m-  aNg.. M, Aon,,
1130 1200      or Rura Osiro Media O0k.  MN aMr cr00000500Md0 Orca or Cargo eAd 00 Ursa IleAl  M,iA-oaa Ore fapoge, Ore Hlad
O'Tro
12 30 14 30    MSoan R-ral DOreIn Mba.-  Vag of 0  Dsnriy                        M, A-elrne Mr Hradab. DM.. MIn
-I               O rnacoanro                                                      Sarrrbarm
14 30-1630    M... Raol Dr.iN VgrrC  l ofcle Healm Can"                        Mr MAcaloe Mr laMa M. Aroapa V M,abrd a typicMSFa earlcreasleIrc pok burn   sharp pd. aoe)
H."lo Cona
7530.7800C    Mlerna                 nFrrsrei4doclrmNrso Orronrem-ol00&trocs   Slfnialrok
2 830  22 30  M.n.r                iR-nn
20 Trawocy Ja. 23rMd ~  'CM .
08 00 123 W    r Mara R0mM Ooe RYdcrepary n  ore Mr- Dpry                      PA, A,-crd Sa CM.bnnmL Mr Ba., MS. dd Ma notatUd a Ira daa-yy * onr-r LYranerg go lay a d ddir 13 Doprre  cady
Macrn                   W--R-aaeon
12 00 14 30   dad (G-a Cagoar-r)     Iro                                         A-n tr   garllranca or RY h '00 rare aprare ri Mr Aioce MU Clerical 00546Mr
AJ                                      ir Lreron                                  Mecho
-'74  10 M    M-a DES 0d IrCfk0DES                                             wrA-oalus
1T70 1500     DE005                 meJcrto hdi rrg   c S- I MhH               MrAncru, Or Di, DrI r Olg
15 d0 2000    DES TFr Wflan rimraubL of Ib lua ofir .gc
21 00  23 00  Hobde  - H0.80        R.sonrw_
21  Wadna day J' 22nd
0500 7 00     The Wo0d San          ofic mo  00 SaMoa  gcAoroped olocaigncrorlt)  Mr Karma
40.7a00       The Won Sank          Meco~ng ran    p.. p   f_   -t              ,KM
1800 7500     Mni Cofd Hlar         Caeaaolla da rsofno m-xn                   Mr, noe1uc
_  70 0300       Hol,ry bn HC Md       Reponag
22  Tay J.n 23nd
0Cd-71200     Th     a W.oJ Bank    PIiccoi
120W 1400     MMK                          T.rW.gcr e D,o,.                    MIAe-,lc. MroFKrra M,Krrhya
>r;< , r',/t Ph ,/rr c! ar- . i S n, I1 I  l 41a'. r ,  fi/ r  `. 112 2:,                                                                              iqr ; J,, '  



lb', Un 1,. R  i Iq                                                                                                  T" l:, , .  '1 li, Ib '  f/.
Ageiida'*-missi6ns:December'2002 and .Jan.uary 2003'                       -         Health-Care,Waste Maragement-Tainzania
da~ ~aalle       - .    PiC.            *   P.rpose I lopics disc.esad - -a. - ,t    I    'A     -     .         rerOo4ts --  ; 
,.0., ! ,  _   .4_I-, _ , _  C.Z4  .4  _o - O  _   _   ,    _   0__.
r  18 30 2088 00  _ 011;o0
23  Frrdy J.n 24th
080. 1 00   Th.1 Im XTn4        MbN; 0o0 U Ka- (P.c- 1.r lor sg1nlOt)  M, K.,1
W1   O 1sO. 1230  M11qydHrm        Dccknl80dh0m-                        MlMOUOr MlA-v40. Oo 118lb
is 08.530   Ton80 r 4,0001.0113  910400010014,01014 V r r Y cnd 8011,00010101111.01   Ma 8,0,400 USO] 11*110,1., Ml NOo4n .20. annOni bcym ory 0 s4.1 K10  te.ur,N .T   yhPo   In o-o,o14 10-  a. 0001080-14 n4rabl,
.1430r 18300  Mno11y clHn081  r   d b 0104080001.00   c04l OJfimaw MrA018 o,f0n43   O E S 11e40110110c ICusrdI
183 0  18 30  T19 WO Bank      .0 1                                 OIM. -   --lOngalHn
19 30 22 30  1o.y kn I1. 11tn1
241 S." "a"           U 25'1hIMl1  I                                    I
J  0 I2i                         wtC 12X  MSF  lXndiV4
25. Sdacy D-Ice 22N q                   c v
Ni,~~~,.  _/ I  .a",,  .e  It _ ~ ,-21(-'2 ( 



9199 99999699., 901  0*9*169*999*1*       1*16*0*99110*0)                9996  0*90199  9*1*60( 9/9
9199 99999 990.  901     996*691*6-d*64*1          b9*9     Am.)9I6*                  O99M   01999  W,**6*9  IC 19
9969969690)999*. 901 ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~QpH) `)W 9R Alyo 91*90*4Mm9996           916995  99     la 19*
M   19-1 It I1(0) SSZ.  PI                          06    -*19 Y1**09*10*0              49919*1  .*o)o  -N1*699691 
99999* 16999)i IC 96  P1.                          .4lIwO AA     41                     61)19*  *9**9*  6*9   IN B
DE 19 [99 99 W99*I Pi                   ."my w*001**  *,1996966*99***V9*991*9     6  16*109 1  *0*0*  -NJ69  1* 9I
or9O9999999999.- Pi  -*91- 61*9.* 009  l-990           0*to 6.06*w                0***1 U1*  11*9     Ms9  p999
EC DE 919 99 9SZ 99c                                I.   qdI-                  .9  m   I   -     I6m     0o
W6699 199919999999   P1)010*  I99691                69**9*1*6119161991999611                 9*61*9   19119   90
9*99  *69 909999.)SS . PI                                    1-R1**P   -*16006* 0 **H 1 - *l11  9 0Ml-) 99*0*9N  "*199  9*  I9 Os
9061999999Z99M9,  901                                      0*11*19           1*6**) 9 1*016996996l.  6999  la9S
909999 61 "   9*S *  P15~ 19*9*1*. 190*/**999           96010* -*06*9        1**1)m   1*0*9990*66*9  901-**9  91909  9W LO
999 El9999599*,z~   Pi                               *99 IPA *O 96-9***      111*10*mm 1*909066*6  *90 ,m91**16  1w go
Z5 El 919 99 999*  901                                1*6099 N*6*1,0 699     111*0960*  96*1*9*9  61*91*9  .p9* *  1* St
I  z9919 got 9o) 999*. 906                            t*601*01199W.%6           90*99*-60*6  16*1 w 99  rS*9*  W* It
*40*699                 moi- 99-.6199 W169161   16  qI*0199  *1*to
99**069  999  OS -99., 90                            96*96 -                                   A99*6(90*)P90691lb  V*0  90*6969  1996
666999999.  90I1fcsr  ? P                             99*6* 01191**1                 1**919919**r  96*91  *9-90  0*
9691696996O)999*, RI61        9*4**11*            9                              I6 6* 9*0*9999 1*)9*19 lo kn*-   999 
990991999)0 9*si . P1      69*99*0*46691*6W                                    vDi 0161901  *1*9*11*9* 1*90  *99*6.  91*999  -9*,I  *9LE
51 11 1 "1()ssz,  1 91 6 96*~ W 1*1915-R**60991** 9-11  -gl 6*99910996.9..*069in .  01*0*9 n**9 114*  *66* H1  1*900  W. 19
9619   Z " (*999999699 sz 901   w,tmzoo-~q                        s1.,0MS VDo                      d    *"     WZ
999999099,  P19*969091*40*1                  9199911  0  **6              *990*619119.  099      6*9*M  W9It
Oto 961099969)Olt 59*9  91z~                         *999**9991010-09              -  *6  699-90S*96*1         o
CS11 tzC 9* 99 96 Pi(M)  A.9., 901  10**99*w*949.P,..) 11901-fP6                   6*666*9-99*P?  1*916,  919*  'a469
S86ZDSZSZtO)SSZ-+   PI                IDVH ~~~~~~~~~~66*6691 *99199  *699 6169  66*69  / 9969*66119  fh0Qw  0165  61*6
IIE~~~~LE0n(O)Ssz++199**94Pi619- 9                    O9*999199*9690*9   966 A69191990 W1  -*11d  09**9  9
*19*01**0*9*1W k499*96*9*09    96*6*0W 6 ilm   R19069b 9  *9119  99*9  *9  9
0*1`*`690*6199r0*1996*05          A-q 96*66991*9A6*9  9*161  *1*69
1*96509*1Wl 699-A  -N 990*d1HW.m 9*0 A*0*09 W9  66**19  p*1*9  -W99
9*690*9*9 19**-609*9699699*) -6199*91*  1*99q16**911  6W 
999 E99 669 (0) SZZ*  PI01d7                                                        WM*169996069 *6*9999la9 6*10*  * " *669   *1*9
1*99991*6                o*66H . 916916.   n6919  9W St
999096999)9999*  p  11*1**449199*9p                  199019*11                 96966*   *6*     *16   9 
9996*9969(0)699*  11*96*z01999p1*161*19*006                                          619*09-9 6  l9    "'S*01  M 9
oil oat ati (o) szz~~~~~~~+ al     mn..Wb A*910061**9**1*I                              -   -P b  16
OIL 999999699*9*P 901010166*96-                               311*9*199*1 H *9966991099d169)0*99916 =-006*  99  9*9  6 -**6   96
,+ PI                                             I P-I-Id~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9*1*1991 0*6*0001  69*d  66*  Io,
919999999699. Pz         1**1*691*0664*90                         ' *99*H999196*60 )1d9H1*996.09*911  0*
94996699 9999 99 999, PI901--"  w0110*6 W14j909*1690*6  )6-9*96)1*6616w*1*16,  0*191**-29*11*1  0*0  -91*9  *9990 W 99
69 199si9Is9996, Pi        1*9*6169               99690**9 199*01-9O6992 14  W-*) 140 ***96P69019  - 9*6   199S
991 199595i 0 s 909P                                   -W     D          -   ---S16191*099*1*969  *96009**.19909**6*9  019  9*N  -W66
lot9Olt669659*-.+  i4     5p".P  4-P                   W  P- 9*1901*099*1a9 *9o*0*999-699996  910*1 0*1)9*9611  9669  -**011  9
EC9699909599*6  90    6*19Ms*90*066                 01*1666999.04         91916*969191*16**0- 9 90*99  6*19* 6
9999999999.  901110*961*10*41990690  19699161*49961606  5666110966 9991)9*9**9  6*6106  60199  0166196*4)19
to , " . SS+ R9*I ~    W), 1"  91,9WAye - - -<:        - . .A*099*069*0.09199099  -  .06996-61 1*1"*.1 *99191'4 96
.1, W.9,1         aly~-            *.- IR   *t m      2:                              ...  1
- o    ....Js-* w. *uu           *9i..eeze   u -*'.w.:-./ 45e   W .                     *  5        69*1.*H
______________                  -.                                    .          .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IS1   " IM 3 :F  I O U
UO    -v(,JRiWI  Jd., 9!U2ZU9j                                                    Z' ~UBWI JUJ'O~SUM'BJB3.LUIRG



I h, 1 ,ied/ R'p.h,/h& of 1U11,,u.J                                       J ke 11w-,/ 114u4 / I :Mergenre.
Annexe 4: Data collection and analysis
1. Example of Hospital Assessment
Min contact: Dr Ngwalle, Executive Director
Dte of the survey: 18-19 Dec. 2002
General information
Muhimbili Medical Centre was built in 1956. It includes the Muhimbili Health Faculty and the
MLuhimbili National Hospital, which is the biggest Hospital in Tanzania and the main of the
four referral Hospitals in the Country. A short walk through the hospital reveals a poor shape of
the infrastructures (leakagc of boilers, water tanks or plumbing material, parts of ceiling falling
down etc ..). Muhimbili National Hospital brings to mind Gericault's painting "Le Radeau de
la MMdusC".
* Number of wards: 40
* Number of beds: 1'200
* Average occupancy rate: 90%
* Total staff: 2'800 workers
HCW generation
Type of wastes generated
All the categories of health-care waste (HCW) are generated in this hospital corresponding to
the numerous medical activities that are carried out in it. More details are provided hereafter.
Quantities of HCWM produced
The quantity of health-care waste produced at Muhimbili hospital has been roughly estimated
through the discussions with the ancillary staff. The estimation of the daily quantity of HCW
produced per occupied bed per day is actually important to estimate to:
' I) plan more adequately the resources necessary for the management of the HCW;
v 2) size the disposal equipment.
*-- ~ ~   ~     ~    ~     - ,,--.. . ,.=                .               .,
-.  --.'-.-*..        ~~~Daily
-      e category      p                            'Comments          .
- ,    -               ~~~~~~~production                                      I 
3000 kg are daily collected by the munidpal services of Dae-Es-Salaam,
Domestic waste                      2800 including General Domestic waste that can roughly estimated to
reDresent less than 10% of the total weight.
General medical waste                200
considering that the capacity of the DeMontfort Incinerator (Mark 11) does
Sharp production                     150 not exceed 30 Kg/hour in the current conditions and that the incinerators
is run 5 hours a day.
Organic waste                        214 considering that approximately 6 m3 are disposed weekly and that the
waste has a ratio mass / volume of 0,6 kg/litre.
Total                                564
special and hazardous waste production  0,42  kg/occupied bed/day
ratio (total hazardous HCW / total waste)  17%0/
The figures hereupon are similar to figures found in other African countries for a similar
health facility. However, the production of hazardous and special HCW might have been
overestimated since the hospital treats also the "organic waste" generated at the Medical
Health Faculty.
Natu, l / , I Jeal//-(  l Ma I      ;  a11W<, "/l/ J/,,z- 2'4 02 2N); 200              ,.     93



The I h tw,irdI RL"Mb)/bILc of 1I'ii/z1I/1                        7I ke Wt orl,Ild 13k /I ,' :mrgaei
Segregation, packaging & labelling
After having received a training organised by the WHO, the nurses attempt to segregate at
source the HCW generated in the different wards, which is a positive aspect of the HCWM
practices in Muhumbili Hospital that should be maintained and reinforced. A three bins
system has been set-up in the different medical units:
v The "organic waste" are collected in separate plastic bins of different size (mainly 60 litres)
and colours They consist in anatomical andpathological waste as well as placentas. They
are collected in plastic bags or buckets and disposed of separately. They are incinerated in
an old air-excess incinerator. When the "organic waste" is too "bleeding", it is placed in an
plastic bag (PE, black, no more than 0,35 trm of thickness). In general the bins are covered
with a lid.. Typically, They are located in the ward/department, next to the nurse room.
v  Sharps are collected in separate containers, more often in recycled plastic bottles. The
containers are not hermetically sealed and have no specific labelling that enable the medical
staff or the general public to easily recognize them. Once full the containers are either
disposed of or else emptied into the incinerator to be reused. Sharps have been found with
general medical wastes indicating failure in the segregation practices;
v The other categories of waste that consists in a mixture of domestic waste (papers, plastic
bottles, left-over food, etc...) and general medical waste (gloves, bandages, swab) are
collected into a v ariety of containers of different quality. The absence of adequate
definitions does not enable to perform a correct segregation between 'these two categories
of waste.
Unfortunately, the absence of a systematic colour coding and labelling system is one of the
numerous factors that lead to mistakes in the segregation. Segregation remains quite
ineffective and sharps are founds in every category of waste due to the absence of a clear and
systematic protocol that fails to be rigorously applied. The segregation and handling practices
remain coarsely managed. The lack of equipment such as adequate bins or sharps containers
worsens the situation. In final, the risks of 1) a person accidentally coming into contact with
hazardous waste, 2) mistakes occurring during segregation are important.
Waste collection system and on-site transportation
The staff members of the Technical Services collect the HCW daily in the wards. The
dustbins are transported through the corridors without any particular precautions before being
emptied pell-mell directly on the floor of the storage sheds. During on-site transportation,
there is a significant risk of spillage of the waste since the trailers does not have adequate
edges to prevent the bins from falling down.
Collection and on-site transportation are generally organised by the technical services. There
are no specific schedule and collection routes within the hospital. However, sanitary
labourers do not enter directly the wards/departments to collect the dustbins by themselves,
but the nurses seems to leave the dustbins once they are full outside the department for
collection. It is a positive aspect to limit the risks of nosocomial infections.
Sanitary labourers carry heavy gloves and industrial boots.



I A  t ( :drwied R,vulul,c6b b f bm.Z,mg.,                         I' o,-A/ Bnik  / Han . ? z.r,
Storage
Different storage facilities and practices exist in the hospital:
v' sharps are directly stored next to the incinerator before being incinerated;
v  four lockable storage facilities of 6 m2 without pavement are used to store the general
medical waste. They are dispersed in the hospital compound and not locked. A roof and a
wire net prevent animals (but not the flies) from entering but the doors remain permanently
open (see annexe 5 photo 3). The waste are daily removed;
v  "organic wastes" are stored in a similar facility to the one hereupon but the facility has a
concrete slab and is maintained locked. The facility is not kept clean and the wastes are not
protected from the effects of the weather. The storage lasts too long (up to one week). An
impressive number of flies (a noisy black cloud) fly in and around the facility The
decomposing waste generates odours and leaks on the pavement that the mission refuses to
describe or illustrate.
No adequate support facility like washing and disinfecting material has been observed near
the storage areas. This situation associated with inadequate practices (no regular hand-
washing, decomposition of the "organic waste", flies...) results in absolute insufficient
standards of hygiene. In addition the localisation of the storage facilities in the hospital
compound remains inappropriate and too dispersed.
Waste treatment and disposal
Solid waste disposal
General nmedical and domestic wastes are collected by the municipal services and disposed of
together with the solid wastes of the municipality in the dump-site (located at Ilala district?).
Sharps are incinerated in a masonry double chamber DeMontfort incinerator. The
incineration is carried out on a periodic basis (daily, except on Sunday). Apparently, the
incinerators used have some difficulties to reach a temperature of 900∞C. Products of
Incomplete Combustion (PCI) and Persistent Organic Pollutants (POPs) are generated during
the whole process. Nevertheless incineration is performed in an area that is not densely
populated and enables to reduce immediate hazards linked to the sharps. With respect to the
financial resources available in the hospital, this type of incinerator can constitute an
acceptable intermediate solution to dispose of the sharps. The ashes, full of needles, produced
during the process are buried nearby.
"Organic wastes" generated in Operation Theatres or in wards are disposed of separately.
Twice a week, they are incinerated in an old incinerator, air excess type.
Sanitation & Wastewater
N/A.
Management and administration
Planning capacities
The management of the HCW is not rigorously planned (no agenda scheduled for collection,
the "organic waste" incinerator works when "we have fuel", etc...). The lack of planning is
due to. 1) inadequate management procedures, 2) lack of equipment, 3) deficient resource
and 4) a lack of know-how.
N\/11    I,/I z  I t UP,,;          / -( ,4  12.20  ;                     lig'* . X0 ol 93



-17 r, ( J RP1,hihl/, of / ,; , ,,/ 1;                                    J he Il or/li 13n  / , '  I .,/w, rge
What is yozur appraisal of the current situation regarding the HCWM within your institution 7
Very bad  Bad   Satisfactory  Good     Very Good
* direction                    x
* hospital head nurse                                      x(.)
*ward head nurse                       x
* overseers                    x
* mission                      x
Specific issues
Safety provisions in the Laboratories & Infectious Disease Units
The mission was not able to analyse how highly infectious waste are managed in the
Laboratories and if they receive at least a chemical pre-treatment before being discarded with
the general medical waste.
Hospital Hygiene & Infection Control
Poor hygiene and infection control procedures in the different wards have been observed.
Handling of syringes and needles - sharp management
see Annexe 5
2. Results of the surveys
,~Nb," O       j O-  . .;  .  -  A .   .  . General Medical Waste S sharps .  .'
HCf 4               ;<;:> [. C al4Ow N beds'  rate ,~ Oecup l e d  ' bloed  k i9i| .glocbeidi  RemarKs
b.Caesor -  -ratre              dy,  rati   kg Id3ay.  dy    '
Amana Hospital      Distnct   150    200%      300      537   0,30j     1611   0,54
Mbeya Consultant Hopsital  Referral  477  95%  453     600    0,301     1800  0,40
Innga Regional Hospital  Regional  36  85%     310     450    0,301     135;   0,44 Surveys carned out
Mafinga Distnct Hospital  Distnct  130  120%    156     150   0,30       45i   0,29  dunng the consultancy
Mtwara Regional Hospital  Regional  320  170%|  544    960,   0,301     288,   0.53
Muhibili Nabonal Hospital  Referral O      w                                   0,45
Dodoma Hospital    Regional   395     71%      280                      30     0.11 Surveys camed out
Korogwe Hospital   Distict    142     50%       71                      50     0.70  previously and
Bagamoyo Hospital  District   88      44%       39                      13c 0,33     consultancy
Mwananyamala Hospital  Distnct  115  1100/      127                     156    1,24 (1)
|.   Aerag_     -         |'237..1 01%.?    24i
\N! dCl.i/ru' lr,,//!I( .ur' lLKjr'e A Ia,tri/z¢o;:e,l/ P)eip. * 2f ()2 20P21 0221),g     ol ')/3



7  s, (  ,' u /  /1O'ss';u  1 .  1                    7 Ls'I  I[ fo~r/o l -''/  :"  n
Annexe 5:               a/National Inventory of the Health Facilities
REG5c0N 4-.'i a0.,-4s PI 0AS  1.4..C ~ ~ .  ~ .  ."E8LT.rCEN7RES,-.  -4  -';qpj!y* 
MWN      _0 202,, 0        01-251 0  IA_A00     0  -   63  0  0  0 -   0 ' U73
004..  005       02     0       O I S,?   0  0  3      0         0 
00.555530  0  0  I 500  0  0  o 1 T 5?000  0  0  0 0  0  0  0
0  0 Y t3~~~~~W   0  0  0  0  05  050  0  03  0  0~~~~~~~~~~~~   0 _0 __   0  0
UWANZA...s~o  50 _,~75 ~/  0 1973 44oO .~0 '~s~ 2.o~92  ~2 4200  3222 ,i:ioo  ..0oS .o99  C3530 53...j~/Oo,oo.3.~so70 .~oo.2 .2V20
5 5 5 0 5 0 0 0  0  0  0   00  050500500  0  OS  0  0   0 5 0 0 0,5~~~~~~~~~~~~A
TABOftA,    0,  .0   0  0   5      0  39     0      0i- 38    0   0  
000GO 01  55  000  05 0 0  0   0  0   S  0      5              0   L o  -14 - 503
~MRA5  5'-  4  ~~43 ~   ~  43 ,s2....o.O  0soO o7,O O5~.2 AlO  ~ ...0  -'9. f.-.  4.-05-1 05
*05I00,,,.0,000  S  000  0  0  0~~-   05  - I0  _200 5  04            I 
5  0  0  ______  0  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..j0  0  0  0  0  0  0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
0_,00. A   0      5 50  00            5  50  0  -,2  0- 1  110 0 0 0 0
5.s.,,.  5  505  5  500  0  0  0  0~~~~~~~~~~~.1  03 5`50 3 0   051  0  0-00  50---;  000'
aEYA50    5  500       0           0 5  03    0       0G00s
0,005.  0  0  5  500  0   0  05  0  5  500--  0  0  0  0 -   0  0 0 
RUW'JOO/ -5 -31 ~   0,4.0 ~   o  ,49  ,3  ,401 ~ 0 .20  ~L4L7  .s4O..,.,O  .4.~  ~49  4,
__________________  0  0  5  00  0  0  0  0  5  00  0  50  0   00  0  0  0  0  3  30~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
Ssss,52.,.5100 00505  ..04.  0 0~31  0A 0 JL .0-0         0         0  0
F,sSRESNGAL5.AA. I  0O4s72024 oo4J_.9019  éL  -..1  24o1- 219  0  ~27  4,45.539  22  .~  4oij  1 4!T7 ,329  -192
03.03,.     2~~~~88 - I        ~ 0O  0  0           80 07a53  310030
L53SINJDA44.  ____3  345'~.-  4 997  450  -40  .  -  4,5~0 ,,~. 7~0~192  4  2~,,,,O9 ,4442 ,~  ,.o,,o55.
55.550.    1~~~25 5 0 0   0 0   0  05 30  4             0  0   '  50
055052.05I5.5  0  0  5  555-2.  0  0 0  5 5 5 5 .5L50  0  0 
030M0R5I0.  0f-   0  0 A    0    0      " 05 -0 0   3 0 4 5  0    0035
ARU900bA 2.9:h19-.9 a.1121 -.,3,..O0  -0  92  2270-13 .4223 54,4.1,136  .  .
A505555      5      00  0   0          0 02,    7   0 
0~~o  55  01 3,-85  020  5                01 0  0 5   05  0-~  0_0 045
KIMNJR2, ~ ~   5.O,.,Q lsk.o  ,2,10-  -.l  .73,~.  9209.s. 2  ,3U ..2LO.o4 O.4O  .o..-  0 s..  4s..7 "I ,O4359
0.55.   5  500505  0  0  0  0  OLil07305  S 03~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~H---- LL  5,3504
-_TNG ~ ~ ~ L43'j   -I3.1_I50032                             135255 j
00.55005.5OS.t  05  00 5  503  0  00 00  L0505It LiiiiiZVIF F3sfl4T00
.TA0OA.,..~44  so~O.'04  4...s,  .Ofs..O-S ,,,  I'l  524 902.2,12  I  8   9



7 ;J.- ( r  ,,£' ,! 1t.  I,-,.s1, ,' h ..,..;,, *             1 ,5,  Vi,/,/ Ri7'O I (,.- PbrMel
b/NationalHCWProdiiction VentilatedperRegions
The ratio of 0,41 kg/occupied bed/day has been used to estimate the National HCW production, using
the National Inventory of HCFs provided in the Health Abstracts, 2001. The National production vary
between 12 and 14 tonnes per day.
The seven regions of, Kagera, Iringa, Kilimanjaro, Arusha, Pwani and Mwanza produce 50 % of the
total HCW of the country They should considered are priority regions
p;~~~~-           sw -r ,   '                  ßNcLwse!9c!>BSBE
.~A,-,,; >  - ,  ';% . ,. Hositils',,, |eait sC,entr,ei`-- r Totai Jr  prodcir 
710326,361;  1            83-      6%         62%
KILIMANJARO          82~~31,3.     92,8.       1,      7           5
______________!,,_:-_34:4                72,6      1007,0    7%    _    82%
i iii F -- 3~~75,66ir-'J               702 ill
!  S        4    1~~~~~49  : ----42      -∞Z  
PAI REGION                 118476,4       3,45      17        8          91%
; ,\ , , lW ..' . 453,11           72,8. a 
2 2 z z .,- ~~~446,9,          -   -=86,2- 
________.___3___.__        5102,5         74,6      1          %        100
*i          =               !         ,      ,j 617,5 - -114 -  
a B5> 5   - .  i-    ~~672,8 .     76,0----                            E
DAR E S SALAAM       |      698,21       123,61      8218     6%    |    56%
KAGERA                      710,1|       126,0|      836,1    6%    |    62%
IRiNGA               |      737,61       158,6|      896,2    6%    |    69%
,KiLIMANJARO         |      823,3|        92,01      915,3    7∞/,       75%
ARUSHA                      934,41        72,61     1007,0    7%         82%
PWANI REGION         T     1118,9|        38,4l     1 157,3   8          91%
M AZA             |     1045,51      272,61      1318,1    9%    |   100%
_1~~~~I a                                          =jI"',,' 'l, o220( l1



I  .  th//et! I//// f J>' ;,l,1                                   J/ I Te Wor/l 8 ano /I  ergern-
Annexe 6: Fundamentals on the Management of Sharps
Sharps represent one of the most problematic and hazardous types of waste generated within HCFs.
Syringes and needles are of particular concern because they constitute an important part of the sharps
and are very often contaminated with blood. The occupational risks are linked to:
The great quantities that are manipulated daily by health-workers and generated throughout the
world for both curative and preventive activities,
The cuts and punctures they may cause followed by a potential infection of the wounds. The
main diseases of concern are those which may be transmitted by subcutaneous introduction of
the pathogens such as viral blood infections,
The scavenging and re-use practices that occur in some countries, exposing the populations (and
most particularly children) to risks of cross contamination
All biomedical and health-care waste with sharps or pointed parts have a high potential to injure and
inoculate potentially dangerous pathogens. They must therefore be categorized as infectious waste and
have to be manipulated, discarded, transported and disposed of with maximum precautions by health
workers.
Due to the lack of reporting at HCF level, needle-stick injuries occurring worldwide are globally
underestimated. However a recent study carried out by the WHO shows that, depending on the
country, a nurse can get a needle-stick injury more that twice a year. Therefore, handling and
disposing of safely needles and syringes, and more generally sharps, must be seen as an absolute
priority by the Health Services of any country. The safe management of sharps requires to:
Define a strict policy at national level with clear handling and disposal protocols to be respected
in all HCFs,
Provide each HCFwith adequate equipment for sharps discarding and disposal;
Ensure that all HCF staff are aware of the protocols and properly trained (in-service trainmgs
and review of the initial curricula are often necessary);
Establish a system to report accidents that occur and monitor the application of the policy.
It is internationally recognized that the safe management procedures of sharps should comprise the
following practices:
A health-worker performing an injection or the staff member transporting health-care waste
should always wear appropriate gloves (a study carried out at the Geneva University Hospital -
Switzerland - showed actually that more than 50% of the blood remaining in an infected needle
is stopped by the gloves when a needle-stick injury occurs);
All disposable syringes and needles should be discarded immediately following use. The needle
should never be recapped or removed from the syringe since most of the accidents occur when
the nurses attempt to recap the needles;
Under no circumstances are syringes or needles (or the full containers) to be disposed of with
normal garbage or dumped randomly without prior treatment;
Sharps should be placed in specific cardboard, plastic, high-density polyethylene or metallic
containers resistant to punctures and leak-proof, designed so that items can be dropped in using
one hand, and no item can be removed. The container should be I) labelled with the
international biohazard symbol; 2) be of a yellow colour (the international colour coding system
for infectious waste strongly recommended by the UN Agencies), and 3) marked "Danger
contaminated sharps, do not open));
allom /oIf //I  I t<,  M  ,//.i,-( 24 02 20                               RI, *  o {11,93



T1/,, ( n,!edt R,yh.,bli Of                                       'Ihe Wor/,l /3a'L  / f:re,,a,Y
The containers should never be overfilled but systematically disposed of once they are three-
quarters full. They should not be emptied for re-use, except when specifically designed for this
option (see "the MSF practice" described hereafter).
There are two ways to dispose of needles and syringes in a safe way. The first solution consists in
discarding the needle and/or syringe in a puncture and leak-proof recipient which, once filled will then
be treated/disposed of with other infectious waste or emptied in a sharp pit The second option consists
in destroying the needle on the spot using a specific device.
Option la
The basic idea is to discard the whole combination "syringe plus needle" into a safety box
immediately after use The box is then treated with other infectious waste. This option is
recommended by the WHO and UNICEF and applied in all industrialised countries. This practice
enables to reduce the risk of needle-stick injuries for the medical staff but generates important
volumes of sharp waste that must be incinerated since alternative technologies such as autoclaving and
shredding or microwave processing are difficult to apply in low income countries.
In order to oxidise completely the needle, it is necessary to incinerate it at a temperature greater than
1'400∞C. Modern pyrolytic incinerators or rotary kilns, which are expensive to install and operate,
must therefore be used. Alternatively, air-excess incinerators or improved double-chamber auto-
combustion incinerators such as the De Montfort incinerator can be used. These kinds of incinerators
are able to burn the syringes and disinfect the needles at temperatures of 900∞C. However the ash that
is produced during the process still contains the needles. It must be carefully buried. Alternative
incineration can hardly be applied in populated urban areas due to the potential e.mission of persistent
organic pollutants (POPs) this technique may generate.
Open-air burning of cardboard safety boxes is also seen as an alternative in rural areas when there is
no other possibility. It is typically the case during mass immunisation campaigns The WHO and
UNICEF recommend this practice in the rural areas of low-income countries
'. ' ~ThelUNiCEMHO.safety box: .Xhdap .. otomrepnepsive                       n-
I   , L  41 .-
it ---          a -W                 J                               '
Optior, lb
In this case one inserts the needle into a slot of a container specially designed to separate it from the
syringe using one hand only The syringe is then discarded with the other categories of health-care
waste while the needles remain in the container, which can be made of polyethylene (closed tube or
empty drug-boxes, cans, etc .). Once full, the container is safety emptied into a sharp pit, using a
system that prevents the user from being in contact with the needles it contains ("the MSF practice").
^\z/Z/)Xz,,/1 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    2   02,//- ,2 l;.  0/l,y,^s/1z1X  '1)) 1))  1 .i 5 .Y  ol pj



I;h.  ( I  ,' / ,-,   ,' /  I *,,;,;,;I                              7 he IVc'r/,/ Ba'ik  /  i
The container can also be directly dropped into the sharp pit. The pit, once full, is encapsulated86 and a
new one must be built This option requires greater care from the health-workers who must separate
the needle from the syringe, using one hand only.
-  MSF PE sharp box.  -     -.- .    -    iPATH*removabl .can ("Po  ;;;)
Option 2
Oplo      tion 2
In this case, the needle is destroyed at the poit of use with a needle destroyer. The user inserts the
needle Into a hole or slot in the device, which positions the needle between two electrodes in the
device's interior By contacting both electrodes simultaneously, the needle causes a electric current to
run through it which heats the needle to temperatures reaching 1500∞C to 3000∞C. The result is a
partial or total oxidation of the needle.
8,-,^, ', ,- A rne'edIesdestr6yer"-;a 
i, VI,             .   ,,,.
86 Encapsulation consists in adding an immobilising material in the pit and sealing it The immobilising material can be
mortar, clay or bitunien
\':1 Wi/  / I 1,1i//-C  '   I I ./cI24 02.2fl();                              I4 ,gc 6 ol ()



l il  I ''zfed R/ywbh,   of                                       'l f lid  7he It>,r/,ll  orJ,1 k   1.   CergC'f-e
The table below provides a comparison of the advantages and the drawbacks of the different options.
Oplionr - ;      - . , Advanta6es,> X- ;'   - .;        -   -  -     '         .
It is possible to dispose of AD       POPs may be produced depending
syringes                              on the incineration system used
The handling of the needle and        If the incineration is not performed
.  - rr>b syringe is reduced at a maximum    at sufficiently high temperatures, the
enabling to diminish the risks of     needles remain and ash must be
,-,r,*'@,4,2  needle-stick injury                  safely buried
The   volume   reduction, once        Incinerators  require  regular
incinerated, is drastic (more than    maintenance to be kept in optimal
90%)                                  working conditions
Except for open-air burning the
capital and operational costs remain
relatively high
~',f.2-,       Once it has been constructed the pit  The needle has to be separated from
l  ^  r'Js4t  is simple to use and does not require  the syringe which may increase the
any maintenance                       risks of needle-stick injury for the
There are no operational costs. The   health-workers
I *  . -~ .~  ~ capital costs remain limited         It is not possible to dismantle AD
! '-   .:      There is no emission of air pollutants  syriges, which are used more and
,,  ;,                   . .           ~~~~~~~more frequently in low-income
The volume reduction is similar to
the one obtained with incineration    countres
ib                                               A new pit has to be periodically built
depending on its filling rate
The pit may be filled with other
material than sharps and become
rapidly  full, increasing   the
construction costs
Requires space within the HCF
compound to dig the successive
sharp pits
Provides a satisfactory solution to   Requires electricity to run
"' &9         S7:j-'. get ride of the needle at the point of  Require a good maintenance of the
use                                   device that can "clog " easily if the
Avoids the transport of sharps        small amounts of ashes produced are
Does not require an on-going supply   not regularly removed
2 - -      of sharp boxes or containers          Expensive solution that will be
May be an alternative technology in   difficultly to include in a HCWM
urban areas for some specialised      policy in a low-income countries
HCFs where a lot of sharps are
manipulated (Mother and child
centres, blood   banks, sexual
.  -  .:  transriiitted disease clinics)
,;/'p;;/  J I,/ 8t. -( a}te l   I 1ayc ',n:el: I/j1  *'I (1   2i')(i  1)221  A' ,  o/9 5j



7 ';h  ( t.,!('/ l t/!bb/4  of I aa;,.1nI                               7'  Wo',',/ 8',-  mr- e I -e
Annexe 7: HCWDisposal Technologies
The choice of a technology for HCW treatment and disposal should always be driven with the
objective of minimizing negative impacts on health and the environment. Several technologies exist to
treat or dispose of HCW. They include: I) Incineration in rotary kilns or double chamber incinerators;
2) Burning in single chamber incinerators; 3) Wet thermal treatment (autoclaving); 4) Chemical
disinfection, 5) Microwave irradiation, 6) Sanitary landfill, including inertization and encapsulation.
Not all these technologies can be used for the treatment or the disposal of all categories of HCW The
suitable treatment and disposal technologies according to the different categories of HCW are
presented in the table below.
Two
Waste cate y  -.Rotary  chambers  Single  Wet thermal  Chemical  Microwave   Sanitary
-kiln   pyrolytic   cabr        temnt     disinfection  irradiation.  landfill"-"
* kin incineration  incineration  (autoclave)
non-risk-HCWN   N/A       N/A         N/A        N/A         N/A        N/A          N/A
-Humant3--.!.t,' '
anatomical    YES       YES         YES                     NO.        NO           NO
waste. - -.'i.2
Waste,sharps                                                                    ,$:;!1 
Waste shars - YES   YES         YES         YES         YES        YES
-Hazardo'us ..-                       -       g           |         -1.;-          : 
Pharmaceutical -  YES  SAal amount                                       NO .CI
'waste'ol ,f .,-. 
Cytotoxic -        _-   NO                       l,,                   .    .    1a     -
pharmacutical YES    YESfr                                    <      NO
Infectious waste  YES     YES         YES         YES                    YES         YES
Highly infectious
waste        YES      YES         YES         YES        YES         YES
Other hazardous                       -                      ,  -
waste    -  YES   -    NO'     .:NO:       -NO          .NO          NO       DE      
Radioactive                                                                        YEs
health-care waste  o-^ [   NO-         NO;         NO-        NO Z.      NO         Specially
designed



Incineration is not the same as burning. Incineration is one of the only technologies that can treat all
types of health-care waste properly and has the advantage of reducing significantly the volume and
weight of the waste treated. Incinerators nevertheless re4uire skilled operators, extensive flue gas
emission control systems and, frequently, imported spare parts. Incineration generates ash residues and
air emissions can contain pollutants such as dioxins and heavy metals.
Burning in small-capacity single chamber "incinerators" is a technique often used in HCFs in low
income countries. These installations may nevertheless constitute a serious air pollution hazard to the
surrounding area due to the relatively low operation temperatures and the lack of emission control
systems. If biomedical and health-care waste are treated with single chamber "incinerators", waste
fractions such as cytotoxic drugs, chemicals, halogenated materials or waste with a high content of
heavy metals (batteries, broken mercury thermometers, etc.) should not be treated with this type of
system (see table above)
.; cincinrar tti n/>3  r* '  m"AdtanlageS, i--,%  .  ; .- . ' '      Drawbacks'     -- 
In cinerto Q'   V>vYtA           Ynar+Bæ,. 
Elimination of health nsks due to the complete  High investment costs
;';-<^ " 'tJ@5i,''  k  destruction of the waste         *  Requires skilled staff to operate
Pyrolytic or double   The waste IS non-recognizable               Continuous monitoring required
chamber :-,       Fully destroys micro-organisms and sharps  High maintenance, especially for rotary
'incinera~tors      Reduces significantly volume and weight of the  klins
i ' (tncineration.at .  waste                                      Relatively high operation costs; costs
800:9000C) : jI     Destroys a[l types of organic waste (liquids,  rise with the level of sophistication of the
K     i~< A~ .~9jt-.;    pharmaceuticals, and other solids)         emission control systems
Rotary kiln'    *  Important quantities of waste can be treated  '  For batch inrn&ators. limited capacity
(incineration al_', (j except for batch incinerators)       *  Emits toxic flue gases (including dioxins
1 200∞C and higher) 9                                         and furans)
Generates residues that need safe land-
filling
Good disinfection efficiency            *  Significant emission of atmospheric
Sin'gle chamber i    Reduces significantly volume and weight of the  pollutants
"lincinerators.     waste                                   *   Need for periodic removal of slag and
'(iricineration at low-..,  No need for highly trained operators  soot
temperatures                                                   Inefficiency in destroying thermally
300400 C)                                                     resistant chemicals and drugs
No destruction of sharps
Auitoclaving is the exposure of waste to saturated steam under pressure in an enclosed container.
Preparation of material for autoclaving requires segregation to remove unsuitable material and
shredding to reduce the size of the individual pieces for greater treatment efficiency. Small autoclaves
are common for sterilization of medical equipment but a waste management autoclaves can be a
relatively complex and expensive systems requiring careful design, appropriate segregation of
materials, and a high level of operation and maintenance support The output from an autoclave is non-
hazardous material that can normally be land-filled with municipal waste. There is also a wastewater
stream that needs to be disposed of with appropriate care and control. Furthermore, large autoclaves
may require a boiler with stack emissions that will be subject to control.
*N ., ,,',./ T  I,,/we I it ;II A !an,,en/ ;r/u * 24 02 2                              ('age ,Y o/ 93



7k (e ';"llien Repubibc oJf !,.oI  ,                                        h It' "l1 'Vd 1Be"ew
'I          et         1           A6ai.                                   7 Drawbacks
-Steam Disirfection -:             Advantages
Relatively simple to operate (a known  *  Relatively expensive to install and
technology at health-care facilities)     operate
Environmentally sound technology       *  Requires boiler with stack emissions
controls
* Relatively high maintenance costs
* Cannot be used to treat some special
wastes
* Generates contaminated wastewater
that needs special treatment
Microwave irradiation is based on the use of a high energy electromagnetic field that heats up rapidly
the liquids contained in the waste causing the destruction of the infectious components. The HCW
passes through a preparative process which may include segregation to remove undesirable material
before it is shredded and then eventually humidified prior to being treated in the irradiation chamber.
At the end, the waste goes through a compactor before being disposed of.
Similar to the autoclaving technique, the output from a microwave facility is considered non-
hazardous and can be land-filled together with municipal waste. Since the technology does not involve
the application of steam, there is a minimal generation of wastewater which can be recycled to the
system. Since electricity is the main source of energy for operating this technology, gas emissions are
also minimal compared to incineration or even autoclaving, which can require the combustion of fuel
for the generation of steam.
a  Ad                                            - K .,K.  :  .<J.. 
Microwave< ~                       fi 4tt-4er +< 1                                              dvantages:-  Dra ack   D
*  The shredding and compacting process    *  Highly sophisticated and complex
reduces the volume of the waste         *  Important investment and running costs
*  Once treated, waste can be land-filled with  *  Only solids can be treated and only once
other municipal waste                      shredded
*  No air pollution                        *  Cannot be used to treat some special
wastes such as pharmaceuticals, and
cytotoxic waste
* Highly skilled operators required
*  No reduction of the weight of the waste
l____________________  _________________________________________treated
Chemical disinfection, used routinely in HCFs to kill microorganisms on medical equipment has been
extended to the treatment of HCW. Chemicals (mostly strong oxidants like chlorine compounds,
ammonium salts, aldehydes, and phenolic compounds) are added to the waste to kill or inactivate
pathogens. This treatment is most suitable for treating liquid wastes such as blood, urine, stools or
hospital sewage Thermal sterilization should nevertheless be given preference over chemical
disinfection for reasons of efficiency and environmental considerations
.\~a'ioi;/ Iha,//f-C .we lL'ar/'.A !au(/s;,¢.;/' l1P/l  * 2402 (22 22 v"r' 90 oK/ 9



Chemical treatment                  Advantages                .               Drawbacks     ;
When applied, the shredding process reduces  Can't be used to treat some special
the volume of the waste                     wastes such as pharmaceuticals, and
cytotoxic waste
Highly skilled operators required,
Chemicals used are themselves also
hazardous   and   require  special
precautions/equipment when used, Final
disposal must be same as for untreated
special HCW, Generates hazardous
waste water that needs treatment
Land disposal of untreated HCW is not recommended and should only be used as a last resort option.
When this solution has to be used, it is important the HCW be disposed of in a sanitary landfill and
rapidly covered: one technique consists in excavating a trench in mature municipal waste at the base of
the working face and immediately covering it with a two-metre thick layer of fresh municipal waste.
Alternatively, a specially constructed burial pit can be used. Ideally it should be lined with a material
of low permeability such as clay to prevent pollution of shallow groundwater and have a fence around
it to prevent scavengers accessing the waste. HCW should be covered immediately with a layer of soil
after each load. For added health protection and odor suppression, it is suggested that lime be spread
over each waste load. Once the pit is filled, it should be sealed off.
,Technique'                    Adantag'es,                               Dravb ks,
Simple and inexpensive to operate           Special health-care waste is not treated
No specific construction costs required     and remains hazardous
Safe land filling'   Operates within readily available landfill  High demand for coordination between
Trernch method       system                                      collector and landfill operator, Reduces
(HCW is buried in'a'-  Waste pickers are unable to access the health-  awareness  amongst health-care
trench excavated in *  care waste                                 workers of the need to segregate waste
- other waste),.-                                                categories
.  Potentially long/costly transportation to
landfill
Simple and relatively inexpensive to manage if e  Special health-care waste is not treated
Safe -land- ~filling t operated in connection with existing landfill for  and remains hazardous
Separate disposal      other waste                              e  Requires a safe landfill with fencing
(HCWlis deposited in.'                                          *  Requires control of scavenging and
specifically designed                                              animals
* ~. ceis)~ - ^,.~':+e                            e  Needs   conscientious   operation
cells)  .                           .                            K.according to manual
Encapsulation       Simple, low-cost and safe                    Not recommended for non-sharp waste
(Filling containers  *  May be used for sharps                *   Must be considered as an temporary
with waste adding an '  Efficient way of reducing  the risk of     solution
immobilising material,  scavengers gaining access to the waste
and sealing the'
container)
Inertization       Simple, low-cost and safe                   Not applicable to infectious HCW
-, (Mixing waste wiih'  May be used for pharmaceutical waste
cement before.,7-
disposal in'order to
minimise the risk of
leka,e of toxic
substances
contained in the-
waste)-
*\,',,,,, I/        I /,J, (  ,;;e It 'ji/' A\ faa ;,,,,i/ P/, ,  24 02 200)) j            ' , 91 ,/ 93



/i h, I   I<vt/ed R /)I,"h  Of J;,U,,, J                                  -I h'e 1[ O'/,d Ha. '  /' 1F:rnergence
Annexe 8: HCWM Procedures in Medical Laboratories
The management of HCW in medical laboratories remains a sensitive issue since highly infectious
waste are often generated there International standard procedures of highly infectious waste
management should therefore be respected. They are summarized in the table below. Consequently,
each laboratory should be equipped with the adequate material and rigorous protocols set-up to ensure
a pre-treatment of the highly infectious waste before it joins the other medical waste for final
treatment/disposal.
Highly infectious waste from medical laboratories, such as media or culture plates, should be collected
in leak proof yellow bags or containers suitable for autoclaving and properly sealed. Ideally, each
laboratory should have an autoclave room dedicated for the specific pre-treatment of this category of
waste only. No office waste or other miscellaneous waste should be placed in this room, which
shouldn't be either used for waste storage. Once disinfected, medical laboratory waste should be
collected and treated with the infectious HCW
If a distinct autoclave is not available at the medical laboratory to ensure a thermal treatment, highly
infectious waste should be disinfected in a solution of sodium hypochlorite in concentrated form and
left overnight. It should then be discarded in a specific yellow bag, properly sealed before joining the
hazardous HCW.
--Step'-                                        Action ',r-
Segregation        Highly infectious waste should be
* kept in the medical area until it is pre-treated,
i segregated from other general and medical waste,
* placed immediately into leak-proof bags or containers
Pre-treatment      Highly infectious waste should be immediately pre-treated (i e. autoclaved or chemically treated)
before joining the other medical waste.
Packaging          Yellow bags should be labelled with the biohazard symbol and clearly marked with the words
"highly infectious waste' with a comment on whether it has been pre-treated or not
Labelling          Yellow bags should be labelled with the name of the institution and department, type of waste,
date, name and signature of person sealing the bag/container.
Storage, transport Disinfected highly infectious waste packaged in yellow bags is no longer regarded as highly
and treatment     infectious and can therefore leave the medical area with other yellow-bagged waste, stored,
transported and disposed of
Procedures for the management of highly infectious waste
During the handling of HCW in medical laboratories, a number of precautions should be taken to
avoid cross-contamination, such as
The re-useable laboratory items should never be mixed with disposable ones;
The contaminated items must be autoclaved or alternatively chemically disinfected and should
never be discarded with general waste;
Single-use/disposable laboratory items must be autoclaved and never discarded with general
waste;
All sharps (including broken glass) must be autoclaved and never discarded with general waste.
They must be disposed of in approved yellow sharps containers.
,\ 2 /[ Ie,,//l I( a;,  I  A : u,a/,!r :-','  R  i  2' 1 B2 2(h) '9.'e            9  ol 93



Annexe 9: Cost of Equipments of Large Heath-Care Facilities
Hypolheal f.or the o    t            ';                                                     - '  J  -  .c   - B  .. - R  Z  ;f,  -.
-AtOtDl ot ,t50 Itm per doy I- cov, or rrweete collotlon so,ary. Clh   ri'_  _ , ,  J ';'  f .  ,  0f A  ;  I sc 
bolh citles togethor generate oround 2 tonnas ot clini:. COSta I' -i ro tn,      .        * fV.
B-Tht'in,trerelor  l   n in2iiddb   iDt1e.cieusoa the0  l C-1..,.  . ..d  5t'4.t,, e., e.,1..              - r   -J ,
'nU9D    ;I :TUH,A                     usH |6.; 42i
* Sogregation 8 packaging
80 1 200 nicro PE yeitow bege                       0 30        294        401000          12 000       1 17600000
5 I wHOIUNICEF herp bo...                           0 30        294        16 000          4 800        4 704-000
B0I yello_ pl-tlc bin.                               40       39 200          70           2 800        2744'000
80I blei. pleetto bin                               40       39 200         240           9 00         9'408 000
adhelv tap.                                         00          490         S000           2 500        2450000
tsP. Pender                                          20       19 500          70           1400          1 372 000
- Colloction And storage
trw      yaliow 2401 wb.hid-o.nt.ln-r                        125     122'500          280          35000        34 300000
S * Protective oqulpnont
C.2       Gboe                                                10        88000         100            1 000          8000
_         .prone                                              20       19600          100           2 000         19o 000
Boot.                                                25       24500          I00           2500          2450000
E    Sub-total I          I- '.-                                                     < _,14  Z 3  - i. t'' 373'6001  '72'128'0001
* Transportation
4 .m3 n.o1..d van                                 25000   24 500'000           3          75000         73 500 000
- Treatmnont
ncin..,eor capecity of 250 kg / hour              eS 000  83-300 000           1          85000         83300000
inet'itetion                                      1S000    14700000            1           15000        14700000
Stb-totaf II  ,, .   . '_ .   3 . _             - Y               3 --1 æ             t      75'000  -r. 287'140'0001
Segregat.on I packaging
80 I 200 nicre PE yeliow bege                       0 30        294        33 500         10 050         9849'000
5 I WHO3UNICEF eharp b....                          0 30        284        lb000           4 a00         4704 000
e0 I ytllow plesitc bIn.                             40       39 200          10             400          392000
80 I blaCk peteItl bi0.                              40      39 200           24            960           940 800
adhOesle t.pa                                       0 50        490         5000           2 500         2450 000
t-P. tender                                          20       10800           70            r400         1372000
a Coiloction and storage
Y"yllo 240 t whe.id.oanteinr                        125      122 500          28            3500         3 430 000
Pr.to tivo Oquipment
S        Glove.                                               10       9800            54            540           529200
CD   Apron.                                          20       19080           50            1000           80000
Qt       Soot.                                                25      24 500           50           1 250        1 225 000
Sub-total I                                                                                 '2 6 .,  c.n , .  _ . 1.  - -   . ..  ' '264001 .1-  25'872'000
TransportatIon
*_m3 enclosed van. (d.prsolatlon cost. 10 ya.el    2 508   2450000             b           15000        14'70000
driver end collooto  alarIa                        3-000   2940 000           1 2          38 000       35280 o00
trenemon loll + tu.l unit pric. / ImI               0 10         84       180000           168000       1588O000
. Treatment
incinerator id.preclat0on cout 15 earsi            5700    5588a00             2           11 400       11'172 000
I.lctaratlcn notl InOoliM l 00. 250 USD / ton)      250      245'000         730         182 500       178 850 000
Sub-totafll      .      '        '              t 1  3 3 . r r.- - -  _, -  t  _;  ' .3;  T  .2' .  260900  25 '682000!
Hypo,tfl.l, tor the costa.etimaione  r ,t , ,  .            - ,-."4 J.kI                         - -    -j ,
'V: Oo,slts trntetlent uslrg n low-coat Incineretor _,j  -  3Z -  .r 3'/:- .- f,4V  !<  .     -      ;       .- .l.r-
: Around'l1lonflc 33m3)otClinicalWastisdalygenerated  -         P                                       -_ I ir-
.  Tho GOT cneroe thOe oulwPont Of Govrntne-t. Foc.litos on:ly  -  '             '                    -
_149D     TSH-      j   j   i      r USD             TSH0t4'  I
Sogrogatlon ,& packaging
80 I blelk yeiiow bin.                               45      44100           450          20250         19845000
80I blek plastlo bios                                45      44100           450          20250         1984500
S I WMOrUNICEF .h.rp bOce                           030         29         8S 000          25 500       24g99000
91    ProtoctIv,o  quipment
Glove.                                               10        9800         1000           10 000       09800'000
Aprons                                               20       19800         1000           20000        1900 000
- Boote                                                       25       24500         1'000          25000        24500000
Sub-total I         - _                              -                      I, - ,- . 'I    121 000|    118 580'00CI
C     Troatment
C.n.tructlon of D.Mo-tort ncicn.r.ter              2000     1 960 000         77          154 000      15020 00
P150.01. its                                       1 000,    980 ooo0         77           77 000       75 480 000
Sub-total 11     -         J-P_ ."  ,  _                                -                   231000      398'860'000C
- Segrogation & packagIng
aol black yellow bin                                 45      44100           450          20250        19 845 000
ac I b-ck pleatic binS                               45      44100           450          20250        189 45 000
S I WHOIUNICEF herp boce                            0 30        204        85000           25500        24 990 000
n   ProtectIve equipmont
Glov,.                                               10        9 8001        100            1000          980000
1.3      Aprone                                               20       19800          100           2 000         1080000
io       Soot.                                                25      24 500          100           2500         2450000
Sub-total I      ,                     a . -   .-.,             ,    ,                       71'5001 -   70'07000
C    - Treatment                                                            I
st   Depracistion 14 year.)                         500      490 0o0          77           38500        37 730 000
F unoing nowet Cost I0 USD Itofl                     50       49 0000         10             500          400000
Sub-total 11 ..3     ~-..i$c_~ '-   i    tss~       ~    ef* '  - S --4 ,3  _,  'hs J 4  ~' 39'000 -.'u 113'680'0001
|\'a/wc, .i~ I/i, i//!j  I .130 . \ Iostl)l"i 1/.~3I< P1. 6', * 2/ (')00'6001                             5889588 000|
| 2 >11Annunl Conts                                          1       ~~~~~~~~359 3001  352 1 14 000
\zZ//0Z  / / 1t7//l (X i Vl,r', .s' kwi,-''e   2,'1'[)11*1e{ t1 _;{                                              Q3 o)Il(2  l 9)'/



