                                                 Documentof
                                             The World Bank

                                     FOROFFICIALUSEONLY



                                                                                 Report No: 25761 - TA




                                   PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                   ONA

                                           PROPOSEDGRANT

                                INTHE AMOUNT OF SDR 54.1 MILLION
                                    (US70.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                  TO THE

                    GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITEDREPUBLIC OF TANZANIA

                                                   FORA

                                    MULTI-SECTORAL AIDS PROJECT

                               INSUPPORTOF THEFIRST PHASEOFTHE
                         TANZANIA MULTI-SECTORAL HIV/AIDSPROGRAM

                                               JUNE 10,2003




Human Development 1
Country Department 4
Africa Regional Office




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.



                                                                                                          A

                                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                           (Exchange Rate Effective May 5,2003)

                               Currency Unit = Tanzania Shilling
                                  Tshs. 1:00 = US$0.00966
                                   US$l:OO = Tshs 1035.0

                                       FISCAL YEAR
                                       July 1 -- June 30

                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ACTafrica  AIDS Campaign Team for Africa
AIDS       Acquired ImmuneDeficiency Syndrome
APL        Adaptable ProgramLoan
CAG        Controller and Auditor General
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CBO        Community Based Organization
CFAA       Country Financial Accountability Assessment
cs         Civil Society
CSF        Civil Society Fund
FMR        Financial Monitoring Report
FMS        Financial Management System
FY         Fiscal Year
GDP        Gross Domestic Product
GFATM      Global Fundto fight HIVIAIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria
GOT        Government of Tanzania
GPN        General Procurement Notice
HCWMP      Health Care Waste Management Plan
HIV        Human Immunodeficiency Virus
IBRD       International Bank for Reconstruction Development
HSDP       Health Sector Development Program
IDA        International Development Association
IEC        Information, Education and Communication
IFMIS      Integrated Financial Management InformationSystem
JAPR       Joint Annual HIV/AIDS Performance Review
LGAs       Local Government Authorities
M A P      Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program
MDAs       Ministries, Departments and Agencies
M O H      MinistryofHealth
MOHSW      MinistryofHealthand Social Welfare
MTEF       Medium-Term Expenditure Framework
MTP-I      FirstMediumTerm Plan
MTP-I1     Second MediumTerm Plan
MTP-I11    ThirdMediumTermPlan
M & E      Monitoring and Evaluation
NACP       National AIDS Control Program
NGO        Non-governmental Organization
NMSF       National Multi-sectoral Strategic Framework

                                                          FOROFFICIALUSEONLY


     NORAD     Norwegian Agency for InternationalDevelopment
     ovc       Orphans and Vulnerable Children
     01        Opportunistic Infections
     PEP       Post Exposure Prophylaxis
     PER       Public ExpenditureReview
     PLWHAS    Persons Livingwith HIV/AIDS
     PMO       Prime Minister's Office
     PORALG    President's Office, RegionalAdministration and Local Government
     PPA       Public Procurement Act
     PRA       Participatory RapidAppraisa
     PRSP      Poverty Reduction Support Program
     RFA       Regional FacilitatingAgency
     STI       Sexually TransmittedInfections
     SWAP      Sector Wide Approach
     TACAIDS   Tanzania Commission for AIDS
     TASAF     Tanzania SocialAction Fund
     TB        Tuberculosis
     TSH       Tanzania Shillings
     UNDP      UnitedNations DevelopmentProgram
     UNESCO    UnitedNations Education, Scientific & Cultural Organization
     UNICEF    UnitedNations InternationalFundfor Children
     USAID     UnitedStates Agency for International Development
     USD       United States Dollars
     VCT       Voluntary Counseling and Testing
     WHO       World Health Organization
     ZAC       Zanzibar AIDS Commission
     ZACP      Zanzibar AIDS Control Programme
     ZPRP      Zanzibar Poverty ReductionPlan




                                  Vice President:   Callisto Madavo
                                Country Director:   Judy M.O'Connor
                                 Sector Manager:    Dzingai Mutumbuka
                              Task Team Leader:     Albertus Voetbern




This document has a restricted distributionandmay beused by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.


                                                                   FOROFFICIALUSEONLY


                                             TANZANIA
                                MULTI-SECTORAL AIDS PROJECT


                                             CONTENTS




A. ProgramPurpose and Project Development Objective                                     Page

   1. Programpurpose andprogramphasing                                                     2
   2. Project development objective                                                        2
   3. Key performance indicators                                                           3

B. Strategic Context

   1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project       4
   2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                           4
   3. Sector issues to be addressedby the project and strategic choices                    8
   4. Programdescription and performance triggersfor subsequent loans                     12

C. Program andProject Description Summary

   1. Project components                                                                  12
   2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       17
   3. Benefits and target population                                                      17
   4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       19

D.Project Rationale

   1. Project alternatives considered andreasons for rejection                            24
   2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies       24
   3. Lessons learnedandreflected inthe project design                                    26
   4. Indications o frecipient commitment andownership                                    28
   5. Value added o f Bank support inthis project                                         28

E. Summary Project Analysis

   1. Economic                                                                           28
   2. Financial                                                                          29
   3. Technical                                                                           30
   4. Institutional                                                                       30
   5. Environmental                                                                       33
   6. Social                                                                              34
   7. Safeguard Policies                                                                  35




  This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
  performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
  World Bank authorization.

A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective
1. Programpurpose and program phasing:
N / A


2. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project will provide grant financing to support Tanzania's NationalPrograms on HIV/AIDS
for both the Mainland and Zanzibar governments     -- which                                      --
                                                            aims to reduce the spread o f HIV inthe
general population o f Tanzania through multi-sectoral action involvingGovernment,
Non-Government, Civil Society and community organizations. The project has been developed
within the framework ofthe umbrella Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program(MAP-11) for the Africa
Regionapproved by the Boardo f Directors o f the World Bank Group on December 20,2001, and
it has beendesigned incollaboration with other development partners, some of whom will be
co-financing certain components. This collaboration has greatly benefited the project design,
with these partners participating inthe design of every project component to ensure
complementarity with other financing to support the NationalProgram. The project objective i s
to scale up and accelerate the national response to HIV/AIDS to reduce the spread of HNinthe
general population o f Tanzania, supporting activities inthe priority areas o f prevention and
mitigation o f socio-economic impact at individual, household, and community levels as well as
strengtheningthe national capacity to respondto the epidemic.

_ _ ~

M A P Eligibility for Country Participation               How Eligibility Criteria were met by
                                                          Tanzania
 - Satisfactory evidence o f a strategic approach to      - The National Multi-sectoral Strategic
 HIV/AIDS. This would typically be demonstrated           Framework (NMSF) on HIV/AIDS has been
 by a coherent national, multi-sectoral strategy and      developed in a consultative manner with broad
 action plan for HIV/AIDS prevention, care and            involvement and support from all major
 treatment which has been developed through a             stakeholders. The final Strategy was
 participatory approach usingsocial assessment            circulated inFebruary, 2003.
 techniques. It could also be demonstrated by having
 a participatory strategic planning process underway
 with a roadmap andtimetable.

 - A highlevel coordinatingbody such as a national        - Parliament passedthe TACAIDS Act in
 HIV/AIDS council or equivalent has been                  November, 2001, establishingthe Tanzania
 established to oversee the implementation o f the        Commission for AIDS under the Prime
 strategy and action plan. This body should               Minister's Office. This body was inaugurated
 encompass broad representation o f key stakeholders,     inFebruary, 2002, withbroadrepresentation of
 including persons living with HIV/AIDS.                  stakeholders -- all but two members are from
                                                          outside Government.

 - Government has agreedto use appropriate                - The Government has agreed to channel
 implementation arrangements to accelerate project        resources through a streamlinedprocedure to
 implementation, such as channeling grant funds for       respective beneficiaries, with many financial
 HIV/AIDS activities directly to communities, and         management functions beingoutsourced to
 outsourcing financial management and procurement         FacilitatingAgencies.
 where necessary.



                                                    - 2 -

-  Government has agreed to use and fundmultiple           - The project supports the implementation of
 implementation agencies, especially                       the NMSF which hinges onthe involvement
 community-based and non-governmental                      and support o f multipleimplementingagencies
 organizations.                                            from all sectors and layers o f society.




3. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The project will support a programmatic approach to Monitoring& Evaluation. Inthat context,
the partners have agreed to work towards joint reviews within ajoint Monitoring & Evaluation
framework, complete with common indicators. The elaboration o f thisjoint framework will be
supported under the project. Prior to the finalization o f this framework, a project-specific
logframe has been developed which i s strongly influencedby the logframe for the national
program which was developed at the October, 2001, Logframe Workshop. The following set o f
indicators have been adopted for the interimpurposes o f this specific project.

A. OutputIndicators
All public and private primary, secondary andhigh schools are usingschool curricula that
incorporate HIV/AIDS ina skills based learning approach by the end o f the second year o f the
project.
The number of reported people livingwith HIV/AIDS who are receiving some form of home or
community based support increased by 25% inthe first year, 50% inthe second year and over
75% by the end o f the project life.
All participating Ministries are implementingtheir respective HIV/AIDS work plans by the endof
the first vear o f the oroiect
HIV positive pregnant women have access to preventive treatment for mother to child
transmission (PMTCT) o f HIV in 30% o f public hospitals by the second year o f the project
The numberof condoms sold through social marketing outlets or distributedinTanzania is
increased by......(TBD after baseline exercise)
75% o f districts are implementing their respective HIV/AIDS plans formulated with stakeholder
and community participation by the endo f the second year
The proportion o f districts inwhich voluntary counseling and testing (VCT) services i s being
/providedincreased to 100% by the endo f the Droiect                                                 I

B. ProcessIndicators
Adequate quantities o f essential drugs for treatment o f sexually transmitted infections are
available in all public health facilities
The total value o fproject contracts with communities, NGOs, associations of people livingwith
HIV/AIDS, private sector agencies, etc, increased by 30% each year.
IDistricts submittingacceptable accounting and expenditure reports increased by 30% each vear        I

C. Impact Indicators
HIV prevalence among women attending ante-natal care clinics reducedby ....% by end o fthe
project (TBD after baseline exercise)
The number of menaged 15-49years treated for sexually transmitted (urethritis) infections inthe



                                                    - 3 -

previous 12 months increased from      ....% ....by the
                                            to           endofthe project (TBD after baseline
exercise)
The proportion o f 15-19 year old boys and girls that report being sexually active reduced from
....%to ....%by the end oftheproject (TBD after baselineexercise)
The proportion o f men/women aged 15-49 who report usinga condom intheir last act o f sexual
intercourse with a non-regular partner duringthe previous 12 months increased from...% to....%
by....year (TBD after baseline exercise)
The percentage o f sexually active people reporting having non-regular sexual partners over the
previous 12 months reduced from % to ...    .....%by year by the endo f the project (TBD after
baseline exercise)


B. Strategic Context
1.Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goalsupported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 20728            Date of latest CAS discussion: June 15, 2000

The principal goal o fthe present CAS for Tanzania is to assist the Government to resume progress made
on poverty reduction inthe late 1980s. It specifically identifies the spread o f HIV/AIDS as having had
tragic consequences for the country, with the emergence o f HIV/AIDS as a multi-sectoral development
issue severely hampering efforts to alleviate poverty. About halfthe hospitalbeds are occupiedby
patients with HIV/AIDS related illness and the number o f orphans due to HNIAIDS exceeds 1.5 million
and i s increasing. Without effective action, Tanzania's GDP in2015 could be 15-20 percent lower than it
would have been without the HN/AIDS epidemic, and GDP growth is estimated to be 1.O to 1.5
percentage points lower than it would be inthe absence o f the HIV/AIDSepidemic.

Tanzania i s eligible as a recipient o f IDA Grants inthe "Other Poor Countries" category as an IDA-only
country with a Gross National Product equal to or less than US$360 per annum. The total IDA Grant
allocation for Tanzania for FY03 i s US$102.2 million and, inadditionto the allocation to this HN/AIDS
project, provisions for the use o f IDA grants have been made to finance a US$32.2 million portion o f the
proposed Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit.

2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
TANZANIA MAINLAND:

The first AIDS cases inTanzania were recordedin 1983. Since then the epidemic has increased to a level
where it i s estimated that 12% o f the sexually-active adults (15 -49 years old) inthe country are
infected. HIV prevalence among pregnant women attending ante-natal clinics for the first time ranges
from 4.2 -32.1%. Approximately two million people are estimated to be living with HIV/AIDS, and
thousands have already died o f AIDS-related diseases. Adult mortality inTanzania has increased
considerably inrecent years due to HIVIAIDS, and it i s estimated that AIDS i s now the leading cause o f
death among adults. The modest child mortality decline duringthe 1980s and early 1990s has been
reversed due to HN/AIDS. Inaddition, life Expectancy at birthby 2010 will be reduced to 47 years as
opposed to the projected 56 years without AIDS, and there i s a rapidly increasingproportion o f children
under 15 who are orphans. By 2000, 1.1% had lost bothparents; 6.4% hadno father and 3.5% no
mother. HIV/AIDShas also had an impact on the occurrence o f tuberculosis which i s having a
significant resurgence with unusual presentation and a tendency to emergence o f multi-drugresistant
strains.




                                                      - 4 -

The HIV epidemic inTanzania has affectedboth urban and rural areas. The peak age group o f infected
females i s the 25-29 year old group, while among males it i s the 30-34 year old group. Generally females
acquire HIV infection at an earlier age compared to males. A survey in 1999 found that the under-five
mortality rate, including child and infant mortality rate, has not decreasedover the past three years, and
this is attributedto the HIVIAIDS epidemic. The volume of data and informationon the impact ofAIDS
on Tanzania i s relatively small compared to what i s available for some other countries inthe region.
More detailed informationon the effects o f HIVIAIDS on Tanzanian society and comprehensive
surveillance data are not yet available. However, the results o f a comprehensive household survey
(2000/01) are available .This informationwill enable decision-makers to betterunderstand the nature o f
the epidemic inTanzania, its effects, and how the National Programcan be fine-tunedto battle the
epidemic most effectively. The informationindicates that widespread illness and death due to HIV/AIDS
are likely to leadto future GDP growth being lower. Presently, some o f the most productive age-groups
insociety are bearingthe greatest diseaseburdenfrom HIV, and the productive sectors are experiencing
a loss o f skilled labor, increasingcosts for recruitment and benefits, and reduced revenue.

HIV/AIDS, negatively impacts all aspects o f development, compromising all other measures intended to
reduce poverty. HIV/AIDS can drive households into poverty when their assets (e.g., livestock) are sold
to cover the costs o f medical care, or when the available labor force becomes insufficientto tend to the
necessary agricultural activities. Measures to reduce poverty among already vulnerable groups are likely
to fail inthe current environment where HIV prevalence i s high. Therefore, prevention and mitigation o f
HIVIAIDS i s central to an effective poverty-reduction strategy, while poverty reduction in itself i s
neededto mitigate the socio-economic impact that the epidemic imposes on society.

Poverty contributes to the spread o f HIVIAIDS. The impact o f poverty on women drives them to adopt
coping mechanisms that may include increasedrisk exposure (e.g. commercial sex). Poverty also limits
the scope for long-term development prospects, thereby reducing the barriers for taking otherwise
unacceptable risks. The limitedaccess to formal education o f this increasingly substantial cohort o f
children, particularly girls, may well provide fertile ground for poverty and increased risk o f exposure to
HIV.O fparticular concernis the situation ofvulnerable children andyouth inTanzania. The effects of
poverty are especially felt among the children, and there i s little doubt that the HIVIAIDS epidemic has
significantly worsened their situation.

GovernmentResponseto the HIV/AIDSEpidemic

History: InTanzania, the presence o f HIV/AIDS was recognizedquite early on, primarily as a health
issue, but the response to HIV/AIDS underestimated the extent to which it would spread and the
devastating impact it would have on social and economic development. Institutional efforts to control the
spread o f HIV inTanzania date back to 1985 when a Short-Term Planwas prepared by the Ministryo f
Health for 1985 and 1986. Since 1985, three national plans have been formulated to guide the Tanzanian
National AIDS Control Program. The FirstMediumTerm Plan (MTP-I) covered 1987- 1991, the
Second Medium Term Plan (MTP-11) covered 1992 - 1996, and the ThirdMediumTerm Plan (MTP-111)
covered 1998 - 2002. Despite these strategic plans covering all sectors, there has been little progress in
actually mounting a multi-sectoral effort to address the epidemic. However, the consistent efforts o f the
National AIDS Control Program (NACP) inthe Ministry o f Healthhave yieldeda strong foundation from
which Tanzania Commission for AIDS (TACAIDS) will be able to launch a truly multi-sectoral national
response. Furthermore, significant progress has beenmade by government over the past year aimed at
puttinginplace the institutional framework requiredto effectively scale-up the response against
HIV/AIDS inTanzania.




                                                     - 5 -

Recent Developments:There i s growing commitment among national and local leaders -- political,
religious and commercial -- to encourage all members o f society to play a role in stopping the spread o f
HIV and care for those affected. The President of the UnitedRepublic ofTanzania, Hon. Benjamin
Mkapa, established the Tanzania Commission for AIDS (TACAIDS Act o f January, 2002) .The
Commissioners were inaugurated inFebruary, 2002, comprisedmainly o f non-government
representatives. This body i s expected to provide the strategic leadership necessary to galvanize the
national social movement to effectively reduce the spread o f HIV/AIDS. Inaddition, a national policy on
HIViAIDS that cuts across disciplinary and institutional sectors to provide the framework for a national
response has been adopted and has beentranslated into a national strategic framework. This framework
has been finalized and i s inthe process o f beingtranslated into Swahili   .Furthermore,  the Poverty
Reduction Strategy includes HIV/AIDS as a central development challenge requiringthat all sector and
local government plans address this issue, and this is reflected inthe TACAIDS Act's establishment o f
HIV/AIDS Committees at the local government level. The HIPC debt initiative, with its objective of
enabling the Government to use resources previously dedicated to debt service to increase expenditures
on poverty-reducing expenditures, has also fortified the resources dedicated to HIV/AIDS. However,
expenditures on HIV/AIDS has increasedby an even larger amount than provided for under HIPC, with
financing o f HIV/AIDS programs under the Government increasingalmost two-fold between
FY2001/2002 and FY2002/2003. Moreover, the Government increased its share o f total funding for
HIV/AIDS from 20% inFY2001/2002 to 33% inFY2002/2003. The Government o f Tanzania has
requested access to IDA resources within the framework o f the umbrella M A P for the Africa Region.
Tanzania is eligible for M A P fundingas it satisfies the M A P criteria outlined above.

ZANZIBAR

Zanzibar has a different Government structure for domestic issues, and have established their own AIDS
Commission. Therefore, while it i s considered essential that the project provide support to Zanzibar
(includes the islands o f Unguja and Pemba) as well as the mainland, the administrative reach o f
TACAIDS and the structures for implementing the other components does not extend to Zanzibar.
Therefore, a separate allocation has beenmade for support to the HIV/AIDS Programon Zanzibar.

The Government o f Zanzibar launched a mediumterm plan (MTP 111) inMay 1999. The plan aimed at
creating strong partnership at all levels o f society to take specific and appropriate action inresponse to
HIV/AIDS and STDs. Despite financial constraints, the government succeeded (with donor support) in
implementing a "limited" STD project inZanzibar, which includes input from Medicos del Mundo and
WHO on the training o f healthcare providers on the syndromic management o f STIs.

Technical support for capacity development is given to a technically limitednumber o f healthcare
providers and localNGOs to establish VCT centers. However, wider coverage and quality improvement
o f the service is yet to be achieved. The Government o f Zanzibar has preparedthe Zanzibar Poverty
Reduction Plan (ZPRP) as a first stage o f its Vision 2020, a strategy to eradicate "absolute" poverty by
addressing some key determinants such as lack o f employment among women and youth together with
migration o f young people to the urban areas. HIV/AIDS is a priority health and social problemto be
addressed inthe ZPRP strategy. The multi-sectoral nature o f action against HIV/AIDS requires the
government to start buildinginfrastructure, interms o f human resources, to mitigate its effects.

The HIV/AIDSepidemic has continued to escalate inZanzibar since the first three cases were diagnosed
in 1986. According to the MinistryofHealthand Social Welfare (MOHSW) surveillancereport on
HIV/AIDS/STDs (No. 3-2000), HIV/AIDS among pregnant women at antenatal care (ANC) clinics has
doubled from 0.3% inmid 1980s to 0.6% in 1997, and the trend i s on the increase. Inaddition, among
STD clients tested for HIV, 5.6% were positive. Among TB patients, 25.5% tested positive, with 22% in


                                                       - 6 -

the age group o f 14-22 years. School dropouts due to teenagepregnancies are increasingly becoming a
social and economic problem. In 1998,7% o f total school dropouts were due to pregnancy (MOHSW
report, No.3-2000). A recent behavioral study conducted by Africare (2002) revealedthat:

0   75% o f young people surveyed do not know the correct signs and symptoms o f STDs
0   78% of youth respondents from Pemba perceive condoms as socially unacceptable compared to 37%
    o f the respondents from Unguja
0   Among the youth respondents who reported having had sex, 65.4% have never useda condom during
    sexual intercourse
0   The concept of safe sex is unknown to 62% of the youthrespondents
0   The majority o fyouth respondents (74%) do not perceivethemselves to be at risk o f contractingHIV


At aprevalence rate o f less than two percent for HIV (validation study 2002), Zanzibar maybe
considered a low prevalence area. However, the Zanzibar government and community face a great
challenge to not only maintain a low HIVIAIDSprevalence but to reduce it further. Intime, ifthe
situation continues unabated, it will leadto disastrous consequenceswith large increases in adult
morbidity and mortality, as i s the case throughout most o f sub-Saharan African countries along with the
associated fall inGDP and the decline inthe national economy.

The Government established the Zanzibar AIDS Control Programme (ZACP) underthe MOHSW in
1987, as implementing and coordinating body o f HIV/AIDS activities. More recently (June 2002), the
government enacted a law that established the Zanzibar AIDS Commission (ZAC) to take over the
responsibilities that the ZACP had untilnow inareas o f advocacy, resource mobilization, monitoringand
evaluation and coordination. Inthe process, the government redefined ZACP's role as the secretariat to
the ZAC as well as strengthening the health sector inmitigatingthe HIV/AIDSpandemic.

The Government o fZanzibar has shown a strong commitment to address the basic health needs o fthe
country. Inorder to sustain this commitment, the government has identified the following areas to be the
health priorities for the bridgingperiodo f 2003/04 untilthe completion o f the MediumTerm Plan IV.
The six sectors identified are contained within the Chief Minister's Office -ZAC; MOHSW; the
MinistryofEducation, Culture and Sports; the Ministry ofEmployment, Youth, Women and Children;
the Mufti'sOffice; and ZANGOC. As HIV/AIDSaffects all sectors, its controldemands a
well-coordinated response. Inits infancy, ZAC needs to develop the necessary human and institutional
capacity to execute its functions accordingly. ZAC needs strengthening with additional technical staff
that has an appropriate mix o f skills to effectively performthe following functions: (i)
                                                                                        Policy
formulation, application and coordination; (ii)   Progradproject management, coordination, monitoring
and evaluation; (iii) HIVIAIDS advocacy and mainstreaminginto national and sectoral policies; (iv)
Collect, store and disseminate data; and (v) Create a platformfor exchange of best practices.

Ministerial and District AIDS Committees have been established but most o f them are not yet effective.
Urgentactions needto be taken to activate these committees and buildthe capacities of government and
non-government institutions as well as reinforcing district response initiatives.




                                                      - 7 -

3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Sectoral background: With the recognition o f the impact o f the HIV/AIDS epidemic on every sector and
all development programs, it has become evidentthat the existing sectoral responses do not add up to a
concerted response. TACAIDS is a new and emerging institution, mandated to coordinate and monitor
the national response to HIV/AIDS. With the understanding that TACAIDS will not be an implementing
agency, the project will support TACAIDS to carry out its mandate while assigning responsibilities for
implementation and financial accounting directly to the implementing institutions. The Local
Government ReformProgram inTanzania has established a decentralized structure for the delivery o f
services through Local Government Authorities. The project will take advantage o f this structure to
strengthenthe implementation of HIV/AIDS activities at all levels of Government through the Public
Sector Fund. Furthermore, the Community AIDS Response Fundwill channel resources to communities,
religious organizations and NGOs to help extend the reach o f the National Program down to the most
decentralizedlevels. Finally, inorder for the IDA resources to be fully complementarywith other grant
funding, there is needfor a flexible approach and good coordination. For this purpose the establishment
o f a Joint HIV/AIDS Financing Committee was agreed at during appraisal. This committee will serve as
a platform for joint financing and other implementation arrangements, ensure appropriate inthe MTEF,
PER and PRSC processeswhere it relates to HIV/AIDS, and explore options for pooledfinancing
arrangements. While this coordination function falls within the mandate o f TACAIDS, this committee
would provide a forum for TACAIDS to collaborate on these arrangements with development partners.
The project will be based on annual workplans to allow for timely changes inthe light of grants
forthcoming with donor coordination by TACAIDS facilitated under their component.

Ensuring an Effective and CoordinatedResponse combined with Rapid Institutional and Organizational
Development. The Tanzania NationalMulti-Sectoral Strategic Framework on HIVIAIDS will be the key
national document that defines the national priorities and strategic goals for accelerating and expanding
the HIV/AIDS Response inTanzania. It embraces a large number o f stakeholders and all ministries in
developing the new response. Some ministries have developed sector-specific plans for integrating
HIV/AIDS into their work programs, both interms o f workplace interventions to protect their own staff
and measures to incorporate HIV/AIDS activities into the delivery o f their core services. It i s anticipated
that the strategic directions will evolve as the lessons learned from the new approach o f a multi-sectoral
response are absorbed. The coordination and monitoring andevaluation o f this intensifiedresponse pose
challenges that the project will assist by supporting TACAIDS to carry out their mandate. At
decentralizedlevels, the project will support the establishment, capacity buildingfor, and functioning o f
HIV/AIDS Technical Committees in Local Government Authorities. It will also ensure that
community-level efforts, financed through the project's Community AIDS Response Fund, are
coordinated and consistent with the national response through the use o f FacilitatingAgencies (see
Section C.1) to fortify the link among the various levels. The project will complement other resources
that are, or may become, available to support the implementation o f the national program, such as
resources underthe Global Fundto fight HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria (GFATM). This
complementarity will be required to support a program that is capable to adapt to rapidchanges and
lessons learned. Inaddition, and incontrast to the limitations o f many other sources o f funding, the
project will focus on puttinginplace the basic infrastructure for an expanded and multisectoral response,
knowledge sharing and systems strengthening.

"Scaling Up" of Existing Good Practices: One o f the primary objectives o f the umbrella M A P program
i s to facilitate the scaling up o f existing good practices in client countries. Tanzania has had some
positive experience in that there are communities inwhich the epidemic appears to be indecline. The
project will provide resources to enable the Government to build on these islands o f good practice and
replicate them.



                                                        - 8 -

ThePrevention of New HIV Infections: Reducing the incidence o f HIV is the single most important
strategic priority to address the epidemic. Strategies and activities to achieve this vary according to the
target population and encompass health education, sex education, anticipatory guidance for children and
parents, peer support programs, behavior-change interventions, the promotiono f condom use, voluntary
counseling and testing, the promotion o f abstinence, the prevention o f mother-to-child transmission, the
reduction o f susceptibility through treatment o f sexually transmitted infections, the screening o fblood
before transfusion, post-exposure treatment for rape-victims, etc. The implementing agencies will be
expected to put special emphasis on three target groups for prevention activities to be funded under the
project: a) the poor and vulnerable (e.g., women, youth and children); b) those inwhom significant
investments will be made or have been made (e.g., new recruits, school and universityentrants,
employees); and c) high risk groups, both in terms o f gettinginfected as well as transmitting HIV (e.g.,
commercial sex workers, migrant workers, truck drivers, migrant construction workers). The extent to
which the various implementingagencies will be involvedwith any giventarget group will depend on
their respective mandates and access to these groups.

Major roles are anticipated for the education sector (children, school and university entrants, employees),
the private sector (employees, new recruits, migrant workers), public sector institutions (employees, new
recruits), especially those with important extension services like agriculture, police, defense, health, and
livestock (rural poor and vulnerable), and NGOs/CBOs (commercial sex workers, women, the poor,
street children). TACAIDS and Local Government AIDS Coordinators will coordinate these activities,
promote consistency inthe various approaches, and disseminate experiences and best practices.

Mitigating the Socio-Economic Impact of the HIV/AIDS Epidemic: The HIVtAIDS epidemic inTanzania
has significant impact on individuals, households, businesses, public institutions, and whole sectors. The
growing number o f orphans poses an enormous challenge for the social sectors. Reachingthem inorder
to providejust the very basic nutrition, health and education services already constitutes a significant
problem. Coping mechanisms for households are stretched to the limit, and businesses findthemselves
confronted with increased costs for social benefits, a high turnover o f staff, and a less- productive
workforce. Whole sectors such as health, agriculture, and education now realize that their usual service
delivery mechanisms and the content o f those services will have to be revisited, adjusting their programs
to the new circumstances causedby HIV/AIDS. Implementation o f the NMSF includes measures to be
supported by the project to mitigate these effects o f the epidemic, includingthe design and promotiono f
social safety nets for those affected by HIV/AIDS.

 Orphans and Vulnerable Children: Children are a particularly vulnerable group among those affected by
the AIDS crisis inTanzania. An estimated 1.5 millionchildren have already beenorphaned as a result o f
HIV/AIDS. As a result o f the lag periodbetween the parents' infectionand death, the number o f orphans
due AIDS i s expected to continue to rise over the next 10years. The orphans crisis exerts considerable
 strain on the existing extended family structure and the whole social systeminthe communities through
 increasinghousehold dependency ratios, school enrollments and multi-generational poverty traps.
Children orphaned as result o f AIDS are likely to suffer from loss o f schooling and educational
 opportunities, failure to be immunized or to receive health care, increased malnutrition, increased
 demand for labor, loss o f family and identity, depression, and overall reduction in well-being. In
recognition o f these special problems, the project recognizes that support for community-based responses
 targeting orphans i s a desirable and economically feasible intervention. Through the Community AIDS
 Response Fundcomponent, community-basedinitiatives that help to address the education, health and
 social needs o f the orphans will be given due attention. Through the Public Sector Fundrelevant
 ministries (Education, Community Development) will be supported as well and TACAIDS will facilitate
 the coordination o f all these contributions.


                                                     - 9 -

Increasing Access to Care and Supportfor ThoseInfected or Affected by HIV/AIDS: An estimated two
millionHIV infected people are currently living inTanzania. To provide at least a basic, sustainable, but
meaningful package o f care and support to those infected or affected by HIV/AIDS poses enormous
economic, social, ethical, and organizational challenges to Tanzanian society. While there are great
efforts undertakenby families, communities, the Government, and its development partners to address
the issues involved, there remains ahugeand growing demand. The project will support activities that
increase access to social support services, such as patient support groups coordinated by the Network of
People Livingwith HIV/AIDS, and initiatives to provide care and support for orphans. Activities will be
formulated that will protect the human rights o f those infected or affected, including the articulation o f
policies that guard against discrimination inemployment practices and access to benefits. Access to
Anti-Retroviral treatment will initially be limited as a clear policy on increasing access to ARVs is
lacking. The project will support the elaboration o f such policy. The strengtheningo f the infrastructure
necessary for the administration o f ARVs, the financing o f ARV treatment for Post-Exposure
Prophylaxis for victims of gender based violence and occupational exposure, and the financing o f ARV
treatment for the prevention o f Mother-to-ChildTransmission, including the treatment o f the parents, will
be eligible expenditures under the project awaiting the finalization o fthe ARV policy.

Promoting an Enabling Socio-Cultural Environmentfor a Multi-sectoral Response: One o f the key
reasonsfor a broader approach to the HIVIAIDS issue i s the influence o f socio-cultural norms and values
on the spread o f the disease. Efforts will be made to promote socio-cultural norms, values, and beliefs
that are consistent with the reduction o f HIV transmission, and that protect the human rights o f those
infected or affected by HIV while at the same time being culturally sensitive. TACAIDS coordinated
activities are expected to pursue this objective through education, advocacy, counseling, consultation,
and intensifiedenforcement o f both customary and written laws, particularlywith respect to
gender-specific issues. The reduction o f stigma will receive special attention as it constitutes an
important obstacle for affected individuals and households to access support and care services. The
project will support such efforts through both the financing o f work-programs o f the implementing
partners o f TACAIDS and o f activities directly coordinatedby TACAIDS on this issue. Use o f
indigenous knowledge and practices to positivelychange behaviors, for example initiation and marriage
rites and ceremonies, will be explored as to provide fora for HIV prevention activities.

Women are especially vulnerable to HIV infection due to a variety o f social and biological factors. The
Government will work with community agencies to provide support for activities that reduce the risk o f
HIVinfectionamong women, such as basic educationon sexual andreproductive health, HIV,andSTIs;
activities for youth designed to delay sexual debut; harmonizing the age o f consent, marriage, and
maturity to 18 years; encouraging voluntary testing; and empowering women on matters pertaining to
access to information, employment, and economic/social recognition.

A large percentage of new HIV infections occur among youth, particularlyyoung women (15-19 years).
TACAIDS, in close cooperation with the education sector, will provide guidance inthe development o f
culturally, morally, and scientifically acceptable AIDS education programs for youth inand out o f school
and advocate for the protection o f youth against behaviors that place them at increased risk o f HIV
infection. These activities will be supported boththrough the financing o f work-programs and activities
coordinatedby TACAIDS.

Provision of Anti-Retroviral Therapy: The use o f anti-retroviral therapy against HIV/AIDS i s still
evolving, and there are research efforts going on inthe region as well as internationally. There are
ethical and moral issues o f deprivingtheir use where they are available. The project will not be
prescriptive as to whether the drugs are used. There are no major controversies expected inthis regard.


                                                    - 10-

More generally, resources under the project couldbe used to increase access to care and to increase the
capacity o f the health care system to provide and administer these services. Specifically, the financing o f
anti retroviral drugs to prevent parent to child transmission or for Post Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) under
WHO/UNAIDS guidelines will be considered under the project. Ifthe government decides to use IDA
Grant proceeds for this purpose, the project would finance training o f health care personnel inthe use o f
anti-retroviral therapy, as well as the costs incurred with the respect to the necessary laboratory support,
according to clear clinical management protocols to be agreed with WHO, UNAIDSand other technical
agencies. The proposedsubregional MAP grant to support capacity buildingin HIV/AIDS prevention,
care, and treatment among health care professionals inEast Africa would provide an opportunity to
promote regional standardsand practices. This issue also requires the formulation o f a coherent national
policy on the prevention o f mother to childtransmission, on Post ExposureProphylaxis for rape victims
and health workers and on equity issues related to access to anti-retroviral treatment. The considerations
to be taken into account for the prevention o f mother to child transmission will include promotiono f
breast feeding versus alternate feedingfor infants, the social stigmatization that may arise, the side
effects and resistance development from inappropriate use o f the drugs. The adequacy o f the legislation
and law enforcement concerningrape and sex with minors will be addressedinthe context o f the Post
Exposure Prophylaxis. Cost-effectiveness studies o f suggestedinterventions will be supported under the
project.

Research: Developments inthe area o f HIVIAIDS are occurring rapidly, as related to new approaches in
the field o f prevention as well as inrelation to treatment and care. Studies are needed to establish the
effectiveness, feasibility, affordability, and appropriateness o f these inthe Tanzanian context. In
addition, in order to develop an appropriate response, impact assessments that quantify specific changes
due to HIV/AIDS are neededinvarious sectors. TACAIDS has the mandate to set the priority research
agenda, and the project will consider supporting studies that may lead to a more effective and efficient
response to the epidemic. It is anticipated that studies related to mother-to-child   transmission,
women-controlled methods for HIV and STI prevention such as microbicides, and impact studies will be
supported. Piloting the use o f prophylaxis against Opportunistic Infections (01),and the development o f
a syndromic 01management protocol for adults and children with HIV/AIDS would also be considered
for support as research activities.

Specific Gender Strategy: The HIVIAIDS epidemic inTanzania has an important linkto gender
relationships inthe society. Young girls tend to engage insexual activities earlier than their male
counterparts. They also enter into relations with older more experienced menwho are more likely to
have been infected. The females intwo partner unions are also less likely to perceive beingat risk and
less likely to report sexual activity with non-regular partners when compared with their male
counterparts. After the death o f their male partners, females are more likely to lose control over the
properties o f the deceasedthereby becoming even poorer. Whenparents are illor have died, girls are the
more likely to drop out o f school to care for the sick parents or the younger siblings. When placed in
foster homes, girls are much more likely to be sexually abused. Physical violence, the threat o f violence,
and/or fear o f abandonment can act as substantial barriers to women innegotiating condom use,
discussing fidelity with partners, or in leaving relationships perceived to place them at increased risk o f
HIVinfection.

The plight o f men with regards to HIViAIDS can easily be ignored inthe face o f the enormous problems
faced by women. But boys and young menare still brought up in an environment inwhich social values,
education and peer pressures endorse and infact encourage multiple and casual sexual relationships. To
address the HIV/AIDS epidemic successfully, it will be essential to consider the role o f gender in
increasingthe vulnerability and impact o f HIV/AIDS.



                                                     - 11 -

This project will mainstreamgender considerations into all its components. Communityactivities that
focus on the prevention o f HIV specifically targeting the female or male population will be encouraged.
Reducing the HIV prevalence in the teenage girls population will receive highpriority and a concerted
effort will be made to involve activities targeting older meninbringingabout this change. Community
driven activities that focus on the care o f women, girls and widowers affected by HIV/AIDSwill be
supported. All the Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) with HIV/AIDS activities intheir
work plans will need to have gender specific activities as well. The Ministryo f Education can take
proactive measuresto ensure that girls affected by the HIViAIDSepidemic themselves or their families
have adequate support mechanisms to continue with their education. Research activities which address
the questions o f gender role inHIV transmissionwill also be promoted.


4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans:
N/A


C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for adetailed description andAnnex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The Tanzania Multi-Sectoral HIV/AIDS Projectwill finance a US$70 millionshare o fthe
Government's National Program for HIV/AIDS over a period o f five years between 2003 and
2008. The purpose o fthe Government's program is to reduce the spread of HIV inthe general
population o f Tanzania through multi-sectoral action involving Government,
Non-Government, Civil Society and community organizations. The purpose o f the project i s
to scale up and accelerate the nationalresponse to the HIV/AIDS epidemic taking into account
the priorities identifiedinthe HIV/AIDS policy and the National Multi-sectoral Strategic
Framework on HIVIAIDS (NMSF). The project will support activities inthe priority areas o f
prevention and the mitigation o f the health and socio-economic impact o f HIV/AIDS at
individual, householdand community levels, as well as the strengthening o f national capacity
to respond to the epidemic. Inaddition, both the National Program and project-financed
activities will place particular emphasis on targeting vulnerable groups. Activities to be
supportedby the project will be coordinated by the Tanzania Commission for AIDS
(TACAIDS) and the Zanzibar AIDS Commission (ZAC) on Zanzibar, and these activities will
be implemented by community groups and public andprivate service agencies.

The project i s designed within a multi-sectoral framework, under the Multi-Country AIDS Program
(MAP) for Africa, which addressesthe HIV/AIDS epidemic within a broad context. It i s a program to
support the Governmentto implement an expanded response to HIV/AIDS through community-based
initiatives and also by mainstreamingHIV/AIDS into the work programs o f all Ministries, Departments
and Agencies (MDAs) and local government authorities. It i s also intendedto sensitize the private sector
to the need for greater attention to the issue. The support for community-based initiatives would involve
 HIV/AIDS preventionprograms through peer education, IEC activities, and the provisiono f support for
Voluntary Counseling and Testing(VCT) services. The care o f orphans, widows and home-based care
 for Persons Livingwith HIV/AIDS(PLWHA) are also expected to be included among the
 community-based initiatives.


 The project will have the following four components:



                                                    -12-

1. CommunityAIDS Response Fund
2. Public Sector Fund
3. TACAIDS InstitutionalSupport
4. Zanzibar HIV/AIDS Support

Component 1. Community AIDS Response Fund (CARF). This component will focus on
social mobilization and community level responseto HIVIAIDS. A fund will be set up to
expand and strengthenHIV/AIDS activities beingcarried out by communities and
Non-Government Organizations (NGOs), includingEmployers and Workers' organizations,
Community Based Organizations (CBOs), private sector, religious sector, persons livingwith
HIV/AIDS (PLWHA). Activities to be funded will include the full spectrumo f HIV/AIDS
activities within the broad groups o f prevention, care and support and mitigation o f
socio-economic impact. There will be clearly-defined eligibility criteria for organizations to
be funded underthis component; these criteria have been elaborated inthe Operational
Manual. Groups which receive fundingwill be encouraged to focus, but not necessary limit,
their activities to the most vulnerable groups which include: people livingwith HIVIAIDS
(PLWHA), hospital workers, orphans, youths, commercial sex workers and truck drivers.

The conceptual basis for this component i s that the factors that determine the spread o fthe
HIV are only to a limited extent under the influence of government. Where traditional and
culturalvalues and practices are o f critical importance, Civil Society has to play an important
role as a vital partner inthe response to the epidemic. Civil Society organizations sometimes
better understand the needs andproblems o fpeople, and therefore are ina better positionto
effect behavioral change, empowerment and ownership. They can be innovative and flexible
and therefore fast reacting. For the purpose o f this project, Civil Society Organizations are
self-defined community groups that share a common interests for a specified purpose. They
can be organized by age, gender, profession etc. and include organized groups like villages,
workers' associations, community-based organizations, faith-based organizations, and NGOs.
There will be a cap on the number of grants for sub-projects costing more than USS5,OOO to
ensure a community-level focus; therefore, it is expected that larger NGOs or national
organizations would largely access these hnds only to the extent that they pair up with
individual communities. Private sector organizations will also be eligible to access the
Community AIDS Response Fund.

The Community AIDS ResponseFundwill be facilitated mostly through existing Government
structures. Local Government Authorities (LGAs) will receive training intwo areas: (i)     the
integration o f HIV/AIDS activities into their LGA workplans (see Public Sector Fund
component); and (ii) training o f Local Government teams on participatory approaches for
                        the
appraisal and approval process o f the Fund, monitoring and evaluation, cross sectoral
cooperation, and community mobilization. These local government teams will then mobilize
communities to access these funds, and the Local Government AIDS Coordinator will follow
upon sub-project implementation. They will also identifyNGOs and other groups that can
support communities inthe formulation and implementation o f sub-projects. A Facilitating
Agency will be contracted at the Regional level (with Regions definedconsistent with
Tanzania's administrative structure) to support the Government inthe administration o f the
Fund. Sub-project proposals will be submittedto the HIVIAIDS Technical Committee (or the
LGAswhere the HIV/AIDS committee is not yet established) for technical appraisal, and then
proceed to the Local Government Authority for final approval. The approved proposal will



                                                    -13-

thenbe forwarded to the FacilitatingAgency for Disbursementand to TACAIDS for
informationpurposes only. Inthe case o f sub-projects exceeding US$5,000, the proposals
will go to the Region or to TACAIDS for final approval, dependingon the total cost. The
beneficiary will sign an ImplementationAgreement with the Facilitating Agency, which will
perform fiduciary oversight o f sub-projects, provide training, inform LGAs when funds are
disbursed, andprovide reporting bothupwards to TACAIDS and downwards to LGAs. Other
donors will provide co-financing for the services o f the FacilitatingAgency inspecified
districts. Refer to Annex I1for additional informationon the contracting o f RFAs.

This component will complement the IDA-financedTanzania Social Action Fund(TASAF),
and efforts will continue throughout supervisionto ensure that the two remain complementary
as part o f a coherent program o f IDA-financed support. The main differences betweenthe two
modes o f support, both targeting community-level beneficiaries, i s that (i)TASAF does not
cover the entire country, and (ii) with the intensive support provided by TASAF project staff
inevery TASAF district, the Social Fundchannels funds for sub-projects through Local
Government Authorities. The replication o f this by hiringover 100MAP-financedpersonnel
at the district level was rejected early inpreparation infavor o f the contracting o f RFAs as
described above. Underthe Zanzibar component, however, giventhe much smaller scale, the
community fund support is likely to replicate the TASAF arrangement or possibly even
channel funds through TASAF.

Component 2. Public Sector Fund. This component will comprise a fund to scale up and
strengthen prevention, care, support and mitigation o f the social economic impact o f
HIV/AIDS through programdactivities o f the public sector. It will support public sector
institutions to protect their own personnel from the impact o f HIV/AIDS and, when
applicable, to integrate HIV/AIDS activities into their core business. Sub-contracting by
ministries, localauthorities andparastatals will be encouraged inorder to make the best use of
the implementation capacity that may be available outside the public sector. Eachpublic
sector agency will define a work programwhich, as a minimum, will address issues regarding
HIV/AIDS among its employees. Public agencies will also be expected to extend HIV/AIDS
services to their clients and neighboring communities. This component will provide the
following types o f support:

    Support to Ministry of Health: The largest share o f funds under this component will be dedicated to
    supporting the Ministry o f Healthinits unique role incombatting the epidemic. This support will
    partially finance the Ministry'sHIV/AIDS workplan, which has been developed incollaboration with
    the Ministry'sdevelopment partners and reviewedduringthe annual Sector Review. It comprises
    prevention activities, medical interventions, the procurement o f HIV/AIDS commodities and
    services, and support by the Ministryo f Healthto other partners inthe multi-sectoral campaign
    against the disease. Giventhe special nature o f this sub-component, the application o f funds will be
    for a broader range o f purposes than provided for under the guidelinesfor other ministries. The
    TMAP funds will complement those from other partners, as well as from the IDA-financedHealth
     Sector Development Program (HSDP) which will provide an additional US$1.5 millionto the
    Ministry o f Healthin support o f HIVIAIDS activities in FY04, as reflected in the FY2003/04 MTEF.
    While the HSDP is coming to a close, the secondphase o fthis APL, planned for delivery inFY04,
    will allocate additional funds to HIV/AIDS inthe health sector program over the next three years to
    helpbridgeany financing gaps.

    Support to MDAs (other than Ministry of Health): All MDAs will receive support toward the



                                                    - 14-

implementation o f their comprehensive HIV/AIDS workplans. All support to the Ministryo f Health
will flow through this component, includingfinancing of HIV/AIDS-related commodities. Some
ministrieswith advanced workplans and responsibility for the highest priority areas underthe
MTP-I11will receive comprehensive workplan support duringthe first year. The remainder o f the
ministries will receive more limitedworkplan support - focused mainly on workplace interventions
to protect their own personnel - duringthe first year, and more comprehensive support duringthe
second year. Technical Assistance has beenmade available to all ministries, financed from the
PHRD grant, inidentifying the sections o f the workplan to be financed inthe first year. Additional
technical assistance will be provided by TACAIDS in the first year to support those ministries which
will not qualify for comprehensive workplan support during the first year inorder that they may be
prepared to access this comprehensive support duringthe second year. Such comprehensive support
i s expected to address the following two broad areas:
                                                                                                              h

(a)      The internal impact of the HIV/AIDS epidemic on the specific ministry: The extent to which
         HIVIAIDShas affected the quality, quantity and substanceo favailable services, the ability
         to supply the required services, the organization o f the sector, the role o f service providers,
         human resources policy and management practices, the planning and management o f sector
        resources, and the availability o f resources to the sector would provide the framework for
         assessingthe internal impact o f the epidemic on the specific line ministry.

(b)      The external impact of the HIVIAIDS epidemic relative to the work of the specific ministry:
         The extent to which the specific sector can contribute to the preventionof further spread of
         HIV inorder to protect both its staffand target populations, and the increase inaccess to and
         use o f care and support for the affected or infected among staff membersand their families.

The workplans beingprepared by sectors after the NMSF will be funded. Ingeneral, the range o f
activities that are expect to be considered within the ministryworkplans include the following:

(a)      Capacity Buildingfor the mainstreamingo f HIVIAIDS-related activities into the ministry
         workplan;

(b)      Information, Education and Communication (IEC) campaigns for staff and client awareness,
         promote condom use, and provide for a sustainable behavior change among its staff and the
         clients by extension;

(c)      Promote access to condoms for staff;

(d)      Impact studies to investigate the qualitative and quantitative consequenceso f the epidemic
         on specified (sub-)sectors and analyze possible and appropriate responses; and

(e)      Policies regarding the posting and location o f staff, and the impact o f temporary work camps.

Inaddition to the above, each ministrywill conduct activities specifically relevant to its areas of
comparative advantage. More details are available inthe actual workplans.

Support to Local GovernmentAuthorities (LGAs): LGAs will also receive support for the
implementation o f HIV/AIDS workplans, which will be integrated into the LGA workplan as
prepared during the existingannual planning exercise. The only things that are proposed to be added
or changed are as follows: (i)   HIV/AIDS activities will be integratedinto the non-health sector



                                                 - 1 5 -

 components o f the LGA workplan; (ii) HIV/AIDS Technical Committee, as constituted under the
                                          the
 TACAIDS Act, will play a coordinating function; (iii) HIV/AIDS Technical Committee will
                                                           the
 extract the HIVIAIDS activities from all sectors into a parallel HIV/AIDS workplan to facilitate
 review by TACAIDS; and (iv) a consolidatedHIV/AIDS Fundwill be established at the District
 Level. The funds for all sectors will be heldin the ConsolidatedFundaccount # 2, which i s
 envisioned to hold funds from all sources o f financing for HIV/AIDS activities at the LGA level.
 The Facilitating Agency contractedunder the Community AIDS ResponseFundwill provide
 Technical Assistance to the personnel from the non-health sectors at LGA level to facilitate the
 integration o f HIV/AIDS activities into their workplans. The LGA workplans will be intendedto
 complement those o f the ministries and will focus on a similar, though narrower, range o f activities.

 Component 3. TanzaniaAIDS Commission Institutional Support. The project will support the
 Tanzania Commission for AIDS (TACAIDS) to fulfill its national HIVIAIDS coordination mandate
 as provided by the TACAIDS Act. This mandate has beenelaborated and well articulated in several
 documents (see Annex 8) and there is broad consensus on the responsibilities assigned to the
 Commission. These evolve mainly around advocacy, providing leadership for the multi-sectoral
 response to HIVIAIDS, coordination and monitoring and evaluation. TACAIDS is not envisionedto
 have implementation or fundingresponsibilities. The project design acknowledges TACAIDS'
 mandate and appropriately creates opportunities for support to TACAIDS to carry out its mandate.
 Support, inparticular, will be givento TACAIDS for (i)      establishment o f an effective secretariat and
 networks at the regional and district levels; (ii)establishment of financial management and
 procurement systems; (iii)  resource mobilization; and (iv) monitoring& evaluation systems.

 TACAIDS is located in the Prime Minister'sOffice (PMO). While TACAIDS i s not an
 implementing agency, its role inthe national program will requirethe TACAIDS Secretariat to fulfill
 certain implementation-relatedfunction, and the IDA Grant will support it to do so by financing
 additional staff. The TACAIDS Secretariat will undertake centralizedprocurement and disbursement
 functions including(i)  procurement planning, (ii)   facilitating disbursements from the Special
 Account, (iii)  processing o f withdrawal applications to the IDA Grant. TACAIDS plans to
 out-source the implementationo f activities such as procurement to the extent possible, without
 dissociating itself from the responsibility for initiatingthe activity and the end-result. Inpractice this
 means that TACAIDS would be responsible for the Terms o f Reference for the contractor and for the
 quality assessment o f the endproduct.

Component 4. Zanzibar HIWAIDS Support: Zanzibar has a different Govemment
structure for domestic issues, and has established their own AIDS Commission. Therefore,
while it is considered essential that the project provide support to Zanzibar as well as the
mainland, the administrative reach o f TACAIDS and the structures for implementingthe
other components does not extend to Zanzibar. Therefore, an allocation has been made for
support to the HIV/AIDS Programon Zanzibar. Given that Zanzibar i s less advanced in
the establishment o fthe necessary structures for preparation ofthis component, the details
o f this component are expected to be elaborated largely during the first year o f the project's
implementation; however, the smaller scale of Zanzibar has made a more flexible, dynamic
response possible. Thus, preparation is currently accelerating ahead o f schedule, though
still likely to commence later than support to the mainland. Though on a smaller scale, this
component will provide the same type o f support to Zanzibar as i s providedto the mainland
underthe other three components: (i)    Support to the Zanzibar AIDS Commission (ZAC);
(ii) Support to the Public Sector, specifically MDAs with significant support to the
MinistryofHealth; and (iii)Community Fund. Itis merelythe implementation
                              a



                                                  - 16-

    arrangements which are expected to substantially differ from the mainlandprogram, as
    these will be tailored to the situation inZanzibar. Given that the ZAC i s located inthe
    Chief Minister's Office, this office will parallel the functions of the PMO inthe mainland
    components o f the project.




                                                                                                         20.0
                                                                                                         45.7
 3. Tanzania AIDS Commission Institutional Support                                                       21.4
 4. Zanzibar HN/AIDS Support                                                                               7.1
                                                                                                           5.7
                                                                                                        100.0
                                                                                                        100.0

2. Key policy and institutionalreformssupportedby the project:

This project i s a multi-sector operation that will support the following key policy and institutional
changes. It will neither address long-term sector and institutional reforms within any one sector nor will
it include conditions linkedto macroeconomics or individual sector policies. It will assist the
Government in:

0    Making the National HIVIAIDS Program truly multi-sectoral by mainstreaming HIV/AIDS control
     into the action plan o f every Government Ministry and Local Government Authority, and by
     strengthening capacity of the Tanzania Commission for AIDS (TACAIDS) for overall national
     coordination; and
0    Ensuringthat the national HIV/AIDS activities have broadparticipation byproviding for
     private and civil society participation and by empowering communities to design and
     implementtheir own responses.

3. Benefitsand target population:
The project is expected to helpreduce the spread of HNIAIDS, improve care o fthose with AIDS and
mitigate the socio-economic impact o f the epidemic. By scaling up ongoing efforts inthe fight against
HIV/AIDS and involving all sectors and players at all levels o f society, the benefits will include:

(a)      Reducednew HIV infections arising from : behavior change (increased age at sexual debut;
         reducedpartners, use o f condoms); more effective treatment o f sexually transmitted disease; use
         o f voluntary testing and counseling services; among others. This should result inreduced
         expenditures on health care and other related costs o f living with HN/AIDS.
(b)      Improvedcare for People LivingWith HIV/AIDS (PLWHA): better diagnosis and treatment o f
         tuberculosis and other opportunistic infections and improvednutrition. This should enable
         PLWHA's to live longer and healthier lives.
(c)      Improvedability o f households and individuals to preventor cope with HIV/AIDS. Material and
         other support from the project should help household expenditures and mitigate other
         consequences: reduction inhouseholdproduction arising from the needfor householdmembers
         to look after those that are ill;depletion o f household savings and assets; increase inthe number
         o f orphans as well as children leaving school to look after the illor replace lost householdheads.
         Support inthe form o f income transfers, school fees and other relatedprograms will help to



                                                      -17-

        redress the current suffering.
(d)     Increased community and national empowerment for a stronger response to the HIV/AIDS
        epidemic.
(e)     Increased capacity at the national, regional ,district, community and householdlevels to better
        respond to the HIV/AIDSepidemic.
(f)     Reducedpoverty due to improved income and food security particularly invulnerable groups
        such as orphans, widows, and PLWHAs.
(g)     Increased economic productivityand better standards o f living due to a reduction inthe loss o f
        human capital to AIDS.

        TargetPopulation. The project targets the whole population because o f the advanced stage o f
the epidemic inTanzania. However, certain groups will receive more focus because o ftheir vulnerability
to HIV/AIDS or its socio-economic impact. The following groups have been identified for specific
focus:

(a)     Orphans and widows
(b)     Groups with tendency to highprevalence levels: commercial sex workers, truck drivers
(c)     The youth and especially young girls who are most vulnerable
(e)     Children through support to efforts aimed at reduction inmother-to-child transmissiono f H N
(f)     People infectedby HIV.

Since the intentioni s for the whole population to be reached, informationprovisionthrough different
channels (mass media, focus groups, peer groups, etc.) will be strengthened. Services that cut across the
different key interventions such as health services, voluntary testingand counseling, provision o f
condoms and other services will be strengthened. The involvement o fNGOs and other civil society
organizations is aimed at ensuring that all the different groups are reached. The opportunity providedfor
these groups to put forward proposals for funding at the national and local levels will ensure that all
groups are reached.

The gender dimensions o f the epidemic will be addressedinthe identification of the differentgroups o f
women, particularly widows and female commercial sex workers needing support from the project.
Distribution of support to households will take into account the fact that women are disadvantaged in
access to household incomes and assets. Work place interventions will ensure that women's particular
needs are met interms o f access to information, services (e.g. voluntary testing and counseling,
reproductive health services that are responsive to their needs) legislation and regulations that protect
women. Sensitizationof leaders and employers in the gender dimensions o f the epidemic will be
conductedat all levels: national; provincial, district and community levels.




                                                    - 1 8 -

4. Institutionaland implementationarrangements:
InstitutionalArrangements: The Prime Minister's Office (PMO) will be the custodian of the proposed
project (The Chief Minister's Office inZanzibar), and the Permanent Secretary inthe Prime Minister's
Office will have overall responsibility for accounting for resources provided by the project.
Coordination o f activities and responsibilities for the National HIV/AIDS Programwill rest with the
Tanzania Commission for AIDS (TACAIDS), which is also housed inthe Prime Minister's Office, and
the Zanzibar AIDS Commission (ZAC) whose functions will largely mirror those o fTACAIDS on the
mainland. TACAIDS/ZAC will execute its functions through its Secretariat headed by the Executive
Chairman o f the Commission o f TACAIDS and the Executive Director o f ZAC. The Grant will provide
support for limitedadministrative functions such as procurement, financial management, and
disbursement functions, as described above. The TACAIDS/ZAC Commission will be responsible for
providing strategic direction and policy leadership, as well as identifyingregional and district networks
to be utilizedby TACAIDSIZAC. The Secretariat will be responsible for ensuring consistency o f all
aspects o f the national response with the national strategy, day to day coordination o f the program,
mobilizationo f resources, and monitoringand evaluation. The Secretariat will prepare and present
annual work plans and regular progress reports, includingfindings from monitoring and evaluation, to the
Commission. Where necessary, TACAIDWZAC may arrange for activities to be contractedout where
others have a comparative advantage.

On the mainland, TACAIDS will have responsibility for coordinating activities implementedby civil
society under the Community AIDS Response Fund, while the administration o f the Fundwill be
contractedout to FacilitatingAgencies on a regional basis. Once LGAs have approved sub-projects for
funding, the Facilitating Agency will disbursethe funds to the sub-project's bank account and follow-up
to fulfill its fiduciary responsibilities. Modalities for disbursementswill be agreed upon and clearly
spelled out inthe Operations Manual. TACAIDS will also contract out to FacilitatingAgencies the
function o f buildingcapacity within LGAs and local NGOs to support the Community AIDS Response
Fund.

The Permanent Secretaries o f MDAs intheir capacity as accountingofficers will ensure that programand
project activities are aimed at mitigatingthe impact o f HIV/AIDS intheir sectors and that prevention
activities are integrated into sectoral workprograms. The Permanent Secretary will ensure that the use o f
project resources i s applied to the intendedpurposes and towards eligible expenditures. The HIV/AIDS
Focal Person inthe MDAs will coordinate the implementation o f project activities at the level o f the
individual ministry.

Similarly, the Executive Chairman inTACAIDS will ensure that the use o f project resources i s applied to
the intendedpurposes and towards eligible expenditures. He will be responsible for the submission o f
annual workplans andregular financial and implementationprogress reports. Inaddition, it i s foreseen
that TACAIDS will consolidate the reports o f the various projects and programs, and organize annual
reviews for all partners and stakeholders.

The underlying principles behindthe institutionalarrangements proposed for the project are simple and
aim to: (i)  As muchas possible, avoid creating new institutional structures anduse existingmeans for
coordination and project implementation; (ii)    Support TACAIDS to carry out its institutionalmandate o f
program coordination and monitoring & evaluation; and (iii)      Support agreed channels to provide efficient
flow o f funds to the implementing agencies.




                                                      -19-

 National Level Coordination

The project will work largely through existing and established structures for the national level
coordination. The multi-sectoral Tanzania AIDS Commission (TACAIDS) has been established and will
be the central coordinatingbody for project activities at the national level. The Executive Chairman o f
TACAIDS and the Commissioners were appointed inJanuary, 2001, and February, 2002, respectively.
Key staffposts within the Secretariat were filled inlate 2002, and the Secretariat was fully staffedby
January, 2003. TACAIDS will provide broadpolicy guidance for the National HIV/AIDS program,
supported by the Secretariat. TACAIDS is expected to coordinate with stakeholders both within and
outside o f Government on policy issues related to the overall national response to HIV/AIDS. The
TACAIDS Secretariat will be responsible for the program coordination and monitoring& evaluation for
the nationalprogram. Management responsibility for technical aspects o fthe project will lie with
TACAIDS, while the non-technical, administrative functions handled by TACAIDS will be kept to the
minimumpossible. TACAIDS will have approval authority for all project activities. For the TACAIDS
work program, to be financed by the TACAIDSInstitutional Support Component, a proposalwill be made
by the Secretariat and submittedto the Commission for approval.

At the program level, the establishment of a Joint HIV/AIDS Financing Committee has been agreed.
This Committee, under the Chairmanship of TACAIDS will bringtogether the technical and financial
partners supporting the program. Itwill serve as an advisory body to TACAIDS andmonitor the physical
progress o f the program, the use o f resources, and the commitments for support by the various partners
and elaborate joint financing plans and mechanisms.

Decentralized Level Coordination

The Community AIDS Response Fund: Community responseswill be coordinated as outlined in Section
C.l above. This component will be community driven, and the exact nature o f which projects will be
fundedcan only be determinedbasedon receivedresponses fromthe communities selected from a menu
o f broadly-definedactivities. The process starts when a community prepares a proposal for fundingo f an
HIV/AIDS activity under the Fund. A facilitating NGO may assist the community inthe proposal
preparation ifrequested. The proposal i s channeled to the existingLocal Government participatory
appraisal team for appraisal and to the Local Government HIV/AIDS Committee for approval.

ThePublic Sector Fund Component: As outlined above, there will be no separateworkplan process for
the project. For both MDAsand LGAs, preparationof HIV/AIDSworkplans to be financedby the
project will be incorporated into the existing annual planning and budgetingprocess.

The coordinationo f the Zanzibar Component will be according to the structures o fthe newly-established
Zanzibar AIDS Commission as it takes shape. As described above, this component and its
implementation arrangements will be elaborated during the first year o f the overall project.

Project Monitoring

The overall aim o f the programis to reduce the spreado f HIV and mitigate its impact. The short term
objective o f the project i s to increase the use o f HNprevention, care and impact mitigation services by
targeted vulnerable groups through activities under the four project components. Duringpreparation, a
logicalframework was finalized for the project, andjoint performance indicators were agreed upon for
the project inputsloutput and also for the outcomes/impact according to established guidelines. A
detailedperformance monitoringplan was developed on the basis o f the logical framework and the
selected indicators. The project will support the establishment o f an M&E systemwithin TACAIDS to


                                                       - 20 -

performthe critical task o f monitoring and evaluation duringproject implementation. The system will
providevaluable informationfor program management, and for other stakeholders and external parties.

The aim o f the M&E system will be to provide:

(i)     Easily accessible, timely information on the Program Inputs, Process, Outputs and Outcomes so
        that Program Management can be responsive, ifnot proactive.

(ii)    Identify intra-country variations inHIV/AIDSepidemiology to support the design of effective
        HIV/AIDS Prevention, Care and Impact mitigation operations.

(iii)   Engage stakeholders by sharing informationon progress made, lessons learnt and improvements
        to be done through a participatory evaluation o f project activities at all levels. This would
        provide a basis for information to be shared and compared with others nationally as well as inthe
                 sub-region.

(iv)    To document the best practices.

Project Evaluation

Once the M&E systemfor the national program is finalized, one o f the first priorities o f TACAIDS will
be to determine whether the data now emergingprovides a sufficient baseline for the program impact and
outcome indicators. Ifnot, then these data will be collected from the onset o f the project. The program
evaluation process will evolve around the annual reviews, when the existing data collected through the
monitoring and evaluation systemby the M&E staff inTACAIDS will be collated and analyzed
specifically relative to the achievements o f the goals set by the project and program. Duringthe project
preparation process, an attempt was made to set realistic and achievable targets. While project progress
will be monitoredregularly, through the annualreviews it shouldbe possible to evaluate definitively
whether the project is moving inthe rightdirection or not and, at the endo f the project, to assess its
impact. Inthe event that significant weaknesses appear, the annual reviews will provide a timely
opportunity to address them. It i s expected that these reviews as well as the final evaluation o f the
project will be participatory, and that the final evaluation will include a beneficiary assessment.

Supervision

Local Government Authorities, representing each sector and the President's Office, Regional
Administration and Local Government (PORALG) will supervise project activities at district and
sub-district levels. Staff from the TACAIDS Secretariat, cooperatingpartners and the Bank's Task Team
will make sample visits to the field to monitor the performance o f implementingagencies at peripheral
level. TACAIDS will monitor overall program implementation and meet regularly with HIV/AIDS focal
persons o f the various ministriesto discuss progress under each line ministry.

TACAIDS, will organize annual project reviews to assess the performance o f the program, including this
project, its components and its contribution to the national effort to reduce the spread andimpact of
HIV/AIDS. Specific areas o f the review will include technical and operational aspects of
implementation. Programreviews will be carried outjointly by TACAIDS and development partners.

The reviews will draw on the informationgenerated from routine monitoring, the studies conductedand
any other relevant information. Project reviews will culminate instakeholder meetings that will form a
basis for planning for the next year. These meetings will be usedto share informationon trends, best
practices and to provide general technical information. The World Bank's Task Team charged with the



                                                    -21   -

supervision will cooperate closely with all cooperatingpartners involved and will provide multi-sectoral
expertise. Inview o f the new institutional structures beingput inplace, the multiplicity o f implementing
agencies and the consequent need for broad consultations, participation and coordination an intensive
supervision strategy is proposed (see Annex 4: Monitoring & Evaluation) as essential to the success o f
the project.

Inview ofthe number ofimplementingagenciesinthepublic sector and civil society community, from
the national level downto the district level, implementation and supervision activities will be intensive.
Support and supervision activities will be provided by the Bank Task Team and other stakeholders,
includingbilateral and multilateral organizations. Additional support will also come from the Bank teams
that are supervisingthe Social Action Fundproject, the HealthSector Development Program, the Primary
EducationDevelopment Program, the Human Resources Development Project, the Agricultural Sector
Management Project, the Agricultural Research Project, the Roads I1project, and the Railways
Restructuring Project. Bank management will allocate supervisionresources from the Bank for this
project above the standard supervision coefficients, as demonstrated inthe increased supervisionbudgets
provided to M A P projects already under supervision.

ProcurementArrangements

TACAIDS, MDAs and local government authorities will procure works, goods and services inrelation to
the respective activities, inaccordance with government procurement regulations and the Bank's
Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995 and revised in January and
August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999), inparticular Section 3.15, Community Participation
in Procurement. Consulting services by firms, organizations, or individuals financed by IDA will be
contractedinaccordance with the Bank's Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers (January 1997, revised in September 1997, January 1999, and May 2002).

Communities will use the Bank's simplifiedProcurement and Disbursement Procedures for
Community-Based Investments to procure goods or services neededto implement their respective
community-led HIV/AIDS initiatives under the Community AIDS ResponseFund. Giventhat most
grants will be less than US$5,000, communities will use "local shopping'' as the standard procurement
method.

To facilitate speedy import o f items valued at less than US$lOO,OOO equivalent requiredurgentlyfor
diagnosisltreatment and institutional strengthening,contracts may be made based on international
shopping and national shopping procedures, respectively, per IDA Procurement Guidelines (Clauses 3.5
and 3.6) or through procurement from the UnitedNations (i.e., IAPSO, UNFPA, UNICEF, WHO),
provided contract awards are made within 12 months o f the project effectiveness date.

Giventhe urgency ofthe project, a wide-ranging General Procurement Notice (GPN) for the first year o f
operations will be placed on the UnitedNations Development Business web site without a need for
hard-copy publication. The government will prepare a procurementplan for the first year o f project
operations to be included inthe Procurement Manual. The plan will include relevant information on
goods, works, and consulting services under the project as well as the timing o f each milestone inthe
procurement process. The procurement schedule will be updatedevery quarter and reviewed by IDA.

Procurement performance (including sub-project procurement activities) will be assessed on an annual
basis (inthe form o f procurement/physical audits by an external agency). Inaddition to the formal
annual audits, ad-hoc procurement reviews will be conductedwhen necessary.



                                                    - 22 -

FinancialManagement

A guidingprinciple inthe design of the financial arrangements for this project hasbeento utilize existing
structures and procedures to the extent possible. Therefore, with the exception o f the C A W (for which
the arrangements have been summarized above), all funds will flow through existing government systems
according to the channels established for GOT`Sown funds. Given the lack o f capacity at the LGA level
and the measures that would have beennecessaryto shore up that capacity to implement CARF through
the existing government channels, it was decided, inkeepingwith the principles ofthe umbrellaMAP,
that extraordinary implementation arrangements were warranted to facilitate the community-level
response.

The Bank standard procedures for accounting and auditing will apply to the funds disbursedto either
public or privateinstitutions, as set out inFinancial Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by The
WorldBank. Under the supervision o f the Principal Secretary (PMO) as the controlling officer, the
Director o f Finance and Administration inthe TACAIDS Secretariat will be responsible for ensuring that
financial management and reporting procedures under the project will be acceptable to the Government,
the World Bank and ifapplicable other cooperatingpartners.

The Financial Management System (FMS) objective will be to helpmanagement in spending the
resources aimed at ensuring economy, efficiency and effectiveness by reaching the intended beneficiaries
and achieving the set objectives. Specifically, the FMS mustbe capable o f producing timely,
understandable, relevant and reliable financial information that will allow management to plan,
implement,monitor and appraise the Project's overallprogress or lack o f it.

The FMS that has beendevelopedi s computerized. The systemis beinginstalled by Treasury, which
will train all staff inthe operation o f the system and basic bookkeeping. RFAs are expected to conduct
training on basic bookkeeping for the communities; the availability o f relevantly qualifiedand
experienced staff inthe FacilitatingAgencies, MDAsand support staff and the communities; capacity
building;the establishment of a FixedAssets Register and a Contracts Register; separate Special and
TshillingAccounts will be operated and these will be reconciledmonthly; quarterly reporting of financial
information; cash flow management includingvariance analysis; Programactivities will be periodically
reviewed by the Internal Audit Department inconjunction with the Monitoring & Evaluation staffwithin
TACAIDS; an annual external audit will be undertaken on terms o f reference acceptable to the Bank.

Byproject effectiveness, TACAIDS will not have inplace a FMS that canprovide, with reasonable
assurance, accurate and timely informationas requiredby the Bank for FMR-based disbursementsi.e. the
Financial Management Report (FMR). Thus, existing disbursementprocedures, as outlined inthe Bank's
DisbursementHandbook, will be followed i.e. Direct Payment, Reimbursementand Special
Commitments. A financial management review o f the Project's progress can be made by a World Bank
Financial Management Specialist within 12 months o f credit effectiveness.

The following are members o f staffinthe accounting department at TACAIDS : The Director Of
Finance is responsible for the overall management of the department. She reports to the Executive
Chairman. She i s currently supported by an Accountant who i s responsible for preparing the unit's
accounting information, and another AccountantICashier who deals with programcash issues I i s the
paymaster.




                                                     - 23 -

Disbursement Procedures

All disbursements against expenditures contracts with the civil society organizations and the private
sector will be made against statements o f expenditure (SOEs) and i s subject to sample ex-post financial,
physical, and technical audit to be carried out by financial and technical consultants appointedby the
Auditor-General and employedby the TACAIDS Secretariat. All procurement contracts not subject to
IDAprior review will be disbursedagainst SOEs and documentationwill be retainedby TACAIDS and
made available for review by IDA financial management and procurement specialists and project
financial and procurement auditors. At Mid-Term, TACAIDS and IDA, together with other development
partners, will review the financial management and disbursement arrangements to determine ifcommon
financing and disbursement arrangements would be feasible inthe second halfo f the project,

Inthe case of the community-driven HIV/AIDS initiatives under the Community AIDS ResponseFund,
there will be pre-financing o f expenditures, as communities are unlikelyto start contracting without the
assurance o f funds. All disbursements against expenditures under this component will be subject to ex
post financial and physical audits, on a sample basis, to be carried out by financial and technical
consultants employed by the TACAIDS Secretariat.

D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
This project is a Sector InvestmentLoanunder IDA'SMulti-CountryHIV/AIDS Program (MAP) for the
Africa Region and i s in accordance with the Bank's regional HIV/AIDS strategy "IntensifyingAction
Against HIV/AIDS inAfrica: Responding to a Development Crisis". The overall M A P design i s using
the lending instrument o f an APL. A "vertical" APL for individual countries, incombination with the
"horizontal" APL for Africa was an alternative proposedand rejected (see M A P PAD for further details).
Giventhe MAP context, no alternativeproject designs would be appropriate. The IDA assistanceis
aimed at filling the existingfunding gap for the Tanzania National HIV/AIDS Program, and not to
replace other available funds.

2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Numerous actors are involvedinHIV/AIDS in Tanzania, often through multipleoperations. The IDA
projects are mainstreaming HIV/AIDS activities throughout the portfolio, so most projects inthe country
are related to some degree. Under the proposedproject, this will intensifyas additional support i s given
to the various sectors for HIV/AIDS, and particular efforts are made to incorporate the planned use o f
these resources into the main planning process for the respective ministries. Inthe sectors which are
supported through a Sector Wide Approach (SWAP), this will involve concentrated effort to weave
HIV/AIDS activities into the fabric o f the sector plans, both in order to maximize effectiveness in
combatting HIV/AIDS and so as not to be counterproductive to efforts made under SWAps to have a
single, comprehensive planningprocess.
Fromthe major funding sources alone, numerousprojects have been identified (as summarized below)
and the external resources, includingthose from IDA, to support the current program are sizeable.
Notwithstanding this large number o f projects and significant resource flow, a sizeable funding gap
remains. Further, this large number o f projects and partners presents both an opportunity for receipt o f a
wide-range o f support and expertise, but also a challenge for effective coordination. The government has
facilitated coordination between the partners duringpreparation and established procedures are inplace
to ensure that this continues.


                                                     - 24 -

Implementation experience inTanzania is good, with strong performance in several projects which are
already implementing at the community level that the proposed project hopes to reach. Steps have been
taken to ensure that the relevant lessons from these projects are reflected inthe design. The established
practice o f supporting sectors through Sector Wide Approaches has beenadapted to this multi-sectoral
effort interms o f the level of coordination the various actors aspire to maintain.

I                                                                                 Latest Supervision
               Sector Issue               I             Project                     (PSR) Ratings
                                                                              (Bank-fhance projects only)
                                                                             Implementation  Development
 Bank-financed                                                                Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)

 Human Resource Development                Human Resource Dev.                     S              S
 Health Care                               Health Sector Development               S               S
                                           Program
 Social Protection                         Social Action Fund                      S              S
 Transport-Roads                           Roads I1                                S               S
 Transport-Railways                        Railways Restructuring                  S               S
 Rural and micro finance                   Rural and micro financial               S               S
                                           services
 Agricultural Research                     Agriculture Research                    S               S
 Agricultural Sector Development           Agricultural Sector                     S               S
                                           Management Project
Other developmentagencies
 USAID                                     Voluntary HealthProject
 BelgianEmbassy                            Various HIVIAIDS Projects
 European Union                            Support to NACP
 NORAD                                     Support to NACP (local
                                           initiatives in districts),
                                           UNICEF, andWAMATA
 JICA                                     NACP: Blood Safety; UMATI
 Dutch Embassy                             TANESA; TACAIDS Condom
                                           Social Marketing
Danish Embassy                             Support to Ministryo f Health
UNDP                                       Various Activities
UNFPA                                      Various Activities
UNICEF                                     Various Activities
WHO                                        Contributions to UNDAF
                                           HIV/AIDS Joint Program
UNAIDS                                    Various Activities
ILO                                        Contributions to UNDAF
                                           HIVIAIDSJoint Program
WFP                                        Contributions to UNDAF
                                          HIVIAIDS Joint Program
FA0                                        Contributions to UNDAF
                                          HIVIAIDS Joint Program
UNESCO                                    Various Activities
                                                                                            ory)




                                                     - 25 -

3. Lessonslearnedand reflectedinthe project design:
International experience on HIV/AIDS, and especially regional experience from countries like Uganda
and Senegal, ongoing Bank supported HIV/AIDS projects inAfrica within the M A P and country specific
efforts inTanzania, have been reflectedinthe project design. Key lessons learned from all this
experience are outlinedbelow.

Politicalleadership and commitment: International experience has taught the world that political
leadership and commitment i s a key issue inmobilizing national and donor resources for the fight against
the HIV/AIDS epidemic. The Government o f Tanzania has indicated its firm commitment to the fight
against HIVIAIDS. The people o f Tanzania are among the hardest hitby the epidemic, and the political
as well as the economic imperatives for faster growth will not be realized ifthe HIV/AIDS situation does
not improve. Effective action requires national leadership and political commitment at the highest levels.
The successful examples o fcontrol of the HIV epidemic incountries like Senegal and Uganda arose
because o f the political leadership drivenby good epidemiological data, effective programs and a vibrant
activist civil society participation. Inthe Tanzania situation, there i s unanimity among the leadership, on
the needto tackle the epidemic effectively.

Vulnerabilityfactors are key drivers of the epidemic: The HIV/AIDS epidemic is driven by
underlyingvulnerability factors among populations. The combination o fpoverty, gender disparities and
informationasymmetry provide very fertile soil on which the sown seed o f HIV can rapidly grow and
blossom. Therefore, any attempt at controlling the epidemic will have to address the vulnerability
factors. This project will among others, focus on the vulnerable groups, includingthe youth, orphans,
PLWAs, women and widowers inprevention and impact mitigation efforts.

Communityparticipationas a process of empowerment: The communities affectedbythe HIV/AIDS
epidemic find themselves facing multifaceted challenges, and with very thinresources and capacity to
respond. Inaddition, short term focused strategies may not meet the needfor long term rehabilitation
and healing inthose communities. Community participation engages the people ina partnership to fight
the epidemic. With externalresources andthe buildingof local capacity, the communities will bemore
empowered intheir response to HIV/AIDS. Such a response i s also more likely to be sustainable inthe
long term. This project will have a specific component on community-led HIV/AIDS initiatives.

Multi-sectoralapproach: Ithas been widely recognizedthat the HIV/AIDS epidemic extends far and
beyondthe health sector. The multi-dimensional nature o f the epidemic and its impacts warrant a change
inparadigmfrom a biomedical to a development one. Inthis context, the multi-sectoral approach inHIV
prevention, care and mitigation offer best chances o f success. This project will involve the active
participation o f all sectors at all levels.

Focuson knowledgebuildingand evidencebasedinterventions: When compared to the HIV/AIDS
situation inthe developed countries, there is a huge deficit of knowledge, best practices and resources on
which to build strong evidence based prevention and care interventions. There is still lack o f consensus
on areas such as preventing Mother-To-Child-Transmission, Anti-RetroViral Therapy, Use o f Vaginal
microbicides, STItreatment and prophylaxis and treatment o f opportunistic infections. As such, this
project will adopt a cautious approach by initially supporting well designed research activities on these
unclear issues rather than committing to a particular intervention. The findings o f such research
activities couldprovide firmer basis for specific interventions and can be shared country-wide, regionally
and internationally.

The useof indigenousknowledgeand practices: Indigenous knowledge andpractices includingdrama


                                                   - 26 -

could also be complementary inthe efforts to fight HIV/AIDS. InMozambique, the involvement o f
traditional knowledge workers (healers) inawareness creation ina psychologically and socially sensitive
area like sexuality had higher impact at lower cost. InTanzania, the integration o f traditional healers in
AIDS prevention and mitigationstrategies has already been attempted to increase access o f services for
poorer families. Along similar lines, the Bank i s currently piloting the use o f traditional channels o f
communication ("griot" network) to deliver culturally congruent messages inprevention o f HIV/AIDS in
West Africa. Local practices o f looking after HIV/AIDSorphans inthe community among foster
parents, grandparents, or other relatives, have also been usedsuccessfully inUganda, Zimbabwe, Kenya,
Malawi and Zambia to cater for orphans without separating them from their communities. Inthis regard,
this project will encourage access to and use of appropriate indigenousknowledge andpractices that
have been shown to work in the fight against HIVIAIDS.

Role clarity betweenTACAIDWZAC and implementingagencies: There are experiences from other
countries which show that channeling significant resources to institutions that were set up to coordinate
and monitor project activities, introduces a temptation for those institutions to venture into
implementation. Inthe Tanzania situation, TACAIDS and ZAC have been established explicitly to
coordinate and monitor the national response to the epidemic and not to implement. TACAIDS will be
supported under the project to coordinate and monitor the activities, whereas a wide spectrum o f agencies
and institutions will be supported to implement the project activities.

Complexityof supervisionof MAP projects: Giventhe innovative MAP approach andmultitudeo f
stakeholders and partners, leading to relative complexity o f the projects, supervision o f M A P projects
deserves more attention and resources than the average projects. The experience so far gained suggests
that supervision teams for M A P projects should draw on the resources o f partners, particularly bilaterals
and other stakeholders. The composition o f the supervision teams should also be multi-sectoral.

Robust Monitoringand Evaluation: The key features of MAP are the scaling upo fmulti-sectoral
programs and effective interventions, which require robust monitoring and evaluation systems. The
monitoring and evaluation plan needs to be developed through a participatory process as a number o f
stakeholders will be involved in implementation, monitoring and evaluation activities according to their
areas o f expertise. Sufficient resources and skills should be made available for monitoringand
evaluation o f projects inthe MAP, includingthis project.

GoodDonor Co-ordination: As Tanzania has experienced invarious sectors within the context o f a
sector-wide approach, effective coordination among development partners can significantly reduce the
transaction costs to the government related to the management of externally fundedprograms. Common
arrangements for programreviews, monitoringand evaluation, planning o f financial and technical
assistance, support missions, funding o f programs or program components are all areas that will be
pursuedin close cooperation with the TACAIDS, UNAIDS and other partners.




                                                     - 27 -

4. Indications of recipient commitmentand ownership
Realizing the devastation o f the HIVIAIDS epidemic, the political leadership o f Tanzania speaks out
increasingly forcefully on the needto urgentlyintensifythe response to the epidemic. As an integral part
o f the country's overall development program and strategy, it has therefore developed the National
Multi-Sectoral Strategic Framework (NMSF) on HIVIAIDS ina collaborative effort betweenthe
Government and its partners. Based on the agreed principles and strategic directions contained inthis
document, the Government endorsed the initial project concept. TACAIDS was established under the
Prime Minister's Office to facilitate the coordination o f the multi-sectoral approach to HIV/AIDS inthe
country. All sectors have long been involvedto some degree, with each having prepared its Third
MediumTerm Plan for HIV/AIDS (1998-2002), and these plans are beingupdatednow for support under
the project. Onthe project design, consultations have been heldwith all the Government ministries, all
o f which have longhad an HIV/AIDS focal person who will serve as their liaisonto the project, and the
project was broadly endorsed. Finally, the Executive Chairman and Commissioners o f TACAIDS, as
well as the newly-appointed staff o fthe TACAIDS Secretariat, have strongly endorsed the project and its
design.

5. Value added of Banksupport inthis project:
The Bank has taken the lead inthe re-orientation of the response to the HIV/AIDS epidemic from a
medical issue to a development one. The September 1999 launch o f the Bank's regional AIDS strategy,
"Intensifying Action Against HIV/AIDS inAfrica," was well receivedbyboth the Government andthe
private sector, as well as by bilateral and multilateral donors. Through the Bank's Global HIV/AIDS Unit
and the regional AIDS Campaign Team for Africa (ACTufrica), UNAIDS, and other partnerships, the
Bank i s well positioned to make regional issues and experiences available to the project.

The existing HIV/AIDSProgramhas to be scaled up by mainstreamingprogram activities to all the
MDAsand other non-health government agencies at national and local government levels, andbymaking
better use o f the capacity of community organizations and civil society organizations such as churches,
trade unions and private businesses. While the costing o f Tanzania's NMSF i s not complete, it has
become evident that the Government resources and the combined pledgesby other cooperating partners
cannot adequately address the financing needs and that a substantial injection of resources and technical
assistance from IDA i s required to sustain the current progress and to reduce HIV/AIDS prevalence and
its impact on socioeconomic development. Government of Tanzania budgetary resources to contribute to
the program are expected to increase significantly through additional funds that are beingmade available
under the HIPC Initiative. The IDA funds will contribute to filling the funding gap. The project will
complement other resources that are, or may become, available to support the implementation o f the
national program, such as resources from bilateral partners and the Global Fundto fight HIV/AIDS,
Tuberculosis and Malaria (GFATM). This complementarity will be requiredto support a program that i s
capable to adapt to rapidchanges and lessons learned. Inaddition, and incontrast to the limitations o f
many other sources o f funding, the project will focus on puttinginplace the basic infrastructure for an
expanded and multi-sectoral response, knowledge sharing and systems strengthening.

E. Summary ProjectAnalysis (Detailed assessments are inthe project file, see Annex 8)

L? Cost benefit
1. Economic(see Annex 4):
                       NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
n
ii Cost  effectiveness
     Other (specify)
The detailed economic analysis o f HIVIAIDS has been carried out under the M A P umbrella project (see



                                                     - 28 -

Annex 5 o f the Project Appraisal Document for the Multi-Country HIV/AIDS program for the Africa
Region-Report No. 20727 AFR, and paragraphs 76-78 o f the same document). The analysis includes an
overall assessmento f the impact o f HIV/AIDS on economic development and poverty and showed that a
reduction inAIDS-related deaths would likely increase growth o f GDP. The data usedinthe analysis
included the Tanzania HIV/AIDS information. This section only highlights some key points for the
Tanzania Multi-Sectoral AIDS Project.

The HIV/AIDSepidemic has gone beyondhealth and hasbecome a serious socioeconomic development
issue. HIV/AIDS affects an economy through (a) reducing productivity; domestic savings and economic
growth; and (b) increasingcosts o f treatment and care for both affected households and the society as a
whole. Tanzania i s one o f the severely-affected countries. An estimated 12 percent o f Tanzania's adult
population is HIV positive, and over 1.5 millionchildren have beenmade orphans by the epidemic. It i s
estimated that Tanzania's Gross Domestic Product (GDP) could be 15-20 percent lower by 2015 with the
HIV/AIDS epidemic than it would have beenwithout it. AIDS strikes people intheir most productive
age, reducing both the size and growth o f the nation's labor force, increasing absenteeism due to illness
and time taken to attend funerals, increasinglabor turnover and generally reducing productivity.

The care and treatment for AIDS impose enormous costs on households and the society at large.
Households with AIDS patients are likely to lose the income o f their members (often the main
breadwinner) in addition to facing an increase inmedical expenses, and the expenses related to burials.
Some households are forced to withdraw their children from schools inorder to save money as one o f
their coping strategies.

The economic benefits o f the proposedAIDS control project are multifold. First, since this project aims
to scale up interventions in HIV/AIDS control and mitigation, the majority o f Tanzanians will directly
and indirectly benefit from increased access to HIViAIDS prevention, treatment, care and mitigation
activities. Secondly, new HIV infections will be reduced, due to an expansion in coverage o f the package
o f HIV/AIDS prevention activities supported by the project. Thirdly, people livingwith HIV/AIDS can
lead a longer and more productive life by benefitingfrom better management o f opportunistic infections
and access to nutritional supplements; and therefore, less loss inproductivity and income and reduced
costs for treatment and care. Fourthly, the support to the community responses will improve the care for
orphans and increase their school attendance. As the analysis in Annex 5 o f the M A P PAD showed, a
reduction inAIDS-related death rate and improvedcare for PLHA would likely increase the country's
economic growth rate by reversingthe losses in productivity. Inaddition, there will be the direct benefit
to vulnerable groups such as teenage girls, orphans, PLHA andpregnant women.

2. Financial(see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
See paragraph 79 o f the project Appraisal Document for the Multi-country HIV/AIDS Program
for the Africa region(Report No. 20727 AFR).

Fiscal Impact:
With aportion o fthe resdurces directed at community interventions, civil society organizations,
and outsourcing, the fiscal impact o f the program should be manageable with the exception o f any
ARV therapy which might be financed underthe grant and which would generate considerable
recurrent costs. As part o f the process for considering whether to finance such interventions from
the grant, IDA will emphasize to the Borrower that the additional recurrent costs would need to be
borne by the Government or others to ensure that patients receiving treatment continue to be able
to do so for the duration o f their lives. A full analysis o f the recurrent cost implications would


                                                      - 29 -

factor into any decision as well, as would the experiences o f neighboring countries.

3. Technical:

The project will assist the government to implementthe strategic HIV/AIDS control interventions which
are accepted as priorities for the national program and which have been shown to be both cost-effective
and affordable under the Tanzanian economic and fiscal situation. The project will finance health
manpower training and supplies for the use o f standard clinical management protocols, as recommended
by UNAIDS or WHO. Such standardswill be usedinvoluntary testingand counseling, inpreventionof
parent to child transmission, inprevention o f opportunistic infections, and inthe clinical management o f
sexually transmitted diseases and the prevention and treatment o f opportunistic infections.

Financingof anti-retroviraldrugs
The financing o f anti retroviral drugs (ARVs)under the project will initially only be considered for the
purpose to prevent mother-to-child transmission or for Post-Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) under
WHO/UNAIDS guidelines. However, the scope o f financing         o f ARVs can be extended when an agreed
policy on access to ARV treatment has been elaborated that appropriately takes into consideration the
crucial issues of equity and affordability. Ifthe government decides to use Grant proceeds for this
purpose, the project could also finance training o f health care personnel inthe use o f anti-retroviral
therapy, as well as the costs incurred with the respect to the necessary laboratory support, according to
clear clinical management protocols to be agreed with the UNAIDS and other technical agencies. This
issue also requires the formulation o f a coherent national policy on the prevention o f mother-to-child
transmission, on Post-Exposure Prophylaxis for rape victims and health workers and on equity issues
relatedto access to anti-retroviral treatment. The considerations to be taken into account for the
prevention o f mother-to-child transmission will include promotion o f breast-feeding versus alternate
feedingfor infants, the social stigmatizationthat may arise, the side effects and resistance development
from inappropriate use o f the drugs. The adequacy o f the legislation and law enforcement concerning
rape and sex with minors will be addressedinthe context o f the Post-Exposure Prophylaxis.
Cost-effectiveness studies o f suggestedinterventions will be supported under the project.

Chemoprophylaxisand Treatmentof OpportunisticInfections
Research on the cost-effectiveness o f alternative interventions for the clinical management o f HIV/AIDS,
STDs and opportunistic infection, includingthe piloting o f chemoprophylaxis for opportunistic
infections, would be areas that couldbe supported under the project. The rising incidence o f
tuberculosis (TB) inthe country i s a direct consequence from the raging HIV/AIDS epidemic. Project
resources can be flexibly applied to supplementthe national program in the control o f the opportunistic
infections, including TB.


4. Institutional:


4.1 Executing agencies:
The distinction between the coordination role of the national program by TACAIDS, and the
administration o f project activities by MDAs and other implementing agencies have been agreed to in
order to avoid overlap in responsibilities, with a minimumo f administrationbeingundertaken by the
TACAIDS Secretariat. The lines o f responsibility between coordinating and the various implementing
agencies will be defined and reflected inthe Operational Manual. Many o f the institutions involvedwith
the project are new or, to varying degrees, new to the tasks assigned to them. Some MDAs, such as the
MinistryofEducation andCulture andthe MinistryofHealthhave beeninvolvedinthe responseto


                                                    - 30 -

HIV/AIDSandmade significant progress inelaboratingtheir role. Others have not been as involved, and
the project will support TACAIDS inmobilizingand supportingthe various ministries. The National
AIDS Control Program (NACP) inthe Ministry o f Healthhas a vital role to play, but it i s still growing
into its revised role since the creation o f TACAIDS. TACAIDS i s a new institutionand expectations
relatedto its effectiveness during the early stages o f project implementation will need to be modest.
With this inmind, the project will finance technical assistance inbothprocurement and financial
management to support the project inthe interimuntilTACAIDS capacity can be brought up to the
required level.
4.2 Project management:
Different degrees o f capacity with the various implementingagencies and actors are anticipated, and the
project will make substantial provisions for capacity buildingin all components. The executing agencies
for the project will include the community organizations, the non-governmental organizations, Local
Government HIV/AIDS Technical Committees and the respective MDAs. The Public Sector Fundand
the Community AIDS ResponseFundwill provide important support for the capacity buildingat the
district and community levels.
4.3 Procurement issues:
Tanzania Government (mainland) has long realizedthe importance o f public procurement to the
economic development of Tanzania and hence to the fulfillment o f key objectives withinthe national
Poverty Reduction Strategy. To this effect, Tanzania was one o f the first countries in sub-Saharan Africa
to enact a law modeledon the UNICITRAL model law. Since 1996, when the first Country Procurement
Assessment Report (CPAR) was carried out, the Government has beenworking closely with the World
Bank and other development partners to enhance the economy and efficiency o f its procurement system
and to make it more transparent and accountable. The 2003 CPAR carried out in December 2002 and
January 2003, lookedat all areas public procurement operations, includingthe legislative framework, the
performance o f regulatory functions, the enforcement regime, the capacity o f public sector institutions to
conduct procurement, and effects of corruption on procurement. It formed an integral part o f the World
Bank's activities inTanzania as presented in the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) o f 2000 and serves a
number ofits keythemes, particularly higher economic growth, poverty reduction and institutional
reforms to improve governance. The CPAR's key findingsare summarized inthe following paragraphs.

Despite the economic benefits mentioned above, procurement has not to date beenconsidered to be a
core function o f the Government, worthy o f specialized staff and dedicated organizational units. The
legal framework for public procurement inTanzania i s intransition. While some very important steps in
the rightdirection have beentaken with introduction ofthe Public Procurement Act (PPA) inJuly 2001,
there remain some critical outstanding issues, particularlyconcerning access to complaint and
dissemination o f legal texts. Overall, and comparedto other countries inthe region, the legal framework
for public procurement i s updated and adequate. The Local Government Authority has prepared its
Regulations in line with the public procurement law. These Regulations were publishedinthe
Government Gazette o f March 12,2003. This will clear the legal confusion and contribute to reduction
o f malpractice inlocal government procurement system.

Currently, aggrievedbidders have very limited access to complaints mechanism. The Bank has
recommended to the Government that a credible complaints mechanismshould be introducedby
strengthening the complaints handling ability o f the Regulatory Body and establish the Public
Procurement Appeals Authority, already entrenched inthe legislations, to provide a functioning avenue
o f complaints for bidders. The single most important issue on the legal framework i s lack o f
dissemination and proper application o f rules. After a period o f carving out the new rules, the country i s
now focusing on making those rules work, by developing enforcement mechanism.


                                                    -31   -

The knowledge o fprocurement rules and capacity to apply these rules is very poor inmost of the
procuring entities. Procurement audits are seldom performedand the consequences for breach o f
procurement rules, outside corruptioncases, are minimal. The public access to informationi s one o f the
cornerstones o f sound procurementpractice. Procuring entities are presentlyutilizing a number o f
different media for advertising procurement opportunities, making access to information and enforcement
o f the rules on advertisement difficult. The Bank has recommended to the Government that a central
media for publicationo f procurement information, a Procurement Journal, should be established,
supplemented with an Internet informationsite.

At present, the Central Tender Board(CTB) holds bothexecutive and regulatory powers, which
contributes to an unstable situation where the CTB on one handparticipates inthe procurement
procedure and on the other handmonitors the same procedures. The executive role o f the CTB also leads
to lack o f accountability and responsibility at the level o f the ministerialtender boards and the
ministerial Accounting Officers, who are otherwise responsible for the budget, but not for procurement
underthat body.

Based on the CPAR findings, the procedures and practices of procurement inZanzibar are fallacy; they
lack proper legal framework. At present procurement, apart from donor funded procurement, is
conductedon an ad hoc basis leaving extensive discretion to the Accounting Officers inthe Ministries.
While some of the procuring entities are applying the rules of the new Treasury Instructions, others have
simply adopted their own procedures. Procurement is carried out inaccordance with former and now
void rules. The legal framework for public procurement is inadequate due to deficiencies inthe present
Act and missingregulations. There i s an Act to establish a Central Tender Board (CTB), but the Act
only provides for the organization, and does not deal with any of the procedures o f procurement. While
the Central Tender BoardAct became effective on July 1,2002, the relevant regulations have not yet
beenissued. Although, established by Act, CTB i s not yet functioning since the members have not been
appointed. Procurement capacity assessmentand the project's procurement riskincludingmitigation
measuresare discussed inAnnex 6.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The financial management assessment carried out duringthe appraisal mission revealedthat TACAIDS
beingone of the implementingagencies has developed a satisfactory financial management arrangement
to be able to start the project implementation. However, inorder to have an effective financial control at
the proposed project, two key areas needto be strengthened namely: (i)      the accounting systemto be fully
operational; and (ii) accounting department fully staffed. An agreement will be reached with the
                      the
government on the remaining steps that needto strength the FM systemas mentioned inthe financial
management plan. Detailed description o f the financial management arrangements for the project is
presentedinAnnex 6. The financial management assessmentfor ZAC will be carried at a later date to be
agreed during the negotiation. The overall financial risk is ratedmoderate, there are no highor
substantial risks identified. (Refer annex 6(b) summary risk assessment)

Responsibility for the financial management o f the project lies with the Prime Minister's Office
(Mainland) and the Chief Minister's Office (Zanzibar), through TACAIDS and ZAC respectively. The
accounting officer for the funds will therefore be the permanent secretary ineach o f the ministries
identifiedabove. Accounting systems and the relatedpillars o f internal control are derived from normal
GOT structures. Although some competent key staff have already been hiredat TACAIDS, the hiring
process needs to be accelerated inline with the intention to go live with the project early inthe new
financial year.



                                                      - 32 -

The government IntegratedFinancial Management InformationSystem (IFMIS)will be usedby
TACAIDS. The hardware is largely inplace, but urgent arrangements need to be made for the
installation o f the software. Meantime, the project i s using Microsoft Access as the stand-in accounting
software. This i sjust a database, not designed specifically for handling accounting information, and i s
therefore fraught with weaknesses and inadequacies. Immediate steps need to be taken to install the
government wide system inorder not to create a parallel system, as well as generate a backlog that will
needto be capturedinto the GOT systemafter the fact.

TACAIDS and ZAC will be required to produce Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs). The design o f
these needs to be expedited, and agreement thereon must nonetheless be reached by negotiation. The
Auditor General o f Tanzania i s the designated auditor o f all government finances. It i s therefore
expected that the TMAP will be no exception, although the formal arrangements and audit TORSare still
to be reviewed. The accounting year will follow the Government o f Tanzania fiscal year, with the
audited financials falling due six months after the end o f the fiscal year.

Disbursement

The project i s expected to operate five bank accounts as follows: (i) IDA grant account in
                                                                         The
Washington (USD / SDRs) for transfers to the project's USD Special Account (below) and the costs o f
any direct payments; (ii)  Two Special Accounts (USD) heldat a commercial bank acceptable to IDA, one
each for TACAIDS and ZAC, for USD transfers from the IDA grant account, and onward transfers to the
local currency accounts, and any USD payments; (iii) local currency (T shilling) accounts at
                                                           Two
commercial banks acceptable to IDA, one each for TACAIDS and ZAC, for receiving transfers from the
Special Accounts, and makingT Shillings payments to the GOT Treasury, RFAs, and other suppliers.
Counterpart part funds will also be deposited into these accounts. (iv) Disbursementsfrom the grant will
initially be made based on traditional disbursement methods (Le. from the Special Account with
reimbursements made based on Statements o f Expenditures (SOEs), as well as direct payments from the
Grant Account where appropriate). This situation i s only expected to hold untilFMRs producedby
TACAIDS and ZAC are deemed satisfactory enough to be the basis o f disbursement. (see Annex 6 for
the detailed financialmanagement action plan).


5. Environmental:                          Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessmentand EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emergingfrom this analysis.
The project is not expected to generate any major adverse environmental effects. Possible environmental
risks include inappropriate handling and disposal o f hazardous medical waste, including sharp needles,
and especially inadequate management o f the respective disposal sites inurban or peri-urban areas,
where domestic and medical waste may be mixed and where scavenging is common. The project will
finance training o f health care professionals, o f traditional birthattendants and traditional healers, and of
community workers delivering care to HIV/AIDS patients. This training will include instruction on
appropriate separation, transport and disposal o f hazardous medical waste. The project will finance the
revision o f existinghealth sector guidelines on appropriate management o f hazardous medical waste at
medical facilities and at disposal sites to include the relevant dispositions regarding HIV/AIDS, and on
occupational safety guidelinesfor health care workers. The Ministryo f Health's Medical Waste
Management Plan has beenpublicly disseminated duringa three-day National Workshop inMorogoro on
March 13, 14 and 15,2003.

The project might supply drugs and antibiotics for Sexually Transmitted Infections, Tuberculosis or HIV
through the Ministryo f Health's workplan. Inthe event that such drugs are deemednecessary and the


                                                      - 33 -

government requests to allocate funds for such purpose, appropriate mechanisms will be put inplace to
ensure that drugs are appropriately used, and that resistance development i s monitored through
surveillance. Microbial and viral resistance to antibiotics and antiviral drugs couldpose a challenge to
the micro-environment, if such drugs are not used properly. The potential contribution o f the project to
this riskis considered minimal at this time.


5.2 What are the main features o f the EMP and are they adequate?
A Medical Waste Management Planhasbeenprepared, cleared by ASPEN, andhas been disclosed
in-country and at the World Bank Infoshop. N o additonal environment assessment is required.


5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status o f EA:
                     Date o f receipt o f final draft: N o additional EA i s required, the
                                                       Government's Waste Management Plan
                                                       was receivedon February 24,2003.


5.4 How have stakeholders been consultedat the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe
mechanisms o f consultation that were usedand which groups were consulted?
Interviews and consultations with a large number and variety o f stakeholders were conducted, including
the Vice President's Office, city council members, district council members, dumpsite managers, health
facility staff, community members, Ministryo f Healthofficials, Multinational (WHO, UNICEF) and
bilateralpartners, NGOs (e.&. Medecins sans Frontibres) and private sector representatives. After the
draft Waste Management Plan was elaborated a workshop was organized to bringall these stakeholders
together in order to provide final comments.


5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact o f the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results o f the EMP?
Inaddition to the HealthCare Waste Management Plan (HCWMP), a set ofNational Guidelines were
developed and the training of national staff in these guidelinesis key inthe monitoring o f the
implementation o f the HCWMP. Inview o f the existing technological limitations relatedto the
monitoring o f air quality and pollution, the HCWMP focuses on the reduction o f hospital waste and on
developing sanitary landfills as opposed to incineration. With regard to the same technological
limitations in the monitoring o f underground water, guidelines and indicators focus on the distance
betweenpits and any source of water. The indicators and monitoringmeasuresreflected inthe HCWMP
and the National Guidelines are considered appropriate.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The project i s expected to have a positive social impact by assisting and empoweringpeople and
institutions to deal more effectively with the HIV epidemic. People living with HIV/AIDS and
their families will have an opportunity to receive bettersocial support from their communities,
civil society organizations and the Government. Families o f people living with HIVIAIDS are
vulnerable to economic and human rights abuses in the absence o f legislation and social norms
that can protect them. The project will support and enhance the development o f community norms
that will protect people living with HIV/AIDS. The project will involve key stakeholders,


                                                        - 34 -

including civil society organizations and people living with HIV/AIDS inthe development o f such
social protective measures.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating inthe project?
The Tanzania Multi-sectoral HIV/AIDSProject is developed on the basis o f the Tanzania NMSF.
Consultation with key government, non-government, international stakeholders, and groups o f
people living with HIVIAIDS, took place during the development o f the HIV/AIDS plan and
national policy framework and will continue duringthe implementation of the project.

Duringproject preparation, consensus-building exercises to involve major stakeholders to gain
consensusaround the project concept document, project design and implementation arrangements
were held. A Social Assessment was conducted to ensure the reacho fthese consultations
reached to all levels intendedto benefit from the project. Duringproject implementation,
communities will be able to express their needs through Community HIV/AIDS projects and to
participate as active partners inproject implementation, adding ownership, transparency and
accountability to the project.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Consultations with civil society organizations on the concept of the project have beenconducted,
and further consultations duringproject implementation, monitoring and evaluation will
continue. NGOs and other civil society organizations will implement a significant part o f the
project, supporting government agencies and communities in the implementation o f project
activities. Civil society organizations will also be consulted inthe annual project reviews, inthe
mid-termreviews and duringthe summative evaluation of the project.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The Tanzania Commission for AIDS i s a multi-sectoral organization integratingrepresentatives
from different Government agencies, from civil society and from people living with HIV/AIDS.
The Project supports the development o f relevant social initiatives to protect the most vulnerable
i.e. women, young people (especially adolescent girls) and people living with HIV/AIDS. A
baseline survey will be conducted duringthe first year o f implementation o f the project, which
will be continuedbefore mid-termand closure. Phasedsocial assessments on specific groups and
areas will be conductedduringproject implementationto monitor progress according to agreed
indicators and to improve strategies for HIV prevention.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance interms of social development outcomes?
Genderand orphan specific indicators have beenincluded amongthe project performance
indicators.

7. Safeguard Policies:




                                                     - 35 -

    Involuntary Resettlement(OP/BP 4.12)                                          2 0NO
                                                                                      Yes
    Safety of Dams(OP 4.37, BP4.37)                                               C; Yes 0   NO
    Projectsin InternationalWaters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)                    aYes0      NO
    ProjectsinDisputedAreas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*                          I \
                                                                                  w~  Yes    NO


7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
The project complies with all Bank's safeguard policies, includingthose described above. No
additional Environmental Assessment is required; however, a Health Care Waste Management
Plan was requiredto be prepared and publicly disseminated prior to Appraisal, and this
requirement has been fulfilled.

F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The Government o f Tanzania has demonstrated its firm commitment inthe fight against the HIV/AIDS
epidemic. InDecember, 1999, President Mkapa declared the HIVIAIDS epidemic a "National Disaster"
and called on the entire nation, especially political, civil, and religious leaders, to take more aggressive
measures to reign inthe epidemic. This highlevel commitment has provided an encouraging
environment for the fight against HIV/AIDS, and led to the inclusiono f HIV/AIDS as a key item inboth
the national Public Expenditure Review and the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper. The new institutional
framework establishingthe Tanzania Commission for AIDS (TACAIDS) provides the focal point for
coordination o f efforts at the national level. The National Multi-Sectoral Strategic Framework on
HIV/AIDS will consolidate HIV prevention and mitigation efforts within the context o f a national
strategy. This project will buildon the existing frameworks, along with other partners, to support the
prevention o f HIV and the mitigation o f its impact. Furthermore, it seeks to scale up existing HIV/AIDS
activities that involve communities, civil society organizations and inparticular, organizations o f people
livingwith HIV/AIDS. The main thrust behindthe National Strategy is the requirement for integrated,
people-centered, culturally sensitive andprioritized approaches. The combination o f the
community-oriented multi-sector approach, a strong high-level government commitment, substantial
capacity building, and the willingness o f the donor community to enter into the partnership against AIDS
inTanzania make for the reasonable expectation ofthe project's sustainabilitv beingconsidered              in
the short to mediumterm.

The proposedprogram will be usedto leverage additional resources, as has already been demonstrated by
the increasedpledges o f development partners to support TACAIDS. Expanding ownership for the
responsibility to respondto the challenges that the HIVIAIDS epidemic poses i s at the core o f the project
and will create additional capacity and spread the budgetary burdenover a larger number o f sources o f
financing. The capacity of the program to demonstrate results inboth aspects will be crucial for the
sustainability over an extended period o f time.

Inaddition to the measureselaborated below to mitigate specific risks, IDA will seek to mitigate the
overall risk and ensure successful implementation by (i)     providing additional resources for supervision
which exceed the standard supervision coefficients; (ii)    conduct supervision with teams comprised o f
specialists from various sectors and, inparticular, specialists inkey areas such as financial management,
procurement, and monitoring & evaluation; and (iii)     maintain close collaboration with development
partners and stakeholders.




                                                     - 36 -

2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found inthe fourth column of Annex 1):
                    Risk                          Risk Rating   I              Risk Mitigation Measure
 'rom Outputs to Objective
 'he sociocultural andpolitical                        S         There is already a high-level political
 nvironment i s not conducive to promote                         commitment to the fight against HIV/AIDS. In
 he behavioral changes necessaryin                                order to sustain the current level of support, the
 ightingthe spreado fthe epidemic and                            project will work in a participatory manner
 nitigating its impact.                                           with other donors to keep HIV/AIDS inthe
                                                                  forefront o f public discourse and encourage
                                                                  more openness. Civil society, community
                                                                  leaders will be involved very early inproject
                                                                  implementation so as to facilitate a more
                                                                  conducive environment for the fight against
                                                                  HIV.

 :he stated government political and                   S          Bykeeping HIViAIDS at the forefront of
 inancial commitments do not                                      public policy agenda and encouraging dialogue,
 naterialize.                                                     the government will be more likely to follow
                                                                  through on its commitments and the communitj
                                                                  drive more likely to be sustainable. The
                                                                  mainstreaming of HIV prevention and
                                                                  mitigation activities inall sectors will also
                                                                   engender more attention from the government
                                                                   and political leaders, and its inclusioninthe
                                                                   PER and PRSP will ensure it remains highon
                                                                   the agenda.
 :rom Components to Outputs
 'roject will operate through unproven                  S          The project provides for extensive capacity
 ;tructures and may encounter                                      buildingat all levels, particularly inTACAIDS
 mplementation delays                                              Furthermore, the project has been designed to
                                                                   ramp up gradually and not overwhelm the
                                                                   nascent capacity of TACAIDS. Other aspects
                                                                  lofthe project rely heavily on existing
                                                                  i structures andprocesses.

 ;oca1 Government, Community                            S          The Facilitating Agencies will provide training
 irganizations and civil society are not                            to these decentralized levels to enhance
 nobilizedand lack the capacity to plan,                            capacity to plan, implement and evaluate
 mplement and evaluate activities tailorec                          activities. Financial Management will be a
 'or HIV prevention and care among                                 particular focus o f the training. The project
 mlnerable groups. This lack o f capacity                           will use simpler but credible procurement,
 :odd result infiduciary problems                                   disbursement andfinancialaccounting
                                                                    mechanisms for these levels.


 Slow release o f funds to implementing                 M           The PMO will be the custodian o f the project,
 igencies                                                           and funds will be released directly to
                                                                    beneficiaries. TACAIDS will monitor and
                                                                    include inproject reports the turn around time


                                                      - 37 -

                                                                  for processing the funds.

Overall Risk Rating                                    S



         There i s sufficient experience, both within and outside the Bank, to warrant a cautious
assessmento f the overall uroiect risk, which i s considered substantial. The major risks faced by the
project include the following:

         The implementationof the project at decentralized levels will provide the most responsive way to
reach the frontline o f fightingthe epidemic. There will be the need for significant financial commitment
from both the public and private sectors inthe fight against HIV, and such commitments will needto be
sustained. A potential risk is the proiect resources being overwhelmed by the demands arising from the
continued epidemic. Inorder to mitigate this risk,the project will work on expanding co-financing
arrangements with other donors. The Government o f Tanzania's commitments incounterpart funding
will needto be kept.

         The continuation o f donor suuuort is crucial to the achievement o f the goal ofreducingthe
spread o f HIV and the mitigation o f its impact. This project focuses on institutionaland community
responses, whereas fightingthe HIV epidemic demands substantial efforts inother areas especially for
resources targeted to the provision o f drugs, condoms and other supplies. The involvement o f IDA will
likely encourage other donors to provide more resources that will be needed for stemmingthe epidemic
through cost-effective, well coordinated partnerships.

         The project i s expected to ride on significant involvement by NGO/CBOs and the communities.
The organizations o f PLHA will have to assume prominence inadvocacy as well as direct involvement in
the implementation of the community initiatives. As such, the socio-cultural environment will needto be
conducive for themto do so without beingstigmatized. Becausethe project i s targeted to vulnerable
populations, it will be important that the institutional mechanisms exist to ensure that the benefits reach
the intendedbeneficiaries, andthat social stigma as well as discriminatory practices are minimized. The
project will bringtogether the various stakeholders inaddressing and creating the appropriate
environment for its efforts.

3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
1.       Condom uromotionversus abstinence: There is a likelihood that the debate on the promotion o f
         condoms as a means to prevent HIV transmissionand the alternative o f promotingabstinence
         among the youth will continue inTanzania for a periodextending into the project's
         implementation. It is, however, unlikelythat any major controversy will be spurred on the issue
         by reason o fthe project. The majority o f Tanzanians support the use o f condoms as means of
         preventingHIV/AIDS, and the available research evidence strongly supports their use as a
         practical step inpreventingHIV infection.

2.       Provision o f Anti-Retroviral Therapy: The use o f anti-retroviral therapy against HIV/AIDS i s
         still evolving, and there are research efforts going on in the region as well as internationally.
         There are ethical and moral issues of deprivingtheir use where they are available. The project
         will not be prescriptive as to whether the drugs are used. There are no major controversies
         expected inthis regard. More generally, resources under the project could be used to increase
         access to care and to increase the capacity o f the health care systemto provide and administer
         these services.


                                                     - 38 -

G. Main Grant Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions

(a)       the Recipient has opened Project Account A and deposited therein the initial deposit;

(b)       the Recipient has adopted and furnishedto the Association the PIP, includingthe procurement
plan for the first year o f Project implementation, ina form and substance that i s satisfactory to the
Association;

(c)       the Recipient has adopted and furnishedto the Association the POM, ina form and substance
that i s satisfactory to the Association;

2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
DisbursementConditions for Individual Components:

Community AIDS ResponseFund(CARF)
(a)       By region, each region shall have contracted a Facilitating Agency as described above andthat
          facilitating agency shall have opened the necessary commercial bank accounts before any C A W
          funds can be disbursedto that region;
(b)       Any sub-project over US$lOO,OOO mustbe subject to the Bank's prior review.

Zanzibar HIV/AIDS Support:
(a)       A Project Operations Manual exclusive to this component
(b)       Financial management capacity assessment and procurement capacity assessmentof
implementing structures
(c)       Project Account B has been opened and the Initial Deposit paid into the Project Account
(d)       A Medical Waste Management Planfor Zanzibar

H. Readinessfor Implementation
0 1.a)    The engineering designdocuments for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
          start o f project implementation.
    1.b) Not applicable.

32.Theprocurement           documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start o f

13.     project implementation.
        The Project ImplementationPlan has beenappraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
        quality.
   4. The following items are lackingand are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):

(i)       Final Project Implementation Plan (draft reviewed at Appraisal)

I. Compliancewith Bank Policies
a 1.    This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
   2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
        with all other applicable Bank policies.




                                                      - 39 -

           -                                    .O'Connor
Team Leader     Sector ManagedDirector    Country ManagerlDirector




                        - 40 -

                                  Annex I:Project Design Summary
                               TANZANIA: Multi-SectoralAIDS Project



                                                                                        [fromGoal to Bank Mission)
                                                                                         Country continues to maintain
                                                                                         the record o fpolitical stability.

 efforts to fight HIVIAIDS.                                                              Government implementation
                                                                                         capacity continues to improve.




                                                                                        [from Pu'rposeto Goal)
 NIA




 Project Development         Outcome I Impact               IProject reports:           (from Objective to Purpose)
 Objective:                  Indicators:
 Reduce the spread o f       By 2004, reduce from--% to      HIV Surveillance reports,   Government and stakeholders
 HIVIAIDS inthe general      --%the HIV prevalence           Project Reports             continue to have interest and
 population o f Tanzania     among women attending                                       commitmentto HIVlAIDS
                             ante-natal care clinics.                                    prevention, care and support.

                             By 2007, reduce from --%to
                             --% the HIVprevalence
                             among women attending
                             ante-natal care clinics.

                             By2007, reduce from --%to       STD Surveillance reports,   Syndromic approach to
                             --%the rate o freported         Project Reports, syphilis   treatment o f sexually
                             positive syphilis tests in      surveillance report         transmitted diseases is
                             women aged 15-49 years in                                   sustained across the country.
                             Ante natal clinics inthe
I                            previous 12 months.

                             By 2007, reduce from --%to      STD Surveillance reports,   IEC achieves the desired
                             --%the proportion o f 15-19     National Surveys, Project   change in cultural norms abou
                             old boys and girls that report  Reports                     sexual activity among the
                             being sexually active.                                      youths
I
                             By2004, increase from --%to National Surveys, Project       Key opinion leaders, including
                             --%the proportion o fmenand Reports                         cultural and religious leaders,
                             women aged 15-49 who report                                 do not oppose the promotion
                             using a condom intheir last                                 o f condoms among sexually
                             act o f sexual intercourse with                             active people
                             a non-regular partner during
                             the previous 12 months.

                             By 2007, increase from --% to
                             --YOthe proportion o fmen and


                                                         -41 -

                                women aged 15-49 who report
                                using a condom intheir last
                                act o f sexual intercourse with
                                a non-regular partner during
                                the previous 12months.

                                By 2007, reduce from --%to       National Surveys, Project       tEC achieves behavior change
                                --% the percentage of sexually Reports                           regarding multiple sexual
                                active people reporting having                                   partners
                                non-regular sexual partners
                                over the previous 12 months.

ditigate the health and         By2007 reduce by 30% the         Special studies o f subset o f  The rate o f orphanhood does
ocio-economic impact o f        dropout rate o f orphaned        districts                       not outpace the rate o f
1IViAIDS at individual,         children inprimary school                                        providing assistanceto
iousehold and community                                                                          orphans
evels
                                By 2007 increase from 30% to Special studies o f subset o f      PLWHA are not afraid o f
                                50% the proportion o f           districts                       providing their name and
                                PLWHA identified inthe                                           home addresswhen attending
                                districts that are receiving                                     health services for treatment
                                some form o f home or
                                community-based support

                               I
itrengthen the capacity o f    IBy  2007 all districts are       Project data                    All districts are aware of the
iommunities, civil society and implementingintegrated                                            urgency to take action
;ovemment to respond to the     HIViAIDS work plans                                              multi-sectorally
:pidemic
htput from each                 Output Indicators:                Project reports:               (from Outputs to Objective)
:omponent:
 .Community    AIDS             By2004, at least 1,000           Facilitating Agencies Reports   People living with HIViAIDS
tesponse Fund                   community basedinitiatives                                       are not stigmatized.
lIViAIDS prevention, care,      on HIV/AIDS supported.
md support activities initiated
)yCommunities and Civil
iociety organizations are
trengthened.
                                By 2004, the percentage of        FacilitatingAgencies Reports, Facilitating Agencies active
                                districts inwhich community       TACAIDS Reports                and effective inall districts
                                based initiatives related to
                                HIViAIDS prevention, care
                                and support are funded
                                increased to 100%.

                                By 2005, the percentage o f       Ministryo fHealth and          Confidentiality o f client
                                districts inwhich voluntary       TACAIDS Reports                information is observed by
                                counseling and testing services                                  voluntary counseling and
                                are provided increasedto                                         testing service providers.
                                100%
                                                                                                 Minimumstandards for
                                                                                                 Voluntary counseling and
                                                                                                 testing centers are established.

                                By 2005, the total value o f      FacilitatingAgencies Reports   Communities and Civil


                                                             - 42 -

                              project contracts entered into                                 Society organizations develop
                              with communities, NGOs,                                        :he capacity to absorb
                              associations o fpeople living                                  mdaccount for the resources.
                              with HIVIAIDS andprivate
                              sector agencies is no less than
                              40% o f all contracts entered
                              into over the previous twelve
                              months o f the project.

!. Public Sector Fund
IIVIAIDS prevention, care,    By 2004, at least 50% o f all      [inistryo fEducationreports rraining is given to teachers
.ndsupport activities carried primary, secondary and high                                    3n the skills basedapproach to
utbypublic sector agencies    schools are using national                                     leaming about HIVIAIDS.
.re strengthened across       school curricula that
ectors.                       incorporate HIViAIDSina
                              skills basedlearning approach.
                                                                 ACAIDS Reports
                              By 2005, all Ministries have                                   Ministriestake genuine
                              and are implementing their                                     awnership o f their respective
                              respective HIViAIDSwork                                        HIViAIDS plans.
                              plans.

                              By 2007, increase from -- to   --  Iinistryo fHealth Reports
                                                                                             The cost of anti-retroviral
                              the number o f HIV positive                                    drugs continues to fall.
                              pregnant women receiving
                              preventive treatment for
                              Mother To Child Transmission
                              (MTCT) o f HIV.
                                                                 ACAIDS Reports, RALG
                              By2004, 15% o fdistricts have                                  Decentralized project
                              and are implementing their                                     implementationmechanisms
                              respective HIViAIDSplans,                                      empower districts and other
                              formulated with stakeholder                                    local stakeholders.
                              participation.
                                                                 linistryo fHealth, RALG
                              By 2004, the number of                                         National essential drugs polic>
                              districts which report                                         continues to support the
                              stock-outs o f essential drugs                                 effective distribution o f
                              for treatment o f sexually                                     pharmaceuticals.
                              transmitted infectionsreduced
                              by 60%.
                                                                 loH Reports, RALG
                              By2004, the percentage o f                                     Districts which need assistancc
                              districts that offer safe blood                                are offered the necessary
                              supply sustained at 100%.                                      training infinancial
                                                                                             management.
                              By2004, the national network
                              o f PLHAs represented in all
                              regions.

                              By2006, at least 6 legal aid
                              centers for PLHAs and their
                              relatives established.

                              By2005, at least four centers


                                                           - 43 -

                              for the monitoring o f the use
                              o fARVs established.

                              By2004, all districts receiving
                              project fundingare submitting
                              acceptable district accounting
                              and expenditure reports.

I. Tanzania AIDS
:ommission Institutional
iupport
qational HIViAIDS             By 2004, institutional            'rogram Review Reports   :ommission staff are recruited
ioordination functions o fthe arrangements for the                                     I  a competitive and
:anzania AIDS Commission      coordination o f HIViAIDS                                  .ansparentmanner.
Ire effectively implemented.  related activities established at
                              all levels

                              By 2003, Joint HIViAIDS           'rogram Review Reports
                              ProgramReviews effective.

                              By2004, ajoint program            'rogram ReviewReports
                              monitoring and evaluation
                              framework inplace and
                              functioning.

                              By 2005, ajoint mediumterm        'rogram Review Reports
                              financing framework inplace
                              and functioning.

                              By2005, timely expenditure
                              reports are available from all
                              major partners that finance
                              part o fthe national program.

                              By2004, there is no increase,     'rogram Review Reports   :here is no political
                              incomparison to the previous                               nterference inthe processing
                              year, inthe tum-around time                                ifrequests for project funds.
                              for processing requests for
                              funds under Civil Society
                              Fundand the Public
                              Multi-Sector Fund
                              respectively.




'roject Components /          Inputs: (budget for each          Jrojectreports:          from Componentsto
iub-components:               component)                                                 lutputs)
 . Community AIDS Response US$15.0 million                      'roject data
knd
!.Public Multi-Sector Fund    US$40.0million                    'roject data
I.Tanzania AIDS               US$6.0 million                    'roject data
:ommission Institutional
;upport


                                                           - 44 -

$. Zanzibar HIV/AIDS   JS$5.0 million        Project data
support




                                         - 45 -

                                Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
                               TANZANIA: Multi-Sectoral AIDS Project

The Tanzania Multi-Sectoral HIViAIDSProject will finance a US$70 million share o f the Government's
National Program for HIV/AIDSover a period o f five years between 2003 and 2008. The purpose o f the
Government's program is to reduce the spread o f H I V inthe general population o f Tanzania through
multi-sectoral action involving Government, Non-Government, Civil Society and community
organizations. The purpose o f the project i s to scale up and accelerate the national response to the
HIV/AIDS epidemic taking into account the priorities identifiedinthe HIV/AIDS policy and the
National Multi-sectoral Strategic Framework on HIV/AIDS (NMSF). The project will support activities
inthe priority areas ofprevention and the mitigationofthe health and socio-economic impact of
HIV/AIDS at individual, householdand community levels, as well as the strengthening o f national
capacity to respondto the epidemic. Inaddition, both the National Programand project-financed
activities will place particular emphasis on targeting vulnerable groups. Activities to be supported by the
project will be coordinatedby the Tanzania Commission for AIDS (TACAIDS) and the Zanzibar AIDS
Commission (ZAC) on Zanzibar, and these activities will be implemented by community groups and
public and private service agencies.

The project is designed within a multi-sectoral framework, under the Multi-Country AIDS Program
(MAP) for Africa, which addressesthe HIV/AIDS epidemic within a broad context. It i s a program to
support the Government to implement an expanded response to HIV/AIDS through community-based
initiatives and also by mainstreamingHIV/AIDS into the work programs o f all MDAsand local
government authorities. It i s also intended to sensitize the private sector to the need for greater attention
to the issue. The support for community-based initiatives would involve HIV/AIDS preventionprograms
through peer education, IEC activities, and the provision o f support for Voluntary Counseling and
Testing(VCT) services. The care of orphans, widows and home-based care for PersonsLivingwith
HIV/AIDS (PLWHAs) are also expected to be includedamong the community-based initiatives.

The project will have the following four components:
1. Community AIDS ResponseFund
2. Public Sector Fund
3. TACAIDS Institutional Support
4. Zanzibar HIV/AIDS Support

By Component:

Project Component 1 US$14.00 million
                      -
CommunityAIDS ResponseFund (CARF). This component will focus on social
mobilization and community level response to HIVIAIDS. A fund will be set up to expand and
strengthen HIV/AIDS activities beingcarried out by communities andNon-Government
Organizations (NGOs), including Employers and Workers' organizations, Community Based
Organizations (CBOs), private sector, religious sector, persons livingwith HIV/AIDS
(PLWHAs). Activities to be funded will include the full spectrum o f HIV/AIDSactivities
within the broad groups o f prevention, care and support and mitigation o f socio-economic
impact. There will be clearly-defined eligibility criteria for organizations to be funded under
this component; these criteriawill be elaborated inthe Operational Manual. Facilitating
Agencies will mostly be selected through QCBS on regional basis. An FA could cover one
regionor more (NB: Region refers to the regions definedinthe administrative structure o f
Tanzania). In some cases, RFAs may be on boardalready, in which case a M O Uwill be



                                                    -46-

signed with TACAIDS. Groups which receive fundingwill be encouraged to focus, but not
necessary limit, their activities to the most vulnerable groups which include:people living
with HIViAIDS (PLWHA), hospital workers, widows, orphans, youths, women-led
households, commercial sex workers and truck drivers.

The conceptual basis for this component is that the factors that determine the spreado fthe
HIV are only to a limitedextentunderthe influence of government. Where traditional and
cultural values and practices are o f critical importance, Civil Society has to play an important
role as a vital partner inthe response to the epidemic. Local communities and civil society
organizations sometimes better understand the needs and problems o f people, and therefore
are in a better position to effect behavioral change, empowerment and ownership. They can
be innovative and flexible andtherefore fast reacting. For the purpose of this project, Civil
Society Organizations are self-defined community groups that share a common interests for a
specified purpose. They can be organized by age, gender, profession etc. and include
organizedgroups like villages, workers' associations, community-based organizations,
faith-based organizations, and NGOs. There will be a cap on the number o f grants for
sub-projects costing more than USD 5,000 to ensure a community-level focus; therefore, it i s
expected that larger NGOs or national organizations would largely access these funds only to
the extent that they pair up with individual communities. Private sector organizations will
also be eligible to access the Community AIDS ResponseFund.

The Community AIDS Response Fundwill be facilitated mostly through existing Government
structures. Local Government Authorities (LGAs) will receive training in two areas: (i)     the
integration o f HIViAIDS activities into their LGA workplans (see Public Sector Fund
component); and (ii) training o f Local Government Participatory RapidAppraisal (PRA)
                       the
teams on the appraisal and approval process for the Fund, monitoringand evaluation, cross
sectoral cooperation, and community mobilization. These PRA teams will then mobilize
communities to access these funds, and the Local Government AIDS Coordinator will follow
up on sub-project implementation. The PRA teams will also identifyNGOs and other groups
that can support communities inthe formulation and implementation of sub-projects. A
FacilitatingAgency will be contractedat the Regional level to support the Government inthe
administration o f the Fund. Sub-project proposals will be submittedto the HIViAIDS
Technical Committee (or the LGAswhere the HrViAIDS committee i s not yet established) for
technical appraisal, and then proceedto the Local Government Authority for final approval.
The approvedproposal will thenbe forwarded to the FacilitatingAgency for Disbursement
and to TACAIDS for informationpurposes only. The beneficiary will sign an Implementation
Agreement with the FacilitatingAgency, which will performfiduciary oversight of
sub-projects, inform LGAs when funds are disbursed, and provide reporting both upwards to
TACAIDS and downwards to LGAs. Other donors will provide co-financing to for the
services o f the FacilitatingAgency in specified regions.

Ingeneral, as notedearlier, RFAs are expected to be selected through QCBS as definedinthe
World Bank Procurement Guidelines, and they are expected to be selected from large,
umbrella NGOs o f Tanzanian or International Origin. Private sector consulting firms would
also be eligible to submit proposals, and the final arrangement is likely to vary by region. In
several regions, there are already organizations inplace which are either fulfilling similar
functions or are uniquelysuited to fulfill the FA function. Since many o f these are
donor-financed structures, it i s anticipated that the respective donor will provide the necessary
co-financing or parallel financing for these organizations to serve as RFAs. Under such
arrangements, the financing for sub-projects disbursedby the RFAs would come from TMAP,


                                                      -47-

while the cost o f the FA services would be borne by the donor. Regardless o f the type o f
organization selected, no FA would be permittedto disburse funds to any community
sub-project with which it, or any affiliate, i s associated.

While the flow o f funds will be governed by extraordinary implementation arrangements, the
CARF will be incorporated into the existing LGA annual planning process by includingan
estimate for amount of support to sub-projects expected duringthe year, and then by capturing
the actual disbursements to specific sub-projects as they are reported by the Facilitating
Agency. This will enable the Fundto function on a rolling basis without bypassingthe Local
Government annual planning process. The funds to support the sub-projects will flow from
Treasury, through TACAIDS, to the respective RFAs who will then disbursethe funds in
accordance with the procedures defined inthe Operations Manual for RFAs.

Although it will be difficult to specify which activities will be fundedunder this component,
the broadrange o f activities to be supported include:

        Support for the community-based sub-projects which have been prepared and
        submitted through the agreed-upon institutional structure. A careful balance will be
        maintained among the sub-projects betweenprevention, care and impact mitigation
        activities. At the same time, a deliberate effort will be made to ensure that activities
        under this component will reach national coverage as quickly as possible.

        The training o f community volunteers, peer educators and trainer o f trainers inHIV
        related counseling. This would generate a critical mass o f capable community
        members who will provide counseling for HIVprevention, post-test counseling for
        those infected and also to optimize the care and support available to PLWHA,
        orphans, widows and other vulnerable groups.

        HIV Support groups: These support groups would be formed by organizations of
        people living with HIV/AIDS and are an important forum for providingpsychological
        and material support to the PLWHA.

        Support for Orphans and Vulnerable Children (OVC): One o f the tragedies resulting
        from the HIV/AIDS epidemic inTanzania i s the increasingnumber o f orphans and
        other vulnerable children inthe population. These children are less likely to be
        enrolled inprimary schools and even when enrolled, are more likely to drop out. The
        project will support community-based initiatives that focus on making it possible for
        OVCs to remaininschool. Inparticular, attention will be givento the school
        attendance among females. Support will be givento initiatives that make special
        provisions for the OVCs to attend school or to support their foster families inorder
        that the children can attend school.




                                                      -48-

(e)     Scaling up o f ExistingActivities: Successful interventions inthe following areas will
        also be scaled up with the support o f the Fund: (i)   dissemination o f information, (ii)
        promotion o f safer sexual behavior, (iii)  encouragement of condom use and their
        availability, (iv) reduction o f stigma and increased acceptability o f PLWHA, (v) care
        and support o f PLWHA and their families, and (vi) advocacy for legal and human
        rightsprotections for PLWHA.

Project Component 2 US$32.00 million
                       -
PublicSector Fund.This component will comprise a fundto scale up and strengthenprevention, care,
support and mitigation o f the social economic impact o f HN/AIDS through programs/activities o f the
public sector. It will support public sector institutions to protect their own personnel from the impact o f
HIV/AIDS and, when applicable, to integrate HIV/AIDS activities into their core business.
Sub-contracting by ministries, local authorities and parastatals will be encouraged in order to make the
best use o f the implementation capacity that may be available outside the public sector. Eachpublic
sector agency will define a work program which, as a minimum,will address issues regarding HIV/AIDS
among its employees. Public agencies will also be expected to extend HIV/AIDS services to their clients
and neighboring communities. This component will provide the following types o f support:

   Support to Ministy of Health: The largest share o f funds underthis component will be dedicated to
    supporting the Ministryo f Health in its unique role in combatting the epidemic. This support will
    partially finance the Ministry'sHIV/AIDS workplan, which has been developed in collaboration with
    the Ministry'sdevelopment partners and reviewed duringthe annual Sector Review. It comprises
    prevention activities, medical interventions, the procurement o f HIV/AIDS commodities and
    services, and support by the Ministryo f Healthto other partners inthe multi-sectoral campaign
    against the disease. Given the special nature o f this sub-component, the application o f funds will be
    for a broader range o f purposes than providedfor under the guidelinesfor other ministries.

   Support to MDAs (other than Ministy of Health): All MDAswill receive support toward the
    implementation o f their comprehensive HIV/AIDS workplans. A few ministries with advanced
    workplans and responsibility for the highestpriority areas underthe MTPIIIwill receive
    comprehensive workplan support duringthe first year. The remainder o f the ministries will receive
   more limitedworkplan support -focused mainly on workplace interventions to protect their own
   personnel-duringthe first year, and more comprehensive support duringthe second year. Technical
   Assistance has been made available to all ministries, financed from the PHRD grant, inidentifying
   the sections of the workplanto be financed inthe first year. Additional technical assistancewill be
   providedby TACAIDS in the first year to support those ministries which will not qualify for
   comprehensive workplan support duringthe first year inorder that they may be prepared to access
   this comprehensive support duringthe second year. Such comprehensive support is expected to
   address the following two broad areas:

   (a)        The internal impact of the HIV/AIDS epidemic on the specific ministry: The extent to which
              HIV/AIDS has affected the quality, quantity and substance o f available services, the ability
             to supply the required services, the organization of the sector, the role of service providers,
             human resources policy and management practices, the planning and management o f sector
             resources, and the availability o f resources to the sector would provide the framework for
             assessingthe internal impact o f the epidemic on the specific line ministry.

   (b)        The external impact of the HIV/AIDS epidemic relative to the work of the specific ministry:
             The extent to which the specific sector can contribute to the prevention o f further spread o f
             HIV inorder to protect both its staffandtarget populations, and the increase inaccess to and


                                                     -49-

             use o f care and support for the affected or infected among staff membersand their families.

    The workplans prepared during 2000 [NACP facilitated] and recompiledby TACAIDS in August,
    2001, will be taken forward and finalized as the basis for support under this component. Ingeneral,
    the range of activities that are expect to beconsidered within the ministryworkplans include the
    following:

    (a)      Capacity Buildingfor the mainstreamingo f HIV/AIDS-relatedactivities into the ministry
             workplan;

     (b)     Information, Education and Communication (IEC) campaigns for staff and client awareness,
             promote condom use, and provide for a sustainable behavior change among its staff and the
             clients by extension;

     (c)     Promote access to condoms for staff;

     (d)     Impact studies to investigate the qualitative and quantitative consequences o f the epidemic
              on specified (sub-)sectors and analyze possible and appropriate responses.

     Inaddition to the above, eachministrywill conduct activities specifically relevantto its areas of
     comparative advantage. More details are available in the actual workplans.

    Support to Local GovernmentAuthorities (LGAs): LGAswill also receive support for the
     implementation o f HIV/AIDS workplans, which will be integratedinto the LGA workplan as
     prepared duringthe existingannual planning exercise. The only things that are proposedto be added
     or changed are as follows: (i)  HIV/AIDS activities will be integratedinto the non-health sector
     components o f the LGA workplan; (ii)    the HIViAIDS Technical Committee, as constituted under the
     TACAIDS Act, will play a coordinating function; (iii) HIV/AIDS Technical Committee will
                                                              the
     extract the HIV/AIDS activities from all sectors into a parallel HIViAIDS workplan to facilitate
     review by TACAIDS; and (iv) a consolidated HIV/AIDS Fundwill be established at the District
     Level. The funds for all sectors will be heldinthe Consolidated FundAcct. # 2, which is envisioned
     to hold funds from all sources o f financing for HIV/AIDS activities at the LGA level. The
     FacilitatingAgency contractedunder the Community AIDS ResponseFundwill provide Technical
     Assistance to the personnel from the non-health sectors at LGA level to facilitate the integration o f
     HIV/AIDS activities into their workplans. The LGA workplans will be intendedto complement
     those o f the ministries and will focus on a similar, though narrower, range o f activities.

Processfor non-Health MDAs: As mentioned above, MDAswill be divided into first tier and second
tier ministries based on their readiness for implementation, rather than on need or importance. Firsttier
ministries will receive support for the implementationof their comprehensive workplans (to support both
workplace interventions and the integration o f HIViAIDS activities into their core business) inthe first
year, while second tier ministries will receive support for workplace interventions inthe first year along
with technical assistance to prepare them to join the first tier ministriesinYear 2 o fthe project. This
categorization will also facilitate implementation, as it would overload TACAIDS to coordinate
comprehensive support to all ministries inthe first year. First tier ministries will include Ministry o f
Health, Ministryo f Education & Culture, Ministryo f Community Development, Gender & Children,
Ministry o f Labor, Youth Development & Sports, and Ministryo f Science, Technology & Higher
Education.




                                                     - 50 -

The existing ministerial workplans which were completed as part o fthe MTPIIIexercise will be the basis
for support, with all ministries receiving technical assistance to update and strengthen them for the first
year, and inthe case o f second tier ministriesto select those activities eligible for financing inYear 1.
Dueto the specialized role ofthe MinistryofHealth, the procedures and guidelinesfor their workplan
will be different from those that apply to the other ministries.

Giventhat the workplans for the respective ministries should cover any parastatals, independent
departments, etc. attached to the relevant ministry,these entities will be includedinthe consultative
process o f formulating the workplans. This process will also include broad consultation throughout the
relevant ministry. As stated above, individual TA has been given to each ministryto facilitate the
finalization o f at least the first year workplan.

Processfor Local GovernmentAuthorities (LGA): The formulationo f LGA workplans will be
integratedinto the existing planning process whereby villages feed their plans upwardto the Ward level,
where the plans are compiled and fedupwardto the LGA level, thus ensuringbroad-based input into the
LGA workplans. At the LGA level, each sector compiles a workplan, andthese are thenassembled into a
comprehensive LGA workplan which i s submittedthrough PORALGchannels for approval. Giventhat
the Community AIDS Response Fundprovides support mainly at the village level, the project will thus
provide a continuous loop o f support through all levels of Government and non-Government
organization. The linkages at the village level, and the extent to which Civil Society activities are
reflectedinthe public sector workplans, are elaborated under the Community AIDS Response Fund.

As is currently the case, the sector teams at the LGA levelwill receive technical andpolicy guidance
only from their respective MDAs. The MDAs will receive technical assistance to ensure that appropriate
guidance i s given to LGAs on HIV/AIDS-related issues, and the non-health sector teams at the LGA level
will be provided technical assistanceto facilitate the integration of HIV/AIDS activities into their
respective workplans. This TA i s proposedto be provided by the FacilitatingAgency, as detailed inthe
Community AIDS Response Fund.

As mentioned above, the following new features are proposed to be introduced intothis planningprocess.
First,the HIV/AIDS Committee, proposed under the TACAIDS Act to be established at the LGA level,
shall have a coordinating (but not approval) responsibility for the LGA workplan and will extract all the
HIVIAIDS activities from the LGA workplan into a summary HIV/AIDS workplan to facilitate review by
TACAIDS.

Support to LGAswill be rolled out nationally inthe second year o f the project given the implementation
workload and the need to secure technical assistance. However, TACAIDS i s consulting with other
development partners to prepare a limitednumber o f LGAs for workplan support inYear 1, thus serving
as a pilot which would informand facilitate the broader introductiono f LGA support inthe second year.

Role of TACAIDS Under the Public Sector Fund, the following functions havebeen assumedto be
fulfilled by TACAIDS:
1. Annual Review and Approval o f Workplans, and request disbursement o f funds from Treasury
2. Coordination among workplans to avoid overlap (with particular regard to ministerialworkplans)
3.   Technical Assistance to ministriesand LGAs (at least infirst year) in preparation o f workplans
4. Preparation o f IEC inventory as noted above
5. Allocation o f Resources, as noted above




                                                     -51 -

Project Component 3 US$15.00 million
                       -
TanzaniaAIDS CommissionInstitutionalSupport and Program Administration. The
project will support the Tanzania Commission for AIDS (TACAIDS) to fulfill its national
HIV/AIDS coordination mandate as provided by the TACAIDS Act. This mandate has been
elaborated and well articulated inseveral documents (see Annex 8) and there is broad
consensus on the responsibilities assigned to the Commission. These evolve mainly around
advocacy, providingleadership for the multi-sectoral response to HIV/AIDS,coordination and
monitoring & evaluation. TACAIDS is not envisionedto have implementation or funding
responsibilities. The project design acknowledges TACAIDS' mandate and appropriately
creates opportunities for support to TACAIDS to carry out its mandate. Support, inparticular,
will be given to TACAIDS for (i)    establishment o f an effective secretariat and networks at the
regional and district levels; (ii)
                                 establishment o f financial management and procurement
systems; (iii) resource mobilization; and (iv) monitoring & evaluation systems.

TACAIDS i s located inthe Prime Minister's Office (PMO). While TACAIDS i s not an
implementing agency, its role in the national programwill require the TACAIDS Secretariat
to fulfill certain implementation-relatedfunction, and the project will support it to do so by
financing additional staff. The TACAIDS Secretariat will undertake centralized procurement
and disbursement functions including: (i)   procurement planning, (ii)facilitating disbursements
from the Special Account, and (iii)  processing o f withdrawal applications to the IDA Grant.
TACAIDS plans to out-source the implementation o f activities such as procurement to the
extent possible, without dissociating itself from the responsibility for initiating the activity and
the end-result. Inpractice this means that TACAIDS would be responsible for the Terms o f
Reference for the contractor and for the quality assessmento f the endproduct.

Inview ofTACAIDS mandate, its anticipatedmodus operandi and its comparative
advantages, the following non-exhaustive list o f activities have been identifiedas being
eligible for support under the project:

Activities related to institutional strengthening:
1. Induction/ orientation workshops andretreats for TACAIDS/PMO/Treasury staff,
    Regional Administrative Secretaries, District Executive Directors andmembers of
    standing HIV/AIDS Committees.
2. Procurement: Office furniture, equipment and transport; Office space.
3. Training for public sector and non-government personnel.

Corefunctions, directly related to TACAIDScarrying out its mandate:
1. Policy dissemination and (further)elaboration of strategies: (a) Consultative workshops;
    (b) Printing; and (c) Distribution.
2. Development o f Guidelines for ProgramDirection: (a) Appraisal o f programs, proposals,
    and projects; (b) Program advice to implementing partners.
3. Advocacy and Social Mobilization: (a) Regular meetings with the media; (b) Mass media
    activities; and (c) Meetings with / mobilization o f Members o f Parliament.
4. Co-ordination: (a) Organizationof Joint National HIViAIDSProgramReviews; (b)
    Behavior Change Communication Strategy Development; and (c) Organization o f Joint
    Partner HIV/AIDS Program Financing Plans.
5. Monitoring and Evaluation: (a) (Further) M&E System Development; (b) Data Analysis
    and InformationDissemination; and (c) Performance Monitoring o f implementing

     partners.

Functionsfor which TACAIDS has a comparative advantage as derivedfrom their
mandate:
1. Monitoring and Evaluation: Initiating surveys related to cross sectoral issues;
2. Co-ordination / Informationdissemination: Establishing a National HIV/AIDS
     InformationCenter;
3. Advocacy and Social Mobilization: Activities relatedto stigma reduction;
4. Resource Mobilization and allocation;
5. Facilitate Technical Assistance to sectors.

Project Component4 US$S.OO million
                       -

Zanzibar HIWAIDSSupport: Zanzibar has a different Government structure for domestic issues, and
has established the Zanzibar AIDS Commission ( ZAC). Therefore, while it i s considered essential that
the project provide support to Zanzibar (including Pemba) as well as the mainland, the administrative
reach o fTACAIDS and the mainland structures for implementingthe other components do not extend to
Zanzibar. Therefore, an allocation has beenmade for support to the HIViAIDS PrograminZanzibar. It
i s envisioned that this support will mirror the support provided to the mainland through the first three
components o f this project, i.e.(i) Community AIDS Response Fund; (ii) Sector Fund; and (iii)
                                                                           Public
Support to ZAC, though on a smaller scale. However, given that Zanzibar i s less advanced inthe
establishment o f the necessary structures for preparation o f this component, the details o f this component
will be elaborated duringthe first year o f the project's implementation with a detailed project operations
manual and financial assessment/procurement assessmentof implementing entities as a disbursement
condition. The preparation of Medical Waste Management Plan covering Zanzibar will be an additional
disbursement condition. That said, the smaller scale of Zanzibar has made a more flexible, dynamic
response possible. Thus, preparation i s currently accelerating ahead o f schedule, though still likely to
commence later than support to the mainland. Giventhat the ZAC i s located inthe Chief Minister's
Office, this office will parallel the functions o f the PMO inthe mainlandcomponents o f the project.




                                                      - 53 -

                                           Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
                                     TANZANIA: Multi-SectoralAIDS Project




 Civil Society Fund                                                                               14.00                  0.00                  14.00
 Public Sector Fund                                                                              20.00                  12.00                  32.00
 TACAIDS Institutional Support                                                                    13.00                  2.00                  15.00
 Zanzibar HIViAIDS Support                                                                         3.50                   1S O                   5.OO
 Total Baseline Cost                                                                             50.50                  15.50                  66.00
  Physical Contingencies                                                                           1.oo                   1.oo                   2.00
  Price Contingencies                                                                              1.oo                   1.oo                   2.00
                                         Total Project Costs1                                    52.50                  17.50                  70.00
                                 Total Financing Required                                        52.50                  17.50                  70.00




 Grantsto Communities                                                                              14.00                      0.00                  14.00
 Goods                                                                                               8.00                   12.50                   20.50
 TechnicalAssistance, Services, Training,and Workshops                                               8.00                   26.50                   34.50
 Works                                                                                               0.50                     0.00                   0.50
 IncrementalOperating Costs?                                                                         0.50                     0.00                   0.50
                                                         Total Proiect Costs1                      31.OO                    39.00                   70.00
I                                               Total Financing RequiredI                          31.00       I            39.00 I                 70.00

   I
    Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m)and the total project cost, net o f taxes, is 82 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 0% o f total
   project cost net of taxes.




                                                                    - 54 -

                                  Annex 4: Monitoring & Evaluation
                             TANZANIA: Multi-Sectoral AIDS Project

The main objectives of the National HIV/AIDS Multi-sectoral Strategic Framework (NMSF) provide the
outline for the main areas o f focus inthe different sectors. The vision o f the overall response is a country
free from the threat o f HIV/AIDS and which cares for and support all those who are infected and affected
by HIV/AIDS. The NMSF states that the overall responsibility for M&E at the National level rests with
TACAIDS and, specifically, with the M&EDirectorate. This Directorate has now been established. An
Annual Performance Report o f the National Responsewill be a major document produced by TACAIDS
incollaborationwith allthe partners inthe Response.

The NMSF highlightsnine strategic goals that shouldbe addressedduringthe 2003-2007 period. These
goals have beendecided through wide ranging consultation and with a view to consistency with
international agreements and existingsectoral priorities. The goals cover the main thematic areas o f
prevention, care and support and mitigation o f socio-economic impact.

0   Goal 1- reduce the spread o f HIV inthe country;
0   Goal 2 -reduce HIV transmissionto infants;
0   Goal 3  - Political and government leaders consistently give highvisibility to HIV/AIDS intheir
    proceedings and public appearances;
0   Goal 4 - Political leaders, public and private programs, projects and interventions address stigma and
    discrimination and take human rights o f persons living with HIV/AIDS into account;
0   Goal 5 - HIV/AIDS concerns are fully integratedand prioritizedinthe National Poverty Reduction
     Strategy and Tanzania Assistance Strategy;
0   Goal 6  - Reduce the prevalence o f STIs inthe population;
0    Goal 7 - Increase the knowledge o f HIV transmission inthe population;
0    Goal 8 -Increase the number o f persons living with HIV/AIDS who have access to a continuum o f
     care and support from home/ community to hospital levels;
0    Goal 9 - Reduce the adverse effects o f HIViAIDS on orphans.

Itis recognizedthat the health sector will play a keyrole inthe National Responseand a HealthSector
HIV/AIDS strategy has recently been developed (2003). Three goals have beenarticulated:

0    To scale up the health sector response to HIV/AIDS and strengthenthe health system capacity to
     support HIV/AIDS interventions;
0    To promote access and utilization o f affordable and essential interventions and commodities for
     HIV/AIDS;
0    To improve the quality o f HIV/AIDS interventions to the general public, PLWHA, health care
     providers and other vulnerable populations.

This is an ambitious agenda and one that will require a comprehensive systemfor tracking progress over
the next few years. The M&Eframework developed by the M&ETask Force under the chairmanship of
TACAIDS has established a set o f indicators that link directly to these main strategic objectives drawing
on work already undertaken at National and Sectoral level.




                                                     - 55 -

TACAIDS and Co-ordinationofMonitoring and Evaluationactivities
The M&Ecomponent o f the National Responseis to be coordinatedby the TACAIDS M&EDirectorate
which as been recently established and staffed. Since January this team has been working on establishing
its leadership and coordination role for the National Response. Work on this i s progressingwell with the
early convening o f a Multi-sectoral Task Force on M&E. This Task Force includes participation from:
VPO (responsible for PRSP), M o H (NASCOP), UNAIDS, TACAIDS, UNDP, World Bank, PMO,
AMREF. Keydocuments from all stakeholders were used as a basis for work on M&Eissues: PRSP,
UNGASS, National Multi-sectoral HIV/AIDS Strategy, Tier 1Ministry documents. A local consultant
was engaged to assist in developing the first draft M&Eframework document and report back to the Task
Force. By TMAP Appraisal the draft M&E document presented had been through a number o f versions
and benefited from a consultation exercise with Task Force members.

Assessment of the Monitoring and EvaluationComponent AppraisalTargets
For TMAP Appraisal a set o f targets were set duringthe December 2002 mission:

0    that a Monitoring and Evaluation Unitbe established and functioning inTACAIDS;
0    that a core set o f indicators for measuring progress o f the National Responsebe drafted;
0    that a Monitoring and Evaluation Framework document for the National Responseby drafted;
0    that Terms o f Reference for a baseline study for the National Response be drafted;
0    that Terms o f Reference for the Joint HIV/AIDS Performance Reviewprocess be drafted (this later
     was not included inthe Aide Memoire list o f targets for Appraisal but agreed as important).

 The Appraisal team lookedindetail at progress on all these targets together with the TACAIDS team
duringthe missionand it was agreed that all M&E appraisaltargets hadbeen met to an appropriate
standardfor Appraisal. The main comments on each target are givenbelow:

Monitoring and evaluation unit established and functional. Interms o f staffing the M&E unit has been
established. An M&E Director took up post on November 12002 and appointed an M&EOfficer and
Research Officer on January 15 2003. These officers are now inpost. The IT Officer was appointed in
mid-April. This meansthe fullteam is established. In-service capacitybuildingis plannedand included
inthe three year TACAIDS workplan.

Agreement on kev indicators. A core set o f performance indicators for the National HIV/AIDSResponse
has been established and i s described inthe draft TACAIDS Monitoring and Evaluation Framework
document (March 2003). An M&E Task Force has been established. The draft indicator set i s a
compilation of sectoral and cross-cuttingmeasures covering input,process, output and outcome
indicators. Each indicator i s elaborated for characteristics, source and data quality issues. This indicator
set i s intendedto form the basis o f the annual report on progress inthe National HIV/AIDS Responseto
be coordinated and compiledby the TACAIDS Secretariat. This annual report will be produced intime
for the Joint (Annual) HIV/AIDS Performance Review (JAPR) that i s planned for late March/ early April
2004 and then annually thereafter. The report for the JAPR 2004 will cover progress achieved during
the calendar year 2003. TACAIDS recognizes the needfor flexibility inthe core indicator set as well as
the constraints that currently exist incompiling an accurate andhighquality data set. For this reason the
set o f indicators is kept as draft and may be altered on the basis o f experience duringthe baseline
exercise and evolution o f the National Response. The framework document also emphasizes the need for
disaggregated data by age, sex and socio-economic status as far as possible. This will clearly be a
challenge that is reviewedduringthe pilot baseline data collection exercise. The M&E Task Force will
need to review this issue once the findings are available.




                                                     - 56 -

Terms o f reference for a baseline exercise. A draft TOR for the baseline exercise was presented inthe
M&E Framework document. Followingappraisal discussion this has beenmodifiedand a revisedTOR
has been drafted and presented. This meets appraisal requirements. The TOR focuses on developing a
baseline for the monitoringo f progress inimplementation o f the National HIV/AIDS Response. The
baseline will focus on the core indicator set as mentioned above. An initial trial baseline exercise
covering 2002 will be undertaken inthe coming months. This will provide useful experience for the
formal 2003 baseline exercise to be presented as a National HIV/AIDS Progress Report intime for the
March 2004 JAPR. The trial baseline will require technical assistance support to the M&EUnitdue to
the considerable workloadthat this will involve. The TACAIDS team aims to have a draft available for
comment by September 2003.

Draft M&E Framework document. Considerable work has gone into this framework. The appraisal
discussions identifiedsome areas where further work was needed and these were conductedduringthe
appraisal period. A reviseddocument has beenprovidedby the TACAIDS team. The structure o f the
document i s appropriate and it addressesall the main elements o f an M&E framework effectively. The
framework provides an overview o f all aspects o f M&E that will be o f use to all stakeholders involved in
implementation o f the NationalHIViAIDS Response as they prepare their own specific M&Eplans. The
document provides linkages between different demands for informationfrom intemational commitments
such as the UNGASS report down to financial and management information for local implementers and
district coordination committees. An overview o f the different components o f the system, types o f
information and indicators to be usedand roles and responsibilities i s outlined inthe document. The
framework i s for the National Response as a whole and no separate project level M&E systems are
advocated. This holds true for the TMAP and this is in line with the principles on which TMAP is based.
TMAP is seen as part o f the overall Response and as such funds from TMAP are proposed for certain
areas o f support such as short term technical assistance to the TACAIDS M&Eteam for specific
activities.

Joint (Annual) HIV/AIDS Performance Review. TORSfor this review process have been drafted as part
o f the M&E Framework document. These outline an appropriate process that involves an initial
Technical Review on key issues concerning implementation o f the National HIV/AIDS Responsethat
would precede and feed into the Main Review involving GOTand all key stakeholders. The 2-3 day
Main Review will bringtogether all the main stakeholders to discuss progress and the way forward, make
recommendations and agree annual milestones for implementation.

Key issuesdiscussed at Appraisal
The technical appraisal of the M&Esystem and framework as put forwardby TACAIDS was undertaken
and a set o f key issues explored:

Issue 1: I s the M&EFrameworkfor the NationalResponse appropriately structuredand does it
cover all the main areas of a multi-sectoralresponse?
The M&E framework is basedon the priority strategies identifiedinthe NationalHN/AIDS
Multi-sectoral Strategic Framework and the National HIViAIDS Policy. It i s also designed to ensure
consistency with the various sectoral strategic plans such as the newly drafted Health Sector HIV/ALDS
Strategic Plan. The M&E Framework identifies a set o f indicators that cover a numbero f key types o f
information on outputs, outcomes, program management and financial management. The need for
information at each level o fthe system i s advocated as i s the need for clarity on the source o f information
and who i s responsible. The framework clearly focuses on the need to use existing sources o f
informationwherever possible and to work to building capacity and strengthening these existing sources.
Where clear gaps exist these should be filled. TMAP i s designed to support the development o f the
overall M&E framework and does not specify any separate or parallel M&Erequirements.


                                                    - 57 -

Components o f the M&E Framework: The M&EFramework has four main components: surveillance;
surveys, studies and research; Routine information systems; program management; Financial
management. The framework document outlines the importance o f each o f these sources o f information
and also highlightsthe strengths and weakness that exist. The framework also recognizes the need for
differenttypes o finformationat different levels and within the core national indicator set this is reflected
by includinginputsand process indicators as well as output, outcome and impact indicators. In
discussion with the TACAIDS M&EDirector it became clear that work has been started on planning for
a number o f key studies and surveys. The surveillance systems are beingreviewed and further
discussions will be heldon developing second generation surveillance and the NSS. The THIS
(HIV/AIDS Indicator survey) is another activities that i s being plannedthat should provide new data o f
importance for definingand tracking the state o f the epidemic.

Issue 2: I s there a realistic approachto trackingprogressof the NationalResponse?
It is clear from the work undertaken by the TACAIDS Directorate and the M&E Task Force since
December 2002 that there is a recognition o f both the importance o f M&E and the major challenges
ahead. The framework i s a practical document that provides a good initial overview o f the system
needed and constraints that exist. The framework outlines a draft set o f core indicators for the National
Response and keeps these open for review especially pendingthe pilot baseline exercise that is due to
take place later in2003. This i s a sensible approach that recognizes that currently the overview o f
informationavailable is not well understood. The baseline TORSare well thought out and should
provide a good process for further development of informationon progress in the National Response.
The pilot exercise will allow definition o f responsibility and check consistency o f indicators proposed
and feasibility o f collection.

Issue3: Does the frameworkaddressthe differentroles and responsibilitiesof stakeholdersin
collection, synthesis,analysisand disseminationof datahformation?
The draft framework contains a section that outlines the mainroles andresponsibilities at different
levels. This i s presentedtogether with a chart that indicates the proposedflow o f information from
community to TACAIDS and the reverse. The document highlightsthe importance o f sharing o f
informationand a good understanding o f what information is requiredat each level and for what purpose.
For instance it recognizes that while considerable informationmay be collected at district level only
periodic summarized informationneeds to be reported on to highlevels. Inthe same way it calls for
better dissemination o f informationgenerated through special surveys, studies and research down to
implementing partners rather thanjust staying inthe hands o f people at central or international level.

Issue4: Does it linkinwith the GOTplanningand budgetaryframework?
The framework document has beendevelopedwith an understanding of the need to be coordinatedwith
the government planning and budgetingcycle. The main way that this is acknowledged inthe document
i s through the outlining o f the importance o f a Joint Annual HIV/AIDS Performance Review (JAPR)
process. The timingo f this i s considered and aims to allow conclusions and recommendations to be
considered inthe budgetnegotiations and MTEFreview process.

Issue 5: The way forward
The Appraisal was also used as an opportunity to discuss some o fthe important next steps for taking
forward the M&E component. The TACAIDS M&E Directorate is developing detailed workplans and
some o f the key issues to be included are:

0    M&Eneeds assessmentand training exercise. Initial TOT andthentraining at LGA level;
0    Initial baseline exercise (2002 data) to pilot test core national response indicator set;


                                                      - 58 -

e   Develop outline for annual report on HIV/AIDS National Response;
e   IntroduceNational Stakeholder Forummeetings;
e   Begin consultation on TORS for the JAPR;
e   Review national databaserequirementsfor storage o f information on the National Response. Review
    CRIS system andprepare UNGASS report;
e   Work with RFAs when appointed on M&Erequirementsand capacity buildingfunctions;
e   Participate inPoverty Monitoring Group.

A summary planof work presentedby TACAIDS includesprovisionfor some of the key monitoring and
evaluation tasks to be undertaken over the next year and work has been done to highlightwhich of these
actions are to be funded under TMAP.




                                                  - 59 -

                              Annex 5: Financial Summary
                         TANZANIA: Multi-SectoralAIDS Project
                                    Years Ending

                       II                       IMPLEMENTATIONPERIOD
                         Year1 I  Year2   I  Year3    IYear4   IYear5  IYear6  IYear 7
Total FinancingRequired
ProjectCosts
  Investment Costs          5.5       8.0         15.1    15.3     15.0     0.0     0.0
 Recurrent Costs            2.7       4.2          5.0     5.2      6.0     0.0     0.0
Total ProjectCosts          8.2      12.2         20.1    20.5     21.0     0.0     0.0
Total Financing             8.2      12.2         20.1    20.5     21.0     0.0     0.0
Financing
  IBRDllDA                  6.5       9.9         17.5     17.8    18.3    0.0      0.0
  Government                0.7       1.3          1.6      1.7     1.7    0.0      0.0
      Central               0.7       1.3          1.6      1.7     1.7    0.0      0.0
      Provincial            0.0       0.0          0.0     0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0
   Co-financiers            1.o       1.o          1.o      1.o     1.o    0.0      0.0
User FeeslBeneficiaries     0.0       0.0          0.0     0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0
Other                       0.0       0.0          0.0     0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0
Total ProjectFinancing      8.2      12.2         20.1    20.5     21.0    0.0      0.0
Main assumptions:




                                          - 60 -

                    Annex 6: Procurement and DisbursementArrangements
                             TANZANIA: Multi-Sectoral AIDS Project

Procurement

Tanzania's ProcurementEnvironment

1.       Procurement in Tanzania i s in a reformstage. The Government enacted the Procurement Law in
February 2001replacing all previous procurement legislation. The Act became effective on July, 1,200 1.
Intandem, the Governmentalso issuedthe Regulations intwo parts: (a) Procurement ofGoods and
Works; and (b) Selection and Employment o f Consultants. The Act includes most o f the features o f good
public procurementpractice i.e. (i)   effective and wide advertising o f upcoming procurement
opportunities; (ii)public opening o f bids; (iii)pre-disclosure o f all relevant information including
transparent and clear bid evaluation and contract award procedures; (iv) clear accountabilities for
decision making; and (v) an enforceable right o f review for bidders when public entities breach the rules.

2.       InmidNovember 2002, the Governmentissued a set of Standard Tender Documents. These
comprise: (a) Procurement o f Goods through ICB; (b) Procurement o f Health Sector Goods; (c) Standard
Request for Proposals; (d) Procurement of Works through NCB; and (e) Procurement o f Works, Smaller
Contracts. These documents were reviewed by a consultant as part o f the 2003 CPAR for Tanzania and
found to be inline with the Bank's Standard BiddingDocuments (SBD).

3.       The Public Procurement Act (PPA) covers procurement inboth central government and local
authorities, though the latter i s coveredby specific Local Government Regulations, to be issuedunder the
Local Government Finance Act. The local government authority has finalizedthe draft Regulations and
Procurement Manual, which are inline with the new procurement law. A remarkable change inthe new
local government regulations i s the change o f composition o f the local government authority tender board
o f which the councilors have been entirely removed from the procurement process.

4.       The Bank carried out the CPAR in2003. The stakeholders workshop was conductedon January
27 -28, 2003 to discuss the initial recommendations proposedby the Consultant. A few
recommendations include, inter alia: (a) To amendthe Public Procurement Law to establish the
Procurement Authority responsible for oversight of public procurement; (b) Execution o f procurement to
be decentralized to ministriesand departments; (c) Change legal framework to include private sector
representatives inthe Public Procurement Appeals Authority; and (d) Replacement o f supplies officers
with a new cadre o f procurement specialists inthe civil service's rating system. The final report
including all recommendations agreed upon duringthe stake holders workshop has beensubmitted to the
Government for implementation.

5.       Based on the CPAR findings, the procedures and practices o fprocurement inZanzibar are
fallacy; they lack proper legal framework. At present procurement, apart from donor funded
procurement, i s conductedon an ad hoc basis leaving extensive discretion to the Accounting Officers in
the Ministries. While some o f the procuring entities are applying the rules o f the now Treasury
Instructions, others have simply adopted their own procedures. Procurement i s carried out in accordance
with former and now void rules. The legal framework for public procurement i s inadequate due to
deficiencies in the present Act and missingregulations. There i s an Act to establish a Central Tender
Board (CTB), but the Act only provides for the organization, and does not deal with any o f the
procedures o f procurement. While the Central Tender Board Act became effective on July 1,2002, the
relevant regulations have not yet been issued. Although, established by Act, CTB is not yet functioning



                                                    -61 -

since the membershave not been appointed. As an interimmeasure, the Ministry o f Finance and
Economic Affairs will issue instructions authorizing ministries to approve all contracts - essentially
legalizing what they are currently doing.
Use of Bank Guidelines

6.       All works and goods financed underthe IDA grant wouldbe procuredinaccordance with the
Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits,January 199.5and as revised in January
and August 1996, September 1997and January 1999. Consultants will be selected inaccordance with
the Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by WorldBank Borrowers, January 1997and
as revised September 1997,January 1999and May 2002. National Competitive Bidding(NCB)
procedures will be inaccordance with the Public Procurement Act 2001 which are consistent with Bank
Procurement Guidelines.

7.       The Bank's Standard BiddingDocuments (SBD) will be used for all ICB. The Bank, through a
Consultant who was engaged for the 2003 CPAR, reviewedthe Standard Tender Documents prepared for
use under the PPA and found themto be acceptable. These STD will be usedfor NCB contracts with
modification ifnecessary. The Bank's Standard Request for Proposals (SRFP) would be usedfor all
consulting assignments. All the implementingagencies should ensure that each time they are usingthe
most current version o f the appropriate SBD or SRFP and standard forms o f evaluation. Less
competitive biddingand selection procedures should not be usedas an expedient to by-pass more
competitive methods and fractioning o f large procurements into smaller ones should not be done solely
to allow the use o f less competitive methods or to avoid Tender Board or IDA review. The detailed
procedures to be followed under the Community Aids ResponseFund(CARF) will be described inthe
CARF Manual and will be consistent with paragraph 3.15 o f the Bank Procurement Guidelines on
community participation inprocurement.

Advertising

8.       A General Procurement Notice (GPN) is mandatory and will be publishedinthe UN
Development Business as providedunder the Guidelines and inDevelopment Gateway Market
(Dgmarket). The GPN would be updated on a yearly basis and would show all outstanding ICB and all
consulting services estimated to cost USD 200,000 or more. Specific Procurement Notices (SPN) will be
required for contracts to be procured under ICB and NCB procedures and for consultant contracts to
obtain expressions o f interest (EOI) prior to the preparation o f the shortlist. SPNs will as (a minimum)
be published ina newspaper o fwide national circulation. Consultant contracts estimated to cost USD
200,000 or more will be advertisedin Development Business and in DgMarket. Sufficient time would
be allowed(not less than six weeks for ICB and not less than 30 days for NCB and 14 days for EOI) to
allow adequate time for bidders and consultants to obtain documents and respondappropriately.

ProcurementCapacity

9.       The Tanzania Commission for AIDS (TACAIDS) and the Zanzibar Aids Commission (ZAC) are
responsible for coordinating the national response to HIVIAIDS inthe mainland and inZanzibar
respectively. TACAIDS and ZAC will be responsible for implementingabout 30% o f the estimated cost
o f the project. Implementation o f about 45% o f the project will be by the various MDAs (including the
MinistryofHealthand Local Government Authorities). The remaining approximately 25% will be
implementedbyNGOs, CBOs, Faith Based Associations (FBAs) and other civil society organizations
through a grants scheme    -- theCommunity Aids Response Fund(CARF). The procurement capacity
assessment for the implementing agencies have been carried out. TACAIDS and ZAC have had no


                                                     - 62 -

previous experience inimplementing a Bank project, and the project incorporates mitigationmeasures
which include hiringo f long term consultant(s) (LTC) on an "on call" basis to provide procurement
support and advisory services. Most o f the MDAshave had experience inimplementingBank and other
donor-financed projects and have the capacity to carry out procurement under the project. The Ministry
o f Health (MOH) inthe mainland and its Medical Stores Department (MSD) have receivedthe support o f
several donors and have an adequate supply chain management systemfor health sector goods. MSD
operates a computerized stores management systemwhich enables batch tracking. MSD also has the
capacity to handle supplies which require a cold supply cycle. The Pharmacy Board registers all drugs
and drug suppliers inthe country and i s responsible for ensuring that all drugs in Tanzania are safe and
effective and meet the requiredquality standards. The summary assessmentshows a "high risk" for the
project and the prior review thresholds have been set to reflect this rating. Procurement Post Reviews
(PPRs) will be carried out annually by Bank staff and/or independentauditors. Based on the findings o f
the reviews, the prior review thresholds will be reviewed.

10.      The project launch workshop will include a sessionon BanklPublic procurement. The focus will
be to re-orient key staff on the principles of goodpublic procurement practice. The project also includes
fundingfor key staffto attend Bank supported regionalprocurementtraining inESAMIor GIMPA.
Procurement training workshops would also be held duringBank supervision missions. The course
contents for these training workshops will be guidedby the findingso f the PPRs.

ProcurementPlans

11.      Each implementing agency has prepared an annual workplan consisting o f a procurementplan
which has been consolidated by TACAIDS into an annual procurement plan for the first eighteen months
o f the project showing contract packages, and for each package its estimated cost, procurement method
and processing times for key activities untilcompletion. The procurementplan for CARF will only show
indicative budget per year, but will not include detailed activities since C A W activities will be demand
driven. Three months prior to the start of each subsequentfiscal year, TACAIDSIZAC will submit
up-dated versions o f the procurement plans inrespect o f the following eighteen months for IDA review
and clearance.
12.      Any revisions to the procurementplan shall require the concurrence o f IDA. Implementing
Agencies shall apply the most competitive method o f procurement appropriate to the circumstances o f
the specific procurement as described inthe Public Procurement Act 2001 and the Table below.
ImplementingAgencies may select amore competitive methodfor aparticular procurement ifthey wish
to do so, however, IDA concurrence will be requiredto use a less competitive method other than the one
set out in the agreed Procurement Plan. Absence of this concurrence may result inmisprocurement. Not
more than two calendar months after the end o f each quarter, TACAIDS and ZAC shall submit to IDA a
Procurement Monitoring Report and a Contracts Expenditure and Progress Report as part o f the Financial
Monitoring Report (FMR), providingthe status o f procurement, and expenditure and progress on
individual contracts.




                                                   - 63 -

 13.     Training, workshops, conference attendance and study tours will be carried out on the basis o f
approved annual programs that will identify the general framework o f training and similar activities for
the year, includingthe nature o f traininglstudy tours/workshops, the number of participants, and cost
estimates.

ProcurementImplementationArrangements

14.      The Tanzania Commission for AIDS (TACAIDS) and the Zanzibar Aids Commission (ZAC) are
responsible for coordinating the national response to HIViAIDS inthe mainland and inZanzibar
respectively. TACAIDS and ZAC will contract NGOs to manage and coordinate CARF initiatives. In
addition TACAIDS and ZAC will engage consultants to carry out and establish systems including
interalia; Monitoring and Evaluation; MIS; Policy and Planning and District Response. The C A W will
be managedby Regional FacilitatingAgencies (RFAs). RFAsto be financed by IDA will be selected
competitively. Itwas agreed duringappraisal that the Zanzibar Association o f NGOs (ZANGO) will
provide facilitating agency services inZanzibar. Each implementing agency will be responsible for
procurement planning and processing o f works and goods contracts and the selection o f consultants
requiredto implementtheir activities.

Scope of Procurement andProcurementmethods

15.      N o ICB works contracts are expected underthe project. A limited number o f works contracts
estimated to cost more than USD 50,000 but less than USD 500,000 will be procured underNCB
procedures. Very small contracts estimated to cost less than USD 50,000 equivalent may be procured by
way o f soliciting quotations through written invitations from not less than three qualified contractors.
RegistratiodClassification o f contractors may be usedto identifycontractors for such very small
contracts. The invitation shall include a detailed description o f the works, basic specifications, the
required completion date, a simple form o f agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings
[where applicable]. Inall cases the award o f contract shall be made to the contractor who offers the
lowest price for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to successfully complete
the contract.

16.      To the extent possible, goods that could be procuredby an implementingagency under one
supplier would be groupedinto contract packages, and packages estimated to cost the equivalent ofUSD
250,000 or more would be procured under ICB procedures. Procurement o f goods packages estimated to
cost more than USD 30,000 but less than USD 250,000 would be procuredusingNCB procedures.
Goods packages estimated to cost less than USD 30,000 would be procuredby shopping on the basis o f
comparison o f quotations from at least three eligible and qualified suppliers or from UnitedNations
Agencies. Requests for such quotations will include a clear description and quantity o f the goods; as
well as requirementsfor delivery time and point o f delivery. ARVs and other drugs for HIV/AIDS may
be procuredusingLIB procedures by invitingbids from the WHO list ofprequalified manufacturers.

17.      Software and ARV reagents or drugs which are o f proprietary nature may, with IDA
concurrence, be procured under contracts negotiated directly with the manufactures/suppliers or their
authorized agents.

18.      Consulting Services and Training will consist o f various studies and technical assistance to be
carried out by both national and international consultants as well as workshops and group discussions.
As a rule, consulting firms for all assignments estimated to cost the equivalent o fUSD 100,000 or more
will be selected though Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) methodology. Assignments estimated
to cost the equivalent o f USD 200,000 or more would be advertised for EO1inDevelopment Business


                                                    - 64 -

(UNDB), inDgMarket andinat least one newspaper ofwide nationalcirculation. Inaddition, EO1for
specialized assignments may be advertised inan international newspaper or magazine. Inthe case o f
assignments estimated to cost less than USD 100,000 the assignment will be advertised nationally. The
shortlist o f firms for assignments estimated to cost less than USD 100,000 may be made up entirelyo f
national consultants ifat least three qualified firms are available at competitive costs in Tanzania.
However, foreign consultants who wish to participate should not be excluded from consideration.
Consultant services estimated to cost less than the equivalent o f USD 100,000 may be contracted by
comparing the qualifications o f consultants. Auditors would be selected usingLeast-Cost-Selection
procedures. Incase o f assignments requiringindividual consultants, the selection will follow the
procedures stipulated in Section V o f the Consultants Guidelines.

19.     Training programs and workshops for TACAIDS and ZAC would be packaged inthe project's
workplans and budget and items therein procured using appropriate methods. IDA will review and clear
training packages as appropriate.

20.     The detailed procurementprocedures to be followed underthe Community Aids ResponseFund
(CARF) will be described inthe CARF Manual and will be consistent with paragraph 3.15 of the
Procurement Guidelines on Community Participation inProcurement.

IDA Review
21.     All goods contracts estimated to cost USD 250,000 or more, as well as the first goods contract
estimated to cost more than USD 30,000 but less than USD 250,000, and works contracts estimated to
cost USD 50,000 or more will be subject to the Bank's prior review in accordance with the procedures in
Appendix Io f the Procurement Guidelines. Any amendments to existing contracts raising their values to
levels equivalent or above the prior review thresholds are subject to IDA review. All contracts awarded
on basis o f direct contracting will require prior review and clearance o f IDA.




                                                     - 65 -

 22.      All single source selectionwill be subjectto IDAprior review. Consultancycontractswith firms
 with estimatedvalue ofUSD 100,000 or more, and consultancy contractswith individuals estimated
 value of USD 50,000 or more will be subject to prior review by the IDA inaccordancewith the
 proceduresinAppendix Iof the ConsultantsGuidelines. All out of country traininglworkshops will be
 subject to IDA review.
 23.      Contractswhich are not subject to prior review will be selectively reviewed by the Bank during
 project implementation and will be governedby the proceduresset forth inparagraph4 of Appendix Ito
 the relevant Guidelines. Monitoring and evaluationofprocurementperformance at all levels (national,
 regional, and community) would be carried out for procurement under the prior review thresholds during
 IDA supervision missionsand through annual ex-post procurement audits. At a minimum, 1out of 5
 contracts managedby the TACAIDSIZAC andthose managedby MDAs will be subject to post review.
 Inaddition, 1out of 10ofthe grants awardedunder the CARF will be subjectto postreview.
 Post-reviewsof in-country training will be conductedfrom time to time to review the selectionof
 institutionslfacilitatorslcourse contentsltraineesandjustifications thereof, and costs incurred. Annual
 independenttechnical audits (ex-post procurement audits) would: (a) verify that the procurement and
 contracting proceduresandprocesses followed for the projects were inaccordance with the IDA Grant
 Agreement (DGA); (b) verify technical compliance, physical completion and price competitivenessof
 each contract inthe selected representativesample; (c) review and comment on contract administration
 andmanagement issues as dealt with by participating agencies; (d) review capacity of participating
 agencies inhandling procurement efficiently; and (e) identify improvements inthe procurementprocess
 inthe light ofany identifieddeficiencies. The Borrower andIDAwill review all thresholds statedinthis
 sectionon an annual basis. Amendmentsmay be agreeduponbased onperformanceand actualvalues of
 procurementimplemented. Amendmentsto the IDA Grant Agreement may be proposedaccordingly.

 Contract Management and Expenditure Reports
 24.      As part of the FMR, each implementing agency will submit quarterly reports to TACAIDS and
 ZAC who will consolidatethe reports and will submit FMRs includingcontract management and
 expenditureinformationinquarterly reportsto IDA.


  Procurementmethods(TableA)


                           Table A. Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
                                             (US$ million equivalent)




                                   II                          0.77             0.11
                                           (0.00)
                                            O'O0         II   (0.70')    II    (0.10')    I   (0.00') I  (0.80) I
12. Goods                                   7.70               4.40             8.32      I    0.00   I  20.42  I
                                           (7.00)             (4.00)           (7.50)         (0.00)    (18SO)
3. Services                                 0.00               0.00            39.00           3.70      42.70
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)          (3 2.40)        (0.00)    (32.40)
4. Grants to Communities                    0.00               0.00            17.00           0.00      17.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)          (15.00)         (0.00)    (15.00)
5. Incremental Operating                    0.00               0.00             1.00           0.00       1.oo
costs


                                                     - 66 -

                  (0.00)        (0.00)    (0.50)   (0.00)   (0.50)
6. Unallocated     0.00          0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
                  (0.00)        (0.00)    (2.80)   (0.00)   (2.80)
  Total            7.70          5.17     65.43     3.70    82.00
                  (7.00)        (4.70)   (58.30)   (0.00)  (70.00)




                         - 67 -

Prior review thresholds (Table B)

                 Table B: Thresholds for ProcurementMethods and Prior Review '




                                >=50,000 - 500,000                 NCB                   All contracts

                                     < 50,000                Price Comparison                None

                                     All values              Direct contracting          All contracts
2. Goods                            >=250,000                 ICB/LIB**/UN               All contracts
 incl. HealthSector Goods
and Services other than       >=30,000      <250,000           NCB/LIB/UN             First Contractby IA
Consulting Services                      -


                                      <30,000                  Shopping/UN                   None

                                     All values              Direct Contracting          All contracts
 3. Services (Consulting)        >= 100,000 firms                  QCBS                  All contracts

                               Below 100,000, firms       QCBS/LCS/SFB/SBCQ                  None

                               >=50,000 individuals              Individual              All contracts

                                < 50,000, individuals            Individual                  None

                                     All values           Single Source Selection        All contracts
 4. Community Grants                 All Values           Community Participation    Grants exceedingUSD
 (CARF)                                                  (inaccordancewith CAW              100,000
                                                           ProcurementManual)

                             rota1value of contracts subject to prior review:

                                 Overall Procurement Risk Assessment

                                                   High

Frequencyof procurementsupervisionmissionsproposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-reviewiaudits)
 *All singlesource contractswill be subject to prior review
**LIBwill beusedonly ifthere is alimitednumber of suppliers
'Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04"Review of Procurement
  Documentation"and contact the RegionalProcurementAdviser for guidance.




                                                   - 68 -

Disbursement

 Allocation of grant proceeds(Table C)

25.      Disbursementandwithdrawal proceduresare detailed inthe WorldBank Disbursement
Handbook (1992 edition). All disbursementsare subject to the conditions of the IDA Grant Agreement
and the proceduresdefinedinthe DisbursementLetter. All applications to withdraw proceedsfrom the
IDA Grant account will be fully documentedexcept for expenditures againstcontracts: (i) an  with
estimatedvalue of US$50,000 each or less for works; (ii)   with an estimatedvalue of US$ 250,000 or less
for goods; (iii) an estimatedvalue of US$ 100,000 for consulting firms; (iv) with an estimatedvalue
                with
of US$ 50,000 or less for individual consultants; and (v) for all training workshops and study tours,
which may be claimed on the basis of certified SOEs. Documentation supporting expenditures claimed
against SOEs will be retained at TACAIDS and will be available for review as requestedby IDA
supervision missions andproject auditors.

26.      The allocation of IDA Grant proceeds are shown inTable C; the proceeds of the IDA grant
would be made against 93% of consultant services and training, 90% of all expenditures on all local
expenditures for goods and 100%of expenditures on all foreign expenditures for goods, 90% of all
expenditureson all local expenditures for works and 100%of expenditures on all foreign expenditures
for works, 100%of amounts disbursedfor IDA-financedcomponentsof community initiatives underthe
CARF component, and 50% of all expenditures on incremental operating costs. As projectedby the
Bank's standarddisbursementsprofile, disbursement would be completedby four months after project
closure. Disbursementwouldbe made against standardIDA documentation.

                                Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds

         Expenditure Category           ] Amount in US$million        1        Financing Percentage
Goods (Parts B & C of Project)                      16.10                         100%of Foreign
                                                                                   90% of Local
Goods (Part D of the Project)                       2.40                          100%of Foreign
                                                                                   90% of Local
Works (Parts B & C of Project)                      0.10                          100%of Foreign
                                                                                   90% of Local
Works (Part Dof the Project)                        0.70                          100%of Foreign
                                                                                   90% of Local
Consultants'services andtraining                   30.90                               93%
(Parts B & C)
Consultants'services and training (Part             1.50                               93%
D')
Grantsto Community Initiativesunder                 15.00                        100%of Amounts
Community AIDS ResponseFund                                                          Disbursed
(CARF) (Part A)
Incremental Operating Costs                         0.50                               50%
Unallocated                                         2.80

JTotalProject Costs                                70.00

ITotal                                  II          70.00             II                                  II
Special Account:



                                                  - 69 -

 27.      To ensure timely and reliable flow o f funds, two dollar Special Accounts will be opened in a
 commercial bank acceptable to IDA. Special Account A will be for Tanzania Mainlandand Special
 Account B will be for Zanzibar. IDA funds will be deposited into these two special dollar accounts.
 The accounts will bereplenishedon the basis of SOEs or specific withdrawal applications to be
 submittedto IDA on a monthlybasis.

Additional details of the operation of theproject accounts is covered under page 75.


 FinancialManagement

A.        EXECUTIVE SUMMARY AND CONCLUSION

28.       The main coordinating agency, TACAIDS, is a department inthe Prime Minister's Office and is
mandatedwith leading the development o f a "national" strategy for addressing the issue o f HIVIAIDS, as
well as coordinating its implementation. The grant from the Bank i s expected to go someway towards
relieving the obvious pressure on resources for fightingthis most important war. The project i s expected
to have four components as follows :

0     The Public Sector Fund, for supporting efforts by MDAsto address HIV I Aids issues within central
      and local government.
0     The Community Aids ResponseFund(CARF) for direct interventions inthe communities themselves
      as well as civic organizations and the private sector.
0     The Zanzibar Component for interventions on the islands.
0     Institutional Support o f the Tanzania AIDS Commission.

29.       The Bank's support, much like assistancefrom other donors, will come largely as earmarked
 funds targeting specified activities. This meansthat the funds will be included inthe country's annual
budgets (as development aid), and spent through the exchequer, as development expenditure, and such
expenditure will follow normal government procedures and controls. TACAIDS will therefore not be a
 stand-alone `project management unit', but rather a fully integrated arm o f government playing a key role
inthe fight against HIV.

 30.      The GOT accounting system to be usedby the project is now largely computerized on an
Integrated Financial Management Information System (IFMIS) called Platinumor EPICOR. This i s a
modem, fully integrated systemwith a well-defined chart o f accounts. The systemi s expected to meet all
the requirements o f TACAIDS accounting. At the moment however, not enough effort has beenmade by
the relevant GOT InformationTechnology (IT) department to installthe system at TACAIDS. The early
installation would assist user staff to start learning and mastering the various modules before the volume
o f transactions picks up. The failure to install i s despite the best efforts o f the TACAIDS Finance
Director to have this done promptly. Meantime, TACAIDS has had to resort to usinga Microsoft Access
database as a means o f keeping a recordo f the commission's expenditures for the time being.

3 1.      The TACAIDS Finance Director i s new to government service, but has extensive experience
working for `non governmental organizations' (NGOs).She will obviously needto invest some time to
learn GOT financial procedures, as well as Bank reporting requirements. The accounting department at
large is not yet fully staffed, as the Director i s assisted by only two accountants at the moment.
Vacancies still to be filled include the post o f Chief Accountant, and two more Accountants (one for
justifications, andthe other for transaction validations). The recruitment process will be completed by
July, 2003.


                                                       - 70 -

32.      The necessary computer hardware has already beenacquired, save for the server, whose size and
specifications the GOT I T department is still to confirm.

33.      The project will be requiredto produce Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs). Indications are
that the GOT IFMISwill support the production o f FMRs. An initial attempt at designing these has been
made. Agreement on the reports was reached at negotiations.

34.      The Controller andAuditor General (CAG) o fthe United Republic o f Tanzania i s the statutory
auditor o f TACAIDS. It is however permissible at law for the CAG to sub-contract this role to a private
firmof auditors where, inthe opinionofthe CAG, such sub-contracting would expedite theprocess. No
decision on sub-contracting out the TACAIDS work has as yet been communicated. The Auditor
General o f Zanzibar is the statutory auditor for the purposes o f the Zanzibar component.

Summary RiskAssessment:

Topic                                          Risk            lomments/recommendations
                                               Assessment'

Inherent Risk                               I
Country                                                        Low financial management capacity
                                                               ingeneral.
Implementing Entity                         II MM              Although core staff already inplace,
                                                               not experienced inrunning similar
                                                               oroiects.




Implementing Entity                                            Internal control framework and org
                                                               structure not yet fully established.
FundsFlow                                                      Use o f government reporting
                                                               structures to trigger replenishment
                                                               still to be tested.
Staffing                                       M               Some key positions not yet filled.
Accounting Policies and Procedures             N               Financial management manual,
                                                               beingfinalized.
Internal Audit                              I N/A              Exists but not assessed.
External Audit                                 NIA             Not yet audited.
Financial Reporting and Monitoring             M               Necessary report formats agreed at
                                                               negotiations.
InformationSystems                          I"                 Although the nominated systemis
                                                               adequate, it has not yet been
                                                               installed. nor staff trained.
Overall Control Risk                        lM

OverallRiskAssessment: Moderate.
Success will dependon good working
relations with the various govt


                                                    -71 -

  departments, and flexibility in staffing to
  promptly fill current vacancies, as well as
 possible incremental manpower
 requirements.

  1Key: S = Substantial; M=Moderate; N=Negligible or low; N/A =Not Applicable

  The accounting system is being installed, and the remaining stafffor the accounting department will be
  in place by July, and once these actions are complete thefinancial management arrangements above will
 meet the Bank's minimum requirements for effective financial control at theproposed project.

  B.      ASSESSMENT

 Project Description Summary




  Component 1                      Community AIDS ResponseFund

  Component 2                      Public Sector Fund

  Component 3
I Component 4                  III Zanzibar HIV
                                   Tanzania AIDS Commission Institutional Support

                                                 / AIDS Support

 The project's development objectives are:
      To reduce the spread o f HIVIAIDS in the general population o f Tanzania;
      Mitigate the socio-economic impact o f HIV/AIDS at individual, household, and community levels;
       Strengthen the capacity o f communities, civil society, and government to respondto the epidemic.
  Details are laid out inthe body of the Project Appraisal Document (PAD).


  Country FinancialIssues

  35.     The Tanzania Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) was carried out and
  completed in the year 2001. The assessmentconcluded that while Tanzania had a "sound systemo f
 formal rules for financial management and many o f these rules hadbeenrecently updated and
 strengthened, issues o f noncompliance, limited execution, inadequate monitoring, insufficient capacity,
 and lack o f enforcement needed to be resolved". The country's financial accountability framework, and
 therefore financial management, would be considerably more effective and the associated fiduciary risks
 mitigated, ifthese areas were strengthened. It i s generally accepted that even greater effort has been
 made to improve financial management and related activities inTanzania since the time of the CFAA
 report (now two years old).

 The FinancialManagement System

 36.      The Tanzania Finance Regulations, Supplement 25 of 2001, in Section 53 of Part IX states that
  `government accounts shall be kept on a cash basis inorder that the amount o f cash spent on a particular
 service be compared with the amount authorized be the National Assembly;' and that




                                                      - 72 -

     `Any act o frecordingof a liability before it is paid shall be inconflict with the principles of prior
     approval o f expenditure by the National Assembly;'
     `No accounting officer shall make any entry inthe accounts o f the government which anticipates the
     receipt o f revenue or payment o f expenditure;'
0    `Where it is discovered that an accounting officer has taken action which anticipates the approval of
     expenditure by the National Assembly, such payment shall be treated as `unauthorized expenditure'.

TMAP, beingan activity under the direction and control o f the PMO, is a government activity and shall
therefore be accounted for on a cash basis. Normal Government o f Tanzania systems and forms shall be
used at all times, as shall normal government controls and approvals regimes.

Staffing

37.      The following are members o f staff inthe accounting department at TACAIDS: The Director
Of Finance is responsible for the overall management o f the department. She reports to the Executive
Chairman. She i s currently supported by an Accountant who i s responsible for preparing the unit's
accounting information, and another Accountanticashierwho deals with program cash issues I i s the
paymaster.

38.      The accountingdepartment organogram indicates that there should be at least a Chief
Accountant levelperson, as well as another Accountant (Reconciliation and Examination).It is also
possible that after the volume o f work is fully established, the needfor `regional' JustificationOfficers
may needto be considered.

39.      For ZAC, the secretariat i s the Zanzibar NACP, whose accounting department i s headedby an
experienced Finance Officer.Details o f the time-sharing arrangement between ZAC andNACP for the
critical accounting staff are still to be established.

BudgetingandAnnualPlan

40.      The program implementationplan and disbursement schedule have been drawn up and are
included inthe Project Appraisal Document (PAD) and the Project ImplementationPlan (PIP). It i s from
this disbursement schedule (as maybe subsequently revised) that annual budgetswill be drawn. The
annual budget will be prepared based on the policy guidelinesissuedby the Ministryo f Finance (MOF)
o f the GOT each year. The annual estimates will reflect financial requirementso f the project, and the
Executive Chairman (TACAIDS) and the Executive Director (ZAC) will have overall responsibility for
coordinating the budgetingeffort. Budget timingwill be in accordance with the requirements o f the
Government o f Tanzania, as the project budget i s part and parcel o f the overall national budget inthe
specific ministriesmentioned earlier.

Accounting System and Procedures

Financial Management Manual
41.      The accounting systems, policies and procedures employed by TACAIDS (mainland), and ZAC
(Zanzibar) inaccounting for and managing project funds are documented in the Financial Management
Manual for the project. The Financial Management Manual will be usedby:

0    IDA and other donors to assess the acceptability of the project accounting, reporting and control
     systems;



                                                      - 73 -

    staff as a reference manual; and
0   by the auditors to assess project accounting systems and controls and indesigning specific project
    audit procedures.

42.      Specific procedures are documented for each significant accounting function. They are written
to depict document and transaction flows, the appropriate filing o f project documents, management
approvals and organizational duties and responsibilities. The accounting systemconsists o f the methods
and records established to identify, assemble, analyze, classify, record and report the transactions ofthe
project, and to maintain accountability for the related assets and liabilities.

Accounting System
43.      To maintain the efficiency, accuracy and timeliness o f financial reporting and to facilitate
management analysis of the financial information, bothTACAIDS and ZAC need urgentlyinstall the
government accounting system, Platinum, and ensure staff are fully trained in its operation. The
Financial Management Manual makes necessaryreferences to the GOT accounting system. The
accounting records will be kept up-to-date, and the financial statements summarizing these will be
presented for audit in line with GOT year-end and audit requirements. A bank reconciliation report will
be prepared for the individual bank accounts. Inaddition to the quarterly accounts andreports prepared
on the cash basis, arecordof commitments should also be kept.

Reporting

44.      Formats o f the various periodic financial reports to be generated from the financial management
system have been developed. There are clear linkages between the information in these reports and the
Chart o f Accounts. The financial reports were designedto provide quality and timely informationto
project management, implementing agencies, and various stakeholders on project performance. These
reports include financial statements (e.g. sources and application o f funds; expenditure classified by
project components, disbursement categories, expenditure types and implementing agencies, and
comparison with budgets; short-term forecasts o f expenditure; unit costs for key items and comparison
with budgets; etc.). The reports closely follow sample formats that are indicated inthe Guidelinesfor
Borrowers on Financial Monitoring Reports. The reports will be produced quarterly to support requests
for replenishment o f the Special Accounts from the Bank.

45.      Annual FinancialStatements for the project will include:

    a Statement of Sources and Uses of Funds showing funds from IDA, andGOTseparately, an
    ExpenditureSummary analyzed under the mainheadings and by maincategory o fexpenditures
    (consistent with the Chart o f Accounts), both for the current fiscal year and accumulated to date;
    Notes inrespect o f significant accounting policies and accounting standards adopted by management
    when preparing the accounts and any supplementary information or explanations that may be deemed
    appropriate by management inorder to enhance the presentationo f a "true and fair view";
    SpecialAccount Statement showing deposits and replenishments received, payments substantiated
    by withdrawal applications, interest that may be earned on the account and the balance at the end of
    the fiscal year;
    a Reconciliationbetween the amounts shown as "Received by the Project from IDA and that shown
    as having been "Disbursed" by them;
    an Implementation Report, which would be a narrative summary o f the implementation progress
    for the project; and
    a Summary of Credit Withdrawalsusing SOEs or FMRs, listing individual withdrawal



                                                     - 74 -

    applications by reference number, date and amount.

Indicative formats o f these statements were developed inaccordance with IDA requirements by
Negotiation.

AuditingArrangements

Internal Audit
46.      The project has an Internal Auditor who reports to the Executive Chairman o f TACAIDS. The
auditor i s said to be professionally qualified inthe field o f internal audit, but his qualifications and
experience are still to be reviewed, likewise the auditor's job description.

External Audit
47.      The Auditor General is primarily responsible for the auditing o f all government projects. The
audit may be subcontracted to a firm o f private auditors, with the final report being issuedby the Auditor
General based on the tests carried out by the subcontracted firm. The external auditor will conduct a
year-end audit and review both financial and non-financial performance aspects in some randomly
selected sub-projects based on terms o f reference acceptable to the Bank.

FinancialFlows

BankAccounts

48.      The following bank accounts will be opened andmaintainedfor the purposes of carrying out
project activities:

    Special Account A WS$5 million): Operated by TACAIDS, the opening o f this account will be
    facilitated by the Ministry o f Finance through the Accountant General's Office. The account will be
    denominated inUS dollars, and can be opened at the Bank of Tanzania (BOT) or a commercial bank
    acceptable to the Bank. The account will receive disbursements from the IDA grant. Transfers to the
    mainland's Project Account (below) will originate from this account.
    Special Account B (US$ 500.000): Operated by ZAC to cater for the Zanzibar component, the
    account will also be denominatedinUSD, and opened courtesy o f the Ministryo f Finance o f the
    Revolutionary Republic o f Zanzibar. The account will likewise receive the USD transfers from the
    Grant Account, and facilitate the T Shillings transfers to the Project Account o f the Zanzibar
    component.
    Project Account A: Opened and operated by TACAIDS, this account will be denominated inlocal
    currency. Counterpart funds and transfers from the Special Account will be deposited into this
    account inaccordance with project objectives. Inorder to ensure the timely provisiono f counterpart
    funds, the Government will make the necessary arrangements to deposit into this account an initial
    amount sufficient for the first two quarters by effectiveness. It i s from this account that transfers will
    be made to Treasury's Consolidated Fund. Likewise the costs o f institutional support for TACAIDS,
    as well as transfers to RFA s for the community fund, will be funded from this account.
    Proiect Account B: Operatedby ZAC, this account will be denominated in local currency. It will
    receive transfers from the Special Account, as well as the counterpart contributions. Costs o f
    institutional support for ZAC itself, as well as payments to community sub-projects, will be funded
    from this account.




                                                     - 75 -

A valid Implementation Agreement betweenTACAIDS I ZAC and each RFA after the normal
procurement processeshave been followed. A diagrammatic representation o f the expected financial
flows follows:

                               Mainland Funds Flow Mechanism



                                                   Min o f Finance
                                                   (Mainland)




                 Office TACAIDS
                       -
                                                   Line Ministries
                                                   (excludingPORALG)




                     c                                                                      1
                                                                            Communities




                                             - 76 -

                                     Zanzibar -Funds Flow Mechanism

                                                                               MinofFinance
                                                                                (Zanzibar)

        The WB - Grant




                                                                                     e
                                                                                             Activities
                                        Communities
                                     ~




CounterpartFunds

49.     The GOT will provide counterpart funds ina percentage to be determined. It is recommended
that counterpart funding be includedat the budgeting stage o f the process so that the Ministry o f Finance
i s aware o f its commitments early and can provide for them as necessary.

Disbursements

Mainland

1.      The Ministryo f Finance, through the Acc. Gen.' s office, approves and opens the USD
        denominated Special Account on behalf o f TACAIDS.
2.      The management and signatories o f the Account are at TACAIDS. The Account receives
        transfers inby the World Bank from the Grant Account.
3.      TACAIDS opens and operates a local currency Project Account for transfers from the Special
        Account.
4.      Usingthe bottomup process, ministries/ local authorities/ communities ingeneral prepare work
        plans which are reviewed for alignment to the 'national strategy' and available resource by
        TACAIDS.
5.      Approved plans are costed and incorporated into the individual ministries' budget allocations.
6.      Based on three months' estimated expenditures, TACAIDS transfers funds from the Special
        Account to the Project Account for onward transmissionto Treasury. Transfer advice to treasury


                                                   - 77 -

        indicates the breakdown o f the beneficiary ministries (MDAs, Ministry o f Local Govt for funds
        goingto local authorities, and Prime Minister's Office for TACAIDS' own institutional support
        and funds to be disbursedunderthe Community AIDS Response Fund(CARF).
7.      Quarterly, a comprehensive report (to be designedand agreed and FMRbased) to be submitted
        by beneficiary ministries indicating consumption for the quarter. Supporting documentation
         submitted with the consumption report to support individual payments above a certain threshold,
        with the outlays below that thresholdbeingaccounted for on an SOE basis by the ministries
        (meaning that the ministries retain those vouchers but they should be available for review by
        TACAIDS audit and monitoringteams when requiredto be produced).
8.      All this expenditure going through normal government channels for approval, expenditure and
        accounting. Reports to TACAIDS purely for justifying expenditures inorder to obtain
        replenishment o f the treasury advance for ongoing activities.
9.      TACAIDS replenishes the funds advanced to the ministries through Treasury based on
        satisfactoryjustifications per (7) above. The replenishment transfer i s supported by a memo
        indicatingdetails o f beneficiary ministries based on theirjustifications and needs.
10.     Satisfactory Ijustifications' are usedinturn by TACAIDS to support its own withdrawal
        applications to the World Bank.
11.     Maybe to use traditional basis for disbursements untilthe Got IFMIS i s fully established at
        TACAIDS. FMRs however still compulsory but not usedfor disbursement untilfully tested and
        approved.
12.     For the Community Fund, plans from communities are sent to districts / local government
        authorities for approval then direct to TACAIDS for processing o f disbursements. Payments by
        TACAIDS to the communities are made through ' regional facilitating agencies' ineach region
        (RFAs). RFAsmay assist community planpreparationbut approval is through the districts.

Zanzibar

As above. Maindifference will be the absence o fboth a specific role for local government.

FinancialManagementAction Plan

Issue                 RemedialAction Recommended                                 DueDate
Updatingthe           The FMMwill be updated to reflect the GOT cash             Done
Financial             accounting system, removing all reference to accrual
Management            accounting
Manual
 Staffing             Additional qualified and competent key staff for          July 1,2003
                      overall coordination, financial management and
                      procurement should be appointed at both TACAIDS
                      and ZAC
 Reporting            Formats o f Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs)            Done
 Arrangements         should be determined and agreed with IDA
 Chart o f Accounts   The Chart o fAccounts should be updatedfor peculiar        September 30,2003
                      transactions to be undertaken under the project.
TORSfor the           TOR s for the audit o f the project's financial            Done
external auditors     statements should be prepared and cleared by the
                      Bank.




                                                    - 78 -

Effectiveness
There are no FM conditions for effectiveness.

Supervision Plan

50.      A supervisionmission will be conductedat least every six months. The mission's objectives will
include that o f ensuringthat strong financial management systems are maintained for the project
throughout its life. A review will be carried out regularly to ensure that expenditures incurredby the
project remain eligible for IDA funding. The PSR will include a financial management rating for the
component. This will be arrived at by the Country Office Financial Management Specialist after an
appropriate review.




                                                   - 79 -

                                 Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
                              TANZANIA: Multi-Sectoral AIDS Project




                   ~~    ~
  First Bank mission (identification)                   03/19/2001                        03119/2001
  Appraisal mission departure                           03131/0200                        0313112003
IINegotiations                                           04/28/2003                       04/28/2003
  Planned Date of Effectiveness                 II       10/01/2003            II                            II

Prepared by:
Tanzania Council on HIVIAIDS (TACAIDS), under the Prime Minister's Office, supported by Project
PreparationTeam (consultants) and all Ministries, particularly Ministryo f Education, Ministryo f Health,
and Ministryo f Community Development, Women's Affairs & Children

Preparation assistance:
Japanese PHRD Grant (TF07 1014); DFID(technical assistance); CIDA (technical assistance); UNAIDS
(technical assistance); USAID (technical assistance); GTZ (technical assistance); The Netherlands
(technical assistance)


          Name                                          Speciality
Albertus Voetberg                        Lead Health SpecialisUTeam Leader
 Emmanuel Malangalila                    Sr. Health Specialist
 Demissie Habte                          Consultant
 Philip Gowers                           Lead Health Specialist
 Andrew Follmer                          Operations Officer
 Rest Lasway                             Education Specialist
Norbert Mugwagwa                         Lead Operations Officer
 Mercy Sabai                             Financial Management Specialist
Pascal Tegwa                             Sr. Procurement Specialist
Muthoni Kaniaru                          Legal Counsel
  Steve Gaginis                          Finance Officer
David Peters                             Peer Reviewer
Jonathan Brown                           Peer Reviewer
 Salim Habayeb                           Peer Reviewer
Mungai Lenneiye                          Peer Reviewer
Victoria Fofanah                         Program Assistant
EvaNgegba Teh                            Team Assistant
EvelyneKapya                             Team Assistant




                                                  - 80 -

                            Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
                            TANZANIA: Multi-Sectoral AIDS Project


A. Project Implementation Plan
Draft expected April, 2003: final documentation is condition o f Effectiveness

B. Bank Staff Assessments
Economic Assessment o f M A P Projects -- August, 2000
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet -- November, 2001
Procurement Capacity Assessment -- March, 2003
FinancialManagement Assessment -- March, 2003

C. Other
Tanzania National Multi-SectoralStrategic Framework for HIV/AIDS -- February, 2003
(Draft) Health Sector HIV/AIDS Strategy for Tanzania -- February 2003
World Bank IdentificationMission Aide-Memoire
World Bank Project Concept Document    -- September,
                                                   -- (March, 2001)
                                                       2001
World Bank PreparationMissionAide-Memoire        -- October,2001
World Bank Pre-Appraisal Mission Aide-Memoire -- June, 2002
World Bank-TACAIDS Orientation Mission Aide Memoire         -- December,  2002
World Bank Appraisal MissionAide Memoire -- March, 2003
MinistryofHealthWaste Management Plan       -- (draft) February, 2003
Inception Reports and Consultant Reports for Project PreparationConsultancies
Project Procurement Manual (pending)
Reports o f Donors Aid Coordination (DAC) Working Group on HIV/AIDS Meetings
Tier One Ministries FirstYear Workplans
TACAIDS Monitoring & Evaluation Framework        -- March, 2003
Technical Note on Use o f Anti-Retroviral DrugsinTanzania    -- March,  2003
*Including electronic files




                                                  -81 -

                                         Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
                                            TANZANIA: Multi-Sectoral AIDS Project
                                                             16-Apr-2003
                                                                                                                   Difference between expected
                                                                                                                            and actual
                                                                  Original Amount in US$ Millions                         disbursements'
Project ID  FY    Purpose                                     IBRD         IDA                      Cancel. Undisb.       Orig   Frm Rev'd
PO58706     2002 ForestConservationand Management                0.00      31.10                       0.00   32.21         2.43      0.00
PO02797     2002 TZ SONGOSONGOGAS DEV 8 POWERGEN                 0.00      183.00                      0.00   175.24      106.03      0.00
PO71012     2002 PrimaryEducationDevelopmentProgram              0.00      150.00                      0.00   105.23      37.50       0.00
PO73397     2002 Lower Kihansi EnvironmentalManagement           0.00       6.30                       0.00     6.02        1.55      0.00
P047762     2002 RURAL WATER SUPPLY                              0.00      26.00                       0.00   27.32         2.56      0.00
PO65372     2001 SOCIALACTION FUNDPROJECT                        0.00      60.00                       0.00   29.46        -2.76      0.00
PO69982     2001 RegionalTrade Fac Pro) -Tanzania                0.00      15.00                       0.00   11.39         2.81      0.00
PO50441     2000 RURAL&MICROFIN SVC                              0.00       2.00                       0.00     1.09        1.06      1.06
PO57187     2000 FIDPII                                          0.00      27.50                       0.00    15.94       15.15      6.05
P058627     2000 Health Sector DevelopmentProgram                0.00      22.00                       0.00     4.56       -7.01      0.00
P060833     2000 PUBLICSERV REF PROG                             0.00      41.20                       0.00   31.61        -9.33      0.00
P002822     2000 TANZANIA PSAC I                                 0.00      190.00                      0.00   81.21      -108.84      0.00
PO49838     2000 PRIVATIZATION                                   0.00      45.90                       0.00   32.25        22.16      0.00
PO47761     1999 TAX ADMINISTRATION                              0.00      40.00                       0.00    26.31       22.30      0.00
P002804     1998 AGRIC RESEARCH                                  0.00      21.80                       0.00     5.34        4.77       0.00
PO02789     1998 HUMANRESOURCEDEV 1                              0.00      20.90                       0.00     1.89        0.29       0.00
PO02753     1997 NAT EXT PROJ PH II                              0.00       31.10                      0.00     2.36        4.60      -1.68
P046837     1997 LAKEVICTORIAENV                                 0.00       10.10                      0.00     3.52       -1.13       0.00
P038570     1997 TZ RIVER BASINMGMSMAL                           0.00       26.30                      0.00     4.57        6.57       0.00
PO02758     1996 URBANSECTOR REHAB                               0.00      105.00                       0.00   18.03       21.79       0.00
PO02770     1994 ROADS11                                         0.00      170.20                      63.53   36.38      107.13      35.77

                                                      Total:    0.00     1225.40                      63.53   651.92      229.63      41.20




                                                                 - 82 -

                                          TANZANIA
                                       STATEMENTOF IFC's
                                    HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                          Jun30 2002
                                                   -
                                        InMillionsUS Dollars

                                                          Committed                       Disbursed
                                                        IFC                             IFC
F Y Approval    Company                          Loan    Equity    Quasi   Partic  Loan  Equity  Quasi  Partic
1998            AEF Blue Bay                      1.45    0.00      0.00    0.00    1.45  0.00    0.00   0.00
2001            AEF Boundary Hi1                  0.20    0.00      0.00    0.00   0.20   0.00    0.00   0.00
1996            AEF Contiflora                    0.35    0.00      0.00    0.00   0.35   0.00    0.00   0.00
1998            AEF Drop Zanziba                  0.32    0.00      0.00    0.00   0.32   0.00    0.00   0.00
1997            AEF Hort. Farms                   0.19    0.00      0.00    0.00   0.19   0.00    0.00   0.00
1998
....            AEF Maji Masafi                   0.27    0.00      0.00    0.00   0.27   0.00    0.00   0.00
1996            AEF Milcafe                       0.18    0.00      0.00    0.00   0.18   0.00    0.00   0.00
1994            AEF MoshiLthr                     0.00    0.19      0.00    0.00   0.00   0.19    0.00   0.00
1999            AEF MusomaFish                    1.50    0.00      0.00    0.00    1.50  0.00    0.00   0.00
1997199         AEF Pallsons                      0.32    0.00      0.00     0.00   0.32   0.00   0.00   0.00
1995            AEF Tanbreed                      0.70    0.00      0.00     0.00   0.70   0.00   0.00   0.00
2000            AEF Zan Safari                    0.70    0.00      0.00     0.00   0.70   0.00   0.00   0.00
2002            EximBank                          2.50    0.00      0.00     0.00  0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00
1996            IHP                               0.82    0.60      0.00     0.00   0.82   0.60   0.00   0.00
2000            IOH                               2.50    0.00      0.00     0.00   2.50   0.00   0.00   0.00
2000            NBC                               0.00    10.00     0.00     0.00  0.00    3.44   0.00   0.00
1993            TPS (Tanzania)                    5.69     0.87      1.04    0.00   5.69   0.87    1.04  0.00
1991197         TPS Zanzibar                      0.00     0.03     0.00     0.00   0.00   0.03   0.00   0.00
1994            Tanzania Brewery                  0.00     6.00     0.00     0.00   0.00   6.00   0.00   0.00
1998            Tanzania Jubilee                  0.00     0.29     0.00     0.00   0.00   0.29   0.00   0.00
1994            ULC Leasing                       0.00     0.38     0.00     0.00   0.00   0.38   0.00   0.00
2001            AEF 2000 Indust                   1.60     0.00     0.00     0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
1996199         AEF A&K Tanzania                  0.15     0.00     0.00     0.00   0.15   0.00    0.00  0.00
1997            AEF Aquva Ginner                  0.68     0.00      0.00    0.00   0.68   0.00    0.00  0.00
                       Total Portfolio:          20.12    18.36      1.04     0.00  16.02  11.80   1.04   0.00



                                                      Aoorovals Pendine Commitment
F Y Approval    Company                             Loan     Equity      Quasi    Partic
2002            EximBank                             0.00       1.oo      0.00     0.00

                Total Pending Commitment:            0.00       1.oo      0.00     0.00




                                     E




                                                - 83 -

                                                      Annex 10: Country at a Glance
                                          TANZANIA: Multi-Sectoral AIDS Project
                                                                                    SUb-
POVERTYand SOCIAL                                                                Saharan       Low-
                                                                   Tanzania        Africa   income           Developmentdiamond*
2001
Population,mid-year (millions)                                         34.5          674      2,511
GNi per capita (Atlas method, US$)                                                                                          Life expectancy
                                                                       270           470         430
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                                       9.4           317       1,069
Average annual growth, 1995-01
Population (%)                                                         2.5            2.5         1.9
Laborforce (%)                                                         2.5            2.6        2.3         GNi                                    Gross
                                                                                                             per                                   primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1995-01)                                                        capita                              nroiiment
Poverty(% of populationbelownationalpovertyline)                        35
Urbanpopulation (% oftotalpopulation)                                   29             32         31
Life expectancyat birth (years)                                         44             47         59                               -
infant mortality (per 7,000live births)                                 93             91         76
Chiid malnutrition (% of children under5)                               29                                         Access to improvedwater source
Access to an improvedwater source (% ofpopulation)                      54             55         76
Illiteracy (% of populationage 75+)                                     24             37         37                 -
Gross primaryenrollment (% of school-agepopulation)                     65             78         96                         Tanzania
    Male                                                                65             85        103                          Low-incomegroup
    Female                                                              65             72         88

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOSand LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                           1981       1991          2000       2001
                                                                                                             Economic ratios'
GDP (US$billions)                                            5.5        5.0           9.1        9.3
Grossdomestic investmentlGDP                                           26.3         17.6        15.8
Exportsof goods and serviceslGDP                            14.0       10.3         14.6        15.9                             Trade
Grossdomestic savingslGDP                                   13.5        3.0           9.2        7.0
Gross national savings/GDP                                  22.7        3.9           8.5        6.7                               TI
Current account balanceiGDP                                  0.0      -16.5          -9.1        -9.2
interest payments/GDP                                        0.9        1.1           0.5         1.1        Domestic
                                                                                                                           ~           -       investment
Total debUGDP                                                0.0      132.3         81.9        66.2         savings
Total debt service/exports                                  31.2       38.7         14.2        21.1
Presentvalue of debffGDP                                                            28.9        43.2                               -
Presentvalue of debffexports                                                        189.1      137.0
                                                                                                                              Indebtedness
                                          1981-91      1991-01        2000          2001    2001-05
(averageannualgrowth)                                                                                                 -
GDP                                                          3.4        5.2           5.6         5.8                          Tanzania
GDP per capita                                               0.6        3.0           2.9         3.6                          Low-incomeorouo
Exportsof goods and services                                 9.6       18.4          17.8         2.7
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                                          1981        1991          2000        2001
(% of GDP)                                                                                                   Growth of Investmentand GDP(%)

Agriculture                                                45.4       48.1          45.0        44.8         20 T

industry                                                    16.2       16.9          15.7       15.8
   Manufacturing                                            10.6        9.0           7.5         7.4       rol
Services                                                   38.3        35.0         39.2        39.4
Privateconsumption                                          73.8       78.1         84.3        83.4
Generalgovernmentconsumption                                12.7       18.9           6.5         9.6
Importsof goodsand services                                24.4       33.6          23.1        24.6                      -GDI             "O-GDP


                                                       1981-91     1991-01          2000        2001
(average annualgrowth)                                                                                       Growth of exportsand imports(%)

Agriculture                                                    ..      3.4            3.4         5.4          T
industry                                                               4.1            7.3         6.5
   Manufacturing                                                       3.4            4.8         5.0
Services                                                       ....    3.2            6.0         5.5
Privateconsumption                                                     2.4           -0.9         3.1
Generalgovernmentconsumption                                           3.6            5.0         6.6
Gross domestic investment                                              -0.9           7.5         5.8
Importsof goods and services                                            1.3           0.1         8.1

Note 2001 data are preliminaryestimates
* The diamondsshow four key indicatorsin the country (in bold) comparedwith its income-groupaverage If data are missing,the diamondwll be incomplete




                                                                                - 84 -

                                                                                                               Tanzania

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE                                                                                             I
                                        1981   1991    2000   2001
Domesticprices                                                          Inflation ("A)

(% change)                                                              40 -

Consumerprices                           25.6  28.7      5.9    5.2
implicit GDP deflator                          28.1      7.4    6.7

Government finance
(% of GDP, includescurrentgrants)
Currentrevenue                           19.2  12.3     10.6  11.4                98    97      98       99       00
Currentbudget balance                    -3.3   -0.2    -0.5   -0.7
Overallsurplus/deficit                  -13.7   -1.7    -5.4   -4.2             -GDP        deflator   ' O ' C P I


TRADE
                                        1981   1991    2000   2001
(US$ millions)                                                         1 Exportand Importlewis (US$ mlll.)
Total exports (fob)                      562    394     663    772
 Coffee                                  165     77      84     57      *Oo0 T
 Cotton                                   78     63      38     33
 Manufactures                             60     70      34     56
Total imports(cif)                      1,111  1,276   1,592  1,726
 Food                                     104    32      176    169
 Fueland energy                          261    189      95     106
 Capitalgoods                            563    579     638    755
Exportpriceindex (1995=100)               103     75     130    136             95    96   97     98     99       00   01

Import price index (1995=100)              93     98      90    100                     Exports           Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                 112     77     143    136

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                        1981   1991     2000  2001
(US$millions)                                                            Currentaccountbalance to GDP (X)                 I
Exportsof goods andservices               572   529    1,330  1,487
Importsof goods and services            1,192  1,569   2,094  2,316
Resourcebalance                          -619 -1,040    -765  -829

Net income                                  0  -185      -83    -44
Net currenttransfers                      510   408       18     15

Currentaccountbalance                    -110  -818     -830  -858
Financingitems (net)                       94   825    1,179  1,058
Changesin net reserves                     16     -8    -348  -201

Memo:
Reservesincludinggold (US$ millions)             209     974  1,157
Conversionrate (DEC, /ocaliUS$)           8.2  219.2   800.4  876.3

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                        1981   1991     2000  2001
(US$ millions)                                                           Compositionof ZOO1 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding anddisbursed     5,822  6,558   7,440  6,185
  IBRD                                    210    208      11      8
  IDA                                     319  1,434   2,593  2,588                     G:475 A:8


Total debtservice                         179    207     198    331
  iBRD                                     23     56       5      4
  IDA                                       3     17      52     57

Compositionof net resourceflows
  Officialgrants                                  67     685    709
  Officialcreditors                       524    170     111    125
  Privatecreditors                         59     -9
  Foreigndirectinvestment                                193    203
  Portfolioequity                                                                               D:5    C:341
World Bank program
  Commitments                              91    334     329    360      A IBRD
                                                                           -                                 E Bilateral
  Disbursements                            98    181     131     75      B IDA       D Other multilateral
                                                                                      -                      F Private
  Principalrepayments                       8     43      37     40      C IMF
                                                                           .-                                G Short-term
                                                                                                               ---
  Net flows                                89    137      94     35
  Interestpayments                         17     29      20     21
  Net transfers                            72    108      74     14

ueveioDmenIewnomics                                                                                                 Y/IY/UZ




                                                     - 85 -

                       Additional Annex 11: Project Supervision Strategy
                               TANZANIA: Multi-Sectoral AIDS Project

Objectives

The first year o f implementation for the project i s expected to be FY04. Although the project preparation
has been extensive, it i s still anticipated that there will be considerable need for close supervisionduring
the initial years ofproject implementation. The main objectives of the supervision inthe first year are to
(a) ensure that there i s adequate implementation capacity at the district levels and all the participating
line ministries; (b) ensure that TACAIDS has adequate capacity and support to begin carrying out their
mandate o f coordination and M&E; and (c) ensure adherenceto appropriate safeguards and fiduciary
responsibilities.

Strategic focus

The supervision strategy will focus on the following critical areas inthe first year. However, as i s the
case with the overall project design, flexibility infocus for support supervision will be requiredinorder
to be responsive to evolving priorities or emergingproblems.

Institutional arrangements for the implementation.

The supervisionwill focus on the essential institutional arrangements in order for the project to carry out
the plannedproject activities. The role of the FacilitatingAgencies andthe Local Government
Authorities and their sub-committees inthe district level coordination o f project activities under the
CARF component will be evaluated during the first year o f implementation. The project cycle for the
district and sub-district proposals will also be reviewed with regards to efficiency and timeliness o f
implementation. At the national level, the evolution o f thejoint mechanisms for Monitoring and
Evaluation, Planning and Financing under TACAIDS and the role o f the Joint HIV/AIDS Financing
Committee with the participation o f all the donors will both be closely monitored. Duringthe initial
stages o f the project there will be a strategic focus on the strengthening and creation o f partnerships -
with civil society organizations, private sector organizations and within the public sector for the
                                                                                               -
implementation o f the national program. Such partnerships are seen as the main vehicle to address
concerns about the absorptive capacity to intensify the national response to HIV/AIDS as significant as
foreseen under the project.

Monitoring and Evaluation.

Inamulti-sector project with diverse implementingagencies such as this, it willbe important to have a
sound M&E system inplace early duringproject implementation. At the core o f the mandate o f the NAC
i s the M&E function for the overall national program. The project will strengthen the M&E capacity
within TACAIDS incollaboration with other cooperatingpartners. Duringthe first year, the supervision
activities will focus on achieving an adequate level o f functioning for the M&E. It is anticipated that
participatory stakeholder meetings will form part o f the annual project reviews for the C A W and Public
Sector Fundcomponents. Joint M&E systems, such as beingdeveloped for the Kenya and Zambia
programs will be usedto give the TACAIDS the advantage o f sample tools and lessons learned
elsewhere.




                                                        - 86 -

Coordination.

The core function of TACAIDS i s the coordination of a large range of activities and initiatives
implementedby a host o f agencies from the public sector, the private sector and civil society
organizations, from national level to decentralized level. The supervision strategy will concentrate on
supporting TACAIDS inthis formidable task. Key targets inthe initial year will be the development o f a
Joint M&EFramework for the national program, the development o f a model for Joint HIV/AIDS
ProgramReviews, the elaboration o f ajoint financing framework for HIV/AIDS, and the functioning o f
TACAIDS as the institutionfor joint administrative functions.

Procurement.

Supervision will provideproblem-solving support on procurement and evaluate whether capacity and
procedures for the centralized procurement are inplace.

Financialmanagement.

Duringthe first year the project, supervisionwill focus onthe establishment andmanagement ofthe two
Special Accounts and facilitate timely flow o f funds directly to implementation entities. The argument
for the fast tracking o f this project hinges on an efficient and fast-disbursement channel to support the
community and multi-sector responsesto HIVIAIDS.

Partnerships.

Many UNand bilateral agencies under the DAC Group on HIV/AIDS such as UNAIDS, WHO, UNICEF,
ADB, EU, DFID, USAID, SIDA, CIDA, GTZ, IrelandAID and the Dutchhave made useful contributions
during project preparation. Such contributions resultedinthe proposition for establishingjoint
coordination mechanisms. The supervision o f the project will continue to build such partnership and
collaboration. Three methods are identifiedto further develop the partnership and collaboration:

(i)      Joint-missions. The IDA team will participate in the annual joint review o f the national
         HIV/AIDS program as organizedby TACAIDS and supported by the D A C Group on HIV/AIDS.
         Whenever there would be need for additional missions, the IDA team will invite other partners to
         participate inthese supervision missions and reviews o f the project. Donor agencies have experts
         inthe areathat they may have comparative advantagesto bepartofthe IDA supervisionmission
         team.

 (ii)    Sharing international experiences and best practices through supervision. Invitingpeople with
         experiences o f implementingsuccessful HIViAIDS related programs outside to join the mission
         to share their expertise and experiences. Such support can be provided and financed by the donor
         community, and

 (iii)   Periodic evaluation o f the partnerships with a view (i) strengthen o f the relations; (ii)
                                                                   to                               achieve
         our common goals in Tanzania; and (iii)     improving coordination.

 Duringthe project launch workshop, the IDA team will discuss the options described above with various
 partners to confirm possible arrangements and support.




                                                      - 87 -

Supervision.

The project will need intensive supervision given the large span o f activities, its blend o f public and
private sector interventions, and its multi-sectoral as well as its multi-agency nature. In addition,
concerns about a limited capacity will require intensive support to develop partnerships for the
implementation o f the national program. The project will be implemented by many entities only recently
established and whose capacity will need strengthening. A budget o f US$200,000 and a full-time staff
based inthe Tanzania Country Office i s needed to supervise the project duringthe first 12 months o f
project implementation. The Country Director has already committed to provide a supervision budget o f
up to $200,000 duringthe first twelve months of implementation. The project task teamwould consult
with the Bank's Global HIV-AIDS Office early on duringimplementation to explore additional financial
contributions for M&E. Some o f the skills required for the supervision o f the project will be needed on a
regular basis while others will be requiredon an ad hoc basis. It i s therefore proposedto establish a
project team, which will emphasize financial, procurement and operational basic needs, complemented
by technical specialists, inparticular those covering M&E,communityparticipation, maternal and child
needs, sectoral concerns and sub-regional matters. A much more intensive than normal supervision
program shouldbe carried out during the first year o f the project to put inplace a sound institutional base
and properly begininterventions to be undertakenby this complex operation. Clearly there will be an
incubation period for the main new institution, TACAIDS, whose staff will havejust come on board,
 developing a management culture, preparing terms o f reference, and with limitedWorld Bank
procurement/financial management experience. The project team will needto assess--on the
 ground--whether the indicators levels chosen are realistic, giventhe Tanzania situation and do conform to
 those inthe Joint M&E framework that will be developed, or need adjustments. The staff inthe
 Tanzania Country Office will provide support on a continuous basis and will solicit support in
 specializedareas as required.

 Project supervision will also benefit from the Bank's: (i)  Lead Health Specialist with extensive
 experience in operations and M A P projects elsewhere; (ii)   education team involved inthe Bank's new
 education sector program; and (iii)  the Bank's team inthe Country Office working on the TASAF. In
 addition there will be an (i) specialist consultant; (ii)
                              M&E                               implementation specialist to provide longer
 term support and to troubleshoot implementation issues at an early stage, (iii)  maternal and child needs
 specialist, and (iv) NGO/CBO/communityparticipation specialist. The project team therefore includes
 the following members: (i)   Task Team Leader with experience inHIV/AIDS operations; (ii)
 healthhutritiodpopulation specialist, (iii) implementation specialist, to help inthe critical first
                                                senior
 half year o f project's implementation; (iv) financial management specialist who will review adherence to
 Bank procedures with regard to fiduciary responsibilities; and (v) procurement and implementation
 specialists, responsible for the procurement, implementation, and institutional issues and (vi) sectoral
 specialists inthe areas o f education, gender, maternal and child needs, and community participation.

 The project team will be complemented by representatives o f Tanzania's development partners who are
 active inthe fight against HIV/AIDS. The wide variety o f stakeholders, both interms o f technical focus
  as well as geographic coverage, poses an enormous challenge to the forging o f a framework for coherent
 programimplementation. While the various stakeholders work well together under the umbrella o f
  TACAIDS it was felt that the considerationo f more formal working arrangements including the
  development o fjoint planning and monitoring processeswould be helpful. This could start with ajoint
  review o f progress towards the delivery o f the strategic plan. The project team will provide support to
  the process as well as the content o f the joint program reviews as required. The establishment o f a
  specific Joint HIV/AIDS Financing Committee with the participation o f all the donors will further
  facilitate and enhance their role and technical input to the broader project implementation issues.



                                                       - 88 -

