Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 16816
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
ENERGY PROJECT
(Credit 1978 CAR)
June 30, 1997
Water, Urban and Energy 2
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQI JIVALENTS
(As of May 1 3, 1997)
Currency Unit  =       CFA Franc (CFAF)
1997        US$1.00            CFAF 580
1996        US$1.00            CFAF s11
1995        US$1.00   =        CFAF 495
1994        US$1.00            CFAF 553
1993        US$1.00   =        CFAF 283
1992        US$1.00   =        CFAF 265
1991        US$1.00   =        CFAF 283
1990        US$1.00   =        CFAF 271
1989        US$1.00            CFAF 317
CFAF I million    =       US$1,724
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
One kV                 =       1 ,000 \Volts
One Megawatt (MW)    =         1,000 Kilowatts (kW)
One barrel             =       159 liters
One ton of oil equivalent =    About 7 bbl of crude oil
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January I      -       December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADF            African Development Fund
AfDB           African Development Bank
ABEDA          Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa
BEAC           Bank of Central African States/Banque des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale
CAADE          Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement des Dettes de I'Etat (National Debt Agency)
CCCE           Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
EAP            Environmental and Resettlement Action Plan
EDF            European Development Fund
EdF            Electricite de France
EIB            European Investment Bank
ENERCA         Energie Centrafricaine (National Power Utility)
ESIE           Ecole Superieure Interafricaine d'Electricite
FAC            Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
IFAD           International Fund for Agricultural Developrnent
HCPCD          Haut Commissariat a la Presidence Charge des Societes d'Etat et
des Societes d'Economie Mixte
LPG            Liquified Petroleum Gas
MFEP           Ministry of Finance, Economy and Plannin-
MEM            Ministry of Mines and Energy
OPEC  Fund   Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries Fund
PETROCA        National Oil Company
RN             Route Nationale
SGEMGH         Secretariat General de l'Energie, Mines, Geologie et Hydraulique
SNE            Societe Nationale des Eaux (National Water Utility)
UNDP           United Nations Development Program
Vice President:        Mr. Jean-l-ouis Sarbib, AFRVP
Acting Director:       Mr. David Berk, AFC7
Technical Manager:     Mr. Max Pulgar-Vidal, AFTU2
Team Leader:           Mr. Richard Senou, AFTU2



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
ENERGY PROJECT
(Credit no. 1978-CAR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE                                                                                                          i
EVALUATION  SUMMARY...................................................................
PART  I.  PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION  ASSESSMENT .......................................
A. Introduction ..............................................                                        l
B. Statement of Objectives ..............................................1
C. Evaluation of Objectives ..............................................2
D. Achievement of Objectives ..............................................2
E. Major Factors Affecting the Project ..............................................5
F. Project Sustainability ........6.....................................6
G. Bank Performance ..............................................6
H. Borrower Performnance ..............................................7
I. Assessment of Outcome ..............................................8
J. Key Lessons Learned ..............................................8
K. Future Operation ..............................................9
PART  II.  STATISTICAL  ANNEXES ............................................. 10
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .10
Table 2: Related Bank Credits .1
Table 3: Project Timetable .                                                                         1
Table 4:   Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ..................  11
Table 5: Key Project Implementation Indicators .12
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation.                                                      12
Table 7:   Studies Included in the Project ....................                                      , 12
Table 8A:  Project Costs ..........................................                                 13
Table 8B:  Project Financing ..........................................                             14
Table 9:   Economic Costs and Benefits ..........................................                   15
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants ..........................................                     16
Table 11:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .............................. 20
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ..........................................                  20
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions ..........................................                      21
APPENDICES
A:   Borrower Contribution to the ICR ................................................              22
B.   Completion Mission Aide Memoire ................................................               29
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
ENERGY PROJECT
(Credit no. 1978-CAR)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Energy Project in Central
African Republic (CAR), for which Credit 1978-CAR in the amount of SDR 13.5 million
(US$18 million equivalent) was approved on January 10, 1989 and made effective on July 10,
1989.
As a result of three extensions to allow for the completion of the project, the credit was
closed on December 31 1996, compared with the original closing date of June 30, 1994. The last
disbursement took place on June 30, 1997.
Cofinancing for the project was provided by the African Development Fund (US$14.6
million equivalent); the Kuwait Fund (US$6.9 million equivalent); the Caisse Francaise de
D3veloppement (two loans for US$9.4 million equivalent and US$3.9 million equivalent
respectively); the Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (a grant of US$4.8 million equivalent); the
Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa (US$4.0 million); and the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries Fund (US$4.0 million). Parallel financing for the sector, but
outside the Credit, was provided by the European Investment Bank (EIB), for about US$4.3
million.
The ICR was prepared by Bonnaventure Mbida-Essama, Consultant, and reviewed by
Richard Senou, Senior Financial Analyst, AFTU2, task manager for the Project. It has also
benefited from comments from Harald Burmeister, AFTS2, and David Berk, Director, CD7.
Preparation of this ICR was initiated during the Bank's final supervision mission in
February 1997. It is based on the SAR, MOP, supervision reports, materials in the Project File
and meetings held between the consultant and key officials responsible for project
implementation. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by providing views
which are reflected in the Aide-Memoire, by preparing its own completion report (translation of
the findings sections in Appendix A), and by commenting on the draft ICR. The completion
mission could not be conducted in CAR because of the security restrictions prevailing in the
country. Therefore, some important information, including a complete actual project costs could
not be obtained.






EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    To address the CAR's energy sector problems, including frequent breakdowns in the
main power system, weak institutions with inadequate tariffs, significant financial losses and
arrears, and with no operational authority, and high cost of imported oil products), the Energy
Project presently under review was designed as part of the least-cost generation expansion
program to meet both existing and forecasted load growth, and as a starting point toward a full
restructuring of the sector over a number of years. The project further supported the introduction
of immediate reforms and preparatory work for reforms to be implemented in the future.
Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
2.    The immediate objectives of the project were to: (a) reduce CAR's dependence on costly
oil imports; (b) make the power sector financially sound; and (c) strengthen ENERCA's
management, through more autonomy, and improvements in staff and planning capacity; its
longer-term objectives were to: (d) rationalize the energy sector's overall pricing policy; (e)
improve the efficiency of petroleum procurement and distribution; and (f) establish an
appropriate environment for promoting private investment in petroleum exploration. To achieve
these objectives, the project supported: (a) construction of the M'Bali storage dam, including
population resettlement and environmental protection; (b) expansion of diesel generation
capacity in Bangui and rehabilitation of ENERCA's main power system facilities; (c)
improvements in its financial management and audit of its accounts over the period 1987-1992;
(d) technical assistance to ENERCA and Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM); (e) training of
ENERCA staff, both in CAR and abroad; and (f) a tariff study, a petroleum pricing and
distribution study, a financial audit of the accounts of PETROCA (the national petroleum
distribution company) and a Master Plan for power generation/transmission.
3.    The project objectives were clearly defined and consistent with the main constraints faced
by the whole energy sector. They also reflected the Borrower's appropriate priorities, given the
impact that the situation and performance of the sector had on public finances and the economy
in general. They may have been too ambitious for a first project in a sector where not only the
Bank had no previous experience, but also institutional weaknesses were so profound that
institution strengthening and capacity building might take years to accomplish.
Implementation Experience and Results
4.    Achievement of Objectives. The impact of this project was unsatisfactory as none of its
objectives were achieved, except for the reduction of CAR's dependence on costly oil imports
(part I, para.7) and the improvements in the efficiency of distribution of petroleum products,
which was partially achieved (part I, para.12-14).  ENERCA's financial situation is still
precarious and will take years to become financially sound. It has continued to suffer heavy
losses (about 40% of its revenues, as of April 30, 1997). Electricity tariffs were inappropriate as
a result of insufficient adjustments (15% increase to avoid social unrest against the 75% needed
to reach financial equilibrium, part I, para 8). ENERCA's financial and accounting management,
which has consistently been inadequate, has improved somewhat recently owing to assistance
provided by an experienced international accounting firn. No training has taken place on a
meaningful scale due to the lack of a comprehensive training program.



ii
5.    For the long term objectives of policy reform, no significant improvements has taken
place. The full-cost concept for electricity tariffs has not been adopted as, in addition to the risk
of social unrest in tariffs increase, it could lead to substantial reduction in power consumption
and in revenues, and petroleum products procurement and distribution have not become more
efficient. However, a 15-year investment plan for electricity transmission and distribution has
been prepared and a new petroleum code was adopted that provides many incentives to private
sector investment.
6.    Results.     The project physical objective has been substantially achieved. A storage
dam with a capacity of 250 million cubic meters was built at about US$15.3 million within cost
and basically within the planned timetable, thus making available additional energy to supply
about 3,500 more consumers. The percentage of thermal-based generation has been substantially
reduced, from 26% to about 1%. The resettlement of area population was successfully carried
out however with some delays in paying resettlement compensation. The environmental
protection program was prepared as scheduled and for the most part has been carried out. The
reforestation program has started but is not yet complete. In contrast, the installation of the
diesel generation (under the financing of the CFD) has been a failure: it was delayed for over a
year, and once installed, worked for only a few hours before being beset by technical problems
linked to a wrong choice of equipment. There were cost overruns in the rehabilitation of the
main power facilities (Boali 1 & 2): Boali I experienced some delays and the work done was not
entirely satisfactory.  Additional rehabilitation work is needed.  The rehabilitation of the
transmission and distribution networks in Bangui started more than two years late and has yet to
be completed. The loss reduction program was partially achieved: non technical losses declined
from 30% in 1991 to 20% in 1996, against an original target of 12% (part I, para. 10-1 1 ).
7.    Proiect Cost and Financing  The total estimated cost for the project, including physical
and price contingencies and interest during construction was FCFA 22.8 billions before devaluation
or US$74.6 millions equivalent. Donor coordination (six co-financiers)was marginally satisfactory
with some positive impact (efficient coordination between the Bank, the ADF and the Kuwait Fund
for the construction of the dam), and negative results (the financing of the diesel generation unit by
the CFD).
8.    Key Factors. Despite the substantial achievement of the physical objective, the project
was rated unsatisfactory. This is mainly due to the weak policy environment and local capacity
under which the project was executed.  In particular, institutional and management
ineffectiveness, and lack of borrower's firm commitment to a clearly stated sector strategy,
including a comprehensive reform agenda, were major constraints to the sustainability of the
project achievements. Additional factors that adversely affected the project include: the use of
non-updated studies to make investment decisions (part 1, para. 9); and the CFAF devaluation of
1994, causing the deficit margin of ENERCA to increase. This resulted in non-compliance with
the conditions of the Contract Plan between the Government and ENERCA, which hurt
ENERCA, thus the project. Also, the financial problems of the Government made it difficult to
have regular and timely releases of counterpart funds to meet specific project needs. This further
caused the Government, state-owned enterprises and some high level civil servants to fail to pay
their electricity bills, thus worsening the financial situation of ENERCA. Weak management at
ENERCA and high senior staff turnover had a negative impact on the company's financial



iii
results. No assessment of manpower development needs was done, leading to ad-hoc training
both in ENERCA and MEM. Finally, the volatile security situation in C'AR makes the
sustainability of the achievements of the project uncertain.
9.    Bank/Borrower Performance       The overall Bank performance was marginally
satisfactory. First, the Bank has done well in getting the objectives consistent with the needs of
the country. It has also performed well in procurement, disbursements and donor coordination,
and environment, particularly for the construction of the dam. Its guidance to the Borrower
throughout the procurement process of the civil works contract led to substantial cost savings. It
made disbursements on behalf of the Kuwait Fund to the civil works contractor, when the Kuwait
Fund financing was not yet effective. In October 1990, it helped put back on track the
implementation of the environmental Action Plan which was being delayed. In addition, its
yearly supervision effort, about 27.5 staff weeks against the 13 staff weeks average for the Africa
Region, and its staff continuity were effective, which partially helped make up for the
Borrower's and implementing agency's weak institutional capacity in dealing with project
implementation. However, petroleum activities were less supervised than electricity, especially
during the first five years of the project (part I, para.23-24).
10.   The Bank could have taken ENERCA's and MEM's institutional weaknesses more into
account by insisting on an in-depth analysis of the institutions involved in the sector. This would
have led to a better institutional strengthening component and made the Bank play a stronger role
as the coordinator of the lenders. The Bank could have also put more emphasis than it did on
familiarizing the local project staff with its procurement and disbursement procedures.  In
general, 'the other lenders performed well but were too tied at times to their own agendas and
objectives. Finally, the Bank could have insisted to have the Borrower set up a Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) with appropriate skills and training, which would have improved
project execution and reduced supervision efforts (part 1, para.25).
11.   The Borrower's performance was unsatisfactory. It played a limited role in project
identification and preparation, which was driven by the lenders. This resulted in ineffective
coordination of project design and preparation and lack of ownership. In the dam component,
the Borrower selected good technical assistance experts and effectively worked with them to
competently implement the complex civil works program. However, by failing to pay its
electricity bills on a regular basis, the Borrower compounded ENERCA's problems and those of
the sector as a whole. Finally, neither ENERCA nor the Borrower paid enough attention to the
need for implementing: (a) the Contract Plan to help improve the regulatory environment in the
power sector, (b) an adequate training program to strengthen project monitoring; and (c) a PIU
(part I, para 26-27). On the positive side, the Government decided in November 1995 to contract
out ENERCA's operations to a private operator through a leasing type contract (affermage, part
I, para.27 ). The decision is being implemented slowly.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
12.   Essential policy and institutional development actions related to the reform agendas for
ENERCA and PETROCA have yet to be taken. These include, among others, electricity price
setting, effective revenue collection policy, and private sector involvement in the management of



iv
the sector. The supply situation also remains fragile as: (i) the power infrastructure still needs
strengthening in several areas to allow extension of the distribution network to serve more
people; (ii) there is a need to better utilize the hydro capacity of the M'Bali and complete the
implementation of the loss reduction program.
13.   Key lessons learned include: (i) for an investment operation with a significant policy
component and institutional development objectives to be successful, a clear sector development
strategy setting out the necessary reform agenda is a prerequisite; (ii) given the local institution
and capacity building weaknesses, an in-depth analysis of participating institutions and staff has
to be carried out as part of project preparation and the implementation schedule needs to be
established on the basis of this assessment; in the case of the Energy Project, the development
objectives proved to be too ambitious (for a first project in a country with profoundly-weak
capacity) in light of the Borrower's and ENERCA's wavering commitment to a sound reform
agenda: a well thought out technical assistance program could have been set up, perhaps through
a PIU; and (iii) at the preparation stage for a given project, the Bank and the Borrower should
ensure that investment decisions by the latter are supported by detailed and systematic studies,
with reliable cost estimates and a sound technical justification of the options.
14.   Future Operation.    The Government intends to follow up on the Energy Project in
order to: (a) consolidate the ongoing reform program for the electricity and petroleum products
sector; more specifically, the recruitment of a private utility company to run ENERCA's
operations, and the preparation of a financial restructuring package that would ensure a sustained
financial equilibrium under such private contractual arrangements; and for PETROCA, the
comipletion of the ongoing reform program (part I para.14); and (b) further rehabilitate and
modernize the hydro stations and electricity transmission and distribution systems which were
not completed under the first project, to meet future demand while developing available national
energy resources. The focus of such an operation should further be on the involvement of
beneficiaries and on capacity and institution building, especially in remote areas such as
secondary centers; and on rural electrification.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
ENERGY PROJECT
(Credit no. 1978-CAR)
PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. INTRODUCTION
1.   In the early 1980's, the power sector in the Central African Republic (CAR) was
experiencing severe shortfalls of hydro power during the dry seasons, which resulted in planned
load shedding during 6 months per year in the interconnected system serving Bangui, which
accounted for 99% of electricity sales. Insufficient investment in the power system was also
creating frequent breakdowns in the generation, transmission and distribution networks. On the
institutional side, the utility company, ENERCA, was suffering from weak management and a
lack of operational authority.  Such a situation, in combination with inappropriate tariff
levels/structure, had resulted in severe financial losses and arrears. As for the petroleum sector,
the high cost of imported oil products, partly due to the landlocked situation of the country,
constituted a major burden on the country's economy.
2.    To address these problems, the Government of CAR initially conceived a limited project.
Such a project was confined to constructing the M'Bali storage dam on the M'Bali river, the flow
of which would be regulated to allow the existing downstream hydroelectric plants of Boali I
and Boali 2, the only hydroelectric facilities in the country, to generate a firm 16.9 MW versus
the 3.5 MW which was then being generated. Following the Government's request to the Bank
to assist in completing the design of the limited project, the Bank's review of the energy sector of
CAR led to the Energy Project, which was conceived as part of the least-cost generation
expansion program to meet both existing and forecasted load growth. It was also a starting point
toward a full restructuring of CAR's energy sector, which was expected to take a number of
years to accomplish. The project was further meant to support the introduction of a number of
immediate reforms as well as preparatory work for reforms to be implemented in the future.
B. STATEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
3.    The immediate objectives of the project were to: (a) reduce CAR's dependence on costly
oil imports, by harnessing the full hydroelectric potential of the M'Bali river; (b) make the power
sector financially sound by introducing appropriate tariff adjustments, eliminating subsidies and
adopting more stringent action on receivables; and (c) strengthen ENERCA's management, by
providing it with an adequate level of autonomy, staff training, and creation of a Planning
Department. The longer term objectives, were to: (i) rationalize the energy sector's overall
pricing policy, covering both levels and structure of power tariffs as well as petroleum wholesale
and retail prices; (ii) improve the efficiency of petroleum procurement and distribution in the
country; and (iii) establish an appropriate environment for promoting private investment in
petroleum exploration in CAR. In addition, the project was expected to lay the groundwork for a
Bank/UNDP Energy Assessment to be undertaken in 1990. Policy action emanating from this
assessment was to be supported under a subsequent operation.



2
4.    To achieve these objectives, the project had an investment component (with a number of
sub-components), the results of which were expected to be felt immediately once implemented,
and a policy reform and capacity building component, the outcome of which would take years to
accomplish. The investment component included: (i) construction of the M'Bali storage dam
and reservoir, including civil works, population resettlement, environmental protection; and (ii)
an expansion of diesel generation in Bangui and the rehabilitation of ENERCA's main power
system facilities including hydro generation, transmission and the distribution network in
Bangui. The capacity building and policy reform component comprised: (a) improvements in the
financial management of ENERCA and audit of its accounts over the period 1987-1992; (b)
technical assistance to ENERCA and Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM); (c) training of
ENERCA staff, both in CAR and abroad; and (d) a tariff study, a petroleum pricing and
distribution study including a financial audit of the accounts of PETROCA (the national
petroleum distribution company), and a Master Plan for power generation/transmission, expected
to lead to policy changes in investment and price setting.
C. EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
5.    The objectives were clearly defined and consistent with the main constraints faced by the
energy sector as a whole. They also reflected the appropriate priorities of the Government given
the impact that the situation and performance of the sector had on public finances and the
economy in general. In the capacity building side, the objectives were consistent with the needs
of the MEM and its inherent weaknesses in planning and programming capacity, and in
manpower resources. They were further meant to address the shortcomings of ENERCA and
PETROCA. The policy and institutional reform might however have been too ambitious to
achieve for two reasons: the project was the first in a sector where the Bank had no previous
involvement and the weaknesses to overcome in these areas were so profound that it would take
years for the results to be accomplished.
D. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
6.    Overall, the impact of this project was unsatisfactory in spite of the substantial
achievement of its physical and immediate objective. The unsatisfactory rating mainly stems
from the wavering Government commitment (sometimes strong, sometimes fading) to clear
reform and capacity building agendas, and from the resulting weak policy environment and local
capacity that prevailed throughout the project implementation. As a result, there were no project
achievements in institution and capacity building, financial management and energy pricing
reform.  This situation constituted a major constraint to the sustainability of the project
achievements and undermined significantly the impact of the successful completion of the dam
and the achievement of its related objectives.
7.    On the physical and immediate objective side, the objective of reducing CAR's
dependence on costly oil while harnessing the hydroelectric potential of the M'Bali river have
been achieved. A 250 million cubic meters storage dam as well as the reservoir filling were built
within cost and appropriate technical specifications, and within the planned timetable. The
construction has made available additional energy for distribution, thus allowing ENERCA to



3
serve 3,500 more consumers, between 1989 and December 1996. The regulation of the flow of
the M'Bali river also helped substantially reduce the percentage of thermal-based generation (as
a share of total generation), from 26%, or 25 GWh in 1990 to about I %, or 0,113 GWh in 1996.
Since the commissioning of the M'Bali dam in 1991, the cost saving to ENERCA has been about
FCFA3.4 billion, or US$6.1 million. The resettlement of area population of about 100 families
was carried out although some delays and difficulties were experienced in paying individual
compensation due to Government's budgetary constraints.  The environmental protection
program was prepared as scheduled and for the most part has been carried out. The reforestation
program has started but has yet to be completed.
8.    The objective of making the power sector financially sound and strengthening
ENERCA's management was not achieved. Throughout project implementation, ENERCA
continued to suffer heavy losses. As of April 30, 1997, ENERCA's losses represented about
40% of its revenues. Its financial situation is still precarious: electricity tariffs were increased by
only 15%, while the adjustment needed to reach financial equilibrium with a sound operating
cost-reduction program  was about 75%.  Its financial and accounting management has
consistently been inadequate. The hiring of an outside firm to be responsible for accounting and
financial management over the last year and a half of project implementation has begun to show
some improvement. However, anticipated capacity strengthening has not taken place, so the
contract with the outside firm had to be extended for an additional period of one year. Some
technical training was provided to ENERCA's middle-level staff both inside the country and
abroad with reportedly good results. However, the whole training program was carried out in an
improvised manner without adequate planning, and no acceptable results seem to have been
obtained from the provision of technical assistance to MEM and PETROCA. In a major effort to
improve ENERCA's performance, the Government took the decision to privatize its management
through a leasing type contract (affermage), a decision that will have a positive impact on the
project without being planned at appraisal. This decision is being implemented slowly.
9.    The expansion of diesel generation in Bangui was not satisfactorily implemented. It was
meant to minimize the supply restrictions estimated at 6 GWh from the beginning of project
implementation to the commissioning date of the M'Bali dam. While this was to be achieved
through the supply of 4 to 5 MW of medium speed diesel capacity that could be installed quickly
and be in service within a few months, a high-fuel consumption diesel station was installed
(under the CCCE, now CFD's financing) with a delay of more than a year, which has only
worked for 3,000 hours generating 15,000 MWh before being beset by problems linked to wrong
choice of equipment. In the end, this proved to be a very costly investment and a failure.
10.   The rehabilitation of ENERCA's main power facilities (Boali I & 2) was carried out with
some delays in the case of Boali I and the work done was not entirely satisfactory. Furthermore
major cost overruns were experienced because technical studies were not updated after
significant delays were experienced in starting the implementation of the sub-component. As a
result, more rehabilitation needs to be done now, which would be included in the next operation
in the sector.



4
HI.   The rehabilitation of the transmission and distribution networks in Bangui was not done
adequately. Implementation was delayed for more than two years, technical studies were
unsatisfactory and underestimated the importance of the work to be done. In addition, while the
loss reduction program was being implemented successfully with assistance from a foreign
consultant, conflicts between the consultant and his counterparts (which had nothing to do with
his competency and expertise) led ENERCA to rescind the consultant's contract, leaving the
implementation of the program to be completed by unskilled counterparts. As a result, the
objective of reducing energy losses was only partially achieved, with the losses declining from
30% in 1991 to 20% in 1996, against an objective of 12%.
12.   The long term objectives have been met in varying degrees. Pricing policies for the
energy sector as a whole did not become full-cost-based to improve the financial performance of
the sector with the exception perhaps of petroleum products, the prices of which are now based
on Mediterranean (Platt's) FOB prices instead of CIF Matadi, Zaire, as used before. However, a
15-year investment plan for electricity transmission and distribution leading to reduced import
dependence has been prepared and a new petroleum code was adopted that provides many
incentives to private sector investment.
13.   Petroleum procurement and distribution has yet to become more efficient. Still, there is a
promising start, even though at a slow pace, and with a wavering commitment from the
Government. A new competitive procedure has been instituted, allowing for bids to be obtained
by telex, and to be evaluated by a Committee including representatives from the Ministry in
charge of Energy, the Ministry of Finance and from PETROCA. In addition, in 1994, as part of
the release of the second tranche of the Structural Adjustment Credit, the Government and the
Bank agreed on an Action Plan (which has been fully implemented) aimed at: (a) introducing a
new price structure; (b) reducing PETROCA's operating costs through staff reduction; (c)
transferring of some activities, such as domestic transport of products and management of
pumps, to the local private sector; and, (d) initiating Government's divestiture from PETROCA.
14.   At the end of 1995, an agreement was reached between the Government and the Bank and
IMF on a new ownership structure (three private marketers and one common storage company)
for downstream activities and on the privatization modalities. To select private operators, bids
were issued in the third quarter of 1996 and negotiations have been initiated with two of the
companies. With respect to exploration and production of domestic hydrocarbon resources, a
series of promotion rounds has been organized in London and in Houston. While such rounds
generated interest, no investor has followed through, owing to the country's political instability
and to the absence of a pipeline that will transport the oil to international markets.
15.   The overall picture that emerges is that, while the key physical and immediate objectives
(about 45% of the project costs) of the project were achieved, these achievements were not
enough to overcome the negative impact created by the void, both physical and institutional, left
by the many unmet objectives. It is however expected that these unmet objectives should be
included in the next operation (either a Technical Assistance Project or a SAC).



5
E. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
16.   The design of the project suffered from the weak institutional capacity it aimed to
address: in some areas like distribution, studies were not updated to provide the Government
with an objective and well-justified analysis of the different options and their implications. The
design of the project was also in many respects driven by the lenders on the basis of their own
agendas, a fact that was amplified by the parallel financing (except for the dam for which the
Bank showed some flexibility by accepting joint financing of the M'bali dam with the ADF and
Kuwait Fund). For most other components of the project, each lender conducted its own
feasibility studies for the component it chose to finance without the benefit of an adequate central
coordination by the Government to ensure internal coherence.
17.   On the institutional side, there was no clear strategy, and Government's commitment to
institutional reforms was not that strong, as confirmed by the slow pace at which the reform
agendas for ENERCA and PETROCA are being implemented. Finally, no assessment of
manpower development plan was done, leading to ad-hoc training actions.
Factors not generally subject to Government control
18.   The project was adversely affected by the CFAF devaluation of January 1994, which
caused the debt service of ENERCA to double in CFAF terms and its deficit to significantly
increase, particularly in the absence of an appropriate tariff policy (full cost) and a sound cost
reduction program. In addition, institutional weaknesses made it difficult to have an effective
project coordination from the identification and design stage through implementation.
Furtherrnore, the financial problems of the Government made it very difficult to have regular and
timely release of counterpart funds to meet specific project needs, such as the compensation of
resettled populations and counterpart funding.
Factors subject to Government Control
19.   The credit became effective within two months of signing because of strong Governrment
follow-up. The Government also generally tried to maintain an effective dialogue with its
partners and requested changes in the terms of the project as needed: funds reallocation between
categories and extensions of the credit closing date. However, failure to ensure adequate
coordination within the Government and with external partners during much of the project cycle,
from preparation to implementation, led to delays and inconsistencies in many cases. The lack of
clearly delineated roles for the MEM and ENERCA until the adoption of the Contract Plan
adversely affected project implementation. The lack of compliance with the conditions of the
Plan by both the Government and ENERCA hurt ENERCA and thus the project.
20.   A major factor for the unsatisfactory financial performance and situation of ENERCA has
been the failure of the Government, state-owned enterprises and some high level civil servants to
pay their electricity bills. This made the financial situation of ENERCA worse, a perennial
problem throughout project implementation. Finally, the lack of Government commitment to



6
assign greater priority to providing counterpart funds as needed also had a negative impact on
project implementation, in terms of delays and cost overruns.
Factors generally subject to implementation agency control
21.   Weak management at ENERCA and high senior staff turnover has had a serious negative
impact on its financial results and position.
F. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
22.   The sustainability of the project is uncertain, as the completion of the implementation of
the ongoing reform program in ENERCA and PETROCA could be considerably affected by the
persistence of the current political problems. The sustainability of its achievements, which has to
be seen in a program framework, will further be strongly dependent upon a follow-on project
now under preparation (in the form of a Technical Assistance Credit or SAC). Such an operation
will, among others, continue and expand the activities of the project under review. These series
of activities, which are essential to consolidate the gains achieved under the Energy Project,
introduce several reforms in the sector, including: (a) the provision of an adequate sector policy
framework and strategy, and energy pricing; (b) continued manpower development through the
maintenance and reinforcement of training at all levels; and (c) further and more systematic
institutional development efforts at the levels of policy formulation, investment planning and
implementation supervision. So far, while the Government has shown commitment and
ownership to reforms through continuing assistance in slowly implementing the reform agenda
for PETROCA and ENERCA, the settlement of its arrears to ENERCA is still lagging behind
and could jeopardize the sustainability of achievements in the sector if not firmly addressed.
G. BANK PERFORMANCE
23.   The Bank's overall perfornance was marginally satisfactory. Its performance has been
effective in three main areas: procurement, disbursements and donor coordination, and
environment. The Bank's guidance to the Borrower and insistence on due diligence with co-
donors throughout the procurement process of the civil works contract led to the award of the
contract to the lowest evaluated bidder, some 40% below the second ranked bid. On the
disbursements and donor coordination side, arrangements were made between the Bank and the
Kuwait Fund whereby the Bank disbursed to the civil works contractor on behalf of the Kuwait
Fund when the Kuwait loan was not yet effective. Even though the contractor stopped work for
three months, it did not demobilize, which would have had some negative impact on the project
execution. In October 1990, the Bank advised in the preparation (by a consultant under credit
financing), of a Revised Accelerated Action Plan for the environmental/resettlement issues. This
Plan, through its monitoring mechanism put in place by the project team (semi-monthly progress
report prepared by ENERCA and sent to IDA) helped put back on track the implementation of
the environmental Action Plan that was being delayed.
24.   The Bank's performance was satisfactory during project identification, at appraisal and
throughout supervision, particularly in the definition of objectives and in getting them being



7
consistent with the country needs. The significant supervision effort, about 27.5 staff weeks per
year against the Africa region average of 13 staff weeks was meant to compensate for the weak
local capacity. It allowed the project team to provide timely responsive action to problems as
they occurred (during the intense supervision of the construction of the dam). The Bank had
effective staff continuity, which helped to partially make up for the Government's weak
institutional capacity. It demonstrated its flexibility when it accepted joint financing of the
M'Bali dam with the ADF and the Kuwait Fund. The preferred procedure is usually parallel
financing. Petroleum activities were less supervised than electricity, especially during the first
five years of the project.
25.   There are areas however where Bank performance could have been improved. For
example;
(a)   the Bank should have focused more closely on MEM's institutional weaknesses during
project preparation; this would have led to the design of specific actions for the
institutional management component;
(b)   the Bank could have taken the lead in coordinating the activities of the other lenders,
which would have led to a more coherent approach in the design of the institutional
and capacity building components;
(c)   procurement and disbursement procedures were not familiar to the project staff and this
resulted in implementation delays, and the Bank could have placed more emphasis on
training in these areas;
(d)   training activities were not adequately planned and did not receive the attention they
deserved.
H. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
26.   The overall Borrower performance was deficient. The Borrower had a limited role in
project identification and preparation, which resulted in ineffective coordination of project design
and preparation and lack of ownership. It failed to properly supervise PETROCA and ENERCA,
which resulted in constant problems with financial and accounting management and reporting,
particularly for ENERCA. By further failing to regularly pay for its electricity bills or make the
parastatals or some civil servants do so, the Borrower compounded ENERCA's financial
problems and those of the sector as a whole. Furthermore, it did not allow ENERCA to set
tariffs at levels adequate to achieve financial equilibrium. Moreover, it did not pay enough
attention to the need to stop the high staff turnover, to have an adequate training program to build
local capacity, and a PIU to better monitor its execution of the project. Finally, key Credit
financial covenants were not complied with, including: (a) freedom for ENERCA to set rates and
enforce bill collection; (b) compensation by the Government of ENERCA for rural electrification
costs in accordance with the Contract Plan; and (c) obligation for ENERCA to earn an annual
rate of return of not less than 8% on average current net values of fixed assets. Perhaps a PIU
with appropriate staffing and training would have helped improve project implementation.



8
27.   The Borrower should however be given credit for the following actions, even if their
impact on project results was limited. In the M'Bali dam component, the Borrower selected
good technical assistance experts and worked very effectively and competently with them to
implement the complex civil works program with no cost overrun and within the planned
timetables. In an effort to address ENERCA's problems, the Borrower decided in November
1995 to privatize the management of the company through a leasing type contract.
1. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
28.   The overall outcome of the project is unsatisfactory, as it has not led to any significant
policy actions that would help sustain the achievements of the physical objective. There are no
sector strategy and policy framework in place, and ENERCA has yet to apply a full cost policy in
setting its rates. ENERCA is far from being financially sound as key financial covenants were
not met, and the Contract Plan did not help much in improving the regulatory environment. Self-
generation (about 10 MW compared to the country installed capacity of about 30 MW) is more
than ever a widespread activity. In addition, the supply situation remains fragile and needs
strengthening in several areas, particularly through: completion of the remaining rehabilitation of
the power infrastructure to allow extension of the distribution network to serve more people;
better utilization of the hydro capacity of the M'Bali; and completion of the implementation of
the loss reduction program as well as the reform agenda for ENERCA and PETROCA. This is
further confirmed by the project marginal actual rate of return of 10%.
29.   There are however physical results that are worth mentioning, even though their impact
on the project does not lead to any change to the above rating. These include mainly: (a) the
dam component, the successful completion of which represents indeed a first step toward
meeting the long-term needs of a restructured energy sector; (b) the improvements in the use of
available hydro capacity stored in the M'Bali reservoir and in the regulation of the river flow; (c)
the good reliability of energy supply with about 3,500 additional connections to the system; (d)
the elimination of prolonged service curtailments to industrialists and commercial users. These
need to be sustained.
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
30.   The key lessons learned include:
(i) for an investment operation with a significant policy component and institution
development objectives to be successful, a clear sector development strategy setting
out the necessary reform agenda is a prerequisite;
(ii) given the local institution and capacity building weakness, an in-depth analysis of
participating institutions and staff has to be carried out as part of project preparation
and the implementation schedule needs to be established on the basis of this analysis;
in the case of the Energy Project, the development objectives proved to be too
ambitious (for a first project in a country with a profoundly-weak capacity) in light



9
of the Borrower's and ENERCA's wavering commitment to a sound reform agenda:
a well thought out technical assistance program could have been set up, perhaps
through a PIU; and
(iii) at the preparation stage for a given project, the Bank and the Borrower should ensure
that investment decisions by the latter are supported by detailed and systematic
studies, with reliable cost estimates and a sound technical justification of the options.
K. FUTURE OPERATION
31.   The Government requested IDA financing for a second energy project. In the meantime,
it has initiated, even though at a slow pace, the privatization of ENERCA's management and the
restructuring of downstream petroleum activities, and its divestiture from PETROCA. A follow-
up operation is needed to consolidate the tentative results of reform program obtained so far. Its
focus would be on: (a) financial soundness of ENERCA, including its financial restructuring
under private management (affermage or leasing contract arrangements); (b) adoption of a
rational pricing policy for power and petroleum products; (c) implementation of a loss reduction
program; (d) completion of remaining rehabilitation works; (e) development/rationalization of
electricity supply to secondary centers involving beneficiaries; and (f) preparation of a rural
electrification master plan.
33.   In case there is no future project, ENERCA's assets would continue to deteriorate, the
company would not be in a position to supply power to consumers on a reliable basis, and its
management would continue to be weak.



10
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
ENERGY PROJECT
(Credit no. 1978-CAR)
4. PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A.Ahivmnto   bjcies       Sbt= ta            Partia       Nglbi         NtApplicable
Macro Policies                                                                          X
Sector Policies                                                         X
Financial Objectives                                                    X
Institutional Development                                               X
Physical Objectives                     X
Poverty Reduction                                                                       X
Gender Issues                                                                           X
Other Social Objectives                                 X
Environmental Objectives                                X
Public Sector Management                                                 X
Private Sector Development                              X
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7--,
x
Identification                                                  X
Preparation Assistance                                                                X
Appraisal                                                       X
Supervision                                                     X
L_B~r!~i1c.                     Hl Rhly _atisfactory     <Satjsfactoiy             Deficie_7
Preparation                                                                            X
Implementation                                                                         X
Covenant Compliance                                                                     X
EW R*         t of _'Outcome                                      _ __o
x



I1
Table 2: Related Bank Credits
Credit Title         |Purpose                     Year of      !Status
l                   { ~~~~~Approval l
None                 |None                        None         |None
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle     Date Planned             Actual Date
Initial Discussions with IDA    Not Available       04.24.87 (Concept
review)l
Preparation Mission        Oct. 31,_1987            Not available
Appraisal Mission          Jan. 10, 1988            03.01.88
Negotiations               May, 1988                11.16.88I
Letter of Development Policy  Not Applicable        Not applicable
Board Presentation         July, 1988               January 10, 1989
Effectiveness              Not available            July 10, 1989
Project Completion         December 30, 1994        June 30, 1996
Closing                    June 30, 1994            December 31, 1996
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ 000)
Fiscal Year       Appraisal         Actual Disbursed * Actual as % of
Estimate                            Appraisal
Estimate.
FY 1989                 1,300                                 0%
FY 1990                 6,100             6,500              107%
FY 1991                 9,700             13,200             136%
FY 1992                14,200             13,900             98%
FY 1993                16,600             15,900             96%
FY 1994                18,000             16,000             89%
FY 1995                18,000             16,300             91%
FY 1996                18,000             17,100             95%
FY 1997                18,000             18,210             101%
Estimated Date of Last Disbursement: June 30, 1997
* As of June 20, 1997
Sources: SAR: Forms 590



1 2
Table 5: Key Performance Indicators
Appraisal Target           Actual
at               Achievement as
Item                Unit        Project Completion      of January 1997
Annex 1. 10 of Appraisal Report provides a list of indicators, with specific targets to be
set annually.  This approach to monitoring failed when the Contract Plan between the
Government and ENERCA was abandoned. End-project data for the indicators are
unavailable
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Item  -Unit                -  Period         Objective           Actual       J
No Borrower plan of indicators for project operation.
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project
Study____Purpose____as___defined____at__Status____Impact____of__apprisa
Study           { ~~Ipurposeasleie  t Sau            mato  td
1. Study of import,    Design and preparation  Not done
transport and          of a plan of action to
distribution of oil    restructure the sector'
products               development of
implementation plan for
new structures
2. Develop a ten-year    Evaluate alternative  Done       Plan drawn up
power system           power generation
expansion plan for the   expansion programs
country as a whole
3. Design new electricity  Base electricity pricing   Not done
tariffs                on actual costs of sector
4. Design a program to   Provide adequate      Done       Used program in
promote exploration of  incentives to potential           promotion rounds
hydrocarbons           private investors                  but no investor so
______________________                     ~~~~~~~~far



13
Table 8A: Project Costs
(US$ '000)
Item                        Appraisal Estimate      Actual/latest estimate
Local     Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign  Total
Costs     Costs              Costs  Costs
Power Sector                                      l
Power Generation: Mbali   5,000    27,300    32,300
Power Generation: Other    200   7,700    7,900
5,200    35,000   40,200
Institutional
Strengthening:
T.A. & training         500      4,400    4,900                   .-
Studies                 100       700      800
Vehicles/Office          0       1,700     1,700
Equipment
600     6,800    7,400
Petroleum Sector                . d_____
Technical Assistance     200      1900     2,100
Studies                  0        400      400
200     2,300    2,500____ ____
Total Base Costs        7,100    51,400   58,500  _        _      ______
Contingencies           900     10,200    11,100
Refinancing of PPA       0       800       800
Total Project Costs     8,000    62,400   70,400
Interest During Constr.  5,300     0       5,300  |
Total Financing Required   13,300 J 62,400 - 75,700                -
The actual/latest estimate of the project costs could not be obtained from the Borrower
due to security reasons in the country.



14
Table 8B: Project Financing
(US$_'000)
Appraisal Estimate      Actual/latest estimate*
Local    Foreign    Total   Local  Foreign  Total
Source                 Costs    Costs               Costs  Costs          l
IBRD/IDA                2,800     15,200   18,000
ADF                      800               14,600
13,800
CCCE (existing loans)    200                3,900
3,700
(new loans)        400       9,000    9,400                         l
600      12,700   13,300                         i
Kuwait Fund              400       6,500    6,900                 _
ABEDA/OPEC                0        8,000    8,000    ___
FAC                       0        4,800    4,800
ENERCA/Government       8,700      1,400   10,100
TOTAL                   13,300    62400  75,700
The actual/latest estimate of the project financing could not be obtained from the
Borrower due to security reasons in the country



15
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
1.     Incremental capital costs, operation and maintenance costs, and benefits streams refer to
ENERCA's investment program.
2.     Capital expenditures on generation, transmission and distribution investments at financial
prices are converted to economic prices by: (a) expressing the import content at c.i.f. prices, and
(b) applying a standard conversion factor (SCF) of 0.85 to local costs.
3.     Incremental operation and maintenance costs are estimated at 2.5%  of cumulative
investment costs and adjusted using a SCF of 0.85.
4.     Fuel costs are based on incremental thermal generation requirements.
5.     Economic benefits associated with incremental electricity supply to consumers are
calculated using the average tariff as a proxy for benefits. Data are, unfortunately, not available
to calculate the willingness of consumers to pay for the service. Willingness to pay would have
been a better measure than tariffs of benefits to consumers from the incremental supply of
electricity. Furthermore, tariffs usually understate benefits.
Internal Rate of Return
(Figures in US$ million unless otherwise indicated)
Year  lrnvestmt.    Oper. &    Fuel   Total  Increment   Av. Tariff    Total       Net
Costs     Mainten.    Costs   Costs   al Sales      in        Benefits   Benefits
Costs                      (GWh)    US$/kWh
1989     5.72        0.12      1.55    7.39                  _                    (7.39)
1990     22.9       0.61       2.88    26.39                                     (26.39)
1991    11.45        0.85      2.79    15.09      55        0.12        6.6      (8.49)
1992    17.17        1.22      0.15    18.54      62        0.12       7.44       (11.1)
1993                 1.22      0.1     1.32       60        0.12        7.2       5.88
1994                 1.22      0.05    1.27       67        0.12       8.04       6.77
1995                 1.22      0.16    1.38       70        0.12        8.4       7.02
1996                 1.22      0.02    1.24       70        0.12        8.4       7.16
1997                 1.22      0.02    1.24       70        0.12        8.4       7.16
1998                 1.22      0.02    1.24       70        0.12        8.4       7.16
1999                 1.22      0.02    1.24       70        0.12        8.4       7.16
2000                 1.22      0.02    1.24       70        0.12        8.4       7.16
2015                 1.22      0.02    1.24       70        0.12        8.4       7.16
IRR        10%
The rate of return forecast at appraisal was about 15%.



16
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement  Section  Covenant   Status  Original           Revised      Description of           Comment
Type                  Fulfillment    Fulfillment   Covenant
l                                 ~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~Date_  Datel
Credit       2.02         3            C                               Borrower to open CFAF
l ___________  ________                                   ____________  Special  Account
3.01 (c)     3           C                                Borrower to on-lend funds
l_________                                                             to ENERCA
3.02         10          C                                Procurement guidelines
l ___________  ________  ___________                      ____________   to     be     follow ed
3.04         2           NC                               Borrower to let ENERCA    Political
set rates and enforce bills  pressure to
collection              avoid social
unrest if rates
are set too
high
3.05         2           CP                              Government to conclude   Contract Plan
contract-plan with      concluded but
ENERCA and respect its  not respected
provisions
3.05        10           NC                               Borrower to compensate   Government's
ENERCA for rural        budgetary
electrification costs in  difficulties;-
accordance with contract-  combined
plan                    with low
priority
accorded on
this matter by
l ___________                      ________                                                     the    Gvt.
3.06        6,7          CD                              Borrower to cause        Done with
ENERCA to implement    some delay
Environmental and
l___________ Resettlement Program
4.01 (a)    1            C                                Borrower to have records  Deficiencies
and accounts maintained  found and
addressed
under
contract-plan
4.01 (b)    1            C                                Borrower to have records  1989
and accounts audited and  accounts
to submit audit report to   submitted
IDA                     with
considerable
delay.
Deficiencies
addressed
(see 4.01 (a)
above
4.01 (c)    1            C                                Borrower to maintain
SOEs and have them
audited also. Records to
be maintained at least
one year after IDA
receives audits all
records on expenditures



17
Agreement   Section   Covenant   Status   Original         Revised       Description of           Comments
type                  Fulfillment    Fulfillment   Covenant
Date         Date
Credit
2.01 (b)      3          C                                 ENERCA to open Project
Account (PA), deposit
CFAF 130 million in PA
and use funds in PA only
for eligible expenditures
2.01 (c)      3          C                                 ENERCA to open a CFAF
Special Account (SA) and
to use it only for eligible
expenditures
2.04          3          C                                 ENERCA to conform to
provisions of Subsidiary
Loan Agreement
3.01          5         NC                                 ENERCA to use sound      weak design of
administrative, financial,   the project in
engineering and public  the area of
utility practices under  management
supervision of          and institutional
management with          development
qualifications and       activities;
experience satisfactory to
IDA and assisted by
competent staff in
adequate numbers
3.03          5          C                                 ENERCA to take adequate
insurance policy
3.04          10        CD      9.30.89      9.30.91       ENERCA to carry out      Revised
CP                                studies under Part C.4 (b)  timetable
of project, submit results to  agreed with
IDA and implement       ENERCA.
recommendations of study   Recommendati
ons not fully
implemented
3.05          10         C      06.30.89     Dec. 89       ENERCA to conclude       Contract Plan
Contract-Plan with      was signed but
Borrower                Results not
satisfactory



18
Agreement  Section   Covenant  Status   Original          Revised      Description of          Comments
Type                  Fulfillment   Fulfillment   Covenant
Date _       Date
Project
3.06 (a)     10        NC                                 ENERCA to: (i) submit    same as for
training program to IDA    para.3.01. of
by April 1 st of each year   Credit
with assessment of prior   Agreement
year's program; (ii)
promptly carry out
training program agreed
with IDA
3.06 (b)     10         C                                 ENERCA to submit to
IDA for approval
fellowship candidates and
to keep them assigned
for at least five years
after completion of
________              _____________    fellowship
3.07 (a)     10        NC                                 ENERCA to promptly      Political
disconnect any customer  pressure to
with bill payment overdue  avoid social
for more than 90 days   unrest if rates
set too high;
desire to
protect
vulnerable
groups; weak
management
practices
3.07 (b)     10        NC                                 ENERCA to reconnect    same as
any such customer only   above;
all his outstanding
payments have been
made
3.07 (c)     10         C                                 Report to IDA at end of
each quarter situation
and aging of receivables
3.08         10        CD                                 ENERCA to cause dam     The first
built under the project to  inspection
be inspected periodically  took place
under arrangements      with 7 months
satisfactory to IDA    late
3.10 (a)     10         C                                 ENERCA to maintain a
Project Unit (Mission
M'Bali) headed by
director and with
adequately qualified staff,
and reporting to ENERCA
Director
4.01 (b)      1         C                                 ENERCA have its
(i)                                                      accounts and financial
statements audited each
fiscal year by
-___________________  _____independent auditors



19
Credit       4.01 (b)       1        CD                                ENERCA to submit to IDA     1989
l   (ii)                                                 certified financial statements  reports
and audit report not later than  received 4
six months after end of each   months
year.                      late
4.02 (a)      2         NC                               From FY91, ENERCA to earn  This results
annual return of not less than  from
8% on average current net    ENERCA's
value of ENERCA's fixed     weak
assets in operation         financial
and overall
manageme
nt; lack of
freedom to
set rates
and
enforce
bills
l________                                                                            collection
4.02 (b)      2          C                               ENERCA to review on basis
of forecasts feasibility of
meeting requirements in 4.02
(a) above and furnish to IDA
results of such review
4.03 (c)      2          C                               ENERCA not to incur any
debt unless reasonable
forecast of its revenues and
expenditures shows that
projected internally generated
cash flow for each fiscal year
during the term of the debt to
be incurred shall be at least
1.5 times the projected debt
service requirements of
ENERCA for such yeas on all
debt of ENERCA including
l___________             debt to be incurred
Covenant types:
1. Accounts/audit
2. Financial performance/generate revenues from users
3. Flow and utilization of project funds
4. Counterpart funding
5. Management aspects of project or executing agency
6. Environmental covenants
7. Involuntary resettlement
8. Indigeneous people
9. Monitoring, review, and reporting
10. Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
11. Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12. Sectoral or cross- sectoral policy/regulatory/institutional action
13. Other
Status:
C      =       covenant complied with                         CP      =      complied with partially
CD     =       complied with after delay                      NYD    =       not yet due
NC     =       not complied with
Soon   =       compliance expected in reasonable short time



20
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statement
Statement number and title          Describe and comment on lack of
compliance
N/A
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
(US$ '000)
Stage of             Planned         Revised           Actual
Project Cycle
Weeks I US$   Weeks I US$     Weeks | US$
Through Appraisal N.A.    N.A.    N.A.    N.A.       73.0    158.1
(preparation, pre-
appraisal)
Appraisal        N.A.    N.A.    N.A.    N.A.        45.1    103.1
Negotiations-    N .A.    N.A.    NA.    N.A.        12.9    32.6
Board
Supervision      N .A.    N.A.    N .A.    N.A.     220.0    567.0
Completion       N .A.    N.A.    N .A.    N.A.      14.0    54.6
TOTALR          I N.A.    N.A.    N.A.    N.A.      365.     915.4
N.A. = Not Available.



21
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of     Month/ Number  Days   Staff Skills          Performance Rating       Types of
Project Cycle   Year      of       in    Represented                                Problems
Persons   Field
Implementation  Development
status      Objectives
Through Appraisal*
Appraisal Board*
Supervision       05/90       1       9        PE             2              2          F, M
04/90      2       14     PEPEc             2              2          F,M
01/91      1       10       PeE             2              2           M
06/91      1       17        PE             2              2          F,M
07/91      1       8        PeE             2              2          F,M
02/92      1       7         PE             2              2          F,M
05/92      1       9         PE             2              2          F,M
01/93      1       6        PeE             2              2
04/94      3       8    PE,PE,EE            3              3        F,M,LC
04/94      1       13        PE             2              2          F,M
01/95      2       7      FA, EnE           U              U         LC, M
08/95      2       14     FA, EnE           U              U          F,M
Completion        02/97      **2    **10    **FA, C          **U            **U
* Figures not yet available
** Completion mission held in Cameroon due to security problems in CAR
Definitions:
A. Skills represented: PE = Power Engineer; PEc = Power Economist; PeE = Petroleum Engineer;
C = Consultant; EnE = Energy Engineer; FA = Financial Analyst
B. Status: 1 = Problem Free; 2 = Moderate Problems; 3 = Major Problems; U = Unsatisfactory;
Sat = Satisfactory;
B. Types of Problems: LC = Compliance with Legal Covenants, M = Management;
P = Procurement; TA = Technical Assistance; F = Availability of funds; T = Training;



22
APPENDIX A: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
Note: the following text reproduces the findings sections of the completion report jointly prepared
by the Ministry of Energy and Mining and ENERCA
FOREWORD
Following the 1983 severe drought that brought to light the vulnerability of the Central
African Republic (CAR) economy and led to substantial increase in the consumption of costly
petroleum products by Energie Centrafricaine (ENERCA), the Government of CAR, in its
development policy, has decided to strengthen its policy making capacity in the sector and develop
a long-term strategy. To achieve that objective, it launched a vast program for the development of
the sector. The first phase of such a program is this first Energy Project, which was started in 1985
and completed at the end of 1996.
The total cost for the ENERGY project, including physical and price contingencies and
interest during construction was FCFA 22.8 billions before devaluation or US$74.6 millions
equivalent.
The project was cofinanced by: the World Bank as lead donor for 24%; the African
Development Fund (ADF/AfDB) for 19%; the Kuwait Fund for 9%; the Caisse Francaise de
Developpement(CFD) for 18% and the Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC) for 6%.
In accordance with Article 9.06 (c) of the General Conditions applicable to Development
Credit Agreements (1985), the Government of CAR submits the following Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) of the First Energy Project.
A. STATEMENT OF THE PROJECT OBJECTIVES
The first energy project (ENERGY 1) is the first step toward a complete restructuring of
the energy sector in CAR. The restructuring process is expected to take several years to be
completed.
The project had six principal objectives:
(a) to reduce CAR's dependence on costly oil imports; (b) to make the power sector financially
healthy;  (c) to strengthen ENERCA's financial and administrative management;  (d) to
rationalize the energy sector's overall pricing policy covering both levels and structure of power
tariffs as well as petroleum wholesale and retail prices; (e) to improve the efficiency of
procurement and distribution of petroleum products; (f) to establish an appropriate environment
for promoting private investment in petroleum exploration in CAR.
Consistent with its objectives, the project is comprised of four major components broken
down into seven sub-components:
Component A:construction of a hydroelectric dam on the M Bali river including related
environmental measures;
Component B: Improvement of ENERCA's systems of production, transmission and distribution;



23
Component C: Improvement of ENERCA's management;
Component D: Improvement of the distribution of petroleum products and the promotion of oil
exploration in CAR.
B. EVALUATION OF THE PROJECT OBJECTIVES
The objectives were clearly defined and in line with the policy of the Government which
sought to exploit and use the energy resources of the country in a way that would help reduce its
dependence from external energy sources. However, because this was the first project of its kind
managed by the Government, the analysis leading to its realization did not take the Government's
institutional capacity as well as the need to have adequate mechanisms for: (a) the disbursement
of counterpart funds required for the environmental activities; (b) coordination to achieve and
evaluate the defined objectives.
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
Project implementation experienced problems related to coordination, decision-making
and supervision from the beginning, mainly due to the lack of local experience in the
implementation of projects of this magnitude. Some of the shortcomings such as inadequate
technical assistance to help the Government implement the project and define actions needed to
attain its objectives were corrected during implementation. Individual project objectives were
achieved as follows:
The project had seven sub-components corresponding to the objectives outlined above:
a) lessen dependence on costly imported oil products
To reach this objective, the following actions have been undertaken:
a-l) Increase of hydroelectric potential of the Mbali river by the construction of a dam:
Work on the storage dam with a holding capacity of 250 million cubic meters was started in
December 1988 and completed on schedule on March 31, 1991. Total costs of CFAF 8.9 billions
were within the original cost estimate but 22% above the value of the contract with the civil
engineering and construction firm. The dam was commissioned on November 30, 1991 and has
been in use since then, contributing to a decrease in the use by ENERCA of petroleum products.
However, money is still owed to the contracting firm.
In order to account for the environmental aspects required for this type of activity, an
environmental program was integrated during project implementation. This program included
deforestation of the water retention area, resettlement of area population, rerouting of national
highway no. I and the reforestation of the immediate surroundings of the artificial lake created.
This environmental protection program has been carried out in a satisfactory manner. The
reforestation activities are still on-going.
a-2) Improvement of ENERCA 's production and transmission systems. This objective was
to be achieved through three sub-components: increase in production capacity; rehabilitation of
Boali I and Boali 2 hydro stations; and rehabilitation of the transmission network.
a-2-1) Increase in production capacity The installed capacity of the interconnected
Boali-Bangui system was 30 MW in 1990 with 18 MW for the two hydro stations of Boali I & 2



24
and 12 MW for the diesel generating station. The acquisition of a 6 MW diesel station at a cost
of CFAF 1.7 billion was meant to increase available capacity in order to make up for the
deficiencies of the two hydro stations. However, this has not happened as the diesel station has
never become operational and has shown a high appetite for diesel consumption, making it
inadequate for use in the event of a breakdown of Boali 1 & 2.
a-2-2) Rehabilitation of Boali I & 2 stations. Rehabilitation work started in 1985 and
ended in 1992. It was only partially completed because of an under estimation of the costs and in
spite of a reallocation of additional funds from the budget for the rehabilitation of the
transmission system.
a-2-3) Rehabilitation of the transmission network. Rehabilitation took place in 1995 and
was adequately done. However, the delays experienced in the start of implementation of this
sub-component and the reallocation of part of its funds to Boali 1 & 2 work prevented its
objectives from being achieved.
All the work and results described above concern only the Bangui area. This means that
the objective of reducing dependency on costly imports of petroleum products at the
macroeconomic level was only partially achieved.
b) make the power sector financially sound;
This objective was achieved with two sub-components, the signing and implementation
of a performance contract between the State and ENERCA and the rehabilitation and extension
of the Bangui distribution network.
b-i) Performance contract: The contract became effective in 1990 for four years. At the
beginning, it allowed ENERCA to bring down the arrears owed to it by the State and the State-
Owned Companies (SOE) and helped better define the relations between them.  Shortly
thereafter, arrears started to climb again. Finally, the Government did not reimburse to
ENERCA, as stipulated in the contract, the investment costs for the rehabilitation of the networks
and the electrification of provincial towns.
b-2) Rehabilitation and extension of the distribution network. Implementation of this
rehabilitation from 1993 to 1995 was satisfactory but the specific objectives sought, namely the
coverage of a wider customer base, service quality improvement, and sales revenues increase
were not achieved.
The lack of a significant achievement of the financial objective combined with the CFAF
devaluation during project implementation made ENERCA's financial situation more precarious.
c) Strengthening of ENERCA's financial and administrative management;
This objective was to be achieved through five sub-components: (i) improvement of
ENERCA's financial management; (ii) audit of accounts for the period 1987-1996; (iii) technical
assistance to ENERCA and its supervising ministry; (iv) training of ENERCA's staff, and (v) the
preparation of a 15-year power generation/transmission plan.
These sub-components were clearly identified and their objectives were in great measure
achieved to the Government's satisfaction. However, technical assistance was of uneven quality
in a number of cases and was posted late, practically at the end of project implementation for the
ministry.



25
The performance of the initial financial management technical assistance team was
unsatisfactory, which led to the hiring of an external firm to assume overall financial
management responsibility at ENERCA. The performance of this firm has been satisfactory
although it came late. The hiring of a national finance director has not been done for lack of a
candidate with the required background, experience and qualifications. On account of this fact,
the contract with the external firmn has been extended until July 1997 at which time ENERCA's
institutional and legal status is expected to change with the selection of the private utility partner
expected to take over the operations of ENERCA through an affermage contract.
d) rationalize the energy sector's overall pricing policy covering both levels and structure
of power tariffs as well as petroleum wholesale and retail prices;
This objective was not achieved because the studies envisaged were not carried out for
lack of financing.
e) improve the efficiency of the procurement and distribution of petroleum products
This objective was achieved. In order to make the results sustainable, the Government
has committed itself to withdraw from productive activities in the sector and to bring in private
sector management and financing in CAR's power sub-sector.
f) establish an appropriate environment for promoting private sector investment in
petroleum exploration in CAR.
A petroleum code with adequate incentives for the private sector to undertake Exploration
activities was prepared and adopted. However, exploration activities have not been undertaken
or completed due to an apparent lack of interest from the companies contacted.
D. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
a) Factors not generally subject to Government control: Factors beyond Government
control are:
*  the disbursement procedures required from the different lenders. These procedures
were cumbersome and contributed to serious disbursement delays. This in turn had
a negative impact on the start of implementation of certain components and on the
costs of the works undertaken;
*  the CFAF devaluation of 1994 which caused cost overruns in many cases.
b) Factors subject to Government Control: The following factors, under the control of
the Government, had a significant impact on the duration of project implementation, its
management and the attainment of the objectives:
* the unpredictable turnover of key project staff;
*  the late start of sector institutional reform;
*  the lack of a clear sector policy seeking to lessen the country's dependence
on imported petroleum products, an adequate regulatory framework and a
price stabilization policy;



26
* the cumbersome nature of administrative procedures and the shortage of
counterpart funds;
* the lack of a coherent and comprehensive vision for the project's expected
benefits.
c) Factors generally subject to implementation agency control: The lack of experience of
the implementation agency for this kind of project had a negative influence on a number of
components (transmission and distribution network rehabilitation).
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
The implementation of the project, although partial in some cases, made it possible for
the country to achieve the following:
*  on a short term basis, an expanded hydroelectric capacity that guarantees adequate
electricity supply for Bangui;
*  sound financial and administrative management at ENERCA;
*  a petroleum code with attractive incentives for private investments in petroleum
exploration.
The Government intends to initiate a second project to promote the sustainability of the
project's activities with the following objectives in mind:
*  the search for financial autonomy and more self-management capability in the
electricity sub-sector through institutional reform;
* the exploitation of available national energy resources to continue to lessen
dependence on imported petroleum products;
*  the increase in the supply of electricity to a wider population nationwide;
*  a better matching between production and transmission capacity and demand.
All these measures seek to improve the balance of payment situation and living
conditions of the population as a whole. Preliminary estimate of their costs is put at about CFAF
30 billions. A Project Preparation Facility (PPF) is needed to conduct a more detailed study of
the objectives and components of this program. The amount of the PPF will be determined in
close collaboration with external partners and will include funds for the on-going institutional
reform measures.
F. BANK'S AND CO-LENDERS' PERFORMANCE
The performance of the Bank and the other lenders under the coordination of the Bank
has generally been satisfactory even though the Gulf war situation forced the Kuwait Fund to
temporarily suspend its disbursements, with however very little impact on project execution.
The lenders made a good assessment of the objectives of the project and the Government's
development strategy.



27
However, the complexity of the project and its implications, the fact that it was the first
of its kind to be undertaken in the country and the risks inherent in its implementation were not
sufficiently evaluated. The lack of a critical assessment of these factors certainly had an impact
on the implementation delays and cost overruns experienced by certain components (dam, Boali
I & 2 rehabilitation).
The procurement and disbursement procedures were cumbersome and resulted in
implementation delays that contributed to cost overruns for some components, most specially for
reforestation and the rehabilitation of the transmission and distribution networks.
It should be underlined that project beneficiaries and the Government's partners were
completely involved in the successful implementation of the project.
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
In spite of the particularly difficult 1990-1993 sociopolitical problems that the country
was facing, the Government endeavored to provide counterpart funds. The prevailing conditions
combined with the limited availability of resources that resulted partly from these conditions
caused delays in the disbursement of counterpart funds. The lenders paid a tribute to the
Government's efforts despite the delays that were experienced.
In addition, the respect of the covenants of the Credit Agreement, the definition and
rational use of appropriate administrative procedures made it possible to have an uninterrupted
project implementation.
Although delays were experienced in setting up a project implementation unit financed by
the lenders, the Government made up for this delay by creating a project management unit which
performed adequate project coordination and follow-up.
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
The project achieved most of its objectives. However, development objectives could
have been more satisfactorily achieved if the problems and shortcomings identified in some
components had been better handled.
I. FUTURE OPERATION
Based on the achievements of the first project (ENERGY Project), the Govermnent
intends to pursue the reform program in the energy sector and to implement an action plan which
will focus on the following points:
1) Petroleum Component.
The Borrower proposed to intensity its efforts on the following: (i) establishment of
closer links with Chad in petroleum exploration; (ii) continuation of exploration work in the
DOSSEO and SALAMAT basins for the drilling of necessary complementary wells; (iii)
adoption of measures to make the sector reform results obtained so far sustainable.
2) Electricity Component.
The objectives of the second project of the Government would be:



28
* increase access of the population to electricity;
* increase management capacity in the electricity sub-sector,
* achieve financial self-sufficiency for the electricity sub-sector;
* matching the production and transmission capacity with future demand through
development of available national energy resources;
* make profitable the operations of the provincial centers;
* prepare a rural electrification master plan.
3) Institutional Component:
* establishment of a structure responsible for the coordination, monitoring and
implementation of the second energy protect;
* capacity building for the institutions responsible for project coordination and
monitoring and their staff.
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
The different important project components were implemented to the satisfaction of both
the Borrower and its partners. The implementation of the ENERGY project made it possible for
the beneficiaries to derive maximum benefits from the positive impacts that can be assessed.
However, the organizational and financial problems identified during project implementation did
not fundamentally disrupt its evolution. The Borrower is aware of these problems and intends to
address these shortcomings by involving the beneficiaries at all levels for the Second Energy
Project. This should lead to better coordination, monitoring and implementation. The Borrower
also intends to look for all the financial and material means necessary to ensure a good
implementation of the Second Energy Project.



29
MISSION D'ACHEVEMENT DU PROJET ENERGIE I
(Cr. 1978-CA - Fevrier-Mai, 1997)
REPUBLIQUE CENTRAFRICAINE
ANNEXE B: AIDE-MEMOIRE
Introduction
Une mission de la Banque Mondiale composee de M. Mbida-Essama Bonaventure, Consultant, a
realise les travaux en vue de la preparation du rapport d'achevement du Projet Energie I (Cr. 1978-CAR).
Compte tenu de la situation qui prevaut en Republique Centrafricaine, M. Mbida-Essama n'a pas pu se
rendre A Bangui comme souhaite. Par contre, des seances de travail ont ete organisees de la fa,on
suivante: (i) A Yaounde le 14 Fevrier 1997 avec M. Richard Senou, Task Manager du projet et une
delegation Centrafricaine composee de: M. Gabriel Mboussa, Charg6 de Mission en matieres de
ressources energetiques au Ministere des Mines et de l'Energie (MEM) a Bangui; Mile Laure-Clarisse
Yanibada-Dilbanon, Gestionnaire du Credit 1978 - CAR (Volet Petrole) au MEM; M. Gaston Lekoua,
Directeur General, ENERCA; et M. Remy Loungoupou, Gestionnaire du Credit 1978 - CAR (Volet
Electricit6), ENERCA; (ii) A Douala les 17 et 18 Fevrier 1997 avec la meme equipe a 1'exception de M.
S6nou; (iii).A Washington les 15, 17, 18 et 19 Mars, 1997 A differents moments avec Mme. Monique
Amany et M. Richard Senou lors d'un deplacement du consultant A Washington; et A Douala du 9 au 15
Mai, 1997 avec M. Gaston Lekoua, M. Gabriel Mboussa et M. Remy Loungoupou.
Cet Aide Memoire presente les principales conclusions de la mission qui seront confirmees par
la direction de la Banque Mondiale.
Obiectifs de la mission
Le principal objectif du rapport d'achevement (connu aussi comme rapport d'evaluation
retrospective) est d'evaluer les resultats obtenus par le projet pour determiner dans quelle mesure ses
principaux objectifs ont ete atteints et tirer des le9ons utiles pour l'avenir.
Dans ce contexte, les objectifs specifiques de la mission etaient de (i) determiner dans quelle
mesure les objectifs du projet correspondaient aux priorites du Gouvernement et aux besoins reels du
secteur de l'energie; (ii) determiner dans quelle mesure ces objectifs ont ete atteints; (iii) identifier les
principaux facteurs qui ont eu une influence determinante sur le deroulement du projet; (iv) evaluer dans
quelle mesure les activites demarrees par le projet sont peuvent se perenniser; (v) evaluer la performance
(r6le et efficacite) de la Banque Mondiale, du Gouvernement et de ses autres partenaires impliques dans
le projet; (vi) faire une evaluation de l'ensemble des resultats du projet; (vii) examiner les propositions
du Gouvernement pour la continuation des operations du projet; et (viii) tirer, A partir de l'experience du
projet, les enseignements et le9ons qui pourraient servir de guide dans l'avenir.
La mission avait egalement pour objectif de revoir avec les autorites centrafricaines le r6le et la
responsabilite du Gouvernement pour la preparation de son propre rapport d'achevement ou d'evaluation
retrospective du projet. Les termes de reference ont ete remis aux autorites lors de la reunion du 14
Fevrier 1997 A Yaounde (voir paragraphe I plus haut) et commentes en detail pour clarifier toutes les
questions qui avaient ete posees.



30
Enonce des obiectifs
Les objectifs physiques et immediats du projet etaient de: (a) reduire la dependance de la RCA
en hydrocarbures importees a des prix onereux pour la satisfaction des besoins energetiques par
I'amelioration et l'exploitation des potentialites hydroelectriques de la M'Bali; (b) rendre le sous-secteur
electricite financierement viable par l' introduction de reformes tarifaires appropriees, I'elimination des
subventions et I'adoption de mesures strictes pour les comptes clients; et (c) le renforcement de la
capacite de gestion de I'ENERCA en le dotant d'un niveau d'autonomie adequat, en formant son
personnel et en creant un departement de la planification. Les objectifs a long terme du projet, pour
lesquels les travaux de preparation devaient commencer 6 a 12 mois apres I'evaluation du projet, etaient
de: (d) proceder a la rationalisation de la politique des prix pour l'ensemble du secteur de l'energie et
touchant a la fois les niveaux et la structure des tarifs et les prix de gros et de detail des produits
petroliers; (e) rendre plus efficace le systeme d'achat et de distribution des produits petroliers; et (f)
concevoir et mettre en place un systeme approprie pour assurer la promotion des investissements prives
dans l'exploration petroliere.
Evaluation des obiectifs
La conception et les objectifs du projet ont e  clairement definis et sont realistes. lls refletent
aussi les priorit6s et les contraintes du secteur de l'energie dans son ensemble, compte tenu de l'impact
que la performance du secteur a sur les finances publiques et sur l'ensemble de l'economie. Dans le
domaine du renforcement institutionnel, les objectifs etaient en coherence avec les besoins du MEM, de
I'ENERCA et leurs faiblesses en matiere de planification, programmation, coordination et gestion en
g6n6ral. Us tenaient aussi compte des faiblesses constatees en ressources humaines.
Dans l'ensemble, le projet n'a pas suffisamment identifie les besoins de formation et de ce fait
n'a pas prevu un programme de formation bien defini. La conception du projet a souffert des carences
institutionnelles auxquelles elle voulait s'attaquer: dans des domaines tels que la distribution, les etudes
n'ont pas ete reactualisees pour permettre une evaluation objective et approfondie des options du
Gouvernement et de leurs consequences. Ce fait a e  amplifie par le schema de financement paralkle
retenu: chaque bailleur a pu gerer la preparation des etudes pour les volets qu'ils voulaient financer sans
grande coordination ou coherence d'ensemble dans plusieurs cas.
L'investissement important realise dans la station diesel visait un horizon essentiellement a court
terme et ne se justifiait probablement pas en termes economiques et financiers.
Realisation des obiectifs
Le projet avait sept composantes correspondant aux objectifs definis plus haut, a P'exception de
la station diesel:
(a) la construction d'un barrage sur la M'Bali, y compris le genie civil, le deplacement et
recasement des populations et la mise en execution d'un programme de protection de
l'environnement;



31
(b) I'accroissement de la capacite de la production thermique a Bangui, et la rehabilitation des
usines hydroelectriques de Boali I et 2, des lignes de transport et du reseau de distribution a
Bangui;
(c) le renforcement institutionnel du MEM et de I'ENERCA, y compris des investissements en
equipements de bureau et l'amelioration de la gestion financiere et comptable,
(d) la provision de l'assistance technique au MEM et a I'ENERCA;
(e) la formation du personnel administratif et technique d'ENERCA en RCA et a l'etranger;
(f) la preparation d'un plan d'exploration petroliere; et
(g) des etudes, i.e. une etude des tarifs, une etude sur la politique des prix et la distribution des
produits petroliers y compris un audit financier des comptes de PETROCA, et la preparation
d'un plan directeur de generation et de transmission d'electricite.
Le premier objectif physique immediat a ete realise de maniere substantielle. La construction
du barrage s'est faite sans depassement de cofuts et pratiquement dans les deais prevus. Le deplacement
des populations s'est fait malgre quelques retards et des difficultes pour dedommager les populations.
Le programme de protection environnementale a ete prepare dans les delais impartis et a e
substantiellement execute. Le reboisement a demarre mais n'est pas encore acheve.
Par contre, l'installation d'un groupe electrogene a ete un echec: I'acquisition de la station diesel
s'est faite avec plus d'un an de retard par rapport au delai de deux ou trois mois prevus. Le groupe n'a
pu fonctionner que quelques heures du a des problemes techniques lies a un mauvais choix des
equipements qui n'ontjamais ete reellement utilises.
La rehabilitation des usines de Boali I et 2 a ete faite mais avec du retard dans le cas de Boali 1.
Le travail realise n'a pas entierement donne satisfaction et a connL des d6passements de coats
importants, eux-memes provenant du manque de mise a jour des etudes techniques. La rehabilitation
doit donc se poursuivre.
La rehabilitation des reseaux de transport et de distribution d'electricite a Bangui ne s'est pas
faite de facon satisfaisante: 1'execution a commence avec plus de deux ann6es de retard; les etudes
techniques n'ont pas ete reactualisees pour tenir compte du retard de demarrage des travaux, ce qui a
abouti a une sous-estimation des couts et de l'importance des travaux a realiser. L'objectif de reduction
des pertes n'a ete atteinte que partiellement, ne serait ce que la premiere annee correspondant au temps
passe par le consultant qui a realise le programme, supervise les travaux et forme les homologues
centrafricains qui constituaient son equipe. Le consultant, dans 1'execution de son mandat a rencontre
d'enormes difficultes au sein de son equipe Son equipe tres peu qualifiee n'a pas neanmoins accepte
son leadership. La direction de P'ENERCA n'a donc pas renouvele son contrat et l'quipe n'a jamais pu
continuer le travail. .
Les deuxieme et troisieme objectifs immediats n'ont pas ete atteints. Pendant toute la periode
d'execution du projet, ENERCA a continue a souffrir de pertes financieres importantes. Sa situation
financiere est toujours preoccupante et la gestion financiere et comptable a continue a connaitre des



32
problemes. Le recrutement d'un cabinet exterieur pour se charger de la gestion financiere et comptable
vers la fin du projet a commenc6 a produire des resultats interessants. Cependant, il n'y a vraiment pas
eu de renforcement institutionnel et le contrat avec le cabinet a dui etre prolonge. Une formation
technique a et prodiguee aux cadres movens d'ENERCA en RCA et a l'etranger avec des resultats
prometteurs. Le renforcement du MEM ne semble pas avoir et6 entrepris. Dans le but de rendre
I'ENERCA plus performante, la decision a et prise de privatiser sa gestion.  L'appui institutionnel
fourni au MEM  n'a pas et satisfaisant. Dans l'ensemble, la formation s'est faite de facon ponctuelle,
sans veritable plan de formation.
La realisation, ou le debut de realisation des objectifs a long terme a connu des resultats
mitiges: le systeme de tarification de 1'energie n'a pas change; les produits petroliers operent toujours
sous le meme regime qu'avant bien que la structure des prix se base maintenant sur les prix FOB (Platt's)
Mediterranee. Un plan directeur d'investissement sur 15 ans a et prepare pour le transport et la
distribution de l'electricite. Finalement, un nouveau code petrolier a et 6eabore comprenant plusieurs
incitations pour le secteur prive.
Pour la rationalisation de l'approvisionnement des produits petroliers ainsi que leur distribution,
une nouvelle procedure a ete instituee, qui permet aux investisseurs intresses d'envoyer leurs
propositions par telex.  11 a egalement ete etabli un comite comprenant des representants dii ministere
des finances et de celui des mines et de l'energie, ainsi que de PETROCA. En 1994, le gouvernement et
la Banque se sont mis d'accord sur un Plan d'Action comprenant trois elements dont une nouvelle
structure des prix, la reduction des charges d'exploitation a travers une reduction du personnel de la
societe, le transfert au secteur prive local de certaines activites comme le transport des produits et la
gestion des stations d'essence et le desengagement de l'Etat de PETROCA.
L'image d'ensemble qui se d6gage est que l'objectif majeur et physique du projet a et6 atteint.
La construction du barrage et les activites connexes portant sur l'environnement, la formation technique
a I'ENERCA, le plan d'investissement a long terme pour le transport et la distribution de 1'electricite et
la preparation du code petrolier representent des acquis physiques indeniables et palpables. Par contre, le
renforcement institutionnel dans son ensemble, la reforme de la politique des prix pour l'electricite, la
rationalisation de l'importation et de la distribution des produits petroliers (qui a commence tardivement
en 1994 et en cours), l'installation du groupe diesel, la rehabilitation de Boali I et 2 et des systemes de
transport et de distribution de l'ENERCA ( qui a e  realise en partie et devra continuer dans le cadre du
nouveau projet en preparation sous forme probablement de Projet d'Assistance Technique ou
d'Ajustement Structurel) n'ont pas ete realises ou ne l'ont ete que partiellement.
Facteurs avant eu une influence importante sur le proiet
Facteurs &happant au controle du Gouvernement
Le projet a subi les effets de la devaluation (augmentation des charges financieres et des
remboursements de capital et des dettes libellees en devises etrangeres) et a souffert de la complexite des
procedures d'engagement et de decaissement de fonds des differents bailleurs de fonds. Enfin, les
faiblesses institutionnelles ont rendu la coordination des activites difficile a tous les stades du
developpement du projet.



33
Un autre facteur qui a eu une influence negative sur le projet est la situation budgetaire et
financiere difficile du Gouvernement qui n'a pas perm is de disposer de ressources financieres adequates
pour les besoins du projet dans les delais prevus. surtout pour le dedommagement des populations
deplacees.
Facteurs generalement sous le contr6le du gouvernement
L'action du Gouvernement pour satisfaire les conditions de mise en vigueur dans des delais
courts a contribue positivement A la realisation du projet.
Les facteurs suivants ont par contre eu une influence negative sur 1'execution du projet: (i) le
manque de suivi adequat et de soutien technique approprie a PETROCA et A l'ENERCA; (ii) I'absence
d'une definition claire des r6les du MEM et de I'ENERCA jusqu'A l'adoption du contrat-plan; et (iii) le
non respect de certaines obligations du contrat-plan par le Gouvernement, y compris son manque
d'engagement dans I'adoption d'une politique tarifaire approprie pour 1'e1ectricite.
Un autre facteur important qui a eu des consequences negatives sur I'ENERCA est le fait que le
Gouvernement, les societes d'Etat et certains hauts fonctionnaires n'ont pas regulierement paye leurs
factures d'electricite. La sante financiere de I'ENERCA en a pris un coup.
Facteurs sous le contr6le de I 'ENERCA
La faiblesse dans la gestion d'ensemble de I'ENERCA. surtout dans la gestion financi&re et
comptable, et le taux de rotation eleve de ses hauts cadres ont eu un effet nocif sur ses performances
financieres.
Perennisation des activit6s du proiet
Le projet a permis au Gouvernement de satisfaire le besoin important d'accroissement et de
stabilisation de la production de l'energie electrique.
La consolidation et la perennisation des premiers resultats obtenus dependra cependant des
facteurs suivants: (i) la conception et la mise en place d'une politique sectorielle appropriee, y compris la
politique des prix; (ii) le developpement continu des ressources humaines par un programme de
formation adequat a tous les niveaux; et (iii) la continuation du developpement institutionnel avec un
accent particulier sur la conception des politiques sectorielles, la planification et la programmation, la
coordination et le suivi de l'execution des politiques et des actions concretes. Tous ces facteurs exigent
une grande volonte politique de la part du Gouvernement pour entre autres respecter ses engagements et
un appui A long terme soutenu de la part de ses partenaires.
Performance de la Banque
La performance de la Banque dans 1'ensemble a ete satisfaisante dans un contexte difficile. Elle
a ete particulierement bonne a trois niveaux: passation des marches (financement IDA, avec
l'adjudication du contrat pour la construction du barrage au fournisseur le moins-disant, qui est de 40%
inferieur A celui du fournisseur classe deuxieme); decaissements et coordination entre bailleurs (IDA et
Fonds Koweftien pour la construction du barrage), et environnement (avec la preparation d'un plan
revise d'environnement pour combler les lacunes du premier plan qui connaissait d'enormes difficultes



34
pour sa mise en oeuvre. Son suivi du projet avait dans l'ensemble I'intensite souhaitee et la continuite
des cadres en charge du projet etait bonne. Cependant, le volet petrolier a et moins suivi que
l'electricite, sauf pendant les deux dernieres annees d'execution du projet.
La Banque a fait preuve de beaucoup de flexibilite pour resoudre un nombre de problemes qui se
sont poses, reallouer les fonds entre les differentes categories et prolonger la date de cl6ture du credit.
Cependant, la Banque aurait aussi pu etre plus effective dans un certain nombre de domaines. Le
premier cas concerne les faiblesses institutionnelles du MEM qui n'ont pas et suffisamment prises en
compte dans la conception de la composante de developpement institutionnel et l'adoption de mesures
plus precises et ciblees tant pour le ministere et PETROCA que pour I'ENERCA. Le deuxieme point
concerne la coordination.  Finalement, un plus grand accent aurait du etre mis sur le besoin de
familiariser les responsables du Gouvernement et du projet avec les procedures de la Banque en matiere
de passation des marches et de decaissement.   Le manque de familiarite avec ces procedures a
occasionne des retards dans l'execution du projet.
Le probleme de formation n'a pas recu l'attention qu'il meritait compte tenu des carences sur le
plan institutionnel et en matiere de ressources humaines qui etaient reconnues de tous.
Performance du Gouvernement
Le Gouvernement a eu un r6le limite dans la conception et la preparation du projet ou les criteres
et les objectifs propres a chaque bailleur de fonds ont jou6 un role preponderant. Par la suite, le
Gouvernement a joue un role important pour remplir rapidement les conditions de mise en vigueur.
Dans la construction du barrage, le choix de l'assistance technique a e  bien fait et tout a et mis en
place pour assurer des relations de travail harmonieuses qui ont r6sulte A une bonne execution de cette
composante.
Le Gouvernement n'a pas assure un suivi et un controle adequat de 1'ENERCA: la gestion
financiere et comptable du projet a souvent pose des problemes. Dans certains cas, le manque de
deblocage des fonds de contrepartie a ete nuisible au bon deroulement du projet.  Par ailleurs, le
Gouvernement n'a pas pu assurer une bonne coordination de tous ses partenaires actifs dans le secteur et
ne s'est pas assurd de la necessite de bien valider les etudes techniques avant toute decision
d'investissement. Enfin, la manque de paiement regulier des factures (para 22) a rendu les problemes
d'ENERCA plus difficiles.
Le suivi de PETROCA n'a pas ete regulier: le Gouvernement n'a pas fait realiser l'audit qui etait
prevu et ne s'est pas assure, ou a commence A ne le faire que tardivement (depuis 1995), que le
programme du projet soit suivi par cette entreprise.
Evaluation du Resultat d'ensemble
Dans l'ensemble, le resultat du projet est satisfaisant, en ce sens que ses objectifs majeurs, la
construction du barrage, la diminution de la production thermique du projet et par consequent la
reduction de la consommation en gasoil ont ete atteints de maniere sensible. Pour mieux apprehender la
moins bonne performance de la composante institutionnelle, il faudrait la replacer dans son contexte. Ce
projet est le premier dans le genre dans le secteur energie en RCA, et compte tenu du fait que les
changements institutionnels prennent du temps pour se mettre en place et demandent des efforts soutenus
dans le temps pour se perenniser, le poids de la composante institutionnelle du projet est necessairement
moindre dans l'evaluation de sa performance globale et de ses resultats. La non-realisation des objectifs



35
institutionnels du projet, bien qu'importante sur le long-terme, ne devrait donc pas penaliser la bonne
performance d'ensemble du projet tout au long de son execution, tout au moins sur le court terme.
Surtout dans la mesure ou le prochain projet envisage sera utilise comme vehicule pour corriger les
faiblesses constatees.
Operation future
Le Gouvernement a l'intention de realiser un deuxieme projet d'energie. En attendant, il a lance
la procedure de privatisation de la gestion de I'ENERCA et la restructuration du secteur des produits
petroliers. Ce dernier est par ailleurs tres avance. Les principaux objectifs A poursuivre par ce deuxieme
projet pourraient etre:
* Ia consolidation du programme et des resultats du premier projet, plus specialement le
recrutement d'un operateur prive pour prendre en charge l'exploitation de I'ENERCA et la
preparation d'un package de restructuration financiere permettant d'assurer son equilibre
financier surtout sous l'exploitation du futur operateur prive;
* Ia continuation de la rehabilitation et de la modernisation de Boali I et 2 et des reseaux de
transport et de distribution d'eectricite, toutes des activites qui n'ont pas et menees a bien
par le premier projet. Un des objectifs immediats recherches serait de ramener les pertes non
techniques qui sont toujours elevees (20% environ) A des niveaux acceptables (15% sur 3 ans
et 12 % sur S ans);
* Ia realisation des reformes qui n'ont pas ete effectuees au cours de 1'execution du premier
projet: la rationalisation de la politique des prix. y compris ceux des produits petroliers, la
restructuration du systeme d'importation et de distribution des produits petroliers,
1'etablissement de la societe de stockage et la mise en place d'une cadre reglementaire;
* Ia continuation du developpement institutionnel; et
* le developpement et la rationalisation de la fourniture d'electricite dans les centres
secondaires.
Les principaux indicateurs qui seraient utilises pour evaluer la performance de ce deuxieme
projet pourraient inclure: (i) le niveau des pertes commerciales et techniques de I'ENERCA; (ii) la
profitabilit6 d'ENERCA, sa marge brute d'autofinancement (cash flow) et certains aspects des operations
comme le niveau des comptes-clients par rapport aux ventes; (iii) le systeme d'etablissement des prix
base sur les couts reels; et (iv) la formation et les autres activites de developpement institutionnel.
Principales Lecons
Les principales lecons qu'on peut tirer incluent les suivantes:
(i) le succes d'un projet comme celui-ci depend essentiellement de la definition et de la mise en
application d'une politique et d'une strategie sectorielle claires portant sur un programme
coherent de reformes fondamentales;
(ii) une evaluation des capacites administratives et institutionnelles locales aurait du etre faite
lors de la preparation du projet pour permettre de mieux definir la composante de developpement
institutionnel;



36
(iii) avant de prendre une decision pour realiser un investissement important, des etudes
systematiques et approfondies doivent etre entreprises ou reactualisees pour approfondir la
connaissance technique des enjeux et leurs consequences financieres;
(iv) dans un contexte de faiblesses institutionnelles, les mesures de developpernent institutionnel,
y compris l'utilisation de l'assistance technique, doivent etre mieux ciblees et concues avec une
perspective a long terme tout en tenant compte des besoins immediats pour 1'execution du projet;
(v) le suivi regulier des partenaires du Gouvernement peut apporter une contribution importante
a la realisation des objectifs du projet.
Dans le cas actuel, I'absence d'un deuxieme projet pourrait occasionner la perte de plusieurs des
acquis du premier projet et la sous utilisation des investissements deja realises.






IMAGING
Report No.-           16816
Type:       ICR



